@@774162

txtp50Ch'an school , and was the leading school in the Ming Dynasty . The chiang category was equivalent to the chiao or " teaching " category of the Sung Dynasty . The chiao category in the Ming Dynasty meant something different from the same word in Sung , which caused confusion . Chiao in Ming referred officially to " ministry , " even though it was often understood in the older sense of scripturalstudies in ordinary usage . To avoid confusion , the term yii-chia or " Yoga " was sometimes used for chiao . During the Sung period Buddhism was classified into ch'an , chiao , and ( vinaya or discipline ) . Apparently the school had so deteriorated that the Hungwuemperor found it more useful to substitute chiao or yu-chia for lu . According to an important Buddhist source , the purpose of chiao in the Ming Dynasty was to perform the Buddhist rituals of good influence and liberation , to extinguish the bad karma committed by humans in this life , and to atone for the evil deeds committed by the dead in their previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term was used to cover not only various yogic practices but also rituals , including Tantric ones . Since chiao priests went out among the masses to perform rituals , they were also called fu-ying seng , " priests-on-call. " 122Although Ch'an monks enjoyed the highest esteem , the chiao priests formed the largest group , comprising more than half of all monks at that time . The emperor differentiated between the ordination of Ch'an monks and that of chiao priests . The monks accepted vinaya rules as their ordination , but the priests received certificates from the government as proof of their ordination.123 The chiao category was most closely related to popular Buddhism and lay Buddhism . It was apparently the means through which the masses were served by the monastic orders . Moreover , by controlling the certificates and establishing regulations for the chiao priests , the government was able to control popular Buddhism and eliminate undesirable elements that were destructive to political stability , such as secret societies and the excessive practice of occult rituals . Since many priests lived among the people and had even married , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first step was to separate monks and priests from secular people . Tibetan Tantrism was the state religion of the Mongol Dynasty ; therefore Tantric beliefs and practices were in vogue during the early Ming period . The Hung-wu emperor seems to have attempted to curb Tantrism . A **30;2861;TOOLONG of exoteric and esoteric texts was issued for the performance of various rituals . Those rituals deemed unsuitable or undesirable were excluded , and texts that were explicitly Tantric were not included in this government collection . For the service of reciting the Avatarnsaka Sutra the charge to the client was ten taels ( ounces of silver ) , and for the shui-hi or Water-land text and the mantras in the Surarigama Sutra the charge was half a tad . ' 24 This does not ntc:ni that Tantric rituals were not actually practiced . To avoid confusion , different colored gowns were assigned to the three categoriesof monks . Likewise , all the important monasteries were assigned to one ofp51the three categories . In the early Ming period , the T'ien-chieh monastery was the ch'an headquarters , the T'ien-hsi ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monastery that of chiao . They were all located in the hills south of Nanking , not far from the city wall . Han-shan started as a student of chiang at Pao-en , where he was ordained , but he also practiced meditation at T'ienchieh . These monasteries were the most important centers in the south where monks were trained.125Moreover , small monasteries were merged to form larger ones , known as ts'ung-lin , or " dense woods . " In some cases Taoist priests and Buddhist monks were put together in one ts'ung-lin.126 From 1372 on many governmental regulations were issued concerning religious activities . Monks were forbidden to live among the populace , and the number of monks and , monasteries was limited . According to a decree issued ill 1387 , persons over twenty years of age were not allowed to become monks . Another decree issued in 1394 stated that those under twenty should obtain permission from their parents and government officials to enter a monastery . After three years of training , novice monks took an examinationon the scriptures in the capital as a prerequisite to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and returned to civilian life . According to some sources , it was decreed that the number of Buddhist monks was limited to forty or sixty in each prefecture , thirty in a sub-prefecture , and twenty in a county . Without governmental permission no one was allowed to establish a monastery . Monks who violated the last rule would be returned to civilian life and then sent to the border regions for military exile.l2 ' It was this type of circumstance that caused Han-shan 's exile to the south in 1S96 . The extent to which these decrees were carried out varied in different parts of the empire and under different reigns . The capital areas probably conformed more closely than did distant areas . Each emperor 's attitude and policy toward Buddhism also differed . After a period of relaxation , a tightening of control followed . The ordination certificates issued by the Ministry of Rites varied from 20,000 in 1440 for both Buddhist monks and Taoist priests to allegedly 200,000 in 1487 for Buddhist monks alone . Certificates were sometimes put on sale , the revenues being used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued in 1487 was largely sold for the relief of famine in the Shansi and Shensi areas.128When governmental control was relaxed , the Buddhist community generally lost cohesion . Monks roamed the empire , and since they were economically dependent on society , they often became robbers and caused social disorder . The orderly existence of the Buddhist community depended very much on external governmental control . This does not mean , however , that there were no serious monks during the Ming Dynasty . In spite of its popularity , the Pure Land school was not properly recognized in the threefold division of Ming Buddhism . It existed primarily under the Ch'anp52monastic orders . Because of its popularity among the masses , the Pure Land school must have been closely related to the chiao category as well . There were also some temples and monasteries that were not properly classified into any of the three categories of Buddhist activity . Some of them may have been related to the Pure Land practice as well as the lu school . The threefold division was evidently not strictly observed in the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division rather than the Ming . He identified certain monasteries of his time as either ch'an , chiang , or lu , but not as yu-chia , although he was clearly involved in it . According to Chuhung , when he was first ordained , monks still donned different colors of gowns corresponding to the three categories . But in the course of time they all came to dress in black , and he lamented that ch'an and lu monasteries had become lecture halls ( chiang ) . In contrast , Han-shan speaks of the Ming division of ch'an , chiang , and yu-chia , and complains that most monks wore colorful clothes just like those of ordinary people.129 It is apparent that the state of Buddhism during Hanshan'sand Chu-hung 's time was confusing , and that chiao ( yii-chia ) and M. probably coexisted in some way . It was at this jucture , in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries , that the three important reformers , Chu-hung , Tzu-po Chen-k'o , and Han-shan , tried to breathe new life into a Buddhism that was almost dead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Chia-thing reign ( 1522-1566 ) . The emperor was a devout Taoist who spent much of his time in the inner palaces , indulged in Taoist medicines , performed Taoist rituals , and neglected the imperial duty of holding a morning audience . In 1536 he ordered the destruction of Buddhist images in the palace and capital area . He died of an illness probably caused by taking " pills of immortality , " which usually contained poisonous cinnabar.130With the succession of the Lung-ch'ing emperor ( 1567-1S72 ) , the fortunes of Buddhism turned and it prospered during the Wan-li period ( 1S73-1620 ) . Han-shan 's mature life was spent under the rule of the Wan-li emperor . In 1572 he left Nanking for Peking , thus commencing the first stage in his widespread roaming throughout the empire . The Imperial CourtBuddhism prospered during the Wan-li period mainly because of the support of the emperor 's mother , Empress Dowager Li ( 1556-1614 ) . For several reasons to be discussed in connection with Han-shan 's life , a conflict developed between the empress dowager and the emperor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his exile to the south . The political structure at the court was the institutional basis of the conflict.  |p53The  Hung-wu emperor originally created a court with an executive organ at the top known as the Chung-shu-sheng , or Secretariat , whose head , the prime minister , was the first-ranking civil-service official of the empire and the acknowledged spokesman of the bureaucracy.13 ' Under him were six ministries , the Ministries of Personnel , Revenue and Population , Rites , War , Justice , and Works . Midway in his reign , the emperor felt that the prime ministership was a threat to his own power , so he abolished that office and left the six ministries very much on their own . He decreed that his successors should not reestablish the Secretariat . Since it was very difficult for emperors to handle all the work of administering the bureaucracy without an executive office , it became an informal practice for emperors to rely on the services of the Han-lin Academy . The Han-lin Academy was originally an agency that provided literary and scholarly assistance of all kinds to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coordinating agency , popularly called Nei-ko or Grand Secretariat , grew out of the Han-lin Academy . The members of the Grand Secretariat were each called Ta-hsiieh-shih or Grand Secretary.132 Nominally subordinate to the Han-lin Academy , they were assigned for duty to designated buildings within the imperial palace . In order to give them an official status outside of the palace , however , they were often simultaneously appointed to one of the offices of the six ministries . Thus the Grand Secretariat served as a link between the palace and the regular administrative agencies . It was also because of this that the Grand Secretariat could be easily manipulated by the imperial family , including the palace women and eunuch attendants . The Grand Secretariat was resented by the bureaucrats in the six ministries because the Grand Secretaries were usually promoted to high positions through their association with the Han-lin Academy rather than because of practical experience obtained in regular administrative agencies . Political conflicts often arose from this uneasy relationship , especially when the emperor and Grand Secretaries were manipulated by powerful eunuchs and imperial relatives by marriage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no prime minister , but in actuality the Senior Grand Secretary ( shoo fu ) acted and was popularly known as the prime minister . Since this arrangement was constitutionally unstable , it was an important source of political conflict . Empress Dowager Li . At the time of his ascension to the throne , the Wan-li emperor was about ten years old . His mother , the Empress Dowager Li , acted as regent and was a powerful person . According to the regulations of the Ming Dynasty , only the father of the empress dowager could hold a fief , but in violation of these dictates , her relatives of three generations all received titles and estates . They formed an influential group in the court , and it was this group that helped the greatest statesman of the Ming Dynasty , Chang Chu-sheng ( IS24 ? I S82 ) , come to power . The empress dowager was a great supporter of Buddhism and Taoism ,  |p54es|pecially  Buddhism . This was an important factor in the revival of Buddhism during her lifetime . She was referred to by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as Fo Lao nianq-niam , Mother or Lady of the Buddha and Lao Tzu.133 The Wan-li emperor , as he came of age , was less enthusiastic about Buddhism than his mother and probably more sympathetic to Taoism . During his reign new editions of the Buddhist and Taoist canons were printed . Chang Chu-cheug . The rise of Chang Chu-cheng is a good example of the problems inherent in the political structure of the imperial court . After acquiring the chin-chip degree in 1547 , Chang was at first a member of the Han-lin Academy.i34In 1567 , under the Lung-ch'ing emperor , he served as a Grand Secretaryin the East Hall of the Palace . At the same time he was appointed senior vice minister of the Ministry of Personnel . Later he became preceptor to the prince who was to become the Wan-li emperor . When the Lung-ch'ing emperor died in 1572 , Chang immediately became the Grand Secretary of the ChungchiPavilion , and the title of Senior Pillar of the State was conferred upon him . He was now chief administrator of the empire and was known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first ten years of the Wan-li period , the power in the empire was exercised jointly by the Empress Dowager Li and Chang Chu-cheng . Since Chang was a great statesman , the empire became strong and prosperous through his vigorous reforms in the areas of personnel , land , and taxes . However , the bureaucrats of the regular administrative agencies resented his power . Many officials were banished for criticizing his power and policies . Chang suffered from the questioning of the constitutionality inherent in his position as Senior Grand Secretary serving as prime minister.135The Wan-li emperor . When Chang Chii-cheng died in 1582 , the Wan-li emperor began to rule the empire personally . He had become weary of Chang 's tutorial guidance and tight control over the years . In his struggle to be independent , the emperor became sympathetic to Chang 's opponents . The year after his death , Chang was officially disgraced , and his titles and estates were posthumouslyremoved . During the next few years , the relationship between the emperor and the empress dowager also deteriorated . A series of conflicts developedin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investiture of the heir apparent . Consequently , these conflicts deeply influenced Han-shan 's life . The Wan-li emperor was not a good ruler . In fact , he became incorrigibly negligent and indulged his sensuous nature in the extreme . Dwelling in the inner palaces , enjoying himself with music and women , he scarcely attended the morning audiences . Vacancies in government offices were not filled , and decisions on important matters were postponed . Chang C ; hu-cheng 's successors were not capable of administering the empire . " They were manipulated by members of the imperial tamily and eunuchs on the one hand , and attacked by , bureaucrats on the other . After the controversies on the investiture of the heirp55apparent ended , other conflicts took place . This discord marked the gradual decline of the Ming Dynasty.136The Tung-Iin MovementThe political conflicts in the court resulted in the banishment from the capital of an increasing number of officials . They were Confucian scholars , and most of them belonged to the moderate right-wing group of the Wang Yang-ming school . In their dissatisfaction with the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored the Tung-lin Academy in 16o4 in the district of Wu-hsi in Kiangsu . Ku Hsien-ch'eng ( 1550-1612 ) was one of the important leaders.137 In addition to holding regular academic lectures , the group was concerned with politics although it was not originally formed as a political party . Their concern was more in the nature of a moral crusade because they believed that the corruption of the government should be corrected by means of a moral renewal ? a typical Confucian approach to political problems . Gradually , however , the academy became more directly involved in the continuingpartisan controversies in the capital . The movement found sympathetic representatives in the court . It was then labelled a political party . The political power subsequently changed hands between the Tung-lin party and its opposition groups . Such groups were usually headed or supported by the palace eunuchs . During the T'ien-ch'i reign ( 1621-1627 ) , a powerful eunuch , Wei Chunghsien , came into power . Under his ruthless domination , Tung-lin members were either imprisoned or sentenced to death , and the movement practically died out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court continued to be plagued by petty power struggles until the end of the dynasty . Social and Economic ConditionsChang Chil-cheng 's reforms filled the imperial treasuries with gold and silver . With his death , however , the financial situation deteriorated , partly because of the extravagant expenditures of the imperial family and partly because of the worsening border troubles and Japanese invasions of Korea . These events all had significant effects on Han-shan 's activities . The governmental apparatus was a great burden to the people ? a burden made intolerable by widespread corruption . All ' the relatives of the emperor and empress were given titles and lands . Although they did not have administrativeor judicial functions , they were salaried dignitaries , and their status passed perpetually to their eldest sons . By the end of the Ming Dynasty the number of these imperial clansmen had grown to approximately 100,000 , and these included only the male descendants of the imperial family.laaThe number of palace eunuchs also increased rapidly , and their influence was deeply felt : By 1644 there were perhaps 70,000 serving the palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total iii the empire had reached 100,000 . Thep56eunuchs were frequently sent out of the capital not only as emissaries but also as generals , tax collectors , and exploiters . In 1420 a eunuch agency called Tungch'angor Eastern Depot was established as a kind of imperial secret-service headquarters . Its later counterpart was the Hsi-ch'ang or Western Depot . These agencies became organs of terrorism , especially during the second half of the Ming Dynasty.139Western ContactsDuring the first half of the fifteenth century , China was actively interested in establishing relations with countries in South Asia by displaying the power of the Ming Empire . This was accomplished by embarking on a number of great naval expeditions headed by a celebrated eunuch , Cheng Ho , between 1405 and 1433 . More than 70,000 men were involved in fleets of specially built great ships . They sailed to Java , India , the Persian Gulf , the Red Sea , the east coast of Africa , and to Timor , near the Australian mainland . These adventures were eventually given up because of the opposition of the bureaucrats . Furthermore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China came under the influence of Western naval powers and was forced to open its doors to European trade . Portuguese merchants came to China at the turn of the century and in 1553 they took the island of Macao as a base of their activities . In the meantime , several coastal cities became trading centers . Under the stimulus of trade with Western powers , light industries including silk , cotton , dyeing , and porcelain manufacturing , as well as iron and coal mining , rapidly developed . These industriessupplanted the traditional methods of production . Peasants who had depended on the old methods found it impossible to compete with the new industries . They flocked to the cities or industrial centers to sell their labor for a living . When unemployment struck , they were forced to wander about and they became rebels . They were joined by many peasants whose properties had been . expropriated by big landlords . Christian missionaries accompanied the merchants to China . Father Matthew Ricci , who stayed in China between 1583 and 1610 , was the most important one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was permitted to travel to Peking and arrived there in 1601 . He introduced Western sciences including astronomy , geometry , and mapmaking , and was warmly welcomed at the court . One of his great students of Western sciences was Hsu Kuang-ch'i ( 1562-1633 ) , who had been converted to Christianity . Father Ricci 's travel records and works are important sources for understanding Chinese society and religion in that period . The Christian mission made some converts . Various Christian pamphlets criticizing Buddhism reached Chu-hung , who responded by writing four articles titled T'ien-shuo or " Essays on Heaven . " 14 ' He argued that the Christian universe was only one of the billion " small worlds " in the Buddhist " great chiliocosm . " The Christian God , therefore , was only equivalent to one of thep57gods of the Trayastrimsas , the heavens of the thirty-three devas in the second region of the desire-heavens . As such He can not be compared to Brahma , the highest being in the first dhydna region of the **26;2893;TOOLONG , the astronomy introduced by Matthew Ricci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth as the center of the solar system , while in Ricci 's own country , Italy , Galileo ( 1564 ? 1642 ) was at that time creating a revolution in astronomy . Unlike Chu-hung 's case , there is no evidence that Han-shan made any response to the Christian missions . Because of his activities in Canton for many years , it is possible that he was aware of the European trade and Christian activities there.143Border TroublesThroughout the history of the Ming Dynasty , the empire had constant border troubles . Though driven out of China proper , the Mongols were not extinguished . They remained strong in the north and attempted to recover China and rule it again . C. P. Fitzgerald expresses the view that the move of the capital from Nanking to Peking in 1403 was a major cause of trouble in the empire . The new capital was directly exposed to the border skirmishes in the north ; furthermore , the move helped to increase the sense of separation between the north and south and the consequent mutual hostility of officials from these different parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had become dominantboth culturally and economically , but it was often discriminated against by the north . The trouble with the Mongols largely ended during Chang Chu-cheng 's administration . But in 1616 T'ai-tsu of the Manchus proclaimed himself emperor in the northeast . The Ming Empire came under a new threat which eventually brought the dynasty to an end . Japanese pirates were another source of trouble . After the Mongols failed to conquer Japan in 128o ? 1281 , trade between China and Japan had been officially forbidden , with the exception of some short periods during the Ming era . With the doors to normal trade closed , surreptitious trade was carried on by private Japanese groups . When they found that the Chinese coastal defense was weak , they turned to piracy and raided the cities . They.were joined and supported by many Japanese feudal states , as well as by warriors who had been banished in the course of internal Japanese political struggles . Cities on the mainland of China were often burned to the ground . These raids were the scourge of the coastal areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As late as 1600 , Japanese pirates were reported by Han-shah in Kuangtung . This problem was complicated by Chinese collaborators , many of whom were powerful government officials . It was probably easier to extinguish the Japanese pirates than the Chinese collaborators.j4SAnother area of trouble was the Japanese invasions of ' Korea between 1592p58and 1598 under Toyotomi Hideyoshi , after he had conquered the feudal states and unified Japan . Korea , a vassal state of China , requested help from the Ming court . Soldiers were then recruited from all parts of China , and the Japanese enemy of 100,000 was pushed back to the coastal areas . In 1597 Toyotomi sent a second wave of armies , but he died the following year , and the invasion ended . ' 46 The Korean wars were fought at a very high price and increased the economic and social problems of the Chinese people tremendously . Han-shan 's plan to restore the Pao-en monastery was also given up because of the drain of funds from the imperial treasury . Peasant Rebellions and the End of the DynastyDuring the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the empire suffered many serious internal and external problems and revealed many signs of disintegration . Finally , peasant uprisings brought the dynasty to an end . The peasants who lost their land were joined by soldiers who likewise found life difficult in the border regions neglected by the government . Great rebellions started in 1625 in Shensi , where a famine turned the peasants into bandits . Soon the whole empire was under the bandits ' spell . Two of the leaders were Li Tzu-ch'eng and Chang Hsien-chung . Li proclaimed himself emperor , and in 1644 he took the capital ofPeking , thus causing the Ch'ung-chen emperor 's suicide.147But the peasant rebellions did not succeed in establishing a lasting dynasty . Wu San-kuei , a Ming general who was guarding China proper against the Manchus at the Great Wall in the northeast , invited the enemy into China to drive the rebels out of Peking . The rebels were indeed driven away , but the Ming Dynasty was not saved . The empire fell into the hands of the Manchus , who established the Ch'ing Dynasty ( 1644-1911 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Han-shan 's Family and Childhood ( 1546 ? 1556 ) 1Han-shan was born on the twelfth day of the tenth lunar month in the twentyfifthyear of the Chia-ching reign ( 5 November 1546 ) . His hometown was Ch'uan-chiao , located about thirty miles west of Nanking , in what was then the Southern Metropolitan Area , now in Anhwei Province.2We know very little about his family background . His father was Ts'ai Yen-kao and his mother 's maiden name was Hung . The fact that available sources do not provide more information about Han-shan 's family might suggest that his was a humble family , without ancestors of particular distinction . But the fact that Han-shan was sent to school might also mean that his family was not in the lowest stratum of society . We do not know Han-shan 's secular given name . Te-ch'ing was his religious or Dharma name , given to him by Master Hsi-lin ( 1482 ? 1565 ) when he left home for the Pao-en monastery in 1557 . Han-shan was his religious hao or style , privately adopted in 1S73 and formally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been Ch'eng-yin , adopted after he was ordained in 1564 . From the time he was banished and returned to civilian life in 1595 until he again donned monkish garb in 1614 , he was known as Ts'ai Te-ch'ing.3Han-shan 's personality and interests were largely molded by his mother . His relationship with his father seems to have been cool and detached . His mother was a great devotee of Bodhisattva Kuan-yin . She is said to have conceivedHan-shan as the result of a dream , in which Kuan-yin brought a little boy to her at the door . This is understandable because Kuan-yin was popularly worshiped as the giver of children . Anxious mothers in China prayed to the Bodhisattva for children , as recommended in the Lotus Sutra . At his birth Hanshahis said to have been wrapped in a " white cloth " ( pai-i ) . The white cloth probably referred symbolically to Kuan-yin because the Bodhisattva has been popularly called Pai-i Kuan-yin , Kuan-yin Clad in White Cloth . Whether this account , given by I Ian-shan himself , is historical or not , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related to Kuan-yin . In his autobiography Han-shan did not mention any brother or sister . But in one of his poems we learn that he had at least one brother.4 Many of his relatives lived in the same general area . One year after his birth Han-shan almost died of a serious illness . His mother prayed to Kuan-yin and promised that if her son recovered she would offer him to a Buddhist monastery where he would eventually become a monk . Upon his recovery , Han-shan was enrolled in the local Ch'ang-shou temple and acquired the pet name of Ho-shang or Monk . According to the Chinese reckoning of sui , at the age of three Han-shan reportedly preferred to sit alone and did not like to play with other children . His grandfather described him as a " wooden pole . " When he was seven years old , Han-shan was sent to a local school . During that time he learned about life and death , and began asking questions about them . This is how Han-shan described his first experience with the subject . On returning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beloved uncle was lying still . His mother deceived him by saying that his uncle was asleep and could be awakened . But when Han-shan failed to wake him up , his aunt broke into a cry : " My Heaven ! Where have you gone ? " Han-shan could not understand where his uncle could have gone while his body was lying there . Some time later , another aunt gave birth to a baby . When Han-shan asked his mother how the baby got into his aunt 's belly , his mother patted him and said , " Foolish child ! How did you come into my belly ? " Consequently , the boy was all the more perplexed . Apparently Han-shan recorded these events because in Buddhism the question of life and death was the door to Buddhist wisdom . While he was attending school at the age of eight , Han-shan boarded in a relative 's home across a river and was allowed to return home only once a month . One day when he did not want to leave for school , his mother beat him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to board the boat , she threw him into the river . Han-shah 's grandmother called for help and he was saved . Afterward , his mother said , " Such a stupid child , what is the purpose of keeping him alive ? It would be better if he had drowned ! " At that time , Han-shan thought she was cruel , and from that time on he was no longer homesick . Later on , he learned that his mother used to shed tears on the other side of the river . When Han-shan 's grandmother scolded her for being so harsh , his mother replied , " It is necessary to cut off his affection so that he can study . " The following year Han-shan studied in a monastery , where general education was apparently provided . Since a monk had told him that the Kuan-yin Sutra ( the twenty-fourth or , in some versions , the twenty-fifth chapter of the Lotus Sutra ) could save men from the sufferings of the world , he obtained a copy and studied it until he could recite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kean-yin one day , I lan-shan asked her whether she knew about the existence of the hum-yin Sutra . When she replied no , I Ian-shan immediately recited thep61sutra to her . She was very pleased , and remarked that he had recited the sutra in a voice resembling that of an old monk . Since his mother rigidly supervised his study , the unhappy boy asked her about the purpose of study . The conversation that allegedly took place when Han-shan was ten , went like this : Son : What is the purpose of study ? Mother : To become a government official . Son : What rank of official ? Mother : Starting from a low government official , you can rise , if you are capable , as high as the prime minister . Son : What is there after becoming a prime minister ? Mother : That is the point to stop . Son : It is a pity to stop there after the hard work of a lifetime . What is good about it ? I would rather like to do something that does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nothing but a wandering monk ! Son : What is a wandering monk ? What is good about being one ? Mother : A monk is a disciple of the Buddha . Traveling all over the world , he is free and self-content . He is fed and served everywhere . Son : This is just right for the . Mother : I am afraid you do n't have such felicity . Son : Why do I need felicity ? Mother : There have been many chuang-yuans in the world , but very few who having renounced the world have become Buddhas and Patriarchs . Son : I do have such felicity , but I am afraid that you would not let me go . Mother : If you have this felicity , I can give you up . We do not have to accept all the details of this conversation ; it could have . been Han-shan 's recollection of the way in which he had chosen Buddhism as his religion . It is doubtful that he was so definite about his goal at such an early age.6 Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she prepared to let her son become a monk ( presumably to fulfill her vow ) , Hanshan'smother apparently shared the traditional view that the purpose of study was to become a government official ; therefore , she expected her son to take the path of officialdom . Her attitude toward Buddhism-was also paradoxical . To call a son stupid was not as serious in China as it was in the West . In fact it was very common for parents to speak of their children in a derogatory way to show their humility and affection . To say , however , that her son could be nothing but a wandering monk must have reflected the general Confucian attitude toward Buddhism as a lower path of life . Yet , as a devout Buddhist , she should have had a great deal of esteem for wandering monks . Pressed by the heavy work load imposed by his mother , Han-shan might have regarded the freedom of a wandering monk as more exciting than the burdens of a prime minister . The following year ( 1556 ) a few wandering monks came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poles upon their shoulders . After placingp62their poles under a tree , they asked Han-shan 's mother for food . She politely asked them to - ake seats and immediately went to prepare tea and food for them . After eating , the monks raised only one hand to express their thanks and left . The mother quickly hid herself and asked them not to thank her . When Hanshanasked why the monks had been so impolite , his mother said , " If they had thanked me , then we would have gained no merit . " Han-shan had carefully observed the monks ' behavior from the beginning and was very impressed by his mother 's respect for them . He began to think about the possibility of becoming a monk himself . The Pao-en Period ( 1557 ? 1570 ) By the age of twelve ( 1557 ) , Han-shan had already become uninterested in worldly things . His father wished to arrange a marriage for him , but the boy stopped him . One day Han-shan learned there was a distinguished Buddhist master named Hsi-lin ( 1482 ? 1565 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scriptural studies located on the south side of Nanking . ' When he failed to obtain permission from his father to go there , his mother interceded for him and said , " It is better when raising a son to follow his will and help him accomplish it . " That winter Han-shan was sent to Pao-en to become a novice . Although Han-shan described his decision to become a novice as reflecting his own will , he was obviously greatly influenced by his mother and especially by her earlier vow to offer him to Kuan-yin to eventually become a monk . He was warmly welcomed by Master Hsi-lin , the head of the monastery , and began to study the scriptures with Master Wu-chi , who was then lecturing in the Tripitaka Hall . Chao Chen-chi ( 1508-1576 ) , 8 a high government official who was at the monastery at the time , asked Han-shan whether he would like to become a government official or a Buddha . When Han-shan replied , " a Buddha , " Chao reportedly praised and encouraged him . During his first six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Taoist and Confucian texts . In the beginning he did not understand the lectures on Buddhist scriptures but was very eager to learn . At the age of fourteen , he memorized the Lotus Sutra . At sixteen , he memorized the Four Books and studied the Five Classics of Confucianism , as well as other **32;2921;TOOLONG Taoism seems to have been the fashion of the day . This was apparentlydue to the influence of the Chia-ching emperor , a fanatical Taoist . Han-shan recorded that in 1563 the government official of education who lectured at the monastery confined himself to Taoism exclusively . Students were trained as choirboys , presumably to take part in Taoist rituals . Many students were promoted because of their performance in Taoism . Han-shah is said to have excelled over other students in the study of Confucian works and traditional literature , but to have had great contempt for the general interest in Taoism.  |p63He  refused to study that year feigning illness as his excuse . Han-shan may have had great contempt for religious Taoism as distinguished from the philosophical Taoism taught by Lao-tzu and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear to him at the early stage of his life as it was later.10Evidently , the Pao-en monastery was used to educate not only Buddhist novices but also Taoist and Confucian students who planned to take the civilserviceexaminations . The teaching of Taoism at the Buddhist monastery reflected the fusion of the two religions and was probably the result of the governmental policy that had sometimes brought Taoists and Buddhists together in one ts'ung-lin . Whether a student wished to be ordained a Buddhist monk or a Taoist priest , or to become a government official , he was required , by government decrees , to take examinations sponsored by the state . t ' Therefore , it seemed natural for these different groups to be educated at the same place . The Pao-en monastery , the center of the chiang division in the Ming period , was one of the most important educational centers in the Nanking area . As a matter of fact , Hsi-lin , the head of the monastery , was also holding the government office of Chiieh-i . Moreover , the monastery was regarded as imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So that the Buddhist monks might not be despised by the intellectuals , Hsi-lin encouraged his disciples to study Confucian texts and other literature.13 The following description of Buddhism at Nanking during the Wan-li period is given by Shen Te-fu ( 1578 ? ' 642 ) : Monks in the two capitals ( Peking and Nanking ) are under the supervision of the Bureau of Sacrifices ( in Ministry of Rites ) . Whenever the abbotship becomes vacant , the Director of the Bureau examines the monks in the monastery . The most qualified monk fills the vacant post . Formerly , I visited the three big monasteries in Nanking and found the abbots very elegant . This is probably because the three monasteries of Ling-ku , T'ien-chieh , and Pao-en were the largest in the area , and had several thousand monks .... The abbot of Ling-ku was barely twenty . His appearance was very handsomeand delicate . The examination papers he showed me were no different from those of a Confucian scholar , being composed in eight-legged style . There were also new poems and beautiful verses . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other scriptures . Those who have passed the examination also call the Director of the Bureau their teacher and address the other monks who took the same examination as " my colleagues . " This is all very amusing.14In 1564 , when Han-shan was nineteen , many of his fellow students succeeded in the civil-service examinations . Han-shan was urged by his friends to try . Elsewhere Han-shan states that he almost gave up Buddhism because monks were lowly and secularized.15 At this critical juncture , Yiin-ku ( i500-1575 ) , 16 a Ch'an master , taught him the Ch'an path , advised him to realize the brightness of the Mind , so as to become an eminent monk , and encouraged him to read the biographies of great Ch'an masters . Before finishing his reading of the ( : hunt- ( iut kuan , ' - In ( Records of Chung-feng ) , 17 Han-shan was convinced thatp64Ch'an was his heart 's desire , decided to follow the path of renouncing the world , and asked Hsi-lin to give him a tonsure . Thereupon , he burned all his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and devoted himself exclusively to the Ch'an study and practice . Clearly , this decision was twofold . On the one hand , Hanshangave up secular learning and concentrated on the Buddhist path ; on the other hand , he shifted from scriptural studies to the practice of Ch'an as the essence of the Buddhist path . At first , Han-shan failed to unlock the mystery of Ch'an . He then recited and meditated on Amitabha day and night without interruption . This Pure Land practice was presumably undertaken as a preliminary stage toward higher achievement . One evening Han-shan succeeded in " seeing " Amitabha in his dream when he " appeared " clearly in the sky in the direction of the setting sun . Seeing his brilliant appearance , Han-shan prostrated himself at his feet with an unbounded feeling of sorrow and love . When he made the wish to see Kuan-yin and Mahasthamaprapta ( Ta-shih-chih ) , the upper halves of two Bodhisattvas ' bodies immediately appeared . From then on this trinity often appeared to him , and he was confident that he could succeed in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1564 ) , Master Wu-chi gave lectures on the Hua-yen hsuan-t'an ( Abstruse Speculations on the Avatamsaka Sutra ) .18 Han-shan was formally ordained by him during the same year . Master Wu-chi was a teacher of the chiang school . Since he was ordained in a chiang monastery by a chiang master , Han-shan can be classified in that school by lineage of ordination . However , his interests and development were much wider and more ambitious than scriptural studies . Han-shan 's interest in the Hua-yen philosophy was the result of Master Wu-chi 's influence . When Wu-chi came to expound the eternal realm of the Ocean Seal in the chapter on the Ten Profound Theories ( shih-hsuan-men ) in the Hua-yen hsuan-t'an , Han-shan suddenly comprehended the meaning of the infinite Dharma-realm in which all things are unobstructed and perfectly harmonious . Because Ch'eng-kuan or Ch'ing-liang was the author of the Hua-yen hsuan-t'an , Han-shan came to admire Master Ch'eng-kuan and adopted the name Ch'eng-yin as his own religious style . Ch'eng-yin means " seal of purity " and may mean " seal of Ch'eng-kuan or Pure Contemplation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , otherwise known as the Wu-t'ai ( Five Peaks ) in Shansi . Master Ch'ing-liang , the fourth patriarch of the Hua-yen school , taught at the Wu-t'ai most of his life and thus acquired the style of Ch'ing-liang , which means " pure and cool . " Wu-t'ai came to he identifiedwith Ch'ing-liang because a Ch'ing-liang Mountain is mentioned in the Avataiiisaka Sutra as being in the northeast and because Wu-t'ai is in the northeastand fits the description . It is the special mountain of Manjuri , the Lord of Wisdom . The realm of wisdom is symbolized by the extremely cold weather of the Wu-t'ai Mountain , which is covered by white snow . The " pure and cool "  |p65Hua-yen  realm was the vision that kept Han-shan moving and searching during the next few years . The name Han-shan was adopted as his religious style in 1573 when he visited Wu-t'ai because it was the name of one of the mountains there . According to Fu-cheng , the name Te-ch'ing was given to Han-shan by Hsilinwhen Han-shan left the household life.19 Although the meaning is not explained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " where ch'ing may stand for Master Ch'ing-liang , the Ch'ing-liang Mountain , or the " pure " Dharma-realm . Clearly , the naming is a significant indication of the philosophical orientation of the Pao-en monastery at that time . When Han-shan decided to adopt Ch'engyinas his style , he asked Wu-chi for confirmation of his understanding . The master said , " Is it your will to enter this Dharma-door ? " Master Hsi-lin died in the early part of 1565 . Of some eighty disciples , Hanshanis said to have been the most capable student and was therefore entrusted by the master with the future development of the monastery . Apparently , this does not mean that he was appointed head of the monastery , for this post was to be filled by the order of the Ministry of Rites . Han-shan , however , took his master 's will seriously for the rest of his life . That winter Master Yun-ku held a ch'an-ch'i or " meditation retreat " at the T'ien-chieh monastery , 20 the center of the ch'an division in the Ming period . About fifty-three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permission of the new head of the Pao-en monastery , Han-shan also took part . Not knowing the method of controlling the mind , he called on the master for instruction . The master taught him the practice of nien-fo kung-an or kung-an of Buddha-recitation . Han-shan concentrated on this practice for three months without interruption , as if in a dream , unconscious of the existence of other people and unaware of daily activities . In the beginning , however , after a few days of practice , he suffered back trouble due to overstrain . Such discomfort probably occurred because he was not used to long periods of sitting cross-legged . A big , red , swollen abscess appeared on his back . Han-shan thought it was due to his previous bad karma , so he prayed to Wei-Co , the protectorof Buddhism , saying , " This must be my bad karma that is claiming my life as a debt . I vow to recite the Avatatnsaka Sutra ten times and ask for a three-month respite so that I can complete the Ch'an retreat . Then I will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he slept on the meditation bed and did not even know when meditation ended . When he got up in the morning , the abscess had completely disappeared . Thus he was able to complete the three-month meditation retreat . But , as we shall see later , his back trouble was not healed , for the became partially paralyzed in his old age . The meditation brought about a significant transformation in Han-shan 's world outlook . When he left the retreat , he was still in the state of consciousness he had attained while sitting cross-legged in meditation . Walking in the busyp66streets , he took no notice of anyone . From that time on , Han-shan was fond of likening the whole phenomenal world and human life to a great dream . He regarded his own life as a series of dream roamings . Han-shan remarked that Ch'an was never practiced in the Nanking area , and that Yin-ku was the first one to teach the path of Ch'an there . This statement is obviously inaccurate , but it may have been an exaggeration of the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the young monks , he was the only person who practiced Ch'an and that monks wore clothes just like secular people , mostly of beautiful colors . Han-shan chose to wear the regular monkish gown and was a focus of curious attention . If Han-shan 's report is true concerningT'ien-chieh , the center of Ch'an in Nanking , then Buddhism had indeed deteriorated . The following year ( 1566 ) , after the meditation retreat , the Pao-en monastery was struck by lightning , and the resulting fire destroyed 140 halls and painted corridors . According to one source , only the nine-story pagoda , covered with glazed tiles , and the meditation hall remained intact.21 Although this was a natural disaster , eighteen senior monks were arrested by the Department of Justice at the order of the emperor . The exact reason for the arrest is not known , but it probably occurred because the monastery was an imperial property.22 Following the disaster Han-shan helped solve many of the problems in the monastery and those of his fellow monks . In the meantime , he continued to study the Lotus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time he had already decided to travel around the empire , partly to widen his outlook , partly for further study , and especially to find the means of restoring the Pao-en monastery , which he regarded as his own . Before embarking on his travels , however , Han-shan stayed in the Nanking area for about four more years . His major task was to settle the enormous debts of the Pao-en monastery by setting up a three-year plan . In 1567 , during the first year of the Lung-ch'ing emperor , who reversed his predecessor 's antiBuddhistpolicy , the government ordered the Pao-en monastery to run . a free school to train novices . Han-shan was appointed to teach about 150 boys , and in this connection he took up Confucian studies again . The next year the school moved to the Kao-tso monastery ( also south of Nanking ) because of financial difficulties . From 1569 to 1570 Han-shan taught at the Chin-shan monastery , about forty miles east of Nanking . " - 1Travels and Stay at Wu-t'ai ( 1571 ? 1582 ) In 1S71 , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The companionof his first trip was Hsueh-lang ( 1545-1607 ) , 24 who was about a year older than Han-shan and had been Master Wu-chi 's disciple before him . They therefore recognized each other as " brothers . " After their monastery had been destroyed by fire , they vowed to restore it some day . I lowever , their tempera/ments and interests were not the same . Hsueh-lang was only interested in scripturalstudies and did not care much about the religious practices of meditation and Buddha-recitation . He was probably a typical student of the chiang school . Nor did he approve of or appreciate Han-shan 's decision to participate in the meditation retreat at the T'ien-chieh monastery.25Their trip took them to the south , to the Kiangsi area . They intended to go to Lu-shan , south of Chiu-chiang , but abandoned this plan because of dangerous wild tigers that were in the area . When they proceeded to Ch'ing-yiian , 26 southeast of Chi-an , they were disappointed to find that the monastery there was in ruins and that the monks had allowed their tonsured hair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shave their hair off . That summer Hanshanand Hsiieh-lang returned to the Pao-en monastery to finish their remaining business there . When they tried to decide about their next trip , Han-shan and Hsiieh-lang failed to reach an agreement . Han-shan wanted to go north , but Hsiieh-lang did not like cold weather and preferred the warm weather and beautiful scenery of the south . Han-shan argued that it was their karmic nature to seek a comfortablelife , but that it was necessary to go to a harsh place to control the karmic nature that had accumulated in previous lives . Thereupon he left for the north by himself in the winter of 1571 . The two " brothers " parted , but they continued their friendship . Hsiieh-lang later became a famous teacher of the scriptures , following the tradition of Master Wu-chi . Han-shan went to find a new world , the " pure and cool " realm at Wu-t'ai . When he arrived in Yang-thou ( in Kiangsu ) in the early part of 1572 , heavy snow prevented further travel , and he fell sick . Begging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an open door for food . Believing it was because he still had some silver hidden in his belt , he invited other begging monks to an eating house and spent all his money . From then on he was able to beg in a loud voice and received some food . Han-shan called his begging bowl something that lightens a burden of ten thousand tons , and his monkish garb the means that makes the whole universe unimportant . Thus he composed the following stanza : You provide me a form ; I entrust you my Mind . Though the body is filled to the full by you , The ten thousand things have become light . As soon as I lift my sleeves in the long wind , and extend my gown like a white cloud , I fly like the wings of a big bird , and swim like the scale of a hidden dragon . Roaming in the universe , In and out of the mountain forests , Why should I admire the beauty of red and purple ? 27 I seek only that which frost and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autumn . After a day of unsuccessful begging , he went to a temple where he was invited by Wang Tao-k'un ( 1525 ? 1593 ) to stay at his mansion . Han-shan met several Buddhist masters of the Peking area , including P'ien-jung ( d. 1581 ? ) and Hsiao-yen ( 1512 ? 1581 ) , 28 and studied such subjects as the Pure Land teaching , Lotus Sutra , Mere Ideation , Buddhist logic , and Ch'an . Early in 1S73 , during the first year of the Wan-li emperor 's reign , Han-shan went to the Wu-t'ai Mountain . With a copy of Master Ch'ing-liang 's biography , he walked around the whole cluster of mountains , and especially liked the peak called Han-shan ( Foolish Mountain ) , located at the north terrace . He privately adopted the name Han-shan as his style but started to use it publicly only after 1583.29 The weather at Wu-t'ai Mountain was too cold for him to stay there long . Apparently he was not yet ready for the harsh life of the " pure and cool " realm . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountain called P'an-shan , where he met a monk who practiced silent meditation . Hanshanpracticed silent meditation with him during the summer and then returned to Peking at the invitation of Wang Tao-k'un and Ou Ta-jen ( 1516 ? 95 ) .3 ? For the next few months Han-shan associated with a group of literary personalitiesthat included Wang Shih-then ( 1526 ? 1S9o ) 31 and his younger brother Wang Shih-mou ( 1536 ? 1588 ) , 32 Wang Tao-k'un and his younger brother Wang Tao-kuan , and Ou Ta-jen . They gathered in the Western Hills ( Hsishan ) , west of the capital . Han-shan composed poems and discussed the Spring and Autumn Annals with them . In their witty exchanges , he demonstrated his literary achievement to them . In Peking Han-shan also found a travel companion , Miao-feng or Fu-teng ( 154o ? 1612 ) , who was a great architect.33 Han-shan had met him earlier in 1566 at the T'ien-chieh monastery , and they then agreed to travel together . However , Miao-feng had left him secretly for fear of attachment . When Miao-feng learned that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1S72 . They made a new promise to travel as a team . But Han-shan seems to have been a little reluctant to go with Miao-feng , probably because he did not wish to leave the group of literary colleagues he had found . With Wang Tao-k'un 's encouragement , he finally left Peking with Miao-feng in 1574 . Miao-feng had come to the capital that year ( 1574 ) to fetch a set of the Tripitakafor a vassal prince who lived in Ho-lung ( modern Yung-chi , Shansi ) . Han-shan therefore followed him to Shansi , visiting several historical places on the way , including the Shao-lin monastery ( on the Sung Mountain or Sungshan , Honan ) , where Bodhidharma is said to have taught . Ch'en , the local magistrate of Ho-tung , asked Han-shan to proofread the Book of Chao , with a collection of commentaries on it , for a new edition which the magistrate was printing . Until then Han-shan had not understood the meaningsof Seng-chao 's doctrine of the immutability of things and the statement that a whirlwind will destroy mountains. - 44 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Han-shan suddenly gained enlightenment . According to the story , a Brahmacarin had left home in his youth , and when he returned he was white-haired . When they saw him , the neighbors asked , " Is that man ( whom we knew ) in the past still living today ? " The Brahmacarin replied , " I look like that man of the past but I am not he . " 35 All of a sudden , Han-shan understood that all dharmas do not come and go . Thereupon , he left his meditation bed and went to pay homage to the Buddha . In so doing , he did not see anything in motion . When he opened the blind and stood in front of the doorsteps , suddenly a wind blew the trees in the yard , and the leaves flew all over the sky . However , he did not see any sign of movement . He said to himself , " This is the whirlwind that will destroy a mountain and yet it is eternally still . " When Han-shan went to the backyard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said to himself , " This means that streams and rivers run into the ocean and yet there is no flowing . " At this point , Han-shan resolved the doubt concerning the coming and going of life and death . He then composed the following gdtha : Life and death , day and night ; Flowing water , withering flowers . Today I know , My nostrils face downwards . The next day Miao-feng asked Han-shan whether he had experienced anythingnew . Han-shan replied , " Last night I saw two iron oxen fighting with each other on a river bank . They both fell into the water . Since then I have not heard anything about them . " Miao-feng congratulated him and said , " You now have the means to dwell on the mountain . " It is apparent that the two oxen represent dualism , such as that of life and death , or of stillness and movement . Han-shan 's experience of enlightenment is the state beyond any dualism . Han-shan also met Fa-kuang , a Ch'an monk who was a guest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ch'an practices and especially on " Ch'an sickness . " 36 Fa-kuang 's Ch'an sickness was shown in the involuntary manner in which his hands shook and his mouth murmured constantly . He explained that when he first gained enlightenment , gdthas came pouring out of his mouth day and night . It became a sickness when it could not be stopped . According to Fa-kuang , the cure consisted of severe beatings to be administered by a competentCh'an master as soon as the illness began to appear , to be followed by a sound sleep . Since he had not met such a master when it happened to him , the Ch'an sickness was not cured . In early 1575 , at the age of thirty , Han-shan went again to Wu-t'ai , this time with Miao-feng , and decided to settle on the north terrace , in an abandoned old house covered by heavy snow . The mountains were all covered with ice and snow , just like the realm he had long dreamt about . He recorded that his body and mind became purified and free as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Han-shan devoted himself to concentrated meditation on a single thought . When people came to him , he kept silent and just looked at them . After a while , he looked just like a wooden pole , until he did not even understand a single word . At first , the strong wind would cause a thousand noises in the mountains , and when the ice melted , the streams roared like thunder . When Han-shan practiced the silent meditation , the noises around him sounded like the passing of ten thousand marching soldiers and horses . He was unable to control his mind . Miao-feng told him , " The external world is produced from the mind , not from the outside . The ancients have said that if one can listen to the sound of water without having any stirring in the sixth **28;2955;TOOLONG for thirty years , then one can realize the perfect wisdom of Kuan-yin. " 37 Thereupon , day after day Han-shan went to meditate on a wooden bridge above a river . In the beginning the noise of the running water came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only when his mind was activated . Finally he could hear nothing , and even his body was forgotten . Han-shan 's daily meals consisted of rye , wild vegetable , and porridge . When he began his stay at Wu-t'ai , people gave him three pecks of rice . After six months , there was still some left . One day , while taking a walk after a meal , he suddenly stood still , in the state of samddhi . He lost the consciousness of his body and mind . There was just one great bright Dharma-realm , still , perfect , like a great round mirror in which mountains and rivers were reflected . After recoveringfrom the experience , Han-shan composed the following verses : In the flash of a single thought , the agitated mind is put to rest . All the inner and outer sensationsbecome lucid and transparent . Breaking the great voidby a turning of the body , The ten thousand phenomena of the majestic worldrise and disappear . It seems that the experience described is basically that of the Hua-yen philosophy . That summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only stayed two nights . Unlike Han-shan he could not stand the life of a hermit . Han-shan continued his meditational practice in 1576 . Since there was no teacher to guide him , he used the Suraligama Sutra to verify his experience and guide him . Han-shan claimed that with his enlightened , nondiscriminating mind he was able to master the scripture in eight months . In the spring Chu-hung came to Wu-t'ai and spent about ten days with Han-shan.38One of Han-shan 's important friends was Hu Shun-an . They first met in 157 at P'ing-yang in Shansi , where Ili was then the prefect . The next year 1 lu was transferred to Yen-men , in northern Shansi at the Great Wall , presumably to maintain defenses against the Mongols . This was part of ( : h:ntg ( : hii-cheng'sp71policy of strengthening the border . On his way north Hu visited Han-shan at Wu-t ' . ai . Three months later , the abbot of the T'a-yuan monastery at Wu-t'ai was falsely accused and sentenced to return to lay life . When Han-shan went to see Hu Shun-an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the abbot and the monastery was saved . Han-shan also complained about the exploitation of the forests at Wu-t'ai by a group of merchants , and Hu managed to obtain an order banning all exploitation there . Han-shan remarked that the later constructionof monasteries on Wu-t'ai was possible because of the wood saved as a result of the ban . During his stay at Hu 's mansion in Yen-men , Han-shan held a series of lectures , which he then put into writing as the Hsu-yen ( Introductory Remarks ) . They were printed and distributed by Hu . In this first work , Han-shan imitated the literary style of the Lao Tzu and expounded the Taoist ideas in the light of Buddhist thought , implying that Lao Tzu and Chuang Tzu 's teachings were only introductory remarks on the Buddhist truth.39At the request of a friend of Hu , Han-shan also composed secular poems for inscription in the friend 's garden . Once he had started writing , Han-shan found himself unable to stop . All the poems , words , and phrases he had learned before appeared instantaneously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his body were a mouth . He believed this was caused by the evil influence of words as a karmic force . The next day , recalling Master Fa-kuang 's words about Ch'an sickness , Han-shan sat cross-legged and forced himself into sleep . Finally , he became unconscious and , according to his own account , stayed for five days in this state . Hu and his family were frightened . At last , Han-shan was awakened by the sounds of a small bell said to have been used in India to wake yogis from a state of samadhi . Once again , Han-shan experienced a condition of tranquility and forgetfulness . When he recalled the events of his earlier life , everything seemed like a dream . Thereupon , he composed the following verses : In the ultimate stillness , Light penetrates the whole realm ; In the still illumination , There pervades pure emptiness . When I look back on the phenomenal world , Everything is just like a dream . Han-span 's relationship with Hu Shun-an continued . Hu was later promoted to the rank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service and brought his son to Han-shan , who was then in Shantung , to become his disciple . The disciple was known as Fu-shan and became Han-shan 's chief attendant and secretary . Eventually , he was credited as the recorder of most of Han-shan 's writings.  |p72In  1577 Han-shan returned to Wu-t'ai from Yen-men . In memory of his parents and for the purpose of penance , Han-shan decided to copy the AvatarnsakaSutra with his blood , which was to be mixed with gold powder . Before he actually started , the Empress Dowager Li had invited various monks to recite scriptures for the protection of the country . Han-shan was listed as one of the monks . When she learned about his plan to copy the Avatamsaka in blood , the empress dowager provided gold papers for the purpose . This was the beginning of the close but complicated relationship between Han-shan and the Empress Dowager Li . It was also the time in which the imperial family became active supporters of Buddhism . This beginning was already accompanied by a conflict within the imperial family . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the T'a-yiian monastery and its pagoda at Wu-t'ai in memory of her husband , the Lung-ch'ing emperor , and for the health of the Wan-li emperor , her son . Since Wu-t'ai was too far from Peking , it was decided to build the Tz'u-shou monastery in the capital instead . When the monastery was completed in 1579 , the empress dowager asked her son to send 3,000 craftsmen to Wu-t'ai to fulfill her wish . It seems there was some complication when the court official brought the craftsmen to Wu-t'ai , for Han-shan made great efforts to reconcile potential conflicts . In 158o , by imperial order , all lands in the empire were to be surveyed for the purpose of assessing land taxes . Clearly , this was part of Chang Chu-cheng 's land and tax reform policies . Wu-t'ai was under repeated orders to assess its land for taxation , even though it had previously enjoyed tax exemption . Hanshanappealed to the authorities and obtained total exemption an indication of the imperial family 's growing support of Buddhism . The copying of the Avatamsaka Sutra in blood took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brush it was his practice to recite Amitabha 's name once . This he did in great concentration and was able to converse with other people at the same time without making any errors . During the writing Han-shan had many dreams related to the scripture , three of which are important to an understandingof his mentality . In the first dream Han-shan entered a diamond cave with the name Great Prajna Temple inscribed on the stone door . It was as vast as the empty sky ; the temple buildings and pagodas were indescribably majestic . There was a huge meditation bed in the main hall . Han-shan saw Master Ch'ing-liang lying on the bed , while Miao-feng was standing to his left . After Han-shan prostrated himself before Ch'ing-liang , he went to stand to his right . The master then began to preach . He expounded the Dharma-realm of perfect and harmonious interpenetrationof all things , and explained that all Buddha-lands interpenetrate one another , that primary and secondary characters are mutually penetrating , and that all things are not in motion in their coming and going . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared to I lan-shan in hisp73dream . This perfect and harmonious realm was said to be the " realm without a realm . " 4oIn the second dream Han-shan flew into the sky , to the endless heights of the universe . There was nothing in any direction except the earth beneath , which looked like a mirror and shone transparently like crystal . Far away there appeared a huge pavilion , as large as the sky itself , in which all kinds of human activities took place , including the ugly and trivial affairs of the mundane world . Hanshanalso saw an indescribably majestic diamond throne and wondered why in this " pure and cool " realm there were also those ugly and trivial scenes . No sooner had he wondered than the pavilion moved away from him . When he reminded himself that purity and impurity originated in the mind , the pavilion returned to him . Han-shan was then given a scroll of scriptures written in Sanskrit , which he did not understand , and was led into the presence of Maitreya , 41who was sitting on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " That which discriminates is consciousness ( ship ; vijndna ) ; that which does not discriminate is wisdom ( chili ; prajna ) . Defilement depends on consciousness ; purity depends on wisdom . In defilement there is birth and death ; in purity there are no Buddhas . " Han-shan came to understand the distinctionbetween consciousness and wisdom , and was told that he was in the Tusita heaven , in the pavilion of Maitreya . In the third dream Han-shan was invited by Mafijusri , the Lord of Wisdom , to a bathing party on the northern terrace of Wu-t'ai , which is known to be Manjuri 's sacred mountain . When he was ready to enter the pool , Han-shan noticed that the person already in the water was a girl . He felt disgusted and refused to enter . When the person intentionally changed , or floated , her body , he recognized that it was a man . Thereupon , Han-shan entered the pool . The man washed him from head to toe , pouring water from his head into the five viscera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His whole body was left with only skin on the outside , transparent as a crystal cage . A while later , an Indian monk brought a drink in half a skull , filled with bloody marrow and brains . It looked very repulsive to Han-shan , but the monk demonstrated its purity by picking up the brains for him to taste . After the brains were finished , Han-shan drank the bloody water . It tasted like sweet dew and penetrated every pore of his body . The Indian monk then rubbed his back , and suddenly clapped his hands very loudly . Han-shan woke up . Although he was perspiring , he felt extremely clean and relaxed . The three dreams may be seen as the expressions of the Hua-yen philosophy as Han-shan understood it in the process of copying the Avatamsaka Sutra . The first dream expresses the central ideas of the Hua-yen philosophy . The second ' expresses some ideas that are characteristic of the Mere Ideation philosophy , which is traditionally believed to have been taught by Maitreya . The third dream contains some'I'antrie ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dreamp74may be related to the prominent role of sex in Tantrism . The pouring of water from the head may be related to the practice of abhiseka or baptism . It is dangerous , however , to push the interpretation too far on the basis of the scanty information available . The three dreams do tend to emphasize the view that the phenomenal world is an integral part or manifestation of the Dharma-realm , yet the idea that birth and death depend on defilement is retained . In any case , Han-shan seems to have found justification for getting himself involved in worldly affairs . By 1581 Han-shan and Miao-feng had finished copying the Avatamsaka Sutra in blood ( Miao-feng had also written a separate copy ) . They decided to hold a wu-che to-hui or paiicavarsikaparisad to celebrate the copying of the scripture and its installation in a pagoda.42 Miao-feng collected funds and provisions and went to Peking to invite five hundred celebrated monks for the occasion . At this time , the Wan-li emperor issued a .. decree , apparently to the Taoists , to pray for the birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent emissaries to hold a prayer ritual at Wu-tang , a famous Taoist mountain north of Chunhsien , Hupei . The empress dowager , on the other hand , sent her emissaries to Wu-t'ai for a Buddhist ritual . According to Fu-cheng , the empress dowager favored a palace woman ( actually a lady-in-waiting in the palace of the empress dowager ) named Wang , and secretly wished her to be the lucky mother of the future heir apparent . The emperor , on the other hand , favored another concubine , Cheng , and wanted her to be the future mother . Cheng was one of the young girls selected in 1581 to serve as concubine to the emperor , ostensibly because the emperor , after three years of marriage to the empress ( also named Wang ) , still had no son.43In accordance with the empress dowager 's wish , Han-shan wanted to convert the planned 1vu-che ta-hui into a prayer assembly , arguing that all Buddhist activitieswere only for the protection of the empire and blessing of the emperor . But Miao-feng was opposed to his view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Han-shan 's plan , apparently because they did not want to go against the will of the emperor . Rumors that were designed to damage Han-shah 's plan were also spread in the south , apparently by the Taoists at Wutang . But Han-shan 's well-stated cause finally won the argument . The pagoda at Wu-t'ai was eventually repaired for the installation of the Avatamsaka Sutra , and during that winter ( 1581 ) , after three months of intense preparation , the prayer assembly was held . Over a thousand persons took part , including the five hundred celebrated monks from Peking . The shr-ri-hi or " water-land " ritual was performed , and it lasted for seven days and seven nights , during which Hanshandid not ingest anything except water . Five hundred tables of food were offered to the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas every day . In the spring of 1582 , Han-shah lectured on Master Ch'ing-liang 's commentary on the Avatamsaka Si tra , the Ihra-yen hsiian-t'arr . Apparently , the prayer assembly had aroused new interest in Buddhism among the people , and theyp75thronged to the mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to the mountain for about a hundred days . Han-shan directed all the activities , and at the end was completely exhausted . He and Miao-feng then decided to leave Wu-t'ai . Miao-feng parted from Han-shan and went to the Lu-ya Mountain , southwest of Ning-wu , Shansi . Han-shan went to Chen-ting ( Chengting , Hopei ) to recuperate . In spite of the success of the prayer assembly , serious problems had developed at Wu-t'ai . Consequently , Han-shan and Miao-feng found it wiser to leave and to separate from each other . Han-shan 's premonition was expressed in the following lines : When a cliff sticks into the sky , The sunshine will be blocked ; When a path is cut off by a precipice , There is only the flying ladder.44Another important person involved in the prayer assembly was Ta-fang , the head of the T'a-yiian monastery at Wu-t'ai . He stayed and took care of matters left behind after the assembly . The Lao-shan Period ( 1583 ? 1595 ) It so happened that in the eighth lunar month of 1582 , about nine months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a son , Chu Ch'ang-lo . The prayer assembly at Wu-t'ai was given the credit for the birth by the empress dowager . According to the Ming shih ( Ming Dynastic History ) , Wang became pregnant when the emperor visited the harem one day , but the emperor attempted to deny this . The dowager showed him the record of his visit and persuaded the emperor to recognize the fact and accept her . Wang was then given the title of kung-fei in the fourth lunar month of 1582 , a title lower than that of Concubine Cheng ; which was kuei fei.4sAccording to Fu-cheng , it became known to the emperor that in organizing the prayer assembly Han-shan had not acted according to the advice of the court officials who , though sent by the dowager , were more loyal to the emperor.46 In this way , Han-shan became involved in the power struggle between the emperor and his mother . Seeing the dangerous course toward which he was heading , Han-shan decided not to return to Wu-t'ai under such notoriety . In the spring of 1583 , he went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even changed his style from Ch'eng-yin to Han-shan . From then on he was no longer known as Ch'eng-yin . The cave was located on the mountain called Lao-shan , which is northeast of the present-day city of Tsingtao . Han-shan chose such a place because the mountainwas identified by Master Ch'ing-liang with Narayana , mentioned in the Avatantsaka Sidra as- the abode of many I3odhisattvas.47 Thus Han-shan calledp76his cave the Na-lo-yen ( Narayana ) cave . There had been a Kuan-yin temple in that area , which was taken over by Taoists and converted into a Taoist temple in the early period of the Mongol Dynasty . When Han-shan reached there , the temple was in ruins . For seven months , he lived by a tree like a hermit until a hut was built for him by a layman . Later he became acquainted with a Buddhist master at the nearby monastery of Chi-mo . When Han-shan parted with Miao-feng , the latter , knowing that Han-shan " could not walk alone , " assigned one of his followers to serve him . The expression " could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to some extent at that time because of his strenuous meditational practices and his physical exhaustion during the prayer assembly . To express her gratitude for the prayer assembly at Wu-t'ai , the empress dowager sent for Ta-fang , Miao-feng , and Han-shan in the autumn of 1584 . All except Han-shan went to the palace in Peking to receive rewards . In order to find Han-shan , the dowager sent Tuan-an , the abbot of a monastery , to go to Lao-shan to invite him . Through Tuan-an , Han-shan stated that if he were allowed to spend his old age by the sea , it would be a great reward . But the dowager was not satisfied . Then she decided to build a temple in the Western Hills ( Hsi-shan ) near Peking , and wanted Han-shan to go there . When a court official was sent to convey the invitation , Han-shan again declined . Learning that there were no adequate housing facilities at Lao-shan , the dowager sent three thousand taels ( ounces of silver ) to Han-shan , apparently for his personal use . Unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money be distributed to the various groups of Buddhists , Taoists , orphans , old people , and prisoners in the nearby prefectures , for there was a famine in Shantung at that time . The record of the transactions with appropriate seals was sent to the dowager , and she was greatly pleased . Han-shan became well known in that area , apparently because of his charitable work and his relationship with the dowager . There was a town nearby called Ch'eng-yang , which was a strong Taoist center . Many of the townspeople became interested in Buddhism and followed Han-shan . Under the sponsorship of the dowager , an enlarged edition of the Tripitaka was printed in 1586.48 The emperor decreed that fifteen sets were to be distributed in the empire , four of them to the " four corners " of the empire : east to Lao-shan , south to P'u-t'o , west to Omei , and north to Lu-ya.49 It is evident that these four mountains were chosen by the dowager , for neither Lao-shan nor Lu-ya was an important Buddhist mountain . They were chosen only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at Lu-ya . When the Tripitaka was sent to Lao-shan , Han-shan was taken by surprise . Since there was no room at the place Han-shan lived , the set was temporarily stored in a government building . Han-shan hurriedly went to the capital to express his gratitude . The dowager managed to collect enough funds from thep77imperial family for Han-shan to build a monastery at Lao-shan , which was named by her the Hai-yin or Ocean Symbol . With the completion of the meditation hall in the winter of 1586 , Han-shan found the rest he needed and devoted himself to meditation . One night he sat in meditation . When he got up and saw the limpid ocean and the clear sky , he experienced a great realm of illumination and emptiness . To express the experiencehe composed the following gatha : Limpid ocean , clear sky , and moon-reflecting snow ; This is the realm without a trace of theholy and the sentient . At the opening of the diamond eye , soflowers of vanity fall . The whole universe vanishes into the realmof extinction . Han-shan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its teaching became transparent to him . Thereupon , he ordered someone to write down the Leng-yen hsuan-thing ( The Hanging Mirror of the Surarigama Sutra ) . It was completed before the candle was burnt to the half length . The following year ( 1587 ) the temple building was completed . Han-shan gave lectures on monastic rules and the Heart Sutra , which resulted in another writing , the Hsin-ching chih-shuo kA Straight Exposition on the Heart Sutra ) . The Hai-yin monastery became a big community . It was at this time that Fu-shan became Han-shan 's disciple . In 1589 , at the age of forty-four , Han-shan studied the Tripitaka and taught the Lotus Sutra and Awakening of Faith . The teaching ministry was apparently made possible by the presence of the Tripitaka in the monastery . That winter Han-shan decided to go back to the Nanking area to visit his parents . He had been reluctant about visiting them for fear of falling back into worldly attachments . After a self-examination , he believed he was ready to face the test . The trip was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he had vowed to restore . Han-shan had previously requested that a set of the Tripitaka be sent to Pao-en . Thus he first went to the capital to receive the set from the emperor . His return to Pao-en became a great occasion . Tens of thousands of people thronged to welcome the holy canon and the homecoming monk . Hanshanwrote that a great light emanated from the pagoda for several days . This was considered an auspicious sign.51Having heard of his trip , Han-shan 's mother sent a messenger to ask when he would come home . Probably fearing too much emotional excitement , he replied that he came south as an emissary of the imperial court to escort the Tripitaka to Pao-en and not expressly to visit hiss home , and that if his mother would welcomehim as calmly and happily as if he had never left home , then he would stayp78for two nights . When Han-shan reached home , she was overjoyed . When someoneasked him whether he came by water or by land , she pointed out that he came from the sky ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothingness ) . When she heard that Han-shan was at Wu-t'ai , she asked a priest where Wu-t'ai was . When he explained that it was under the North Star , she began to worship the star every night and to call upon the Bodhisattva 's name , presumably Kuanyin . Now that she saw Han-shan , she regarded him as coming in a transformationbody ( nirmanakaya ) . The next day Han-shan went with his parents to the ancestral cemetery to pay his respects , and also divined burial places for his parents . At that time his father was eighty years old . Jesting with him , Han-shan said he would bury him alive so that he would not have to come back again later . While Han-shan was diggingthe ground , his mother took the shovel away from him , saying that she could take care of it herself . It seems that the jesting was directed only at his father . Han-shah probably wanted to show that he was detached from human emotions and Confucian codes of behavior . But he did not act very convincingly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and uneasy . In his autobiographyhe did not say any warm word about his father . On the other hand , he admired his mother as an unusual woman , although she appears to have been a very ordinary one . He was probably grateful for her influence in making him a Buddhist monk . On the third day of his visit , Hari-shan left hone . His mother sent him away in a cheerful mood . Once again in the north , Han-shan went to see the empress dowager and reported to her about the Pao-en monastery . He recorded that the reason he had gone to Wu-t'ai was to find a means of restoring the Pao-en monastery , presumablyby cultivating himself so that he could be known and recognized by others , especially the imperial family . Since Pao-en was originally an imperial property , and it would take a great deal of money to repair it , Han-shan had been waiting for the right opportunity to make a proposal to the imperial family . After the Tripitaka was sent to Pao-en , Han-shan made a formal proposal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each day from her palace allowances . Then the reconstruction could be started in three years and completed in ten . The dowager gladly adopted his suggestion and started the program in the twelfth lunar month of 1589 . It may be interesting to note here that the original Pao-en monastery was constructed for twenty-nine years from 1412 to 1430.5 ' The following year ( 1S90 ) Han-shan copied the Lotus Sutra at Lao-shan to express his gratitude to the dowager . In the meantime , he had an encounter with Taoists in that area . Certain Taoists , complaining that their property was taken away by Han-shan , took the case before the government . The matter was finally brought to the magistrate of the Lai-thou Prefecture , who sympathized with Han-shan and intended to punish the Taoists heavily for making false accusations . A large mob of hundreds of Taoist sympathizers surrounded the city wall ,  |p79looking  for trouble . Han-shan went personally to meet the leader of the mob , who brandished a knife at him . But Han-shan persuaded him to withdraw his knife . Seeing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to beat up their leader . Thereupon , Han-shan took him to his living quarters and entertained him with drink and food . The rumor arose in the city that the Taoists had killed Han-shan , but the magistrate found the Taoist leader at Han-shan 's mansion . When the government agents came to arrest the Taoist leader , Hanshanexplained that they were just eating and drinking . The leader was then released , and the riot quieted down in three days . It is interesting to note that during that year Han-shan wrote the Kuan Lao Chuang ying-hsiang lun ( On Lao Tzu 's and Chuang Tzu 's Teachings as the Shadows and Echoes of the Mind ) . After Han-shan had parted with Miao-feng in 1582 , he developed a close friendship with another monk , Tzu-po Chen-k'o , also known as Ta-kuan.53 Tzu-po must have heard of Han-shan from the famous event at Wu-t'ai . Knowingthat Miao-feng was constructing an iron pagoda at Lu-ya , he brought the copy of the Lotus Sutra that he himself had copied to Lu-ya to be kept in the pagoda . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Learningthat Tzu-po was already on his way to Lao-shan , Han-shan hurried back and met him at the foot of the mountain . Tzu-po spent about twenty days with Han-shan , and they became lifelong friends . In 1592 Han-shan visited Tzu-po in Peking . They went to see the stone-carved Buddhist canon at the mountain of Shih-ching ( Stone Canon Mountain , forty miles southwest of Peking ) . This stone-carved canon had been made during the Sui Dynasty ( S90 ? 618 ) by Ching-wan to keep it from possible destruction . At a later time , the canon was sold by the monks . With the help of the empress dowager , Tzu-po was able to redeem it , and Han-shan was asked to write a record of the monument 's history.54 The two friends then returned to the Tz'ushoumonastery in Peking , where they were apparently the dowager 's guests of honor . There they sat cross-legged , facing each other , and conversed for forty days and forty nights . In their ambition to revive the Ch'an school , they planned to edit the biographies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they never achieved ) and made a vow to go together to Ts'ao-hsi , Kuangtung , to revive the succession of the sixth Ch'an patriarch , Hui-neng . Around 1595 or earlier , Tzu-po went to Lu-shan , Kiangsi , where he intended to wait for Hanshanto join him for their journey to Ts'ao-hsi . In the meantime , Han-shan returned to Lao-shan . There was a severe famine in Shantung in 1593 . He distributed food to the people in the nearby area and also went to Liao-tung by boat to purchase several hundred ship of beans for rclief.55In the winter of 1594 , on the occasion of the winter solstice festival , Han-shan went to Peking to offer his respect to the dowager . He was invited to give lectureson monastic rules at the Tz'u-shoo monastery . According to Fu-cheng , 56 the monastery , in memory of her husband , was also called Shang-fang Tou/shuai Yuan or Upper Tusita Hall . The floor in the abbot 's room was covered entirely with an embroidered carpet . The offerings to Buddhas were rare products from the four corners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family took part in the festival . Money and luxurious gifts were given away generously . Fu-cheng also recorded that the empress dowager asked a eunuch official , Ch'en Ju , to send purple gowns to Han-shan that were made of broadcloth , together with an especially fine hat and pair of shoes.57 Han-shan accepted them after having declined three times , but did not wear them . The dowager intended to invite Han-shan to the palace where he personally could give her a Buddhist name , but Han-shan declined because of Buddhist monastic regulations . He also realized that the Wan-li emperor would not tolerate it . Thereupon , the dowager ordered the eunuch to have a portrait of Han-shan made and to bring it to the palace , together with the Buddhist name given to her by Han-shan.58 She asked the emperor to stand by as she received her Buddhist name by bowing to the picture . Fu-cheng remarked that although the emperor was filial to his mother , he could not suppress his anger in his appearance . Three years had passed since the inception of the ten-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the empress dowager had accumulatedenough savings to start construction . This was probably the reason why he went to celebrate the festival in Peking in 1594 . However , because of the Japanese invasions of Korea between 1592 and 1598 under Toyotomi Hideyoshi , national funds had been channeled for support of the expensive wars . Unfortunately , the ten-year plan had to be given up . Han-shan repeatedly called the reconstruction of Pao-en his " original vow . " It was now frustrated by the Korean wars . Furthermore , because of this vow , he became involved in the major events that were going to shake the imperial court , alienate the dowager and the emperor from each other , send Han-shan to live twenty years in the southern border ( including ten years of formal military exile ) , and contribute indirectly to the end of the Ming Dynasty . In the spring of 1595 , at the age of fifty , Han-shan returned to Lao-shan from Peking . But soon he was summoned to Peking and put into prison . This was an important turning point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's arrest . One of the stated causes was the sending of the Tripitaka to Han-shan by eunuch officials , an act which incurred the emperor 's displeasure . The emperor had become weary of the frequent Buddhist activities of the imperial family and especially those of the dowager and eunuch officials . The construction of the Hai-yin monastery and the ten-year plan for the Pao-en monastery must have compounded the problem . Within the imperial household there were also those who were jealous of the emissaries who had been appointed at the dowager 's initiative to distribute copies of the Tripitaka . According to Shen Te-fu , Chang Pen , one of the dowager'strusted eunuchs , sent many copies of the Tripitaka to Lao-shan that were meant for other places . This caused a great deal of jealousy . In this connection , ap81Taoist named Keng Yi-lan falsely claimed that the Hai-yin monastery was once the location of a Taoist monastery . His sole intention was to extract some money from Han-shan , but Han-shan refused to comply and on the contrary insulted him . Keng therefore went to submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taoist monastery and pretending that he himself was a Taoist novice at the monastery.59 It is possible that Keng was a member of the Eastern Depot ( the imperial secret service ) , for Han-shan says that a powerful eunuch , jealous of the emissaries of the Tripitaka , asked a member of the Eastern Depot to disguise himself as a Taoist . This " Taoist " went to submit complaints to the emperor after beating the teng-wen drum.60 Han-shan says that the Taoist exploited the previous Taoist rumor . By this he apparently meant the dispute over the land at Lao-shan , but could also mean the contest between the Taoists at Wu-tang and the Buddhists at Wu-t'ai in 1581 concerning the prayer assembly . The emperor became very angry and ordered the arrest of the emissaries of the Tripitaka . Han-shan was also arrested . According to Shen Te-fu , Chang pen was later sentenced to death for having fabricated imperial orders , although he had probably been following the dowager 's orders . Clearly , the reason for Han-shan 's arrest lay basically in his close relationship with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the supporters of the emperor and those of the dowager . The question of the heir apparent was the focus of the conflict , which had begun in 1581 at Wu-t'ai . By 1595 , when Han-shan was arrested , Chu Ch'ang-lo ( 1582-1620 ) , the son of Concubine Wang , was fourteen years old . Concubine Cheng , the emperor 's favorite , had given birth later to a son called Chu Ch'ang-hsun ( 1586-1641 ) . Fu-cheng states that a controversy over the investiture of the heir apparent was going on at the time of Han-shan 's arrest . The empress dowager supported Ch'ang-lo as the rightful heir apparent , whereas the emperor favored Ch'anghsun . Nine-tenths of the Inner Court ( the imperial household and its intimately related service agencies ) as well as influential officials of the Outer Court ( **25;2985;TOOLONG ) backed the emperor.61 Only a few backed the empress dowager , but they included Chang Wei , the prominent official who was serving as a Grand Secretary from 1592 to 1598.62 A third group suggested as a compromisethat no heir apparent should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son , Ch'ang-hao , be appointed equally as princes ( wanq ) .63 As a matter of fact , earlier in 1593 , after having failed to gain enough support to invest Ch'ang-hsun , the emperor gave an order to confer princedoms on the three sons as a means of postponing the investiture of Ch'ang-lo . The order was later rescinded due to protests from officials . In 1594 , the emperor yielded to pressure and permitted Ch'ang-lo to receive the necessary education , but he denied him the ceremony and equipage to which he was entitled.64According to Fu-cheng , in 1595 a certain official complained to the emperor that the assembly held at Wu-t'ai to pray for the birth of an heir apparent and the prayer at the ' l 7'u-shoo monastery to insure protection for the heir apparentp82were acts of interference with the national welfare done by a monk ( Han-shan ) . This charge seems to explain Han-shan 's statement that a certain official in the Inner Court infuriated the emperor for " some other reason . " In a sense Han-shan was a scapegoat for the empress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was prevented from taking any direct actiqn against the dowager . At his trial , however , Han-shan was not accused of interfering in the question of the heir apparent . Under torture he was urged to confess that the dowager had donated several hundred thousand taels for the use of Buddhist monasteries at various famous mountains . But Han-shan refused to confess and pledged that he would never do anything that would harm the emperor 's " great filial piety . " This fact indicates that Han-shan 's trial was also a trial of the dowager . Finally , Han-shan admitted only to the expenditure of approximately seven hundred taels and asked the emperor to go over the record of the distribution of funds for charitable purposes in Shantung . As a result , Han-shan was declared innocent in this matter , and the relationship between the emperor and his mother became , in Han-shan 's words , " as good as it was before . " Nevertheless , Han-shan was found guilty of having privately , without government sanction , established the Hai-yin monastery at Lao-shan an act which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emperor . As a result the monastery was destroyed , and Han-shan was sentenced to return to civilian life where he would be sent to a border region in Kuangtung to undergo the harsher of two forms of life exile  --  that known as military exile ( cli'uug-shun ) . Controversies over the Investiture of the Heir ApparentAfter the death in 1582 of Chang Chu-cheng ( who was posthumously disgraced ) , the empress dowager was the main power with whom the Wan-li emperor had to deal . In his struggle for independence it was natural that the relationship between the son and mother would deteriorate . The question of the heir apparentbecame the focus of conflict . According to the Ming shih ( Ming Dynastic History ) , 65 the empress dowager one day asked the emperor the reason he did not wish to invest Ch'ang-lo . When the emperor replied that it was because Ch'ang-lo was a palace attendant 's son , the mother became furious and said , " You are also the son of a palace attendant . " The son prostrated himself on the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the emperor postponed a decision as to investiture , and those who submitted memorials in support of Ch'ang-lo were either dismissed or banished . Ch'ang-lo was finally invested in 16or , at the age of twenty . His wedding was held at the same time . The sum of 9,340,000 taels was spent on the ceremony , about ten times the usual expenditure . His rival , Ch'ang-hsun , received the feudal title of Fu-wang ( Prince of Happiness ) , but refused to go to his lief at Lo-yang , Honan . While staying at the capital , he enriched himself by expropriatingpeasants ' lands , exploiting the people , and collecting gold and silver . I lis mother , Concubine ( : heng , was also a major figure in influencing a groupp83of palace eunuchs to collect the " mineral " taxes throughout the empire , which consisted of excavating people 's tombs for treasures and taxing gold , silver , and other treasures from people , especially merchants and mining industries . Ch'ang-hsiin 's continued stay at the capital caused Outer Court officials to suspect that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a so-called yao-shu ( slanderous and anonymous pamphlet ) appeared.66 The pamphlet was circulated by a certain person who claimed that Ch'ang-hsun intended to usurp the position of the heir apparent . The furious emperor gave an order to arrest many people . At that time Tzu-po Chen-k'o was in the capital , attempting to obtain Han-shan 's release . Tzu-po 's letter in which he defended the empress dowager and criticized the destruction of the Hai-yin monastery and the banishmentof Han-shan was found in the possession of one of Tzu-po 's lay followers , who was arrested in connection with the yao-shu case . Consequently , Tzu-po was also thrown into prison . Knowing there was no hope of survival , he plunged himself into a deep meditation in the course of which he died.67Because of the troubles caused by Ch'ang-hsiin 's continued stay in the capital , the emperor finally ( in 1613 ) urged him to leave for Lo-yang . Concubine Cheng requested that the emperor allow her son to stay until after the celebration of the empress dowager 's birthday , but the empress dowager made him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not much improved . In 1615 a certain man carrying a club and trying to force his way into the palace hit a guard at the gate and was arrested . It was discovered that he was related to Concubine Cheng and her brother , Cheng Kuo-t'ai . They were widely suspected of having hired the man to kill the heir apparent . Frightened by this rumor , the Cheng concubine appealed to Ch'ang-lo for understanding , and the emperor also asked the heir apparent to discount the incident in the presence of court officials . The alleged assassin was declared insane and was later executed . This is historically known as the t'ing-chi chih an ( the case of the club ) .69In 1620 Ch'ang-lo finally became the T'ai- ch'ang emperor , but an official of the Court of State Ceremonial offered him a red pill that was supposed to cure an illness that had become more serious under Concubine Cheng 's care . As a result , the emperor died after only one month on the throne . This is known as the hung-wan chih an ( case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ round of controversy concerning a possible conspiracy.70Ch'ang-lo 's life was a tragic one . He might have been considered a gift from the Buddha . After waiting and struggling for thirty-eight years , it was a miracle that he finally became emperor at all . But the result may have convinced HanShanthat he had been right in choosing a path that would not end . On the other hand , he must have been sad at seeing the tragic end of his own work , for Ch'anglowas born as a result of the prayer assembly officiated by Han-shan . Ch'ang-lo 's rival , Chang-hsiin , also died a tragic death . He was killed in 1641 by Li Tzu-ch'eng , the leader of the peasant rebellion , when Li took thep84city of Lo-yang . Li 's soldiers made a kind of wine from Ch'ang-hsun 's blood , which they called fu-lu chiu ( wine of happiness and prosperity ) , apparently named after the prince 's feudal title , " Prince of Happiness . " Han-shan 's work , however , was not forgotten in the palace . After all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Ch'ang-lo ) . After the empress dowager 's death in 1614 , a special building , the Chiu-lien P'u-sa Yuan ( Nine Lotus Bodhisattva Hall ) , was built in the palace in her memory , and Han-shan 's portrait was hung there . The Ch'ung-chen emperor ( r. 1628 ? 1644 ) wrote the following words of praise on Han-shan 's picture:71This old monk , What a form he has ! Upholding the Dharma-gate , He himself is the support . Entrusted as the right hand of the Son of Heaven , He is the exemplar of Buddhas and Patriarchs . Han-shan would have been very sad , had he lived , to learn that the Ch'ung-chen emperor was the last emperor of the Ming Dynasty , and that he committed suicide . Exile and the Ts'ao-hsi Period ( 1595 ? 1613 ) When Hsueh-lang asked Han-shan to travel to the south many years earlier , Han-shan argued that the southern weather and scenery were not appropriate for vigorous religious training . Yet now , after searching for the Ch'ing-hang Mountain and then becoming politically involved in the capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight months in the prison in Peking , Han-shan was sentenced to exile , this in spite of a great deal of help from some government officials and the prayers offered by the Buddhist community . He set out for the south in the winter of 1595 , accompanied by Fu-shan and three other disciples . He met his mother by the Yangtze River near Nanking for the last time . His father , who was probably already dead , was not mentioned . The mother is said to have been calm and cheerful , saying that she was not worried because life and death were determined ( by karma ) . Han-shan composed the following " Mother and Son " verses in her memory:72The feeling of the mother for the son Is like a magnet that attracts a needle . This spontaneous , mysterious nature Is originally complete and perfect . I see my motherlike a fire that comes from the wood.  |p85After  the wood has been burnt , The fire is originally without a self . She is not anxious when I am alive , Nor worried when I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stone-child . In a sense his exile to Kuangtung partially and unwittingly fulfilled his onetimeplan with Tzu-po Chen-k'o to go to Ts'ao-hsi , the place where the sixth patriarch had stayed . As mentioned earlier , Tzu-po had gone to Lu-shan in 1595 or earlier to wait for Han-shan . But at the news of Han-shan 's arrest in Peking , he decided to go to Ts'ao-hsi by himself . On his return trip , Tzu-po learned that Han-shan was on his way south , so he hurried to meet him at the Yangtze River near Nanking . Tzu-po vowed to secure freedom for Han-shan and to recite the Lotus Sutra one hundred times for his safety . Then the two friends parted . Han-shan 's exile was under military supervision . Having been compelled to return to civilian life , he became officially known as Ts'ai Te-ch'ing , Ts'ai being his original secular surname . Instead of monkish garb , he wore prisoner 's clothes . His hair and beard had also grown.73 He did not return to the status of monkhood until 1607 , after amnesty had been declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1606 , and he did not shave off his hair and beard or put on monk 's clothing until 1614 when the dowager died . During the period of his exile , he enjoyed unusual freedom of movement and special privileges because of his acquaintance with important government officials . He was only required to report to the military authorities periodically , and most of the time he stayed at monasteries with his disciples . When he carried out extensive reforms at Ts'ao-hsi , Han-shan still had the status of military exile . Although he presumably no longer wore prisoner 's clothes , he appeared in civilian clothes with long hair and a beard . In spite of his civilian appearance , he was still a monk in spirit . From Nanking , Han-shan traveled through Kiangsi to Kuangtung , visiting some scholar-officials on the way and promoting the practice of setting up a booth of free tea for travelers . He stopped briefly at Ts'ao-hsi , then Wu-yang ( Canton ) , and arrived at Lei-chow ( on the east side of the Lei-thou Peninsula , about 400 miles southwest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1596 . For the next eighteen years , Han-shan moved mainly between Lei-thou , Canton , and Ts'ao-hsi . The military headquarters where he was registered was at Lei-chou . Han-shan first stayed in an old temple in Lei-thou . There was a severe famine in Kuangtung at that time , and an epidemic ravaged the land . Innumerable dead bodies were left uncollected . With a Confucian scholar , Han-shan asked people to collect and bury tens of thousands of dead bodies . A " deliverance " ritual ( probably shut-1u ) was held by . I lan-shan for rain . It is said that as a result three feet of rain fill . In the autttnm I Ian-shall was transferred to Canton . The followingp86year ( 1597 ) he again urged people to bury the dead and sponsored a " deliverance " ritual that lasted for seven days and nights . In Canton , Han-shin met a few scholars and officials , including Ch'en Ta-k'e ( 1534-1601 ) , the supreme commander of Kuangtung ; Chou Ju-teng , a governmentofficial and teacher of the Wang Yang-ming philosophy ; Ting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exile ; and Fan Yu-heng , who had just been exiled because of his involvement in the controversy over the investiture of the heir apparent.74 Han-shan found much in common with the last two persons because they all led a life of exile and shared a similar concern about politics in the imperial court . Han-shan 's acquaintance with Chou Ju-teng attracted many Confucian students to him . His special ( Buddhist ) interpretation of Confucian classics made him a distinguished teacher , and several Confucian students came to study with him . This event clearly reflected the affinity between Wang **26;3012;TOOLONG and ( Ch'en ) Buddhism . In order to expound Buddhist teachings to the Confucian students , Han-shan tried to teach them in terms of Confucian ideas . Thus in 1597 he wrote the Chung-yung chih-chili ( The Direct Pointing to the Mind in the Doctrine of the Mean ) . Due to his changed circumstances , Han-shan felt compelled to write poems to express his inner feelings . He made a distinction between gathas ( Buddhist hymns ) and poems , the later being a form of secular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Collection of Dream-Wandering Poems ) , he recognized the traditional view that poems composed of beautiful words and expressing strong feelings were not a proper tool for conveying the Buddhist truth . But he justified his writing of the poems by saying that they actually expressed the Buddhist idea that a wandering life is like a dream.75 During his journey from Peking to Kuangtung , Han-shan composed about twenty poems , apparently because the life of his military exile could best be expressed in poetry . He continuedwriting poems through his later years . Although he no longer wore his monk 's garb , Han-shan continued his Buddhist teaching and writing . As soon as he arrived at Lei-chou , he began writing a commentary on the Lankavatara Sutra , which was completed in one year as the Leng-chia pi-chi . In 1599 one hundred copies were printed and distributedto learned monks and government officials in the empire to let them know that he had not given up Buddhist activities . In response to Tzu-po Chen-k'o 's vow that he would recite the Lotus Sutra one hundred times , Hanshangave lectures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Essential Teaching of the Lotus Sutra ) in t598 . Some of his former followers came to join him , and in time his disciples increased to several dozen . Han-shan 's influence was also felt on the popular level . He found that the Cantonese would kill a great number of animals for the celebration of the popular throng-yiian festival , held in memory of their ancestors on the fifteenth day of the seventh lunar month . As a Buddhist counterpart , I Ian-shan promotedp87the yu-lan-p'en festival for the deliverance of hungry ghosts and especially of ancestors . While this festival encouraged filial piety , people were also urged to feed monks on that day and to offer vegetables in sacrifice to the Buddhas . Attempts were also made to extend the avoidance of killing to other popular festivals . Soon associations known as fang-sheng hui ( associations for saving lives ) were established in many places . According to tradition , the association was started by Master Chih-i of the T'ien-t'ai school.76 It advocated the building or maintenance of ponds for setting free fish that had been caught . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often went into fields or mountains to set captured birds free or to feed wild animals . During Ming times , Yiin-ch'i Chu-hung was a great advocate of this practice . In i600 Han-shan helped put down a riot in Canton . The exploitation of the people by tax emissaries ( presumably eunuch tax collectors ) as well as the disturbancesmade by Japanese pirates caused the riot . It is possible that the presence of the tax emissaries was due to the arrival of European traders in China at approximately this time , although Han-shan did not mention it . The city was in a state of great tension and Han-shan dispersed his disciples to avoid possible trouble . The Cantonese had resented the junks active along coastal Fukien that were used to export rice , because the exportation of rice caused the price of rice at home to rise . Uprisings had occurred several times . Some of the junks may have been connected with Japanese pirates or European traders . One day , a certain general of Fukien origin , who was about to leave on furlough , sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the general , the tax emissaries incited the people of Canton by saying that he was enriching himself by sending his son off . Seeing that there were several junks close to the general 's boat , several thousand people came to storm it and also surrounded the general 's headquarters . Top government officials were away from the city at that time , and no one was able to control the situation . Han-shan reluctantly accepted the general 's request for help . He went to see the tax emissaries and persuaded them to talk to the rioters . Han-shan also reasoned with the people , saying , " What you want is to have rice at a low price . Now you are breaking the law . If you are sentenced to death , who are going to eat the rice even if it is cheap ? " As a result , the provincialcapital returned to order . Han-shan 's great influence was praised , but some government officials were also worried about his interference in political matters such as this one . An official pointed out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not come out from your retreat to interfere , what would have happened to the city ? Now that you have come out , what will happen to you ? " In the autumn of i600 Han-shan was invited by Chu I-pin , 77 a government official at Shao-chou ( northern Kuangtung ) , to go to Ts'ao-hsi . Han-shan was more than happy to leave the potentially dangerous city for the holy place that he had long ago planned to visit . Before Ilan-shah 's departure , Tai Yao , 78 the newly appointed supreme commander of Kuangtung , honored him forp88his help in quelling the riot and promised to support and protect him during his stay at Ts'ao-hsi . From i6oi to 16oy , Han-shan spent his energy trying to revive the Nan-hua monastery at Ts'ao-hsi . He found that the monastery had been almost completely secularized for over a hundred years . Gangs gathered at the gate of the monastery , engaged in animal-killing and meat-selling . The land was used by the gangs as a cemetery . The monastic properties had been largely appropriated by outsiders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away . Unable to find a better solution to the problem , Han-shan went to Canton and personally appealed for help to Tai Yao , the supreme commander . Tai ordered the county magistrate of Ts'ao-hsi to force the intruders to leave the mountain within three days , and all their shops were torn down . In their meeting Tai told Han-shan about the difficulities of maintaining order in the Kuangtung area . The first problem concerned pearl fishing . It was said that a thousand ships acted as pirates on the sea , taking advantage of the imperial order to fish for pearls there . The pearl fishers would remain on the sea after their legitimate work was done and turn to piracy . The second problem , concerningmining on land , was again connected with the imperial court , probably under the sponsorship of Concubine Cheng and her group . It was said that the miners dug up tombs , presumably for treasures , and destroyed people 's properties.79Tai Yao explained these things to Han-shah believing he might have some influence on the emissaries sent from the imperial court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That autumn ( 16oi ) , the emissary in charge of pearl fishing and mining came to Ts'ao-hsi where he became impressed by Buddhist teachings . Han-shan asked him to help revive the monastery and subtly explained the evil nature of " mining , " pointing out that it could not have been the emperor 's will . He suggested that the emissary impose a control on pearl fishing and stop the mining in favor of the normal process of taxation . The emissary promised to try his best to carry out these ideas , and eventually peace returned to the sea and the land . Tai Yao thanked Han-shah for his help in a letter and promised to be more diligent in his support of the Buddhist faith . In the meantime , Han-shan started to reconstruct the roads and landscape of the mountain according to his knowledge of geomancy . He believed that the decline of Ts'ao-hsi and Ch'an was , at least in part , due to the obliteration of the original forms of the mountain . Thus he reconstructed the roads and landscapein order to preserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he said had the forms of a dragon and elephant . " 0 In this new environment , persons were selected for ordination , a free school was established to educate novices , and a treasury was set up . Rules for its operation were also formulated . The records of rents and taxes were examined , properties were redeemed , and lost land was recovered . By the end of 16o1 , the monastery was well on its way to reestablishment.  |p89The  following year the patriarchal hall of Hui-neng was repaired , and the roads and landscape were redesigned . The former slaughterhouse became a guest hall for visiting monks , and the meditation hall was expanded . The general rules of operation were also laid down . A letter had been sent to Tzu-po Chen-k'o , asking him to join Han-shan at Ts'ao-hsi . Unfortunately , Tzu-po had been belatedly arrested in connection with the yao-shu incident at the capital and had died at the end of 1693 . Tzu-po 's arrest was due to his attempt to obtain freedom for Han-shan , who , in 1604 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told Hanshanthat reference to the seven states of sentient beings and their causal relationshipstaught in the S6rarrgama Sutra could not be found in secular works.B1 Han-shan replied that the Spring and Autumn Annals explained the relationship between cause and effect . Recalling this incident in connection with Tzu-po , that year Han-shan wrote the Ch'un-ch'iu Tso-shih hsin fa ( The Doctrine of Mind in the Spring and Autumn Annals with the Tso Commentary ) . Confronted by the historical events he had personally seen and experienced , Han-shan apparentlyfound it very understandable that Confucius should have written the Annals . Fu-cheng believed that Han-shan 's Autobiography was an imitation of the Amials.82 He pointed out that during the Spring and Autumn period ( 722 ? 481 B.C. ) many kingdoms declined and disappeared because the influence of palace women had prevented the eldest prince from being invested and enthroned . He believed that Han-shan must have had these parallels to his own time in mind . In 16os Han-shan traveled to Hainan Island and stayed at the Ming-ch'ang pagoda in Ch'iung-chou . Observing the city , he predicted there would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after his departure an earthquake destroyed the pagoda where he had stayed . That summer he returned to Canton and was sent back to Ts'ao-hsi in the autumn . The reconstruction of the patriarchalhall had continued during his absence and had cost about one thousand taels . Han-shan collected some subscriptions from two eunuch officials to help pay the cost . The Ch'ang-ch'un monastery in Canton was also repaired as a branch of the Ts'ao-hsi monastery . Although he was still formally in exile , it is evident that Han-shan had almost complete freedom of movement . During the spring of 1606 he traveled to Kiangsi to visit a few friends , including Chang Wei , who had now retired , and Tsou Yuan-piao.83 These two scholar-officials had one thing in common with I lan-shan : they too had advocated the investiture of Ch'ang-lo as heir apparent . Chang Wei even told his friends about Han-shan 's great " covert contribution to the country , " apparently referring to the prayer assembly at Wu-t'ai and subsequent events . At the time of Han-shah 's arrest , Chang was the " vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Han-shah 's arrest and had tried to help him . I lan-shan went to thank him personally . I ) wring the eighth lunar month of 1606 , the eldest grandson ( the future T'ien/ch'i emperor ) of the Wan-li emperor was born . An imperial general amnesty for persons serving sentences was therefore issued . Those who were old and sick or who had suffered wrongly were allowed to apply for release . Han-shan reported to his military supervisor and was allowed to go to Lei-chou to file the application for pardon . That year , at the age of sixty-one , he was released from military exile , pending formal confirmation . In 1607 , Han-shan asked to return to monkhood . The military authority sent him to the Shao-chou prefecture and registered him at Ts'ao-hsi . But he did not yet shave his head or put on monkish garb . That year he completed his commentary on the Lao Tzu , which he had started fifteen years before when laymen frequently asked questions about it . Han-shan stated that whenever he had doubt about the meaning of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thoroughly comprehended it . Feng Shih-k'e , a government official , came to Ts'ao-hsi in 1608.85 One night he dreamed he saw Kuan-yin . The next day he went to worship the Bodhisattva and found that the two ridgepoles in front of the trinity ( Amitabha , Kuan-yin , and Ta-shih-chih ) had rotted . Thereupon , he volunteered to raise funds to repair the temple . He reported the situation to the supreme commander , Tai Yao , who decided to use public funds for its reconstruction . But Han-shan suggested that it would be better to employ the governmental agencies to raise voluntary subscriptions . Within a month about a thousand taels were received . Since the funds were to be used for the reconstruction of the great hall of the monastery , Han-shan personally went to western Kuangtung to buy hard wood . In the meantime , he was invited by Tai Yao to supervise the construction of the Pao-yueh Pavilion , north of Kao-yao , that was financed by Feng Shih-k'e . In the main hall stood an image of Kuan-yin Clad in White.86 Clearly , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ts'ao-hsi , the spiritual source of Ch'an . The Annamese invaded Ch'in-chou ( southwest of Kuangtung ) during the winter of 1608.87 The Chinese army was badly defeated , and Tai Yao appealed to the emperor for an imperial expedition . Fu-cheng commented that Tai Yao had appealed for the imperial expedition in order to hide his military failure . For this reason Tai Yao was only dismissed and escaped being punished for his failure.88 Han-shan 's greatest supporter had left his post . In early 1609 Han-shin returned to Ts'ao-hsi with the hard wood from Kaoyao . Upon his arrival , a group of monks started a movement against him . Han-shan blamed himself for having been too involved in worldly matters . Seated alone in the hall , he recited the Diamond Sutra . He recorded the result of his meditation as the Chin-kang chueh-i ( Resolution of Doubts in the Diamond Sutra ) . The revolt did not end , and Han-shan was sued in the district court . Consequently , he left the monastery and lived in a boat by the Fu Jung River ( south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and defended his own case . He was also very ill , and in 1609 his boat was destroyed.  |p91In  1610 Han-shan was found guilty of having embezzled eight thousand taels . He appealed and asked for further investigation . At his request , officials were sent to Ts'ao-hsi to check the records of receipts and expenses . Finally he was declared innocent . Though asked to stay , Han-shan decided to leave Ts'ao-hsi and went to the Ch'ang-ch'un temple in Canton . He entrusted the monastery at Ts'ao-hsi to Huai-yii , one of his disciples . What was the reason for this peculiar incident ? Han-shan does not give any detailed information except to comment that a few " degenerate " monks started the whole matter . Apparently , the occasion for the incident was the departure of Tai Yao , Han-shan 's staunch supporter , from the government . Fu-cheng stated that the establishment of the treasury office by Han-shan had deprived the old monks of their accustomed ways of enriching themselves . Since they no longer obtained what they used to from the transactions of food and funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rid of him . It is possible that the old monks were also supported by the shopkeepers and merchantsdriven away by Han-shan . They saw the departure of Tai Yao as an occasion to gain redress for themselves . Han-shan rested at Ting-hu Mountain , north of Kao-yao , during the spring of 1611 . There , after almost five years of waiting , he finally received formal confirmation of his release from exile . At the age of sixty-six , Han-shan officially became a free man . Although he had been free to move around in the south , he could now travel anywhere and especially to the north . As a result of his frequent contacts with Confucian students , he wrote the Ta-hsiieh chi eh-i ( Resolution of Doubts in the Great Learning ) in 1611 . From 1612 to 1613 Han-shan stayed at the Ch'ang-ch'un temple in Canton where he gave lectures on the Awakening of Faith , the Wei-shih doctrines of eight consciousnesses and one hundred dharmas , the Lotus Sutra , and the Sutra of Complete Enlightenment . While lecturing on the last sutra during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble of old , with the growth of an abscess . He recalled that his back trouble had started forty-eight years ago when he first practiced meditation . He regarded it as a debt of bad karma . Since that time he had suffered the pain every time he recited or copied the Avatamsaka Sutra . The pain would stop , however , after a prayer was offered . But this time it became so serious that a funeral was actually in preparation for him . Thanks to the efforts of a well-known doctor , he was kept alive . Han-shan noted that ever since his arrival in Kuangtung in 1596 he had been unable to raise his hands . Fu-cheng further stated that Han-shan was unable to stand on his feet for any length of time . He needed crutches to walk and even for a distance of one hundred steps had to be supported . Four people were usually at hand to help him travel , presumably by providing some kind of carriage for him . Considering his age and physical condition , it is remarkable that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his later years . Apparently , for most of the time his hack trouble was not too severe for travel.  |p92The  Heng-shan Period ( 1613 ? 1615 ) During the winter of 1613 Han-shan left Kuangtung for Heng-yang in Hunan at the invitation of Tseng Feng-i , who had sent him a dozen letters asking him to stay with him in his old age at the famous Heng Mountain ( Heng-shan ) .89 Han-shan was accompanied by several of his close disciples , including Fu-shan , T'ung-chiung , and Fu-hui . The next year Han-shan sent Fu-hui back to Ts'ao-hsi to become head of that monastery . In the meantime , he visited several places in Hunan . That summer Han-shan learned that the empress dowager , with whom he had once been on such close terms , had passed away . A ritual was held , presumably by Han-shan , in her memory . The ritual was called pao-en , which means " repaying the grace or favor " and is the same name as that of the Pao-en monastery.90 Han-shan expressed his gratitude to the dowager , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head in Buddhist fashion and wore the monkish garb again . There was an imperial proclamation of grace , probably for Han-shan specifically . Fu-cheng stated that on her deathbed the dowager expressed regrets that Tzu-po Chen-k'o and Han-shan could not hold the funeral service for her and that when she learned of Han-shan 's continued presence in Kuangtung she urged that he be summoned to the north.9 ' The exact details are not available . It seems that the pao-en ritual held by Han-shan in Hunan had a special sanction by an imperial order . Naturally , Han-shan thought about the unfinished task of the Pao-en monastery . He cried , saying , " The patron ( the empress dowager ) has gone , and my vow for the home monastery ( Pao-en monastery ) is finished . Should I wait for the next life ? " " According to Fu-cheng , in 1639 , under the Ch'ung-chen emperor , a prince who had died returned to life for a while and reported that the empress dowager had become a Buddha , known as the Nine-Lotus Bodhisattva . For this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace in memory of her . Han-shan 's portrait with the Ch'ung-chen emperor 's verses was hung in the hall in Han-shan 's memory.93Feng Shih-k'e , the official whom Han-shan had met in Kuangtung , went to Hunan in 1614 . In addition to entertaining Han-shan at many places , Feng , along with a number of other persons , built an abode for him at Heng-shan . During 1615 Han-shan gave various lectures on the scriptures . The Leng-yen t'ung-i ( Commentary on the Surwigama Sutra ) was written at the end of 1614 and was printed in 1615 by a government official , Wu Chung-wei.94 Besides this , the Fa-hua t'ung-i ( Commentary on the Lotus Sutra ) and the Ch'i-hsin lueh-su ( Brief Commentary on the Awakening of Faith ) were completed in 1615 . Travel to the East ( 1616 ? 1617 ) During the summer of 1616 , probably encouraged by the special imperial proclamation of grace after the dowager 's death , I lan-shan decided to leavep93Heng-shan for the eastern coastal area ( Anhwei , Kiangsu , and Chekiang , Although there is no record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pao-en monastery in Nanking , the trip signified a return to the general area of his youth in celebration of his liberation from exile . Han-shan was welcomed everywhere as a champion of Buddhism by Buddhists as well as sympathetic government officials . At that time the Wan-li emperor was still on the throne , and Han-shan may have avoided visiting the Pao-en monastery because he did not want to stir up any ill feelings . This trip was called tung-yu or " travel to the east " by Fu-cheng and Hsuanchinwho , in 1617 , right after Han-shan 's trip , edited the Tung-yu chi ( Collected Writings of Han-shan 's Travel to the East ) . In a literal sense , tung-yu means Han-shan 's travel from the west ( Hunan ) to the eastern coastal area . At the same time , however , " west " is also the direction from which Buddhism generally , and especially Amitabha and Kuan-yin of the Western Paradise , came to China . Thus to Fu-cheng and Huuan-chin , the " eastern trip " may have symbolized Han-shan 's triumphant return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reasons for Han-shan 's trip was his desire to pay a belated tribute to Tzu-po Chen-k'o at Ching-shan , a mountain northwest of Yu-hang , Chekiang . Before his death Tzu-po had asked Han-shan to take care of his burial when the time came . One of Han-shan 's followers had obtained permission to move Tzu-po 's body from Peking to Ching-shan the year after his death ( 1604 ) . Now more than twelve years had passed , and Han-shan heard that there was to be a second burial for Tzu-po.96 Therefore , he decided to go there personally to fulfill his old promise . In the early summer of 1616 , when he was seventy-one , Han-shan started from Heng-shan , stopped briefly at Wu-ch'ang in Hupei , then arrived at Lushaniii Kiangsi . There he wrote a commentary on the Book of Chao . Seeing the quiet and beautiful Lu Mountain , Han-shan made up his mind to stay there for the remaining years of his life . At that time a certain monk was willing to give Wu-ju peak to Han-shan as a place to stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peak to build an abode for him . Before settling down at Wu-ju on Lu-shan , however , Han-shan continued his trip and went to the mountain of Huang-mei in Hupei , where Tao-hsin ( 58o ? 651 ) and Hung-jen ( 6o1 ? 674 ) , the fourth and fifth Ch'an patriarchs , had taught . There he found several other persons ready to help him build a monastery at Wu-ju . He continued his travels through Anhwei and Kiangsu , visiting many places and welcomed by enthusiastic lay and monastic Buddhists and especially by government officials . On the first full moon after the winter solstice ( about 23 December ) , Han-shan arrived at the Chi-chao monastery of Ching-shan where a great crowd of Tzu-po 's followers had gathered . During the next few days , I lan-shan performed die ritual of cremation , collected the bones , and stored them in a memorial tower . I le also composed a eulogy for the ritual andp94a biographical inscription for the tower . The two masters had been friends in spirit and in their common cause for Buddhism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further linked . In his attempt to secure freedom for him , Tzu-po actually died for Han-shan . Now the two friends met again , with one still living , the other dead . Their meeting must have symbolized Han-shan 's silent protest against the vagaries of history and especially the controversies in the imperial court.97Han-shan remained and taught at Ching-shan until the following lunar new year ( 6 February 1617 ) . A record of his teaching on Ch'an practice and a song called the Tan-pan-han ke became popular there and are important sources of Han-shan 's mature teaching.98 The Tan-pan-han ke or " Song of the Carrier of Boards " teaches that all worldly gains are a burden . As with the board carrier , the only way to freedom is to lay down the burden and cease all striving , for the seeming gains will in any case be lost . Moreover , the burden could become the bad karma for many suffering lives to come . Han-shan was probably reflecting on his own involvement in worldly matters , from which he had not gained anything . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of the Buddha is worth fighting for and that in the last analysis there is the Buddhist reward of salvation ? for himself and for others . After the lunar new year Han-shan went south to the Yun-ch'i Mountain , southwest of Yii-hang , Chekiang , where Chu-hung had taught . A great crowd had gathered to greet him . Han-shan stayed there for about twenty days teaching and answering questions concerning Pure Land practices , 99 probably because Chu-hung had been known primarily as a great Pure Land master . It is said that Han-shan expounded a new dimension of Chu-hung 's teaching that was not known to Chu-hung 's followers . The discussion of a new dimension may have reflected some difference between the two masters concerning the Pure Land faith , but both of them believed in the doctrine of Mind and the essential identity between the Ch'an and Pure Land practices . Han-shan was asked to compose a biographical inscription for Chu-hung 's memorial tower . ' " Although Han-shan differed from Chu-hung in personality and way of life ( Chu-hung shunned political affairs and did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas and practices seems to be more important than their differences . Within two months Han-shan had conducted important spiritual dialogues with the two other Buddhist masters and reformers of the time . On leaving the Yun-ch'i Mountain , Han-shan was invited to the nearby Ching-tz'u monastery ( southwest of Yii-hang ) by Hsiian-chin and Fu-cheng . Hsiian-chin was the head of the Tsung-ching Hall of the Ching-tz'u monastery and also a disciple of Master Hsiieh-lang , Han-shan 's " brother " at the Pao-en monastery and first traveling companion . The Tsung-ching Hall was the place where Yung-ming Yen-shou had taught and was an important Chiang ( scriptural studies ) center in Ming times . Fu-cheng led a group of laymen and monks in asking instructions from I lan-shan , and was highly praised by him . Fu-chcng'sp95description of Han-shan 's teaching in the Tsung-ching Hall follows : While giving lectures in the ( Tsung-ching ) Hall , the master uttered several hundreds or thousands of words in a single breath without any interruption . His voice was like the sound of a huge bell , so loud and clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While writing words of instruction with his hand , he remained cross-legged in the seat without any change in position . He wrote several hundreds or thousands of characters on a paper without making any break in his writing . The attendant hurriedly delivered the written articles to the persons concerned . There was no rest the whole day . The Master always turned a string of beads with his left hand , and in his right hand he always held a white fan made of bamboo . The fan did not leave his hand in summer or winter . It was held but not waved , nor was it opened . When it was necessary to commandor influence the events in the human and heavenly worlds or the three realms of desire , form , and the formless , he would strike the fan at the table from nowhere . Everything resounded at the blow . Neither the use of a bamboo comb and a wooden staff nor the use of beating and shouting could equal the way he used a single fan . The effect was as great as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were driven away . rolFu-cheng also described some of Han-shan 's acts of healing through the use of mantras , Amitabha 's name , a medium , and the fan.1O2 Although the accounts are obviously exaggerated , it is clear that Han-shan believed in the possibility of healing through the Buddhist means and that he did practice them . As to his teaching ministry at the Tsung-ching Hall , Han-shan himself stated that it was one of the greatest assemblies in that region . During his stay at Ching-shan , Yiin-ch'i , and Ching-tz'u , Han-shan attracted many government officials and scholars , including such famous persons as Ch'ien Ch'ien-i and Yu Ch'un-hsi . He found an opportunity to visit the memorial tower of Yiin-ku , the monk who had introduced Han-shan to Ch'an meditation . During the eastern trip , Han-shau also wrote the Hsin-hsiang t'ung-shuo ( Expositionon the Identity between the Noumenal and the Phenomenal ) . The following is a description of Han-shan 's public behavior from the standpointof a contemporary critic , Shen Te-fu : In every temple when Te-ch'ing ascends to the great hall to preach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high altar , the image of the ThreeWorldBuddha having been covered by the monks with large sheets . He is treated there with the deference due a visiting governor or magistrate . I have my doubts about his behavior . The Tathagata Buddha is the teacher in the Buddhist School just as Confucius and Mencius are teachers in the Confucian school . If a great Confucian scholar should lecture on the Classics , he would never usurp the high seat in the Ta-ch'eng Palace and have the statues of Confucius and other sages to his back . I have asked a friend to caution Te-ch'ing on this , but I doubt if he will listen . Recently I have seen several lesser preachers imitating Te-ch'ing in vainglory . They can be said to be completely uninhibited ! I have also seen a calling card of Te-ch'ing with his name written as large as that of a Grand Secretary . This is even more astonishing.1 OSp96It seems that this description of Han-shan 's behavior is not inconsistent with some aspects of his character and way of thinking . If his fan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human , that is , Confucian conventions could restrain him , unless regarded as skillful means . This iconoclastic tendency had something in common with the left-wing school of Neo-Confucianism , especially the " wild Ch'an . " But Han-shan 's general mode of behavior was probably more moderate and thus closer to the moderate wing of NeoConfucianism . This is shown by the fact that in 1.616 he was entertained by Kao P'an-lung ( 1562-1626 ) , 104 a leader in the Tung-lin movement . A crowded schedule of traveling to various places in the Kiangsu area followed Ching-tz'u . Han-shan was always warmly received by enthusiastic people as a hero . During the early summer of 1617 he took a boat at Ching-k'ou , sailed past Nanking and through Anhwei along the Yangtze River , and arrived at Lu-shan one and a half months later . The Lu-shan Period ( 1617 ? 1621 ) When Han-shan returned to Lu-shan in 1617 , funds for the construction of a monastery were already available . That winter an abode was completed for him under Fu-shan 's supervision . The next year a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monastery was called Fa-yiin . In 1619 Han-shan gave lectures on several scriptures . That autumn he decided to make the monastery a place for the retirement of old monks . Later he shut himself up inside the monastery and devoted himself to Pure Land practices in imitation of Hui-yuan , who had taught at Lu-shan and has been regarded as the first patriarch of the Pure Land school . In the meantime he was also concerned about the decline of the Hua-yen teachings , so he started editing and condensing Master Ch'ing-liang 's voluminous commentaries on the Avatamsaka Sutra in 1619 . This work was completed in 1622 as the Hua-yen kang-yao ( Outline of the Avatarnsaka Sutra ) . The year 1620 was significant for Han-shan , for it was the year in which the Wan-li emperor died . He was succeeded by the T'ai-ch'ang emperor , who in turn died after a one-month reign . Han-shan continued his teaching at Wu-ju . At the request of Kuang-i , his disciple-attendant , Han-shan wrote or lectured on the Yuan-chiieh-thing chin-chieh ( A Straight Exposition of the Sutra of Complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Awakeningof Faith ) , and the Chuang-tzu nei-p'ien chu ( Commentary on the First Seven Chapters of the Chuang Tzu ) .1o5Ever since his departure from Ts'ao-hsi in 1613 , Han-shan 's followers at Ts'aohsihad repeatedly asked him to return south . In 162o Wu Chung-wei , whom Han-shan had met in Hunan , was transferred to Kuang-tung . While visiting Ts'ao-hsi , Wu was asked to persuade I lan-shan to return , and therefore wrote a letter to l.u-shan , promising to support I lan-sham at Ts'ao-hsi . But Ilan-shanp97declined . In 1621 , the first year of the T'ien-ch'i emperor , Wu Chung-wei and Chu I-pin ( who had invited Han-shan to Ts'ao-hsi in 1600 ) sent a letter inviting him to Ts'ao-hsi , but he declined again for reasons of health . Return to Ts'ao-hsi and Death ( 1622 ? 1623 ) In 1622 , Chang I-chen , 106 the Prefect of Shao-chou in Kuangtung , sent a special message to Han-shan , and also asked Pen-ang , the head of the Pao-lin Hall at Ts'ao-hsi , to go personally to Lu-shan to invite him back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctance to go south was probably due to his old age and bad health . He had also made up his mind to retire at Lu-shan . Han-shan had even chosen a burial place for himself there . His reluctance also may have stemmed from the unhappy incident that had caused his departure from Ts'ao-hsi . He certainly needed extra encouragement to return there . Finally he received enough supportfrom government officials as well as monks to make the long trip . One can assume he would have been hLppy to go back to Ts'ao-hsi , the source of the Ch'an school , and to die there , for this would symbolize his triumphant return to the place where he was once rejected . At the age of seventy-seven , Han-shan left Lu-shan on the tenth day of the eleventh lunar month ( 12 December 1622 ) and arrived at Ts'ao-hsi on the fifteenthday of the twelfth lunar month ( 15 January 1623 ) . Han-shan 's own account of his life ends here . But his disciples supply the following information about their master 's final year.107As usual , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the meantime , he continued his teaching of the scriptures . Han-shan felt that his last days were near sometime during the eighth lunar month of 1623 , so he began to say farewell to his followers and sent for T'ung-chiung , who had remained at Lu-shan with Fu-shan , to come south . By the time T'ung-chiung arrived on the first day of the tenth month , Hanshanhad begun to show signs of illness . But he refused to take any medicine . Kuang-i , his attendant , asked him about his last words for the disciples . Hanshanrebuked him , saying , " You have been serving me many years . Why do you ask such a question ? You must all remember that life and death are matters of greatest importance . They come and go very swiftly without any permanence . lie faithful and diligent in the practice of Buddha-recitation. " 108 Kuang-i furtherasked for a single rule of life . The master replied , " Even the words from the golden mouth of the Buddha have become dead letters . What is the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further word . The twelfth day of that month ( 4 November ) was Han-shan 's birthday . His disciples and followers gathered for the celebration . Chang I-chen , the prefect , brought him a purple meditation . gown and talked with him the whole day . That night Ilan-shan bathed three times . The next clay , while saying farewell top98Chang , Han-shan thanked him for his great support of the monastery and Buddhistfaith . After Chang left at noon , Han-shan rinsed his mouth and changed his clothes following a bath . The crowd surrounded him and recited Amitabha 's name . Han-shan said to them , " Be not disturbed . You must act according to the Buddhistregulations . Do not ( when I die ) wear hempen cloth or mourning garment ( as secular people do ) . Do not weep or cry . Recite AmitThha 's name with all your heart . " At four o'clock in the afternoon , on S November 1623 , the master passed away at the age of seventy-eight , seated upright . It is said that for three days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his face in clear color , his lips red , and hands and feet soft , as if in the state of samadhi . In Memory of the Great MasterAs with many other great masters , Han-shan continued to live in the memory of Chinese Buddhists , especially his immediate followers . He has even been rememberedand worshiped to this day at Ts'ao-hsi in his jou-shen or " flesh-body " aspect.109The worship of Han-shin 's " flesh-body " is an interesting story . According to Buddhist teachings , the human body is impermanent . It has not been an unusual practice for monks to observe the putrefaction of dead bodies so as to realize the impermanence of all things . When Buddhist monks die , their bodies are usually cremated . This is the case in China as elsewhere , even though Confucian teachings are against cremation . In spite of the Buddhist teaching about the body , the worship of relics has a long history . In China , this has turned into the worship of the flesh-body , probablypartly under the influence of the Taoist and Confucian ideas about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chinese Buddhism , many Chinese Buddhists believe that a man 's rebirth can be foretold from the circumstances of his death.1 " Nonputrefaction of a monk 's dead body ( which then becomes known as his " flesh-body " ) can therefore be regarded as evidence of sanctity . Welch likens the Buddhist treatment of the dead to the Roman Catholic concern for the minutiae of putrefaction . The reasons for the nondecomposition of the body are not known . Some kind of treatment of the body before and after death is a possible reason . The technique of preserving the dead body was highly developed in China as early as the former Han Dynasty ( 206 B.C. ? A.D. 24 ) , as evidenced by the recent discovery of a woman 's body that had been kept in excellent condition in a well-constructed tomb . Her body remained soft and flexible after more than two thousand years . ' " It is not likely that the Buddhist flesh-bodies were treated in such an elaborate way , and there are significant differences between the two cases . For one thing , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fewp99years . Yet some kind of treatment of the body can not be entirely eliminated as a possibility , nor can the use of a reasonably good coffin , the selection of a dry ground for burial , and painting of the body after removal from the coffin . According to the traditional Buddhist account , no medicine or chemicals were used in the preparation of the body . Thus they are distinguished from the " mummified " bodies in Egypt . A possible explanation for the preserved state of some Buddhist bodies is that the body under a special discipline such as deep meditationcan attain a certain degree of nonputrefaction after death . In any case , the state of nonputrefaction has been interpreted as a continuation of the state of samddti attained by the monk during his life . The nonputrefied body is then set up , as any other relic , for worship . It is also treated like the ancestor tablets of ordinary people . Buddhist flesh-bodies existed in China many centuries before Han-shan . The most famous was probably that of Hui-neng at Ts'ao-hsi , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A recent case concerning the flesh-body of a relatively unknown monk occurred in Taipei in 1976.112As can be expected , the nonputrefaction of Han-shan 's body was a great event for his followers . The details have been exaggerated in the available sources ) " 3and have probably been colored by the records of earlier cases of nonputrefactionto conform to tradition and to testify to his noble death . The basic facts , however , seem to be the following . As soon as Han-shan died , a memorial hall for him was built at Ts'ao-hsi . Apparently , the coffin was kept in the memorial hall . Han-shan had decided to be kept at Ts'ao-hsi , for he wrote an inscription on his picture that was kept at the memorial hall . Contrary to the usual practice for monks , Han-shan was not cremated . His body was kept in a k'an , a wooden box , just large enough to hold the corpse seated in the lotus position ) 14When Fu-shan , who was then head of the Fa-yun monastery , heard of Hanshan'sdeath , a memorial tower was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Ts'ao-hsi as to where the master 's body should be kept . In 1625 Fu-shan succeeded in gaining enough governmental support , including that of the new supreme commander of Kuangtung , to force the transfer of the body from Ts'ao-hsi to Lu-shan.l15The k'an containing Han-shan 's body was at first kept above the ground in the memorial tower because of the wet conditions at Lu-shan . Soon , however , a place was chosen and Han-shan was buried . Ten years later ( 1635 ) the Fa-yun monastery became unsafe because of wild tigers in the vicinity . The k'an was taken out of the ground half rotted , and was thereafter kept above ground , presumablyin the memorial tower . In the meantime , Han-shah 's followers in the south hoped that their master would return to ' T's'ao-hsi someday . Their wish was realized in 1643 , one year before the end of the dynasty , when Liu Ch'i-hsiang used his government office to bring about the transfer . ' " Liu had been one of those who invited Han-shanp100to return to Ts'ao-hsi in 1622 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master back there again . In 1643 he was a prefectural judge at Jui-chou ( modern Kao-an ) , Kiangsi , and was able to persuade the government officials concerned to issue the order . Soldiers were then sent to fetch Han-shan 's k'an , and no one dared protest . At that time the peasant rebellion of Li Tzu-ch'eng had already spread widely over the empire . Han-shan 's k'an had to be escorted by soldiers all the way . In the fourth lunar month of 1644 , after the arrival of the k'an at Ts'ao-hsi , it was decided by divination that the k'an should be opened . This decision is not easy to explain except on the assumption that Han-shan 's followers hoped to experience a miracle . According to Liu Ch'i-hsiang , the k'an , when approaching Ts'ao-hsi , had doubled in weight . He therefore suspected that Han-shan wished to reappear in the form of a " flesh-body . " According to Fu-cheng , however , two of Han-shan 's followers who carried the k'an to the south had looked through a hole in the k'an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alive . The ceremony of opening was performed with the help of a general who had escorted the k'an to the south . He opened it with his sword because no one else dared to . Han-shan was described as having a lifelike complexion . His nails and hair had grown long . Gowns and other accessories were as new as ever . But Fu-cheng tells us that the gowns fell to pieces at the passing of a mere breeze . These descriptions are obviously exaggerated , especially in view of Holmes Welch 's report of a case in Taiwan in 1959.117One may question the veracity of the story that originated in the believing community . It is difficult to believe that after twenty-one years the dead body could literally be " as fresh as if alive . " On the other hand , preservation of the body could have occurred as the result of special treatment of the body before and after death . Han-shan himself may have planned for the nonputrefaction of his body , and the meticulous washing and bathing before his death probably had something to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special treatment after his death , it can not be eliminated as a possibility , and the very fact that he was not cremated points in this direction . Perhaps there was a tacit understandingamong his followers that someday the k'an would be opened for examination . This could partially explain why they avoided a wet locality for the deposit of the k'an and were anxious to take possession of Han-shan 's body . Nevertheless , it is difficult to explain why they waited twenty-one years for exhumation ( it has been as little as three years in some cases ) . But the very fact that Hui-neng had left a flesh-body at Ts'ao-hsi might have inspired Han-shan or his followers to do the same . When Han-shan 's body was found to be preserved , a monk " suddenly " appearedand suggested that the body be painted with sandalwood powder from Hainan Island according to an allegedly Indian method . As soon as this was done , the monk disappeared . The flesh-body was then draped with a thousand Buddha gowns and set up for worship at the Han-sham Temple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hui-neng at the Pao-lin Hall . Han-shan was now considered to have attained Buddhahood. ) t 8Every morning believers came to offer Han-shan a bowl of fragrant soup that steamed his face as if to make him sweat . After they wiped his face , the believers offered him food just as if he were alive . Once a year , he was given a ceremonial bath , and its water was regarded by many people as having healing power . In the second and eighth lunar months of each year , believers in Kuangtung flocked to Ts'ao-hsi to worship first the sixth patriarch and then Han-shan . Indeed , it becamepopular to call Han-shan the seventh patriarch.119 Some Buddhists , however , objected to the popular title given to Han-shan on grounds that the transmission of the patriarchal authority was not intended to go beyond the five branches that had developed from Hui-neng . That Han-shan was not ordained by a recognized Ch'an master of the five branches is true . But in the eyes of his followers , Han-shan did receive the true light that transcends the physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teach the true mind of the sixth patriarch.120 Moreover , because of his efforts , Ts'ao-hsi , the source of the Ch'an school , was revived . To this day , unless it has been destroyed under Communist rule , Han-shan 's flesh-body is still preserved at Ts'ao-hsi side by side with Hui-neng 's . Han-shan is remembered , however , not only in the form of a flesh-body but also as an important teacher and master . A study of his life would be incomplete without including a study of his teaching in a more systematic way . The following chapter , therefore , concerns Han-shan 's thought . Figurep 102Figurep 103Figurep 104Figurep105There can be several approaches to Han-shan 's thought , depending on one 's interests and the sources at hand . The point of departure here is Han-shan 's views concerning six important questions : the nature of ultimate reality , the universe , man , evil , the path to one 's salvation , and the state of salvation questions that were discussed in chapter 2 in terms of Buddhism in general . Both metaphysical and soteriological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies at the heart of Buddhism , and so there is considerable emphasis on his teachings concerning the Buddhist paths to salvation , especially the paths of scriptural studies , Ch'an , and Pure Land . Han-shah 's interpretation of the various scriptures , doctrines , and schools of Buddhism follows . The various elements in Buddhism ' are organized and classifiedin hierarchical order in terms of his philosophy of Mind . Han-shan adopted the previous classification systems and developed his universalistic philosophy . The chapter concludes with a discussion of Han-shan 's views on Taoism and Confucianism , the other two leading Chinese religions or philosophies . Here his philosophy of Mind is expanded to include the Taoist and Confucianist ways of " salvation . " The universalist nature of his teachings is seen most clearly in this ecumenical adventure . Han-shan 's thought is analyzed primarily on the basis of the Fa-yii ( Records of Teachings ) because these probably better represent his own thinking than his commentaries on the various scriptures . But his commentaries are also used to explain , supplement , or support the ideas expressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that clearly expresses his thought as a whole . It is called " Hua-sheng i-kuei " ( Methods of Salvation ) . ' Although it is not included in the Fa-yii , the article is of the same nature except that it is a longer and more extensive discourse , covering many subjects in some systematic form and probablyaddressed to a large audience , of both laymen and monks.  |p106Han-shan  's Conception of Ultimate Reality : The MindThe problems concerning the question of ultimate reality in Buddhist thought as a whole were discussed in chapter 2 . Similar problems can be found in Hanshan'sthought . But , by comparison , it can be said that an ultimate reality is more clearly affirmed in Han-shan 's thought than in Buddhism as a whole and Indian Buddhism in particular . The ultimate reality is called by many names , but the favorite term used by Han-shan is hsin , " Mind . " The term hsin is the Chinese word for the Sanskrit citta , manas , or other terms . The development of the concept " mind " has a long history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this development . The Chinese schools of Wei-shih , T'ien-t'ai , and Hua-yen continued to develop different views about citta or hsin.2 The importance of hsin as a metaphysical concept is apparently due to the importance of the soteriological concept of bodhi or enlightenment . It seems convenient or necessary to posit a " mind " that was " deluded " and is or can be " awakened " or " enlightened . " The problem is how to talk about a " mind " without at the same time making an ontological commitmentto a " self " ( dtman ) or " own-being " ( svabhava ) . As in Buddhism as a whole , there are difficulties or ambiguities in Han-shan 's thought on this problem . The difference between Buddhism as a whole , especially early Buddhism , and Han-shan 's thought is basically a matter of degree and emphasis . The problem is complicated by the fact that the word hsin , like citta ( though in different ways ) , has been used in many senses . It can be used to refer to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deluded mind as well as the enlightened mind , etc . Thus when the word hsin is used , it is not easy to tell from the context what kind of mind is talked about or referred to , partly because the distinction and/or relationship between the phenomenal mind and the noumenal mind is theoretically problematic in Buddhist thought . It is my contention , however , that in Han-shan 's thought the distinction between the phenomenal mind and the noumenal mind is assumed in spite of some ambiguity at times . For convenience , the term " Mind " ( with the capital M ) is used to mean the noumenal mind or the ultimate reality . The term " mind " ( with the small letter m ) is used to mean the phenomenal mind , which is also called shin or " consciousness " ( vijnana ) . When there is some difficulty in distinguishing between the two meanings , the term " mind " is also used . It is significant that in Han-span 's time the term hsin was also used by the NeoConfuciansof the Wang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to this school , the Mind is not only the ultimately real but also the ultimate source of all things . Phenomenal things are produced from the Mind itself and are not due to ignorance or illusion . This is one of the fundamental differences between Buddhism and Confucianism . Although the Wang Yang-ming school must have been influenced by Buddhist philosophy when it used the term hsin for the ultimate reality , the school remained fiind ; i/mentally Confucian in nature in its affirmation of the Mind as the source from which the myriad things evolve . On the other hand , in order to accommodate or reconcile itself with Neo-Confucianism , Ming Buddhism tended to stretch the Buddhist conception of Mind in the direction of the Wang Yang-ming school . Thus common usage of the term hsin for the ultimate reality facilitated the ecumenical movement between Buddhism and Confucianism . In spite of the ecumenical tendency in Ming Buddhism and in Han-shan 's thought , Han-shan 's concept of Mind is basically Buddhist in orientation . Having inherited two thousand years of Buddhist philosophical tradition that had developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essence of the Buddha 's teachings and to interpret the various aspects of Buddhism accordingly . He became convinced that the doctrine of Mind represents the essence of the Buddha 's teachings . All the doctrines taught in Buddhism are in his view for the exposition of the Mind , and all the practices recommended by the holy beings are for the realization of the Mind . The concept of Mind is also used to explain the appearance of the phenomenal mind and the myriad things . Thus the doctrine of Mind serves both the metaphysical and soteriological functions in his system of thought . Han-shan 's philosophy of Mind was basically a synthesis of the Hua-yen , T'ien-t'ai , and Wei-shih systems of thought . The last important figure who expounded the philosophy of Mind before him was Yung-ming Yen-shou . Therefore , Han-shan can not claim originality in advocating it . But originality was the last thing he would claim , for the only claim he made was that he had taught the essence of the Buddha 's teachings . Our task , then , is to understand what he taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion of Hanshan'sviews concerning ultimate reality , the universe , man , evil , the path to salvation , and the state of salvation is at the same time a discussion of his philosophy of Mind . Han-shan adopts the age-old distinction between t'i ( substance or the noumenal ) and yung ( functioning or the phenomenal ) in Chinese philosophy to explain the nature of the Mind . This distinction can be found in the Buddhist writings of Chih-i of T'ien-t'ai and Fa-tsang of Hua-yen . One can not equate the Buddhist distinction with its counterparts in Taoism and Confucianism , but the adoption of the Chinese terms by the Buddhists must have had some effect on Buddhist metaphysical thinking . In one way or another , the conscious mind and the phenomenal world are regarded as the " functioning " of the Mind rather than the result of ignorance . In this way the phenomenal world is given a more positive value in relation to the Mind . Yet Han-shan , like other Chinese Buddhists , can not reject the idea that ignorance is the fundamental cause of the suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found side by side in Han-shan 's thought . The adoption of either idea seems to depend on his skillful means in a given situation . The term t'i or " substance " implies that the Mind has an ontological nature or " own-being . " But I Ian-span follows die M5dhyantika philosophy by statingp108that the t'i of Mind is ultimately empty . Thus the " empty " Mind is said to be the " source " of the phenomenal world . This idea resembles Lao Tzu 's view that Tao , which is empty and called non-being , produces or gives birth to the myriad things . ' This similarity could be the reason why the " empty " Mind is easily accepted by the Chinese as the " source " of all things . But there is a crucial differencebetween the Buddhist ideas of source and production and those of Taoism . In any case , the idea of t'i in Han-shan 's thought serves a metaphysical function without necessarily affirming an own-being . The distinction between Mind and mind or t'i and yung is also expressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like t'i , is problematic in Buddhist philosophy , for it is in fact a Chinese word for the Sanskrit svabhava . It is paradoxicalthat although svabhava is denied to all things and the Mind , the term hsing is employed to stand for the Mind or the noumenal aspect of reality . On the other hand , hsiang , meaning " mark " or " character , " stands for the phenomenalaspect of reality . The Hua-yen and T'ien-t'ai doctrines are traditionally regarded as philosophies of hsing for they deal primarily with the Mind , while the Wei-shih doctrine is regarded as a philosophy of hsiang for it is primarily concerned with consciousness and its characters . Han-shan adopts the distinction of t'i and ping or hsing and hsiang in his philosophy of Mind . This distinction has the advantage of providing an explanation for the appearance of the myriad things from the Mind , but it also runs the risk of positing an own-being in the Mind , which Han-shan wishes to avoid . Such a dilemma is characteristic of Buddhist thought in general , but Han-shan 's special emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In spite of the importance of the Mind in Han-shan 's thought , it is still controversial to label his philosophy a monism , because there is no clear ontological commitment to the concept Mind . Whether a monism or not , his philosophy is a universalism of some sort . Furthermore , the distinction of t'i and yung or hsing and hsiang does not imply any dualism in Han-shan 's thought because yung or hsiang is never given an ontological status of own-being and is always dependent on t'i or hsing ( though the nature of the dependence is not necessarily metaphysical or ontological ) . Han-shan spends more time attacking dualism than developing a positive system of thought . Thus the term " non-dualism " is probably more appropriate than " monism " for the purpose of categorizing Han-shan 's philosophy of Mind . Yet one can still say that his philosophy is a monism in practical function even if it is not a monism in theoretical commitment . Han-shan 's idea of the Mind can be found in almost every chapter of the Fa-yii ( Records of Teachings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mind is best summarized in the following eight Chinese words : san-clueh wei-hsin , wan-/a wei-shih , which mean that the three realms of desire , form , and the formless are mere Mind , and that the ten thousand dharmas are mere ideation or consciousness . This statement is as ambiguous , and therefore flexible , as it is succinct . In essence it expresses the ideas embodied iat the 11tia-yen , ' I " icn-t'ai , and Wei-shihp109philosophies . On the one hand , it affirms the Hua-yen teaching of Ocean-symbol samadhi and the T'ien-t'ai doctrine of three thousand worlds in a moment of consciousness . The Mind manifests and reflects the three realms . Here the t'i or hsing. aspect is emphasized . On the other hand , the statement adopts the Weishihidea that the ten thousand dharmas are merely projections of the Mind through the transformation of the eight consciousnesses . Here the yung or hsiang aspect is emphasized . Han-shan says thatthe Buddha 's wisdom is completely contained in the eight words : san-chieh wei-hsin , wan fa wei-shih . Since there is only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain nothing . Since there is only consciousness , the ten thousand dharmas appear , for the ten thousand dharmas are projected ( pien-hsien ) from mere consciousness . ' Here the Mind is clearly spoken of from the point of view of t'i or hsing , which is extinct and empty , and consciousness is spoken of in the aspect of yung or hsiang , which is ever changing . According to Han-shan , hsing and hsiang are indeed the two aspects of the One Mind . Although they can be distinguished empirically , through our ignorance or delusion , they are not ontologically dualistic or dichotomous . In his preface to the Hsing-hsiang t'ung-shuo ( Exposition on the Identity of Hsing and Hsiang ) , Han-shan says : The Buddha , in teaching all the doctrines in the great Tripitaka , had only revealed the truth of san-chieh wei-hsin wan fa wei-shih . After his death , the Bodhisattvas who expounded on the doctrines established the school of hsing on the basis of the doctrine of mere Mind , and also established the school of hsiang on the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own philosophy of teaching , and they went so far as to divide the same river in order to obtain water to drink . Thus , the division between the schools of hsing and hsiang is not only a contemporary issue . But when the great master Asvaghosa wrote the Awakening of Faith , he reduced hsiang and traced it back to hsing so as to show the difference between delusion and enlightenment of the One Mind . On the basis of the doctrine of One Mind , he taught two kinds of truth , i.e. , the truth of the tathata ( thusness ) of Mind and the truth of the arising and extinction of Minds Since the One Mind is calm and extinct , it does not belong to either delusion or enlightenment . Its essence ( t'i ) is cut off from the distinction between saints and sinners . The existence of the two paths of saints and sinners is due to the distinction between the defilement and enlightenment of the One Mind . Therefore , the two aspects of the Mind are the source of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth of the tathata of Mind in order to reveal the undefiled essence ( CO of the Mind , and taught the truth of the arising and extinction of Mind in order to reveal the functioning ( yung ) of the One Mind , which can be defiled or purified according to conditions . Thus it is known that all the cause-effect relationships in the sinners ' delusion and the saints ' enlightenment come under the truth of the arising and extinction of Mind ... . Today students do not know the origin of Buddhist teachings , so when they talk about the doctrine of mere consciousness , they concentrate on names and marks ( ntin , p-hsiang ) to find a path to salvation . They do not know the Buddha 's secret teachingp110that one should break the marks of delusion so that the marks can be traced back and reduced to the One Mind . Thus , in order to reveal the source of delusion and enlightenment , the Buddha taught the storehouse consciousness ( alaya-vijnana ) , under the truth of the arising and extinction of Mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storehouse consciousness projects and gives rise to other consciousnesses and the external world . If one can understand the original source as non-dual , then one will subtly realize the One Mind as easily as one sees the fingers on one 's hands . ' In this passage , the t'i or hsing of the Mind is called tathata . It is beyond all forms of dualism . The yung or hsiang of the Mind is called " arising and extinction " ( sheng-mieh ) , a term for the ever-changing world . Here it seems that Han-shan adopts the traditional view that the changing aspect of the Mind is due to our ignorance or delusion , but it can not be ruled out that the changing aspect may be due to the functioning of the Mind itself . The essential or noumenal aspect of the Mind can be seen more clearly by quoting two more passages . The following is from Han-shan 's advice to Tewang , a certain vassal prince : The fundamental teaching of Buddhism is nothing but the doctrine of One Mind . This Mind is originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , containing nothing , not even a fine dust . There is neither delusion nor enlightenment , neither birth nor death , neither saints nor sinners . Sentient beings and Buddhas are of the same fundamental nature ( t'i ) . There are no two natures to distinguish them . This is why Bodhidharma came from the west to teach the Ch'an method of " direct pointing " ( chih-chih ) to the original true Mind . ' The original true Mind is also called the Buddha-nature . Since it is empty by nature , Han-shan often refers to it as " that which is originally nothing " ( pen-lai wu i-wu ) , a phrase obviously adopted from one of Hui-neng 's famous verses.8Elsewhere Han-shan uses other important terms to explain his concept of Mind : Buddhas and Patriarchs appeared on earth to teach the doctrine of prajnd , saying that all religious practices must be based on prajnd . The Sanskrit prajnd means chih-hui ( wisdom ) in Chinese . This wisdom is the Buddha-nature that we originally possess . It is also called Self-Mind ( tzu-hsin ) or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originally undefiled , so it is called " clear and pure . " It is originally without darkness , so it is called " bright . " It is originally vast and all inclusive , so it is called " void and empty . " It is originally without delusion , so it is called " the one truth . " It is originally immutable , so it is called tathata . It is originally illuminating everywhere , so it is called " perfect enlightenment . " It is originally calm and extinct , so it is called nirvana . ' Here the Mind is identified with the fundamental method of salvation ( prajnd ) , with the ultimate reality underlying all changes ( tathata ) , and with the state of salvation ( nirvana ) . Since the Mind is non-dual , the different aspects in Buddhist thought can not he fundamentally different . Although it is called " void and empty " ( hsii-k'un , ' ) , it is here explained in the sense of " vast and all-inclusive , "  |p111which  reminds one of the Taoist Tao @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called a monism in theory , it certainly functions like one in practice . Han-shan 's Conception of the UniverseThe t'i aspect of the Mind is without any attribute . Nothing can really be said about it . Han-shan 's descriptions of its nature are mostly negative statements . The few positive statements that he has made are basically metaphorical . The yung aspect of the Mind is , on the other hand , full of characters . The characters are regarded as signs of change and impermanence , which comprise the phenomenaluniverse . The basic issue in Han-shan 's conception of the universe is the nature of the relationship between the two aspects of the Mind , that is , between t'i and yung or hsing and hsiang . As previously stated , Han-shan adopts the Wei-shih philosophyto explain the origin of the universe in the Mind . The first step of the projection or transformation of the universe is the formation of the dlayaconsciousness . Han-shan says , The One Hundred Dharmas of the School of Characters ( i.e. , the Wei-shih ) teaches precisely the doctrine that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of immutable and mutable seeds , because it consists of the aspects of enlightenment and non-enlightenment . The aspect of enlightenment is the bhutatathatd of the One Mind , the primary cause for all sentient beings to realize the Buddha-nature . The aspect of non-enlightenment is the primal ignorance ( wu-thing ) . Because of the defilement of the One Mind consciousness is formed.10In the last two sentences Han-shan has not explained the origin of the primal or fundamental ignorance . Apparently he has no better answer than the other Buddhistmasters . In one of his instructions to a layman , after having stated that consciousness is caused by the defilement of the Mind , Han-shan also says that the dlaya-consciousness is " transformed ( pien ) from the whole body ( t'i ) of the bhutatathatd. " t t It is not clear whether he means that ignorance is originated in the Mind itself . Because of the monistic tendency in Han-shah 's thought , it is hard to imagine that ignorance could be ontologically different from the Mind . But , like Buddhists in general , he blames man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than the Mind itself . However , this does not prevent him from holding the view that consciousness ( and also the external world ) is after all a manifestation of the Mind . The basic difference between the Buddhist view of the universe and the Chinese ( represented by Confucianism and Taoism ) is the unambiguous Chinese affirmation that the universe is a real and internal product of the ultimate reality ( variously known as heaven , Tao , di- Mind ) . The universe is not in any sense a result of the defilement of the ultimate reality . It is intrinsically good and valuable precisely because it is ontologically dependent on , the ultimate reality . There isp112some difference between Confucianism and Taoism on the metaphysical status of consciousness in man , 12 but both philosophies are basically naturalistic in orientation . Neo-Confucianism tends to be strongly idealistic , especially the Wang Yang-ming school , but it is still different from the kind of idealism found in Han-shan 's thought . The difference between the Buddhist and Chinese views of the universe is also in the underlying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the values of life in this world , but Buddhist philosophies develop metaphysics in order to show the illusoriness of the universe so that it can be transcended . Thus Chinese philosophies emphasize the immanent nature of the ultimate reality in the universe , whereas Buddhist philosophies emphasize transcendence of the ultimate reality . Although in emphasizing the Mind or Buddha-nature in all things , Chinese Buddhism seems to stress the immanence of the ultimate reality , the Mind is still sharply distinguished from phenomenal things in the empirical sense , though not in the ontological sense . Moreover , the Buddhist and Chinese views of the universe differ in the terms they use to describe the relationship between the ultimate reality and the universe . The typical term used in Chinese philosophies is sheng , which means literally " giving birth to . " It is an internal organic relationship.13 Based on the doctrine of dependent co-arising , Buddhist philosophies have tried to develop a relationship that is neither internal nor external . In adopting the Wei-shih philosophy , Han-shan typically uses the term chuan-pien , pien-hsien , or pien @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external world . The term means " projecting , " " transforming , " or " manifesting " and is equivalent to the Sanskrit nirtndna . It is something like the relationship between the magician and the magic show that he has supposedly " produced . " The show is real only because of our ignorance . The details of how the internal organs and the external world are projected or transformed from the dlaya-consciousness do not particularly interest Hanshan . In fact , he cautions against spending too much time on names and forms so that the Mind is lost sight of . Nor is his primary task to show that names and forms are justified in light of the Mind . His main interest is to urge people to break the marks of delusion in order to realize the Mind . This way of thinking is consistent with the general Buddhist tendency to give priority to questions about salvation over those concerning the universe . In his conception of the universe , Han-shan naturally accepts the concepts of karma and rebirth . The structure of the universe is shaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Han-shan holds various theories about the traditional Buddhist structure of the universe . One important theory is that the universe is divided into ten realms ( shih-chieh ) . The upper four realms belong to four kinds of holy beings , Buddhas , Bodhisattvas , Pratyckabuddhas , and Sr5vakas . The lower six realms are the places where the six kinds of sentient beings reside : gods , asuras , men , animals , hungry ghosts , and hell-dwellers.  |p113These  six realms constitute the suffering world or samsara . The four holy realms transcend samsara . Although in a sense they are in the state of nirvana , they do not exactly represent the noumenal aspect of the Mind , because the noumenal Mind can not really be divided into four realms . The belief in the four holy realms has the effect of bridging the gap between samsara and nirvana , but it has not solved their ontological status . Apparently , the ten realms are postulated mainly as a soteriological device . Another theory often found in Han-shan 's works is the division of the universe into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( kdmadhdtu ) , equivalent to the world of life in which love , passions , and wants dominate ; the realm of form ( rupadhatu ) , the world of material and semi-material beings ; and the realm of the formless ( arupadhatu ) , the world of immaterial beings . Each realm is again divided into many realms or heavens , which are paralleled by the stages of meditation . Thus one can reach the different realms of the universe through meditation . This is possible because the universe is after all a projection of the alaya-consciousness . Theoretically , the realm of the formless is within the phenomenal world , but it is certainly very close to the noumenal Mind . Accordingto the Surarigarna Sutra , there are four heavens in the realm without form . Although the beings there understand the emptiness of all things , they do not realize the absolute truth of emptiness . If they do , they will become ravakas ; if not , they will fall into a lower state of existence.14 Thus , the four kinds of holy beings transcend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Buddha says that the dharrnas beyond and within the three realms are but the workings ( tso ) of the One Mind . Those beyond the three realms are the four holy beings who have left the world , namely , Buddhas , Bodhisattvas , Pratyekabuddhas , and Sravakas . Those within the three realms are the six paths of mundane beings , namely , the three good paths of gods , men , and asuras and the three evil paths of helldwellers , animals , and hungry ghosts . In these ten realms , the cause-effect relationships in the shaping of saints and sinners , the good and the bad , and the merits and demerits of the past life and present life , are all the creation ( tsao ) of the One Mind . This One Mind is none other than the mind of discrimination that we use in our daily life.15Here the terms tso and tsao are used to describe the functioning of the Mind , parly because Han-shan was giving the instruction to a layman . Thus the Mind is said to be in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that defilement of the Mind is the cause of the six forms of existence in the sufferingworld . He says , Since all things are from the Mind , they are not created ( tsao ) in sequence . They are rather the karmic effects brought about ( tso ) by our thoughts in daily activities . These karmic effects circulate in the ten Dharma-realms . A thought that brings about the ten evil deeds of body , speech , and mind through covetousness , anger , and stupidity is the cause of the three evil paths of cxistence.l " A thought that transforms the ten evil deeds into the ten good deeds is the cause of happiness in the realms of men and gods . If there is a thought that forgets both good and evil and that sees neither self inside norp114other being outside , it is the cause of the Sravaka 's escape from suffering . If one can contemplate the truth that suffering and happiness or misfortune and fortune arise and disappear or circulate and return to extinction according to causes and conditions , then one has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comprehend the cause and condition of no-self in men and things , understand that the noumenal nature ( hsing ) is empty and has no distinction between the mover and the moved , and yet practice the virtues of charity , discipline , and patience in the six realms in order to save the sentient beings , then one has the basis to become a Bodhisattva . If one can instantaneously realize one 's own Mind , knowing that it is originally illuminating and vast , that it is all-inclusive , that nothing is left unliberated , that nothing is taken as an object of desire , and that sentient beings and Buddhas are by nature equal , then one has the basis to become a Buddha . ' The statement that all things are " not created in sequence " ( fei tz'u-ti tsao ) is probably intended as a rejection of the Confucian or Taoist conceptions of the production of all things from the ultimate reality . Thus , in spite of the use of the terms tso and tsao , Han-shan 's view is basically Buddhist . Another aspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his idea of thing-t'u or " pure land " ( sukhavati ) . This term refers originally to a state of salvation , usually a land established by a Buddha , known as buddhaksetra ( Buddhaland ) . The most famous one is the Western Paradise of Amitabha . However , due to the generally accepted view that even the suffering world of savnsdra originated in some way in the Mind or was created by a Buddha , the term " pure land " is often used in the sense of a realrn of the universe . There are several theories of classifying the innumerable pure lands or Buddha-lands . Han-shan 's view is similar to the Hua-yen and T'ien-t'ai theories . He says that there are three kinds of pure lands : the Eternal Land of Calni Illumination ( ch'ang chi-kuang t'u ) ; the Majestic Land of True Reward ( shin-pao chuang-yen t'u ) ; and the Incomplete Land of Expediency ( fang-pien yu-yu t'u ) . He explains that the first land , the realm in which Buddhas , Bodhisattvas , and patriarchs who have realized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere Mind . The second refers to every atom and grain that forms the majestic Hua-yen universe in which the noumenal and the phenomenal interpenetrate one another . The third is one of the innumerable Han-yen pure lands , and is the Western Paradise of the Pure Land sect . The Hua-yen universe , that is , the Majestic Land of True Reward , consists of twenty levels of worlds . It is shaped like an upside-down pagoda . The sand-world the three realms of suffering ? occupies the center on the thirteenth level , and the Western Paradise is to the west of the sand-world on the same level.i8The three kinds of pure lands correspond to the three Bodies of the Buddha ( trikaya ) , namely , Dharma-kaya , Sambhogakaya , and Nirmanakaya . The Incomplete Land of Expediency is equivalent to Nirmanakaya . It is identified by Han-shah with the Common Land of Sentient and Holy Beings ( fan-sheng rung-cll:i t'u ) , although they are separated in the T'ien-t'ai system . In I **28;3040;TOOLONG , Amitabha is apparently regarded as possessing Nirmanakaya , and the Western Paradise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods and states of salvation . Han-shan says that : if a person realizes the Mind by means of the Ch'an method but fails to extinguish his consciousness and its objects , then he will be born in the upper upper-level ( of the Western Paradise ) . If he recites Amitabha 's name and achieves the state of mind without any agitation , then he will be born in the middle upper-level . If he fails to attain enlightenmentby means of Ch'an practice but achieves a pure and subtle state of Buddharecitationand leads a meritorious life in all aspects , then he will be born in the lower upper-level . If he cultivates all aspects of his life , recites Mahayana scriptures , recites Amitabha 's name iii earnest , and makes the wish to be reborn in the Western Paradise , then he will be born in the three kinds of pure land in the middle level . If he diligently keeps the five precepts and ten virtues , concentrates his mind on Buddha-recitation , and makes the vow of rebirth in the Western Paradise , then , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be born in the three kinds of pure land in the lower level . Though the person who was born in the Western Paradise has not yet extinguished his kleca ( impurities ) , since he was born in that country , sees the Buddha , and listens to the Dharma , he will never slide back and fall into the three realms of life and death.19Like the saha-world , the Western Paradise belongs to the htcomplete Land of Expediency , but , unlike the saha-world , the beings there have already transcended the six forms of existence in the three realms of desire , form , and the formless . It is not easy to put together the different pictures of the structure of the universe found in Han-shan 's writings . The different pictures or theories had existed before Han-shan 's time , and his thought is characterized by syncretism . But it would be unfair and inaccurate to say that the syncretic nature of his work was due to a lack of creativity or some kind of intellectual weakness . Han-shan 's syncretistic tendency arose , rather , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been taught by the Buddha to different kinds of audiences . He simply could not ignore or reject them because they were different . It is surprising that , in spite of the different pictures of the universe , certain themes appear repeatedly that represent Han-shan 's basic ideas about the universe . First of all , he believes the universe is a manifestation of the Mind . It has been shown that the philosophical problems involved are typical not only of Hanshan'sthought but also of Chinese Buddhism and Buddhism as a whole . As long as the basic presuppositions of Buddhist thought are affirmed , the problems will not go away . Second , Han-shah is not particularly interested in the details of the universe for their own sake . His main concern is the soteriological question of how to see through the delusion of the phenomenal world so that the noumenal Mind can he realized . In fact , the theories that he taught about the universe are explained mainly in soteriological terms . The universe is basically structured in two parts : the rcalni before salvation is graded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after salvation is classified in terms of the degrees of blessedness . Meta/physically , the distinction between suffering and blessedness is based on the difference between the defilement and the realization of the Mind . The degrees of defilement or realization are the basis of the different realms in the Buddhist universe , such as the six forms of sentient beings and the four forms of holy beings . Han-shan 's Conception of ManSince man is , empirically speaking , part of the universe , what has been said about the universe also applies to him . However , because of the idealistic tendency in Han-shan 's thought , he would presumably say that the ideas about the universe are applicable to man because the universe is a projection of man 's consciousness . The external universe is simply a partial manifestation of the Mind and consciousness . In spite of this metaphysical view , it remains a fact to Han-shan that man exists in the world of forms and names . Thus the idealistic position does not prevent Han-shan from employing seemingly realistic concepts to describe man . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are situated in the world of rebirths , lower than gods and asuras but higher than animals , hungry ghosts , and hell-dwellers . Man is always in danger of falling into the lower states of existence and under the control of gods and asuras . Following the Buddhist tradition , Han-span teaches the doctrine of no-self that applies to both man and all things . But he expounds the doctrine in terms of the Mind , which is empty by nature : According to the doctrine of One Mind , sentient beings and Buddhas are of the same nature ( CO . There is neither body nor mind originally . But because of a thought of agitation in the beginning , the Mind is defiled . Thereby the illusory body and mind are composed . This is our body made of flesh and blood , which is called " form . " What we know as consciousness and deliberation are illusory imaginings . These are the Five Aggregates taught in the Heart Satra , namely , form , feeling , perceptions , impulses , and **25;3070;TOOLONG Han-shan uses the theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and wind , to explain the nonexistence earth , its dampness to water , warmth to fire , and movement to wind.21The existence of man depends purely on the operation of karma . When the appropriate causes and conditions are present , human body and mind are formed . But when the causes and conditions disintegrate , man disappears . Although the karmic seeds will go on to the next rebirth , there is no self that is transmigrated from one life to another . Han-shan says , The Buddha teaches that all dharrnas arise and disappear according to causal conditions ( yiian ) .22 Thus it is known that all dharrnas arise when the causal conditions come together . Since they arise when the causal conditions come together , there is nothing hcfore they are formed . Since there is nothing before they are formed , even thoughp117there are dharmas , their nature ( hsing ) is always empty in itself . Since their nature is empty , all dharmas are originally without their own nature ( tzu-hsing or svabhdva ) . Thus , it is said , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seed of Buddhahood is born in causal conditions . One who can comprehend the no-nature in the arising of dharmas through causal conditions can have the true seed to become a Buddha.23Here , the term " no-nature " ( wu-hsing ) is used as an equivalent of the Mind , which is sometimes called " nature " ( hsing ) . This paradoxical use of terms is something that can be expected in Han-shan 's thought as well as in Mahayana Buddhism generally . Since all things or dharmas are without own-being , the phenomenal world is illusory , like a dream . Thus the universe is called " illusion " ( mayd or huan ) . In his discussion of emptiness ( k'ung ) and illusion ( huan ) , Han-shan says the following : What is called " emptiness " is not the emptiness of absolute nothingness . It is just like the common saying : " He treats people as if they did not exist . " Does this really mean that there are no other people ? It is simply because he lifts up his eyes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is not the illusion of abnormal changes . It is the unreality of something that exists . This is like the magic show in the marketplace . Someone produces many people and things from a box . This box is originally without anything , but suddenly there is something . Though there is something , it is not real . Since it is not real , there is originally nothing . Since there is originally nothing , it is called " emptiness " .... The Buddha teaches emptiness in order to destroy sentient beings ' attachment to things as ultimately real . This does not mean absolute nothingness or complete annihilation . Since he is afraid that the people might fall into the heresies of absolute nothingness and complete annihilation , the Buddha also teaches the truth of illusion in order to destroy the heresies . Thus , all the dharmas of the body and mind are empty because they are illusory . Since they are empty , they are said to be illusory . The two words must be understood as interrelated . Then one can realize their subtlety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the contemplation of emptiness through illusory existence . This is named " true emptiness " ( then-k'ung ) . What is called " existence " ( yu ) is the illusory existence of that which is originally nothing . This is called " subtle existence " ( rniao-yu ) .24Han-shan is trying to avoid the two extremes of affirming " being " and " nonbeing . " Although all things are said to be empty by nature , he refuses to identify emptiness with absolute nothingness . By using the terms " true emptiness " and " subtle existence , " he attempts to steer a middle path between the two heresies of being and non-being . In so doing , Han-shan follows the steps of the Madhyamikaphilosophy and especially the Hua-yen and T'ien-t'ai doctrines . In spite of the fact that all dharmas are said to be not absolutely nothing , the empty Mind is often described by Han-shan elsewhere as " calm " ( chi ) , " extinct " ( mieh ) , and " nothing " ( u'u ) . The operation of karma is responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation , one can realize the Mind that is the original nature ofp118man . Karma , however , is not simply a negative force that brings about the illusion of the universe . It can be used by Buddhas and Bodhisattvas to bring about salvation to all sentient beings . Good karmas are a special kind of karmic operation , and the saviors can accumulate them to establish Buddha-lands . Speaking of the karmic force or " illusory force " ( huan-li ) , Han-shan says , Good disciples of the Buddha , you must carefully consider . All the Buddhas reveal themselves by the illusory force . All the Bodhisattvas cultivate themselves by the illusoryforce . All the Pratyekabuddhas and Sravakas attain extinction by the illusory power . All the heretics become deluded by the illusory power . All the sentient beings are born and die by the illusory power . . . . What do you think ? What is the cause of your falling into the cycle of life and death ? What is the reason that you entered your mother 's womb ? What is the reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you to vow to escape from the fallen state ? . . . These are none other than varieties of illusory transformation . . . . If we could break the illusory knots with a kick , then the borderless illusory net would be instantaneously destroyed , and the shoreless illusory ocean would suddenly become dry.25Han-shan 's conception of man can be summarized as follows : Man is caught in the illusory net of karma , but he can use the illusory power to realize his noumenal nature so that he will no longer be subject to it but can make use of it for the liberation of all sentient beings who are still caught in it . Han-shan 's Conception of EvilThe term " evil " means anything that is regarded as undesirable , thus something that is to be avoided . In Buddhism , evil is the suffering of all sentient beings , and suffering is the very nature of the universe itself . It is another expression of the impermanence of all things . To avoid or escape from suffering , one can not stop short of transcending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sheng-szu , " birth and death " or " life and death . " Birth and death are linked together because they can not be separated and stand for the changing nature of the world . Death is no more evil than birth , for there can not be death without birth . Salvation can not be complete unless life and death are transcended . The phrase also stands for the ever-recurring cycle of rebirth , which consists of the six forms of sentient beings . Thus it is another expression for samsara . Han-shan also believes that craving , desire , and attachment ( chih-cho ) are the causes of suffering . These feelings in turn are caused by ignorance . However , because of the centrality of the doctrine of Mind in his thought , the cause of evil is more often expressed in terms of the defilement of the Mind . This is , at least on the surface , different from the historical Buddha 's teaching . Although the defilement(mi) of the Mind is also caused by ignorance , there seems to be the practical consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearancep119of the suffering world . In any case , Han-shan sometimes speaks of the phenomenalworld as a manifestation of the Mind itself . This ambiguity or inconsistencybecomes acute when we compare his conception of evil with those of Confucianism and Taoism . For both Confucianism and Taoism the natural world is good . Although there is suffering in the natural world , it is to be accepted as a fate or something predetermined . There is the tendency to idealize the natural order to the extent that no natural suffering can exist . It is plausible to argue that in Lao Tzu 's worldviewnatural suffering does not exist . Chuang Tzu recognizes the existence of natural suffering , but he regards it as a natural part of the transformation of all things . There are , of course , man-made sufferings , but they do not and can not change the basic goodness of the natural universe . In the Confucian tradition , there have been attempts to explain natural suffering as the result of what man , especially the emperor , has done.26 But the natural universe itself has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentient beings have done . Both Confucianism and Taoism regard the evolution of life as the highest good in the universe . In different ways , the two philosophies try to make life more comfortable and meaningful in this world . Although death is accepted as a natural lot of all living things , it does not prevent them from pursuing a good life while they are alive . This orientation is different from Han-shan 's basic teaching . The theory of the three realms of desire , form , and the formless downgradesthe value of life . Life is identified with the sphere dominated by desire . It is lower in value than the realm of material forms . Confucianism and Taoism denounce selfish desires as the cause of human suffering , but they recognize natural desires as good ( while differing in their understanding of what natural desires are ) . Thus they do not advocate abstention from sex , food , or family . In short , Confucianism and Taoism do not have the radical conception of evil that Buddhism has . This radical conception of evil is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to some Chinese who chose Buddhism as an alternative to Confucianism or Taoism . According to Han-shan , Confucianism and Taoism are in fact too shadowy in their understanding of evil . His views of the two philosophies will be discussedlater . In general terms , for Han-shan Confucianism and Taoism are too attached to this phenomenal world . While Confucianism is satisfied with the kind of happiness found in the realm of men , Taoism is limited to the kind of enjoyment that can be attained in the realm of gods . Buddhism alone can take man out of the realm of men and gods to enjoy the blessedness in the other shore . Han-shan also recognizes the relative values of the Confucian and Taoist teachings . In fact , he attempts to justify them as preliminary vehicles of salvation . In view of the fact that he was so involved in the Confucian world of politics , I Ian-span 's justification of the two teachings may be regarded as a justification of his own activities . ' Thus , in his justification he de-emphasizes the defilementp120of the Mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preface to the Ch'un-ch'iu Tso-shih hsin-fa ( The Doctrine of Mind in the Spring and Autumn Annals with Tso 's Commentary ) , Han-shan says , The Mind is the principle ( tsung ) of the ten thousand dharmas . The ten thousand dharmas are the marks ( hsiang ) of the Mind . Life and death are the transformations ( pien ) of the Mind . Good and evil are the traces of the Mind . Rewards and punishments in the cycle of rebirth are the shadows and echoes of the Mind . The beginning is the cause ; the end is the effect . It is like the relationship between a flower and its fruit . The cause-effect connection does not lie outside human relationships in daily activities such as those between ruler and subject , father and son , elder and younger brothers , husband and wife , and between friends . ' Generally speaking , Han-shan emphasizes the manifestation of the Mind in his instructions to laymen and in his commentaries on the Confucian and Taoist texts , but stresses the defilement of the Mind in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The two aspects are more or less in tension , and Han-shan 's own life was also characterized by this tension . As a whole , he regards the phenomenal universe as the defilement of the Mind . Thus he had a stronger desire to leave the world than to stay in it . He is motivated to stay not because the world is good but because of the Boddhisattva vow that all sentient beings should be ferried to the other shore . Han-shan repeatedly reminds his disciples that they should concern themselves with " the great matter of life and death " ( sheng-szu ta-shih ) . This is the starting point for becoming a follower of the Buddha . Without this first step , all other quests for salvation will be in vain : From ancient times men have forsaken their homes for the great matter of life and death . Buddhas and Patriarchs came into this world especially in order to reveal the truth about this matter . There is no Buddhist teaching other than that which concerns life and death , and there is no life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has been said : When the Mind is defiled , life and death begin ; when it is enlightened , the cycle of rebirth ends . Thus , in their practice , the ancients searched for the ultimate truth about the very question of life and death.28Han-shan 's View of the Path to SalvationThe heart of Han-shan 's thought lies in his teachings about salvation . His doctrineof Mind provides the metaphysical basis for explaining evil as the defilementof the Mind and at the same time explains salvation as the realization of the Mind . In an important sense , the doctrine of Mind , functioning as a metaphysical theory , is soteriologically motivated . The defilement of the Mind does not mean that the Mind is " lost . " Since the Mind is empty in essence , nothing can be lost . In Han-span 's terminology , mi ( defilement ) is in opposition to wu ( enlightenment ) . Mi is equivalent to the Sanskrit tndyd , which is usually translated as " delusion " or " illusion . " The Chinesep121term has the connotations of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drunkenness . " Other terms used are huan ( illusion ) , mi-wang ( confused in falsity ) , and jan ( staining ) . Strictly speaking , the English term " defilement " is not appropriate because it implies that there is something that is defiled . But this question simply points back to the ambiguity as to whether the Mind is ontologically committed in theory or merely in practice . This ambiguity is also found in Hui-neng 's verses that were supposedly composed in response to Shen-hsiu 's stanza . Shenhsiu'sstanza seems to affirm the reality ( " somethingness " ) of the Mind and some sort of defilement of it : The body is the Bodhi tree ; The mind is like a bright mirror on a stand . Diligently we cleanse it hour by hour , Lest the dust collect on it . Hui-neng tries to avoid making an explicit affirmation of the Mind or of Buddhanatureas being something , and rejects the idea that the Mind can be defiled . He is not entirely successful , however , as seen in the two versions that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tree ; The bright mirror also has no stand . The Buddha-nature is always pure ; Where is the place for dust ? ( B ) The mind is the Bodhi tree ; The body is a stand of mirror bright . The bright mirror is originally pure ; Where can it be stained ( jan ) by dust ? 29In any case , it remains a fact that Hui-neng , like other Buddhists , stresses the central importance of practice and discipline in order to attain salvation . The question of whether the Mind is something or whether it can be defiled , however , has implications for the methods that should be used to attain enlightenment , such as gradual enlightenment taught by Shen-hsiu and sudden enlightenmenttaught by Hui-neng . For convenience , the term mi is translated as " defilement " when it is used in relation to the Mind . Basically , Han-shan accepts Hui-neng 's views about the nature of Mind and delusion and thus believes in sudden enlightenment . But this does not prevent Han-shan from teaching gradual enlightenment through many stages of training . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he purified in degrees . It is possible that the distinction between sudden enlightenment and gradual enlightenment is only a matter of emphasis , and that they are not mutually exclusive . Since one reaches salvation by realizing the ' Mind that is hidden in oneself ,  |p122Han-shan  teaches that one does not have to and can not seek salvation outside of oneself . Enlightenment is not to be found in faraway mountains , by traveling to various monasteries , or visiting famous masters . These activities are helpful , but they are not the source of salvation . Han-shan argues that the difference between man and beast lies not in their different natures , as is popularly believed , for all beings are of the same ultimate nature . Man differs from animals in that he has the ability to know his inherent nature , Mind . Han-shan criticizes those monks who seek salvation by wandering here and there without this basic understanding . They merely waste their money on traveling sandals . According to him , P'u-t'o or Patola , the special mountain of Kuan-yin , is ultimately in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chekiang . One does not have to go to the East Sea in order to " see " Kuan-yin.3oA monk came to see Han-shan at Ts'ao-hsi one day and asked him about the essential teaching of the Diamond Sutra . Han-shan 's reply skillfully summarizes his view of the Mind as the source of salvation : In our practice , if we do not rely on the fundamental wisdom , prajnd , it will be difficult to transcend life and death . But this wisdom is not to be sought outside . It is the original nature ( t'i ) of Self-Mind , which is in itself perfect . . . . It is said , " If one realizes the Mind , the great earth does not possess even a square inch of soil . " This is because our Mind is originally the bright wisdom that is in itself nothing.31Enlightenment and Cultivation of the MindIt is not enough to know that one possesses the Buddha-nature , one has to believe in it . It is not enough to believe in it , one has to have the experience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may be thought that the experience of enlightenment is not only the climax but also the end of religious life . But Han-shah stresses the importance of cultivation ( hsiu ) of the Mind before and after enlightenment . Hsiu can not be without wu , and wu can not be without hsiu . The two must go together . It is difficult to attain enlightenment and cultivate the Mind because the bad karma that has been accumulated in previous rebirths becomes very hard to break . Han-shah says , Our Mind-essence is originally perfect and bright . The reason that we can not attain instantaneous enlightenment and partake of immediate enjoyment is the veiling ( chang-pi ) of the Mind by the kle'a of covetousness , hatred , stupidity , and cupidity during the innumerable kalpas in the past . It is therefore necessary to practice gradual cultivation . The Ch'an master , Kuei-shan ( 771-853 ) , teaches that if a student can attain sudden enlightenment , he has only to apply his enlightenment to the purification of the manifested karmas and the flowing consciousness . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of cultivation . If the student seeks only sudden enlightenment and stops there , thinking that there is no function or application , then the karmic force will go underground and erupt when conditions permit . Gradually , the mind will become a demonic realm.  |p123Han-shan  goes on to explain the main points of hsiu : There is no fixed order for gradual cultivation . In our daily life , we need only to hold our mind in constant watch at the moment before the mind is stirred or a thought takes place . We keep our feet steady and introspect the inner state . When a thought occurs , we must thoroughly examine it and trace it to its origin . When it is found that the thought arises from the realm of no-birth , then all illusory notions , feelings , and anxieties will at once disappear just like the melting of ice . The only danger is the lack of great determination to stop the flow of thought as in killing an animal by breaking . its neck . In this way , one continues to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be returned to the origin ( of no-birth ) .32A similar method of cultivation is repeatedly taught by Han-shan in the Fa-yii . The Fa-yii consists of hundreds of chapters , each of which contains Han-shan 's specific , sometimes general , advice to a particular person who came to ask him questions . Sometimes the advice is given to a group of people . In each chapter he usually describes the circumstance of the questioner , then gives answers according to the need and comprehensive ability of the person . He sometimes explains the essential points of ' the scriptures , sometimes teaches the method of Ch'an practice , sometimes teaches the expedient path of the Pure Land , and sometimes gives other practices . He also gives somewhat different instructions to monks and laymen . Although the Fa-yu contains different instructions concerning the methods of enlightenment and cultivation , there are general principles that are repeatedly taught by Han-shan with some variations . For example , in the following paragraphhe instructs a certain student about the general nature of religious practice : The student of the Tao must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomenal realms so that he will not be pushed around at will by illusory causal conditions . Second , in order to solve the great matter of life and death , he must have a will as strong as iron and stone so that he will not be affected by illusory ideas and actual circuwnstances . Third , he must purify all bad feelings and views that have been formed and accumulated . Fourth , he must truly let go of his bodily life so that he will not be hindered by the evil conditions of sickness and suffering in the cycle of life and death . Fifth , he must have right faith and right views and should not be influenced by false teachers . Sixth , he must learn the ancient masters ' true experiences with the Mind so that they can be used as the hua-t'ou ( i.e. , kung-an ) of his practice . Seventh , he must hold right thought before his mind in all daily activities so that he will not be bewildered by illusory transformations . There should be no break in his mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must continue his effort of concentration by looking forward , and should not hold back the mind by waiting for enlightenment to happen . Ninth , he must have the determination to persevere for a long time , and must not give up until he reaches the ancient masters ' Land . He should not be satisfied with lesser achievement . Tenth , in his practice he must put to rest all thoughts again and again until there is no more to put away . Then naturally he will get the good news ( of the realization of the Mind ) . "  |p124The  Expedient Ways of Attaining SalvationAlthough the goal of salvation is one , there are many paths leading to it . These paths are expedient because they are skillful means devised in response to various human situations . Some are more expedient than others , but none is absolute because they belong to this relative world . They are useful tools for opening the gate to salvation . Once their usefulness is spent , they are to be discarded . One of the subtlest dangers in Buddhist practice is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the end . Even the goal is not to be clung to , for it is originally nothing . Once it is clung to , it is no longer that which is originally nothing . Hanshansays thatthe tao ( doctrine ) is chia-ruing ( unreal appellation ) . The three vehicles and the twelve divisions of the Tripitaka were taught by the Buddha according to the conditions and abilities ( chi ) of the audience . They are all unreal appellations . In ferrying sentient beings to the other shore , the Buddha did not give shih-fa ( absolute Dharma ) to them . All the expedient teachings are for the revelation of the Mind , and there is no other teaching than these . It is not only that the Buddha is an expediency but that the direct and nonverbaltransmission of the Mind in the Ch'an tradition is an expediency . The Buddha 's turning of a flower , Kasyapa 's response in a smile , and Bodhidharma 's coming from the west , are known as the doctrine of direct pointing to the Mind and the means for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " direct pointing " its meaning becomes distorted.34There are many kinds of sickness in the human body and mind . The sickness of the body , which arises from impediments of the four elements , is also a type of Mind-sickness . This is easier to cure than other types of Mind-sickness in the consciousness . The Buddha is the omnipotent doctor of all these sicknesses . In accordance with his wisdom and skillfulness , he prescribes all kinds of medicine for the treatment . Han-shan says , The Buddha spent forty-nine years on earth trying to teach innumerable skillful means in order to destroy illusion and demonstrate truth . He taught fifty-five different stages of mind and practice , ranging from the sentient to the holy , not because he was fond of details and used his mind the way a grandmother does . Rather it was due to the innumerable kinds of Mind-sickness that require innumerable prescriptions for treatment.35In the realm of human beings , there are many kinds of people whose nature is determined by the operation of karmic forces . Those having a bright mind can hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dull mind have to work hard and gradually , for a long time , through several rebirths . Some people are receptive to the teaching of the Great Vehicle , some to the teachings of the lesser vehicles , and others are unable to open their minds to the Buddhist teachings at all.3G It is on this theoretical understanding that Han-shan teaches the paths to salvation through scriptural studies , Ch'an , the Pure Land , and other means.  |p125In  his Hua-sheng i-kuei ( Methods of Salvation ) , Han-shan systematically discussesvarious Buddhist paths to salvation . This work can be regarded as a summaryof his own teachings . Buddhism is treated simply as a system of teachings which prepares one for salvation . He starts with the five precepts for laymen , then the Pure Land path , then monastic discipline , then the various scriptural teachings of the Small , Middle , and Great Vehicles , and ends with the Ch'an path ? all of the teachings are obviously arranged according to the degree of expediency . " The following sections on Buddhist paths to salvation are based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They start with Han-shan 's view of the path of scriptural studies , followed by the path of Ch'an , the path of Pure Land , and then other paths . The Path of Scriptural StudiesThe path of scriptural studies is equivalent to the chiang division in Ming Buddhism . Although chiao was used in the Ming Dynasty to mean the ministry of priests-on-call by government decrees , it was also used to mean scriptural studies . Han-shan started as a student of chiang or scriptural studies and was ordained by a chiang master in the Pao-en monastery , the important chiang center in Nanking . He was educated in the Hua-yen philosophy . Although he later became interested in Ch'an discipline and other practices , he remained a faithful student of scriptural studies and especially of the Hua-yen philosophy . In fact , he uses Hua-yen philosophy as the harmonizing and integrating principle of all other schools of thought and scriptures . Han-shan 's views of the various schools and scriptures will be analyzed more systematically later , but so far it has already become evident that his philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , or as he interpreted it in terms of his own religious experience and study of the scriptures . It is clear that although Han-shan was a faithful student of the scriptures , he was not completely satisfied with scriptural studies as a path to salvation . The fact that he put aside scriptural studies at the Pao-en monastery in favor of Ch'an meditation at T'ien-chieh is a good indication of this . His search for the " pure and cool " realm at Wu-t'ai again shows that he was not happy with mere knowledge of the Hua-yen philosophy . He wanted to realize it within himself . The division between Ch'an and chiao ( chiang ) has a long tradition in Chinese Buddhism . Ch'an students believe that the " esoteric " truth of the Mind does not depend on words or scriptures , whereas chiao students concentrate on the study of scriptures in their religious training . Han-shan objects to this age-old distinction when it becomes a dichotomy . He argues that the traditions are complementaryto each other in method and identical in goal . He criticizes extremistswho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who condemn scriptural studies , Ian-shan says ,  |p126Buddhas  and Patriarchs are of the same Mind ; chiao and Ch'an are ( ultimately ) identical . The special non-scriptural ( or non-verbal ) transmission of the Ch'an school is not transmission of some teaching other than the Mind . It only seeks to teach man to transcend language and to realize the truth beyond words . Today , many Ch'an students know only how to condemn scriptural studies , and do not know that the Mind expoundedin the scriptures is the foundation of the Ch'an teaching.38But Han-shan is also aware of the danger of scriptural studies , for this path , when not properly pursued , can become a trap of language from which the students can not escape . He says the following : Students in this age of the decay of Dharma are superficial in their learning . They do not understand the real truth . Thus , in their study of Buddhist scriptures , they cling to famous sayings and fail to comprehend the ultimate truth . They increase their ( relative ) knowledge and become boastful of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuation of the cycle of life and death precisely by means of Buddhist teachings . This is because they did not start with the question of life and death when they began to search for the Mind.39Even students who have decided to pursue the Mind by studying the scripturesmay find it difficult because in the alaya-consciousness there arises a great turmoil caused by the newly formed habits of language and by age-old habits of covetousness , hatred , stupidity , and cupidity . These students can not put off the turmoil , break it down , or put it to rest . When they take up a saying ( hua-t'ou ) , it is like a gourd on the water . One can do anything with it , but it can never be held down or kept still.4oIn view of the differences of ability among men , Han-shan mentions two kinds of scriptural studies , one intended for the sharp mind and the other for the dull . Those who have a sharp mind can thoroughly examine the doctrine of the noumenal ( hsing ) and phenomenal ( hsiang ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Through the good influence ( hsiin-hsi ) of great learning , " they start from scriptural studies and go on to cultivate the Mind . The state of samddhi is then realized . They can not only " see " the Mind-essence but also become masters of men .... Those who have dull minds can not drive the vehicle of scriptural studies but they can practice the method of reciting the scriptures . . . . In reciting the scriptures , one must concentrate singlemindedly , just as the ancient masters who withdrew into their inner state to meditate on the truth . As soon as words are forgotten in subtle comprehension , the Buddha 's doctrine of Mind is grasped.42In the same instruction Han-shan explains the recitation of scriptures as being the same as or similar to the recitation of dharanis ( spells ) taught in the Lotus Sutra.43 He also mentions the fact that the recitation of scriptures was emphasizedby Chih-i as an important method of meditation . It seems that in Han-shan 's mind the recitation of scriptures is technically similar to that of dharanis as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said about these later.  |p127In  spite of his many commentaries on the scriptures , Han-shan does not highly recommend the path of scriptural studies . There are not many students of great faculty in this age of decay , and there are too many dangers and difficulties on the path . Moreover , this path does not stress sufficiently the importance of practicalcultivation . Thus Han-shan frequently urges his disciples not to waste their time trying to solve intellectual puzzles . For him it is more important to train one 's mind according to the practical instructions in the scriptures than to solve philosophical problems . We can find , however , three positive emphases in Han-shan 's view of the path of scriptural studies . First , he holds that essentially all the scriptures teach about the same Mind . Their differences are due to expediency of teaching . All of Han-shan 's commentaries try to make this basic point . Second , he accepts the analyses of the phenomenal mind in the scriptures , such as the Lankdvatdra Sutra and the Surangama Sutra . In cultivating the Mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind back to the state of no-birth . Third , Han-shan is greatly interested in the different states of samddhi described in the various scriptures . The state of samddhi is regarded as the climax of the scripture concerned , for it is not only the knowledge of truth but the realization of it . For example , in the Avatamsaka Sutra there is , among others , the Ocean Symbol samadhi ; in the Lotus Sutra , the Lotus Flower samadhi ; and in the Surangama Sutra , the Surangama samadhi . Han-shan is also interested in the methods of " cessation " and " contemplation " ( chih-kuan ) that are taught in the T'ien-t'ai school . But he often uses the phrase chih-kuan in the general sense of meditation , which includes various forms of meditation , ranging from those of the Great Vehicle to those of the lesser vehicles , including the forms used in Taoism and Confucianism . In teaching the path of scriptural studies , Han-shan clearly stresses the practicaland meditational aspects of the scriptures . Although they provide the theoretical and metaphysical foundation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mind , the scriptures are after all not the goal but a means to solving the question of salvation . The Path of Ch'anIn Han-shan 's teachings the path of Ch'an is the most important and most difficultpath to salvation . After he began Ch'an meditation at the T'ien-chieh monastery in 1565 , it became increasingly important in his life and thought until he was finally honored as the seventh patriarch of the Ch'an school by his followersat Ts'ao-hsi . Through his own religious experiences and scriptural studies , Han-shan developed an understanding of Ch'an that was by no means new to Chinese Buddhism , but did reveal a style of his own . This style , together with his dynamic personality , gave new life to the contemporary Ch'an school . What is Chan ? Speaking of the traditional division of Buddhist learning into siIa ( rhieh ; discipline ) , samddhi ( ling ; trance or concentration ) , and pea/tia ( hui ; wisdom ) , I Ian-shan says.  |p128Concerning  the learning for Sramanas ( monks ) , the Buddha taught the three divisions of s ' la @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lu ) belong to sila ; to practice them comes under samadhi . But the samddhi taught in chiao ( studies of Mahayana scriptures ) is the subtle contemplation of the temporary truth , the truth of emptiness , and the middle truth ( as taught in the T'ien-t'ai school ) . This is the short-cut to the realization of the Mind . When the path of Ch'an came to the east , the emphasis was on the single transmission of direct pointing . To see the Nature ( hsing ) is called ch'an ( dhyana ) and not called ting ( samddhi ) . But ch'an is really ting.44Han-shan attempts to show that the doctrine of the Mind taught by the Buddha in the scriptures is not different from the truth transmitted through the Ch'an patriarchs . Han-shan was not strictly trained in the Ch'an tradition . There is no evidence that he identified himself as a member of the Lin-chi sect , the dominant sect of Ch'an in his time . Although he accepts the kung-an exercise as an important Ch'an method , he does not seem to appreciate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and especially in his emphasis on the importance of meditation , Han-shan 's understanding of Ch'an seems to be very close to the earlier Ch'an . In view of the ecumenical thrust in his thought , it is natural that he did not confine himself to any particular sect in the Ch'an school . In the final analysis , his spirit transcended even the Ch'an school . This was partly due to his study of the scriptures , from which he learned to practice various kinds of samddhi , which were incorporated into his understanding of Ch'an . Moreover , Han-shan 's teaching of Ch'an is harmonized with the Pure Land teaching and partially influenced by Tantric ideas and practices . These different aspects are supposedly unified within the philosophy of Mind . Han-shan accepts the traditional account that the Ch'an " esoteric " truth was transmitted from the Buddha to Kayapa , and then , through Bodhidharma , was introduced into China . Drawing on the fact that Bodhidharma taught the Lalikavatara Sutra as a testimony to the Mind , he argues that there is no difference between the Buddha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ch'an . Although the Ch'an teaching of the Mind and its method of direct pointing remain fundamental throughout the ages , there are other expedient or secondary methods that were employed by ancient patriarchs and masters to help enlighten the mind and extinguish all mental illusions . The following is Han-shan 's account of the various expedient methods and the development of the kung-an exercise : The Lankavatdra Sutra says : Sitting quietly in mountains and forests , cultivate yourself in all aspects , and you can see the flowing of illusory thoughts in your own mind . This is the key to the Buddha 's teaching concerning religious practice . . . . Bodhidharma taught Hui-k'o ( 487-593 ) , the second patriarch , saying , " You have only to stop all external sensations , put to rest all internal turmoil , and keep your mind like a wall , then you can enter the path . " This is Bodhidharma 's basic teaching concerning the method of practice . When hung-jen ( 602 674 ) , the fifth patriarch , wanted to find ap129successor , Hui-neng ( 638-713 ) received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stanza about that which is originally nothing . This points to the meaning of the transmission of the seal of the Mind . Later when he went south ( to Ts'ao-hsi ) , Hui-neng taught Tao-ming , saying , " When your mind is not dwelling on good or evil , what is the original face on that bright throne ? " This is the Sixth Patriarch 's foremost teaching concerning Ch'an practice . Thus , from the Buddha down to the patriarchs , students were taught only to understand and realize their own Mind . There was no teaching about kung-an and hua-t'ou . But from Hsing-szu ( 66o-74o ) of Ch'ing-yiian and Huai fang ( 677-744 ) of Nanyueh(Heng-shan) on , the masters taught in accordance with the needs of the students by striking at the points of their doubts in order to lead them in the right direction . If the students did not understand , the masters used " tongs and hammers " to beat them . But they used them only according to the timing and conditions of the students ' minds . Not until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the method of hua-t'ou . It was Ta-hui ( io89-i163 ) who most zealously advocated the use of ancient masters ' " public cases " ( kung-an ) as hua-t'ou ( sayings or more strictly key ideas ) , which were used as handles.45For Han-shan , the development of the kung-an exercise does not signify an increase in mental ability among students of later days . On the contrary , it indicates their inability to use the ancient method of direct pointing to the Mind . Han-shan feels that in an age of decay the kung-an method is necessary as an extra help , but he laments that its function is gravely misunderstood . It is taken as the goal itself rather than as a means . The nature of the Kung-an exercise . The kung-an exercise can be regarded as a combined product of the chiao and Ch'an traditions . Ch'an has long had as its mark of distinction a nonverbal teaching , but in the kung-an practice it has in fact recognized the function of words as a means of salvation . Although language is used in Ch'an not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlockingthe Mind , this concession is open to many possibilities of the development of thought and practice and has become a source of strength as well as weakness . On the one hand , Ch'an can now draw upon the resource of chiao to strengthen its philosophical foundation ; on the other hand , it faces the danger of losing the spiritual power that comes from intuition and direct experience of reality . In this paradoxical situation , some Ch'an Buddhists opted for the extreme of rejectingall scriptures as useless , and others became drowned in a kind of scholasticism and intellectualism . Collections of kung-an were compiled , and commentaries were written on them as if to solve puzzles . Han-shan tried to avoid both extremes . Han-shin 's view of the kung-an exercise is seen in the following excerpt from a lecture that he delivered at Ching-shan in 1617 : Why is kung-an used for Ch'an training ? Thisis because in the student 's eightfold consciousness the had karmic seeds , which have been accumulated for innumerable kalpas , interact on one another through " perfuming ! ' so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helpless condition , a meaningless sentence is given to the student " to put his teeth on " ( as a stabilizing point ) , so that all the external and internal conditions and thoughts can be put to rest . Since he can not put them to rest at once , he is taught to hold the hua-t'ou ( like a sword ) and cut the web of illusion as he would cut a knotted net . The flow of consciousness is then broken down . This was exactly Bodhidharma 's method when he taught Hui-k'o to hold his mind like a wall by stopping all external sensations and putting down all internal disturbance . If you do not use the hua-t'ou in this way , you can never " see " your own true " face . " This method is not meant for you to think about the meaning of a kung-an , as if the kung-an were a question for intellectual solution . Speaking of the hua-t'ou method , Ta-hui taught his disciples to kill the " sneaky mind " with a cold-blooded hand . Accordingto him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's mind . One must first paste the two words " life-death " on the forehead , and regard them as seriously as if one owed a debt of a million taels . In day or night , while drinking or eating , traveling or staying at home , sitting or lying , entertaining friends , in a quiet moment or at a noisy hour , you must hold on to the hua-t'ou . For example , a student asked , " Does a dog also have the Buddha-nature ? " Chao-chou ( 778-897 ) answered , " No . " You need only to look into this hua-t'ou without interruption until you find it tasteless . Then you will feel that you are just hitting a wall . In the end , this is like a mouse entering the horn of an ox , and all illusions are broken down . But you must be determined to fight a long fight , then suddenly you will find that the Lotus-mind beams with a bright light , illuminating the ten directions of the universe . Once the mind is enlightened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kung-an or hua-t'ou exercise is found in many places in the Fa-yii.47 It may be difficult to understand why a kung-an can be used like a sword to destroy illusory thoughts . As in the case of Tantrism , kung-an is probablyregarded by Han-shan as similar to a dharani or mantra , which is commonly regarded as a vajra , or thunderbolt , that has power over illusion and evil powers . Even if a kung-an were not regarded as a vajra in function but merely as a thought , Han-shan would say that it is the method of using one poison to counter or neutralize another . This is actually the answer that he gives to the charge that the Pure Land method of Amitabha-recitation is a method of thought and thus in opposition to the Ch'an method of no-thought ( wu-nien ) . As will be seen , Han-shan interprets the method of Buddha-recitation in the same way or similar to the way he interprets the kung-an exercise . According to Han-shan , a kung-an , like the name of Amitabha , must not be used merely as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a piece of brick to knock at the gate of enlightenment . Once the gate is open , the brick is to be thrown away . No one should ponder about the composition of the brick and forget using it . Speculating upon the meaning of the kung-an does not help but delays accomplishment . A meaningless or paradoxical sentence is a better tool because one can not look too far for its meaning . It becomes the focal point which permits one to realize that all thoughts are meaningless and illusory . Take the example of the kung-an of the dialogue between Chao-Thou and hisp131disciple that was mentioned in the previous quotation . The thought literally expressed in the dialogue is actually in contradiction with the Mahayana doctrineof universal Buddhahood . One can not generalize about how this kung-an has actually been used by different masters or students . It is clear that this kung-an is meant to reject the idea that Buddha-nature is something that can be found in a dog or that can be affirmed by a statement . Instead the student must concentrate on the word wu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the affirmation nor the negation of the proposition matters . All thoughts are relative and illusory . It is possible that this particular kung-an is so popular in the Ch'an school because a pun can be played on the word wu . On the one hand , it produces the seemingly false statement that the dog does not have Buddha-nature ; on the other hand , it practically ( though not theoretically ) affirms that which is originally nothing , namely , the Mind . When the Mind is experienced , the Buddha-nature in a dog can also be affirmed . Han-shan says , The scriptures demand that Bodhisattvas should ferry all sentient beings to the other shore , but there are really no sentient beings to ferry . In practicing the six paramitas everywhere , the Bodhisattvas do not have any dharma to perform . Even in their search for the fruit of Buddhahood in enlightenment , they have not gained anything .... Now with the thought of bhutatathata , every event and every dharotia is penetrated and comprehended . All things are transformed into the subtle functioning ( miao-yung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beings is the ferrying of all sentient beings in one 's own Mind.48Criticism of contemporary Ch'an practices . Han-shan 's ideas concerning the nature of Ch'an and the kung-an exercise are also seen in his criticism of contemporaryCh'an practices . He says thattoday , everyone who practices Ch'an says that he uses hua-t'ou to settle his doubts . They do not go deeply into the fundamental question , and know only to look for something in the hua-t'ou . In their random search , they suddenly conjure up beautiful scenery and declare that they have attained enlightenment . They compose gathas ( hymns ) and praises , and regard them as unusual merchandise . They do not know that they have completely fallen into the net of illusory thoughts and views . This kind of practice can only cause blindness in the eyes of later generations . Today 's youth announce the news of enlightenment before they have sat firmly on their meditation mat . They show off the so-called enlightenment by using their little mouths and minds in the exchange of quick wit and in the composition of praises to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought ; they are without any point . How can they have even dreamt of the existence of ancient masters ? If enlightenment is so easy to attain , then the ancient masters were the most stupid persons in the world . Chang-ch'ing , for example , wore out seven mats in cross-legged sitting , and Chao-chow spent thirty years in order to control his mind without any agitation . Today , Ch'an students have no use for straw sandals , and their arrogance causes them to claim what they have not obtained . Is it not a sad storyj ' " I Ian-shan concedes that there are different dcgroes of enlightenment . The lessp132doubt a man has , the lesser the degree of enlightenment he will experience ; the greater doubt a man has , the greater the amount of enlightenment he will experience.50 He recognizes a difference between sudden and gradual enlightenmentstemming from the difference of karmic forces in men . Even within the category of sudden enlightenment , he believes that a distinction can be made between sudden-sudden and sudden-gradual enlightenment . In this respect , Han-shah was probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have believed in or emphasized just one kind of sudden enlightenment . There is , of course , the difficult problem of providing an objective criterion for judging whether an experience is an enlightenment and if so what kind . In any case , given Han-shan 's philosophy of Mind , it is natural that he would emphasize the importance of cultivation for different degrees of enlightenment , while at the same time believing in sudden enlightenment as the only real enlightenment . The Pure Land PathHan-shan 's interest in the Pure Land path has been touched upon frequently in the discussion of his life . He was supposedly conceived in his mother 's womb as the result of Kuan-yin 's appearance in her dream . When he failed to unlock the mystery of Ch'an , he practiced Buddha-recitation and became convinced that he could succeed in his spiritual quest . At his death , Han-shan advised his followersto devote themselves to the Pure Land path . Although in Han-shan 's evaluation the Ch'an path is ranked higher as a path to salvation , the Pure Land path is recommended no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pure Land path is in his view more universally valid and effective than the Ch'an path in this age of decay . His views of the Pure Land path may be conveniently discussed on two levels : first , on the realistic and popular level which centers on the Western Paradise , and second , on the more idealistic and Ch'anist level which uses Buddha-recitation as a kung-an exercise . The path of Western Paradise . Although the term ching-t'u , or " pure land , " can have several meanings , it usually refers to the Western Paradise , namely , the pure land supposedly established by Amitabha in the western part of the universe . The Pure Land path is believed by Han-shan to be the most expedient method of salvation . According to him , the Ch'an path is primarily for people of the highest spiritual endowment . Moreover , such persons need the constant guidance of competent masters . The Ch'an path is therefore more suitable for monks than lay people . Likewise , the chiao path , involving the T'ien-t'ai methods of " cessation " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grasp and practice . Having thus eliminated the Ch'an and chiao paths as feasible routes to salvation for most people , especially laymen , including princes , Han-shan recommends the Pure Land path . In his advice to a vassal prince , he says , Now the path I would like to recommend is the Pure Land in the west . This path consists of the primary method of Buddha-recitation , the practice of contemplating the pure realm , the guidance of reciting Mahayana scriptures , the determination ofp133making the wish ( to be born in the Western Paradise ) , and the charitable deeds that bring about blissful reward . This is really the path that has been followed from ancient times by the rich and poor , the bright and dull . Everyone who has followed the path has experienced its effectiveness . It is better for your majesty to pay careful attention to this method.51Han-shan goes on to give some details about the path . In his advice to the prince , Han-shan has placed great emphasis on the realistic and popular aspects of the Pure Land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kung-an is also found in his advice , but the main thrust is a realistic description of the blissful land : Our Buddha , in order to save all sentient beings from the suffering of the sand-world , especially taught the path of the Pure Land of Ultimate Bliss in the west . This path is based on the vow to be born there by reciting ( or contemplating ) Amitabha Buddha . The existence of that Country is proved by the Pure Land Sutra . Everything that is said in the scripture is about that Country . Its realm and things are clearly described . The method of cultivation is also given in detail .... The main thing is the practice of Buddha-recitation . Every morning , after homage to the Buddha , one recites the Pure Land Sutra or the Diamond Sutra . With a rosary in hand , he recites the name of Amitabha three thousand , five thousand , or ten thousand times . Then , facing the Buddha , he returns all the merits to him and makes the vow to be born there . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 52If your majesty wishes to know the place whither you are going after death , there is this wonderful method . This is indeed in the mind that practices Buddha-recitation . In your quiet meditation , you constantly visualize the appearance of a large lotus flower as large as a wheel , no matter whether it is green , yellow , red , or white . Meditatingon the clear form of the flower , you imagine yourself quietly sitting upright on it . Then visualize that the Buddha sends out his bright light on your body . In so doing , you can either walk , stay , sit , or lie down . This goes on day after day , month after month , and year after year . You need only to keep your visualization clear and distinct . There should be no blurring of the image whether you close or open your eyes . Even in your dreams you can also clearly see Amitabha residing in the flower and flanked by Kuan-yin and Ta-shih-chih . When this meditation of the lotus flower is accomplished , you have reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done away with . When death comes , the lotus flower will appear , and you will find yourself sitting in it . The three holy beings will come to receive you to the other shore . Instantly you are reborn in the world of ultimate bliss in the west . Residing in the realm of no return , you will never fall into this suffering world of life and death.53Later Han-shan describes the Western Paradise in this way : In that land all beings enjoy nothing but happiness . Thus it is called the Land of Ultimate Bliss . Since there is no defiled thing , it is called the Pure Land . There are no women , and the lotus flowers give birth to all beings ; so there is no suffering of birth . The life-span there is endless , so there is no suffering of death . All clothing is natural , so there is no suffering from want . All good people gather there , so there is no sufferingp134of hostility . Since that Country is made of seven treasures , there is no thorn or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this world . All those things described in the Pure Laud Sutra are true . ... 54To nonbelievers , the Western Paradise is utopia , and the method of practice given by Han-shan is a kind of self-hypnosis or indoctrination . Such a charge would not have greatly disturbed Han-shan , for to him all describable things are , after all , illusory , including the Western Paradise . It was created by Amitabha simply as an expedient method and has no ultimate reality in itself . In the last analysis , the Western Paradise lies in one 's own mind . It would be difficult to criticize Han-shah 's belief concerning the Western Paradise unless its philosophicalfoundation were also criticized . Although only an expedient method , the Pure Land path is zealously defended by Han-shan . Speaking to the Ch'an monks who belittled it , he said , People today know only the Ch'an path of enlightenment and realization of the Mind as the method of transcending life and death . Do they think that Buddha-recitation is not a path of freedom from life and death ? There arc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those who practice Buddha-recitation have no doubt that they can attain it . This is because the Chan path teaches the method of no-thought , whereas the Pure Land path teaches the method of thought . Since sentient beings have fallen deeply into the ocean of illusory thoughts , it is difficult for them to get rid of them . If impure thoughts are transformed into pure thoughts , it is like using one poison to counter another poison and like playing a game of exchange ( as in chess ) . Thus it is difficult to obtain enlightenment through the Ch'an path and easy to attain freedom through the Pure Land path.55Moreover , the Pure Land path is easier because it is not necessary for the practitionersto realize the original pure Mind right away . They need only to concentrate on Buddha-recitation . Since the Buddha is the enlightened one , the practitioners will have the thought of enlightenment in the continuous recitation and meditation.56Han-shan believes that the Pure Land method can also be used by highly endowed persons , but he regards it as good above all for ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's interest in the Pure Land was certainly influenced by his mother in his childhood . Later he found the path effective in his own spiritual development . There is much that is personal in Han-shan 's teaching concerning this most expedient method of salvation . Buddha-recitation as a kung-an exercise . In the greater part of Han-shan 's teachings , the method of Buddha-recitation is treated as a kung-an exercise . This is probably because he addresses himself particularly to monks and above all to Ch'an monks . It is possible that the more realistic aspects described above were taken for granted among monks and that there was therefore no need to elaborate on them . As explained previously , the phrase nierr/o can he translated as " Buddha/recitation , " " Buddha-recollection , " " Buddha-remembrance , " and " Buddhameditation . " In this discussion it has been translated as " Buddha-recitation . " The term men usually means " thought " in Han-shan 's writings . Thus nien-fo could also mean " Buddha-thought , " which has the implication of " illusory thought , " in contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized by Ch'an . In Sanskrit , however , men is equivalent to smrti , meaning " recollection " or " memory . " Therefore , the phrase nien-fo can not be easily translated into English.S7 I have chosen to translate it generally as " Buddha-recitation " because the recitation of Amitabha 's name is the basic practice in the Pure Land path . But the translation should not be taken to exclude other meanings implied in Chinese and Sanskrit . Actually , nien-fo is so important in the Pure Land path because it can be understood in so many different ways . When the recitation of Amitabha 's name is specifically meant , the phrase ch'eng-ming is used . Nien-fo is broader in meaning than ch'eng-ming but includes it as the elementary practice . According to Han-shan , ch'eng-ming should be practiced as a mental exercise , and nien-fo can not exist without ch'eng-ming . Generally speaking , it is possible to distinguish different degrees of nien-fo , depending on the levels of mental concentration . This is the reason that Han-shan speaks of nine levels in the Western Paradise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect more than the simple act of repeating the Buddha 's name . The nien-fo kung-an or " kung-an of Buddha-recitation " is the following question : " Who is it that recites and invocates Amitabha 's name ? " In this exercise the popular form of Pure Land practice is elevated to the more mystical or idealistic level of the Mind , and thus made more harmonious with the Ch'an method of direct intuition . In his lecture given at Yun-ch'i , where Chu-hung had taught , Hari-shan taught that in practicing Buddha-recitation one must first extinguish the various forms of craving that lie at the root of birth and death . The path of birth in the Pure Land through Buddha-recitation is originally for solving the great matter of life and death . Thus it is said : " Buddha-recitation for solving life and death .... " If one does not know the root and branches of birth and death , where can one start to recite ( men ) ? If the mind that practices Buddha-recitation can not cut loose the root and branches of birth and death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Pure Land practice must be based on the Pure Mind . In order to cultivate the Pure Mind , the vinaya rules must be practiced first.59In response to a question concerning the alleged difference between the Ch'an and Pure Land paths , Han-shah says , The Chan practice stresses the state in which no thought ( men ) arises . It is said that the practice of Buddha-recitation stresses the continuation of pure thought . This means that one keeps the fiver words A-mi-t'o-/io ( Amit:ihha in Chinese ) in one 's mind as a@@1335.txtp50FigureThe DutchThe early Dutch settlements in the Hudson valley were yet another attempt to export the feudal tradition to the New World , " though it became famous more for what it attempted than for what it accomplished . " ' 4A patroon was granted 16 miles on one side of a navigable river , or eight miles on both sides , and as far back as he could occupy the land , on condition that he establish a colony of at least 50 adults within four years ; he could select any stretch of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move to a new site if he changed his mind about his first location . His tenants had to pay him a tenth of their farm products , plus a cash rent , and they were obliged to perform services such as wood cutting , hauling , and the repair of roads and buildings . " In a new and promising country where the natives were friendly , the transportation easy , the land fertile , and all other conditions favorable , " wrote Maud Wilder Goodwin , this attempt to transplant the feudal system produced " a sparse and sullen tenantry , an obsequious and carewornagent , an impatient company , and a bewildered government . " ' 5 In 1638 the patroonship system was abandoned in favor of smaller grants to individuals , but few Dutch settlers saw fit to forsake the comforts of their homeland to accept them . After the English takeover of 1664 the royal governors reverted to a policy of making large grants to favored individuals , often for speculation rather than colonization . The large blocks of privately held land along the lower Hudson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central and western New York until westward-moving New Englanders swept around them to the north . The EnglishNEW ENGLAND . Apart from the Dutch settlements in the lower Hudson valley and some inconsequential efforts by Swedes on the Delaware , ware , Englishmen set the policies for land division along most of the Atlantic Seaboard of the United States . ' ? The very name of New England is appropriate , because most of the settlers actually did come from England , at least in the early years , whereas areas south of the Hudson were settled by a more diversified group of people drawn from many parts of northern and western Europe . The early New Englanders were a fairly stiff and intolerant lot who brooked no nonsense , a fact which shows up quite clearly in their system of land division and settlement . Before 1629 a few tracts of land in New England were granted to individuals , but for almost a century thereafter land was granted only to groups of worthy men , or proprietors . The basic unit was the township , or " town , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal size was six miles square . Many towns are bounded by straight lines , although few were actually square ( Fig. 4-1 ) . New grants were located close to towns which had already been settled , to ensure that settlement advanced inlandin serried tiers , but gores of " no man 's land " were sometimes left between old and new towns when grants were made . Near the center of the town the proprietors laid out a village with I a meeting-house ( which served as both church and town hall ) and theFootnotep52home lots of early settlers fronting on a town common , or village green , of an acre or two . Crops were grown on large fields of several hundred acres . The fields were located in different directions and at different distancesfrom the village . Each field and each meadow was divided into strips and parcels of varying size . Each man 's farm consisted of a scatter of such strips and parcels , their number and size depending on the size of his family , the wealth and property he had brought with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community . Land not needed at first was held in common for future allocation as population increased or new settlers joined the community.1When a town was fully settled and more land was needed , a group of its members would live off and obtain a new block of land elsewhere . The repetition of this process produced the characteristic New England pattern of nucleated villages and fragmented farms . Satellite settlements which developed in the more remote corners of some of the larger towns often adopted some modified form of the town name ; the town of Eden , for example , might boast places with such names as Eden Center , Eden Corners , and Eden Junction , or less imaginatively , North , South , East , or West Eden . The nucleated village associated with the division of the land into compact towns was essential to the social , educational , and religious wellbeingof the stern New Englander , who was more interested in preserving a way of life than in amassing this world 's goods ; many towns , in fact , forbade the sale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The New Englander was just as concerned about the morals of his neighbor as he was about his own , and it obviously was more difficult for either to be corrupted when they were living side by side in constant vigilance . The man who lived on an isolated farm was much more easily tempted to develop disrespect for authority , use strong language and even stronger drink , and even go so far as to accept bad weather and poor roads as an excuse for failing to attend church on the Sabbath . The original New England system began to break down under pressurefrom men with less interest in God and more in Mammon . Powell 's history of local government in one Massachusetts town , Sudbury , describesacrimonious quarrels over the division of land which erupted less than two decades after the town had been founded.18 Eventually the dissidents , mainly a group of landless young sons , obtained their own grant and formed a new town . Toward the end of the seventeenth century large blocks of land on the frontier were being sold to men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land themselves , but planned to subdivide it and sell it at a profit to individual settlers . In time even the states came to look on the sale of their western lands as a source of revenue . Footnotep53PENNSYLVANIA . King Charles II , after his restoration to the English throne in 1660 , paid off some of his political debts by granting huge tracts of land in the New World to " proprietors , " who were authorized to disposeof these vast private estates as they saw fit . Different proprietors , quite naturally , had different notions as to how they should dispose of their land . The proprietors in Pennsylvania , Delaware , and North Carolinasold their land in small blocks , but in Maryland , Virginia and South Carolina the proprietors granted large estates , manors , or plantations . In New Jersey the " true and absolute lords proprietors of all the Province , " Sir George Carteret and Lord John Berkeley ( or their heirs ) , sold their grant intact ; within two decades it had been divided into two parts , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legacy of confused land titles which required almost a century of litigation to unravel . The most successful proprietor was the gentle genius , William Penn , who in 1681 was given absolute title to all land between the fortiethand the forty-third parallels , and five degrees of longitude west of the Delaware River . " Penn advertised widely , and sold land to all comers . He planned to lay out the land in neat squares to encourage community settlement , but this idea failed to appeal to individual buyers , and much of the colony was settled without any regular system of land survey . Penn 's colony became one of the most important culture hearths in the United States . Southeastern Pennsylvania contains the only large area of really good farmland east of the Appalachian Uplands , and it supporteda prosperous agricultural economy , thriving small towns , and the bustling seaport of Philadelphia . Before the Revolutionary War this city was the principal port of immigration to the American colonies . Many stolid , industrious Germans , later to become known as the " Pennsylvania Dutch , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fertile soil or in small factories . The restless , cantankerous Ulster Scots pressed on westward to the frontier , but in passing through the German settlements they learned many skills ( such as farming the land or buildinglog cabins ) , and acquired tools and implements ( such as the " Kentucky " long rifle or the Conestoga wagon ) which they used in taming the western wilderness . One of William Penn 's own most enduring monuments is the widely copied plan for his city of Philadelphia , which had a grid pattern of streets named in an orderly fashion.20 The east-west streets running back from the Delaware River , which were named after trees and flowers , make right angle intersections with the north-south streets parallelling it , which were numbered consecutively away from the river . The two princi-Footnotep54pal streets , Broad and High ( now Market ) , meet at a central square formed of rectangular corners cut out of the four adjoining blocks . The City Hall occupies this square in Philadelphia , but it was graced by the county courthouse in many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 21 This plan , including the central square and the system of street names , was emulated in many cities of the interior . THE SOUTHERN COLONIES . The systems of land division and settlementin Pennsylvania and the colonies to the south were far more discriminatingthan the practices of New England , but the sobriquet of " indiscriminatelocation " was hung upon them ( perhaps by green-eyed New Englanders ? ) , and it has stuck . In New England land was granted in solid blocks close to areas that had already been settled , which ensured that settlement advanced inland in compact tiers , but forced settlers to accept the poorest land along with the best . Settlers in the southern colonieslabored under no such constraints ; each man was permitted to select the unclaimed land which pleased him best , and the poorer land was bypassed . The result , of course , was an extremely irregular and unsystematic pattern of land division , and one which could produce conflicting claims and protracted litigation over titles unless the land was surveyed with a degree of skill which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southern colonies the prospective settler obtained from the authorities a warrant which stipulated the number of acres of land he was entitled to claim and settle , but did not specify their location . He then proceeded to select a likely looking tract of unappropriated land , preferably close to water and far enough from other settlers to provide a reasonable degree of assurance against claims of encroachment . After he had laid out his land , he had it surveyed , and presented a copy of the survey , together with his warrant , to the proper county official or land office . After a specified period of time , if no valid protest were raised , he was issued a patent to the land , which was the equivalent of a deed in fee simple . This patent , of course , could be no better than the survey on which it was based , and colonial surveyors ( pace George Washington ) were notorious for their inexperience , bungling , and incompetence ( Mason and Dixon finally had to be brought from England to survey the boundary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poorly marked boundaries combined with loose administration of grants and titles to provide a fruitful source ofFootnotep55litigation over land ; the entire state of New Jersey could have been bought for less money than was spent in lawsuits over the ownership of its land . Many of the lines and boundary markers used in a " metes and bounds " type survey were ridge lines , streams , or such temporary features as trees or large rocks . Some boundaries were never carefully surveyed ; even today , many county lines on detailed topographic maps of parts of Kentucky carry the notation " Indefinite Boundary , " and it is estimated that no taxes whatsoever are paid on a considerable acreage of land in that state , because the owner tells the officials of each county that his land is located in the other . With an empty wilderness stretching apparently without end into the interior , the colonies and later the states were only too happy to pick up a bit of change by selling warrants for land , or to use warrants instead of cash to pay off their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same piece of land to several different purchasers , and some officials were little better ; land grants totalling 29,097,866 acres were made in 24 Georgia counties whose total area was only 8,717,960 acres.22 Furthermore , a man with no legal title to land could squat on it and claim preemption rights on the basis of occupancy and development ; in 1779 the Kentucky land court allowed anyone who had settled on the land to claim 400 acres , with an additional 1,000 acres if he had improved it . The AmericansTHE OLD NORTHWEST . Problems of conflicting land claims were so serious in the seaboard colonies , and were becoming so threatening west of the Appalachians , that the founding fathers determined they must be solved before settlement could be allowed on the western waters . Their largest block of unclaimed land was the Northwest Territory , the area north of the Ohio River , east of the Mississippi , and south of the Great Lakes , which the Virginia militia had captured from the British during the Revolutionary War . This Old Northwest became the nucleus of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Virginia ceded it to Congress in 1784 ; other states relinquished some rather extravagant claims to this territory , and to western lands farther south , which were also made part of the original public domain.23A Congressional committee was appointed , under the chairmanship of Thomas Jefferson , to prepare an overall plan for the systematic survey and subdivision of the public domain , which would precede its alienation . The committee 's proposal , as modified and adopted by Congress in theFootnotep56Ordinance of 1785 , is variously known as the Congressional , General Land Office , National Land , Public Land , and Township and Range Survey System ( Fig. 4-1 ) . The fundamental features of the system , whose details are belabored in many introductory geography textbooks , are : ( 1 ) land had to be surveyed before it could be alienated and settled ; ( 2 ) the survey lines should be oriented in cardinal directions ; ( 3 ) the land should be divided into townships six miles square , which were subdivided into sections one mile square ( or 640 acres ) .2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments were made with several different kinds of rectangular land survey systems . The township and range form which was used in northwestern Ohio , the last part of the state to be surveyed , became the basic system which was subsequently extended to most parts of the United States west of the Appalachians . In many places the straight lines of the survey are followed by the boundaries of states , counties , and minor civil divisions within counties . The survey is also responsible for the fact that many American farmers reckon their land in terms of sections ( 640 acres ) , quarter sections ( 160 acres ) , and quarter quarters , or " forties " ( 40 acres ) . PROS AND CONS . Thrower has examined the effects of different kinds of surveys on transportation lines and on administrative , property , and field units.25 Although his sample areas were in Ohio , and he focused on the years 1875 and 1955 , his conclusions appear to have wider applicabilityin the United States , and perhaps in other parts of the world as well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landforms , local relief , lithology , soils , climate , leading crops , and population density . Area S , in the northwestern part of the state , was surveyed systematically under the township and range land survey system , whereas area U , in the Virginia Military Survey area , was laid out unsystematicallywithout any overall plan . Nearly all of the roads in area S cut straight across country along section lines in a neat , rectangular grid , but the spiderweb road network of area U had virtually no relationship to survey lines . Area S had a denser road net than area U ( plus a much greater number of larger and more expensive highway bridges ) , which is another way of saying that larger parts of area U were farther from roads , and farm driveways were longer . Fields and woodlots in area U had much greater variety in size and shape than the rectangular fields and woodlots of area S.Many original survey lines were used as administrative ( county , Footnotep57township , or school district ) boundaries and property lines in area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The property units in area U which were in two or more political jurisdictions were a real headache for taxation purposes ( both paying and collecting ) . Furthermore , the propertyboundary lines in area U have been much more fluid than those in area S , and the Virginia Military District as a whole , although it covers only one-sixth of Ohio , has had more litigation over property boundaries than all the rest of the state combined . Thrower has highlighted the strong points and the weaknesses of the township and range survey system . Criticism of this system has been terribly fashionable in recent years . It probably has necessitated a greater expenditure for such rural services as highways , telephone and power lines , mail delivery , and school bus routes . In rough , dissected country it has posed problems in the layout of transport lines , and it has encouragedfield layout against the grain of the country , to the dismay of conservationists . Rural sociologists have argued that it has virtually ensured that the farm family would live in an isolated farmstead , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give them a bit of privacy from their neighbors , or would result in the " incomplete socializationof individuals " by denying them ready contact with members of other farm families.26 Although the township and range survey system , like any other system of land survey , has its defects , T. Lynn Smith probably was guilty of hyperbole when he thundered , " From the standpointof the social and economic welfare of the population on the land it is one of the most vicious modes ever devised for dividing lands . " 27In fact , the township and range survey system is the best and simplest system of land division ever invented by the mind of mortal man ( Fig. 4 ? 1 ) . It provides an excellent frame of reference for orientation , and it conveys a sense of neatness , order , and stability . It has obviatedan enormous amount of litigation by facilitating brief but precise description of the exact location of any tract of land . It permitted alienationof land to individual owners in compact units of similar size , in keeping with the egalitarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rectangular survey system forces farmsteads to be isolated one from another . A square farm has four corners , and at each corner it is contiguous with at least two , and perhaps three , other farms . If farmers were genuinely concerned about their " incomplete socialization , " they could have located their farmsteads at the corners of their properties , and farmsteads would be scattered across the countryside in clusters of three or four . The comparative rarity of such clusters indicates that other considerations are more important to farmers than the theories of rural sociologists . Footnotep58STRANGE SQUARES ON THE CHECKERBOARD . The theory of enforcedisolation of farmsteads is closely related to the " checkerboard theory " of those who have assumed , apparently after only cursory examination of the idealized textbook diagram , that the township and range survey system results in " a checkerboard arrangement of fields and farms ; properties of 160 acres , a quarter section , are divided into square 40-acre fields . " 29 The actual situation is vastly more complex , as almost any aerial photograph of almost any area almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 640 acres ) and its square quarterings ( 160 , 40 , and 10 acres ) are , to be sure , the basic blocks of land which comprise the fields and farms of township and range areas , but these basic blocks are combined into mosaics of remarkable variety . In 12 square miles in north central Indiana , for example , where I should have found 192 square 40-acre fields if the checkerboard theory were valid , I actually found only nine , and Thrower discovered an almost identical situation in the township and range survey area which he studied in Ohio.31 Furthermore , Thrower found that only 9 percent of the properties in 1875 and 3 percent in 1955 consisted of 160 acres ; the most common size , 80 acres , accounted for only about a quarter of all properties , and simple divisions of a section ( 160 , 120 , 80 , 60 , 40 , and 20 acres ) for little more than half.32 Similarly , Kiefer found that a farm of 160 acres was the exception rather than the rule in Rush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are property unitsin the eastern Middle West smaller than many scholars seem to have realized , but their boundaries are remarkably stable . Thrower found a total of 649 miles of property boundaries in Ohio in 1875 and/or in 1955 , of which 463 miles , or 70 percent of the total length , were the same in both years.3 Kiefer 's analysis of Rush County , Indiana , found a similar stability ; many of the property lines in the modern plat book are the boundaries of the original units purchased from the General Land Office when the land was originally alienated in the 1820s and 30s.35Although these are two isolated examples , they are the only instancesI know of where an attempt has been made to examine the tenacity and permanency of property boundaries , and in both cases such boundary lines appear to have remained remarkably stable . We are forced to conclude , therefore , that the size of farms in the eastern MiddleFootnotep59West , at least , and presumably over a much larger area , has remained unchanged for at least a century , perhaps even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the unit of land purchased from the federal government when the land was first settled . In order to understand the present size of farms , therefore , it would seem appropriate to inquire when the land was originally settled , and to examine the changing public land alienation policies of the federal government in relation to the westward spread of settlement across the United States . Before 1862 , when the Homestead Act was passed , the prospective settler had to purchase the land , rather than receiving it free . Presumably the majority of settlers were short of ready cash and bought only the minimal acreage required by law , so policy concerning the minimal size of unit which could be purchased is of special importance . The Alienation of Public LandsAlthough historians have carefully examined the public land policies of the United States , it is rather surprising that the alienation of the public lands has received such slight attention in the literature of Americangeography.36 The records of the General Land Office are remarkably detailed , but the intensive geographical analysis which they deserve has hardly begun.37 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interaction of land alienation policies and initial settlement , and their impact upon the contemporary rural landscape of the United States.38In 1789 the new United States was a pitifully poor nation , and the western lands were one of its principal assets . The early land policies of the young republic were designed to obtain revenue from the sale of these lands , rather than to encourage their settlement , but for decades the halls of Congress rang with debates over the minimal price at which land should be sold , and the minimal acreage which a buyer should be required to purchase . In the East it was argued that revenue could be obtained most efficiently by selling the land in large blocks . The cost of survey would be increased appreciably if the land had to be divided into small parcels , and the sale price would be reduced if parcels were so small that wealthy buyers could not be troubled to bid on them . Furthermore , it would be more difficult for prospective purchasers to select only the better landFootnotep60and leave the poorer if the land were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack would be lessened if settlements were grouped on blocks of land rather than scattered through the wilderness . There was also some concern in the older states about the loss of labor if cheap land in small blocks at low prices stimulated migration to the West . The settlers in the West , however , believed that they were performinga patriotic duty when they tamed the wilderness , and they wanted to have the land free , or at the very least , in tracts so small and at prices so low that every man could afford the " threshold price " ( the minimal acreage of land multiplied by the minimal price ) of a farm . " Hence , " said Hibbard , " the long list of acts condoning the violation of the newly enacted land laws . " 39 The minimal amount of land offered for sale was gradually whittled down from whole townships and whole sections of 640 acres in alternating townships , which had been stipulated in the Land Ordinance of 1785 , to 320-acre half-sections in 1800 , 160-acre quarter-sections in 1804 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the early years government land sales had to compete with those of the states , which had land of their own to sell , and with holders of military warrants , most of whom were interested only in converting their land warrants into cash as quickly as possible . By 1820 , however , these sources of cheap land had more or less dried up , and it was partly for this reason that the minimal purchase for federal land was reduced from $2.00 an acre , where it had been set in 1796 , to $1.25 an acre , which meant that the " threshold price " for a farm was reduced from $1,280 ( 640 acres at $2 an acre ) in 1796 , to $100 ( 80 acres at $1.25 an acre ) in 1820 , and to $50 ( 40 acres at $1.25 an acre ) in 1832 , where it remained until the Homestead Act was passed in 1862 . GROSS GEOGRAPHICAL PATTERNS OF LAND ALIENATION . Approximatelyhalf of the federal land in the state of Ohio had been alienated before 1820 , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the remainder in Ohio , and at least half of the federal land in Indiana , Illinois , Michigan , and Mississippi , was sold during the land boom of the 1830s , when the minimal unit of purchase was only 40 acres ( Fig. 4-2 ) . In Mississippi much of the land was purchased in large blocks by speculators , but it would appear reasonable to assume that a considerable portion of Indiana , Illinois , and southern Michigan was alienated in small blocks of 40 or 80 acres . " The complexity of the actual pattern of size of purchase unit is indicatedby Kiefer 's study of Rush County , Indiana.41 The county was opened to settlement shortly after the minimal mandatory purchase unit was reduced from 160 acres to 80 acres in 1820 , and most of the land was purchased in 80-acre tracts . The majority of the purchase tracts larger than 80 acres are in the southeastern part of the county , on theFootnotep61SALES ATLAND OFFICESFigurebetter land which was purchased in the early 1820s ( Fig. 1-2 , p. 8 ) . By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 40 acres , in 1832 , the only unclaimed land remaining was a few odd bits and pieces in the northern and western parts of the county , but a surprisinglylarge amount of this land was purchased in 40-acre tracts . Conversely , virtually all of the land which was purchased in tracts of 40 acres was land which had not been sold when the law was changed in 1832 . The Homestead Act of 1862 , which gave 160 acres free to any man who would live on the land for five years , was almost completely irrelevantin an arc of states running from Michigan through Wisconsin , Iowa , Missouri , and Mississippi into Albama , because most of the remaining , federal land in these states had been purchased in the land boons of ' the 1850s ( Fig. 4-3 ) . Apart from Florida , most of the federal land east of the Mississippi liver had already been alienated by the time the IIoniestead Act was passed , and even in the first tier of statesp62Footnotewest of the river only Minnesota , Arkansas , and Louisiana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farms provided under the Homestead Act must be sought in the Great Plains and Rocky Mountain states , because most of the Corn Belt and adjacent areas had already been settled before the act was passed . THE SPREAD OF POPULATION . The patterns shown on the maps ofland alienation are repeated , in essence , on maps showing the spread of settlement , as indicated by the density of population at successive decennialcensuses . It has been customary to define the frontier as the outer limit of the area with a population density of at least two persons per square mile.43 If it is reasonable to assume , however , that a pioneer family consisted of a man , his wife , and at least two children , then aFootnotep63density of two persons per square mile would represent only one family ( and presumably only one home and only one farm ) on each two square miles of land , which would provide them with a fair amount of elbow room , but would be pretty sparse settlement . Perhaps a density of two persons per square mile might properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argue that an area had not actually been occupied until it had six persons ( or a family and a half ) per square mile , and that it had not really been settled until it had 18 persons ( or four and a half families ) per square mile . The use of these definitions , admittedly , would suggest that fairly large areas in the West have never truly been occupied and settled , a suggestion which is not completely unreasonable , however much it might affront local pride . In the great majority of essentially rural minor civil divisions in the eastern half of the nation these definitions accord fairly well with the normal model of population growth : a rapid initial spurt , from 2 to 6 to 18 or more persons per square mile in the first few decades , and then stability or a very gentle decline . The occupied area of the United States in 1790 extended along the Eastern Seaboard from central New England to North Carolina , with a major lobe extending southwestward along the Piedmont into Georgia ( Fig. 4-4 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interior margin , which ran along the foothills of the Folded Appalachians and the Blue Ridge Mountains ; the South Carolina coast near Charleston was another isolated outpost . Expansion from this original nucleus was spasmodic , and " negative areas " in northern New England , the Adirondacks , Appalachia , and the southern Coastal Plain continued to repel occupation as late as 1870 . In the northeast expansion into the uplands was slow but steady , and a bit more rapid along the Champlain and Mohawk lowlands . In the west the principal thrust was along the Ohio Valley toward early settlements in the Bluegrass country and the Nashville Basin , and up the major tributaries to the north , with outposts along the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers . By 1820 most of Ohio had been occupied , and the next two decades witnessed fairly rapid expansion overland from the major rivers of the Middle West . Two large poorly drained areas , the Black Swamp of northwestern Ohio and the Grand Prairie of northeastern Illinois , were bypassed briefly , but by 1860 the outer limit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War , described a ragged arc runningfrom southern Michigan and Wisconsin through southeastern Minnesotaand central Iowa into the eastern margins of Nebraska and Kansas . Occupation of the land farther south had extended westward to the Mississippi River fairly rapidly in the 1820s and 30s , but large parts of Arkansas , Louisiana , and eastern Texas were not occupied until just before the outbreak of the Civil War , and the Ozarks remained a negative area as late as 1870 . The patterns on the map of the extension of settled areas are similar to , but even more complex than , those on the neap of occupied areasp64Figure ( Fig. 4-5 ) . The negative areas are larger , and remained unsettled longer . Settled areas have developed fairly rapidly in outlying " pockets , " or growth nodes , on the better lands , but these have become connected with the main areas of settlement along strips which have grown only slowly . The first strip of continuously settled area connecting the main settled areas on the East Coast with those in the Middle West followed the Erie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Appalachians was not developed until 1850 . Settled areas in the South expanded fitfully along the Piedmont , ; mil the link tip N itlt Carl V enaetltl settlements around Charleston and S , t ? louilth c ; uot ? I ; tirl Ltit . Ilv 15 ' , O a continuous belt of settled areas extended along the ( : r at ' albs ? , and//Figurethe settled areas of the South had been connected with those in the Middle West around the southwestern end of Appalachia , but the settled areas of the lower Mississippi valley remained isolated . The census of 1870 was taken eight years after the passage of the Homestead Act , and only five years after the end of the Civil War had permitted settlers to begin to take advantage of it on a grand scale . By 1870 the eastern half of Iowa , northern Missouri , and the southern parts of Wisconsin and Michigan had already been settled . Most of Minnesota , tice Dakotas , Nebraska , and Kansas lay open to the settler , as did less attractive areas in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , swamps ,  |p66and  sandy lands of the south , and in areas farther east which had long since been bypassed , but most of the Middle West had already been occupied and settled before the Homestead Act had had time to become really effective.  |p67farm  size and farm tenureAny rural landscape is the product of a host of independent decisionsmade by the multitudes of individuals ( including groups behaving as though they were individuals ) who control and have controlled the individual pieces of land . If we wish to understand the look of the land , we must identify the individuals who have made the decisions , and we must try to learn why they made them as they did . In order to do so , we need four basic kinds of information : ( 1 ) how the land is divided into individual units ( which , in most rural areas , means farms ) ; ( 2 ) how large these units are , and how they have been subdivided ; ( 3 ) who owns and who operates them ; and ( 4 ) what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning them . We looked at systems of land division in Chapters 3 and 4 . In this chapter we will consider the size and subdivision of farms , and systems of land tenure ; the next will look at farm enlargement and farm management systems , and Chapter 7 will deal with the factors influencing the decisions which have such a profound effect upon the look of the land . The Size of FarmsOfficial statistics on the average size of farm in the United States are virtually meaningless . Every statistician knows that averages are distortedby values for extreme cases , and the census definition of a farm includes plenty of extreme cases at both ends of the spectrum . Most of our largest " farms , " for example , are livestock ranches on some of the poorest land in the nation ; if it had been any poorer this land probably would have been made into reservations and given hack to the Indians . Ranchers on such land customarily measure their holdings in sections ( scot:ur wiles ) rather than acres . These holdings are so large , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average size mean almost nothing , yet such fluctuations can significantly influence the national average . ' The statistical aberrations caused by the very large farms , which are mainly in the West on the drier lands , are much easier to cope with than those posed by " mini-farms " in all parts of the nation . At least a million of these mini-farms can be considered farms only by courtesy of the completely unrealistic definition of a farm which is used by the Bureauof the Census . The specific details of the official definition have varied a bit from census to census , but in essence any piece of land has been classified as a farm for census purposes if agricultural operations were ( or could have been ) conducted upon it , and if it met remarkably low minimal criteria of size ( three to ten acres ) and value of agricultural products ( $50 to $250 ) produced on or sold from it . These low minima have produced greatly inflated estimates of the number of farms in the United States , with a corresponding reduction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , the minimal size required before a place could be included in the census as a farm was increased from three to ten acres . This change in definition excluded 232,059 farms , which contained 5,776,945 acres of land ; if they had been included they would have accounted for 6 percent of the nation 's farms ( or more than one farm of every 20 ) , but only .05 percent of its farmland ( or about one of every 200 acres ) . Between 1954 and 1959 the average size of farm in the United States officially increased from 242 acres to 303 acres , but more than a quarter of this increase ( 17 of 61 acres ) was entirely a result of the change in definition , which excluded almost 250,000 places that should never have been classified as farms to begin with . Despite the change in definition , the smallest size categories still contain a very large proportion of the nation 's farms and a very small part of its farmland , whereas just the reverse is true of the largest categories . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a quarter of the nation 's farms but less than 2 percent of the farmland . Farms of 500 or more acres , conversely , accounted for only 10 percent of the farms , but almost two-thirds of the farmland . The same general pattern emerges when farms are classified in terms of income . In 1964 more than 1.3 millionfarms sold less than $2,500 worth of farm products . These farms producedless than 4 percent of the national total on 17 percent of the farmland , but they accounted for more than 40 percent of all farms . At the other extreme , less than a quarter of all farms sold more than $10,000 worth of farm products , but these farms contained almost two-thirds ofFootnotep69all farmland and produced more than four-fifths of all farm products sold . A rule of thumb within the U.S. Department of Agriculture during the 1960s held that a farmer needed an annual net income of $2,500 to maintaina minimum decent level of living , and that he probably would have to sell at least $10,000 worth of farm products to achieve such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 870,000 " real " farms in 1964 , rather than the 3,158,000 reported in the census . How can one explain the use of such an unrealistic definition of a farm for census purposes ? Cynical souls have suggested that perhaps the Department of Agriculture has hoped to justify its continued existence by attempting to conceal the magnitude of the decline in number of farms over the last few decades ; certainly the number of employees of the Department of Agriculture has not declined proportionately with the decline in the number of farms ( Fig. 5-1 ) . A more charitable **33;3097;TOOLONG suggest that human beings live on each of these farms , no matter how uneconomic they may be , that most of these people derive some part of their living from the land , and that they have some impact on the way the land is used and how it looks . One might also argue that it is better to collect too much information , rather than too little ; the student can always ignore data which are not relevant to his purpose , but he can never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An Index of Farm SizeHow can the vast storehouse of census data be tapped to provide better insights into geographical and historical variations in the size of farms ? Some very significant indices of farm size probably could be devisedby using data on the value of farm products sold , but I have not used these data for two reasons : first , comparable data are available only for the period since World War II , and second , it is extremely difficult to correlate these data geographically with the areal extent of farm units and the look of the land . A further reason is the fact that their utility and applicability have not , to the best of my knowledge , been explored by geographers , although I suspect that their careful exploration would reveala fruitful field for geographic research . In the humid East ( where data on farm acreage are not confounded by extremely large holdings of range land which , at best , has only limited agricultural value ) a useful index of farm size is the percentage of farmlandwhich is in farms larger than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cumulative ( " more than " or " less than " ) basis , because individual size categories may retain a fairly stable percentage of farmland even though farms are growing in size.3 In the United States as a whole , for example , the proportion of land in farms of 180 to 499 acres remained fairly close to a quarter of all farmland between 1900 and 1964 , because smaller farms were being enlarged . and moving into this category as larger ones were acquiring more acreage and moving out of it . The use of such an index may be illustrated by data from eight states in the Middle West , where the size of farms did not change very much before World War II ( Fig. 5-2 ) . The total acreage of farmland remained slightly more than 200 million acres from 1900 to 1945 , but has been decliningsteadily ever since . Before 1945 the proportion of farmland in the larger size categories was increasing , but not very rapidly , and the proportionin the smaller size categories was dropping . Since 1945 these trends have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly ; in 1940 more than half the farmland in the Middle West was in farms smaller than 180 acres , but by 1964 more than half was in farms larger than 260 acres . The curves for the various size categories converge on 1984 ; by that year , if present trends continue , the total farmland areaFootnotep71Figureof the Middle West will have dropped to 170 million acres , and no farm will be smaller than 220 acres . The geographical pattern of farm size has remained relatively stable ; in fact , a remarkably accurate " prediction " of the size of farms in each Indiana county could have been based upon knowledge of farm size in 1945 ( Fig. 5 ? 3 ) . The percentage of each county 's land which was in farms of 180 acres or more in 1945 had a coefficient of correlation of +0.92 with the percentage which was in farms of 260 acres or more in 1964 . The Operating UnitThe man who owns a farm is not necessarily the man who operates it . The owner is the person who holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the person who does all the work or who directly supervises it . On any given farm the functions of owner and operator may be coin-p 72Figurebined in the same person , although they need not be . The man who owns the land may operate it himself , as owner-operator ; he may entrust its operation to a manager , overseer , or bailiff ; or he may lease some or all of it to another person as tenant . The man who operates the farm may be full owner of all the land he operates ; he may be part owner who owns part of his land and rents the remainder from someone else ; he may be a tenant who rents all of his land ; or he may be a hired manager . In the 1964 Census of Agriculture approximately 58 percent of all farm operators in the United States were classified as full owners , 25 percent as part owners , 17 percent as tenants , and less than 1 percent as managers . If the functions of ownership and operation are not combined in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be aware of the fundamental distinction between ownership units and operating units . As a general rule , the owner of a farm is responsible for the provision and maintenance of its permanent structures , such as barns and fences , and thus he has an important impact on the look of the land even though he is not actually involved in working on it . If he leases a farm he may stipulatethe kinds of livestock which may be kept on it , the kinds of crops which may be produced , and perhaps even the rotation in which they must be grown . In short , he may well decide how the land will be used , as well as how it will look . The boundaries of ownership units tend to be a bit more permanent than those of operating units , because they are defined by legal titles in the public records , and thus can be changed only at the expense of services from a lawyer , title abstractor , and other functionaries . These lxnlndaries , therefore , are somewhat easier to identify and neap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a chore whose tediousness must be experienced to be truly appreciated . The task is made less onerous in much of the Middle West by the existence of county atlases and plat books , sources of information whose riches have scarcely been tapped by geographers . ' It is completely incorrect , however , to assume that a map of ownershipunits is also a map of operating units , because any landowner may have rented part or all of his land to another farm operator . The boundariesof operating units are even more difficult to identify and map than those of ownership units , because a tenancy arrangement may be defined by a contract , a lease , or only an informal oral agreement and a handshake ; it expires automatically after a stipulated period of time , and then is subject to renegotiation and change . Quite commonly the boundaries of operating units can be determined only by interviewing each and every person who owns and/or leases in an area . ' Despite the difficulty of identifying and mapping them , operating units are critically important to anyone who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes many , if not most , of the decisions which determine how the land will be used and how it will look . The operator decides what crops will be grown ( arid in what rotation ) , what livestock will be kept , and what type of farming will be practiced ; this fact is recognized by most censuses of agriculture , which collectand publish data on operating units rather than ownership units . Although a landlord might wish to exercise some control over the decisionsof his tenants , he is seldom in a position to do so very effectively , because the tenant who is offered a lease he considers too restrictive is perfectly free to shop around for one he likes better . Conversely , a tenant often takes the initiative in urging his landlord to invest in new permanent structures for the farm , and thus he plays an additional role in influencing the look of the land . FIELD PA ? I TERNS . One of the most striking manifestations of farm operating units upon the landscape , whether as seen from the air or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields . Although field patterns in most areas are remarkably complex , each and every field has its present size and shape because at one time that particular size and shape made some sense to somebody . As a general rule , livestock farmers prefer fields which are small and squarish , because these permit better control of grazing and breeding , whereas crop farmers are more inclined toward long and rather narrow fields , which are better suited to the use of machinery . As an even more general rule , large farms tend to beFootnotep74divided into large fields , and small farms into small ones , because there is an upper limit ( often related to the crop rotation practiced ) to the number of fields which one operator can manage efficiently . Very few farms , no matter how large they are , have more than eight or ten fields , and few have less than three . In the absence of any real information on the subject , one might hazard a guess that the great majority of farms in the United States are probably subdivided into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern is closely related to the system under which the land was surveyed . Within a given system of land survey , variationsin the form of the land surface are probably the primary determinant of variations in field patterns . A rather striking example of the influence of land forms is provided by fields in which the crops are planted in rows or strips along the contour , at right angles to the natural slope of the land . Field patterns may also be influenced by the farming system . In dry farming areas of the West , for example , alternating strips of land are cultivated and left fallow , which gives the countryside a distinctive striped appearance . In Indiana an area of corn-hog farming had small square fields , an area of diversified small farms had small rectangular fields , and an area of highly mechanized cash-grain farming had fields which were appreciably larger and more elongated than fields in the other two areas.6 In the cash-grain farming area fences were being removed and fields enlargedso that the rows in each field could be as long as possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time turning his machinery at the end of the field . This modification of fields to fit machines is unusual , because the layoutof fields , as a general rule , is even more conservative , and changes even more slowly , than agricultural practices . The field pattern of an area often reflects past agricultural practices better than it reflects those of today . As a specific example , most of the " envelope " fields of the Middle West received their distinctive pattern when they were laid out for horse plowing , to avoid having to lift the plow out of the ground more often than necessary , but the same patterns are still being followed by tractor plows. ? Plowing starts at the outside of the field , and works concentrically inward , but the imperfectly plowed diagonal strips where the plow was turned at the corners must be replowed after the rest of the work has been completed . In Europe , where geographers have studied them much more intensively , field patterns appear to be even more persistent than they are in the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating units , but Houston seems to have assumed that field boundaries in most parts of Europe are more permanent than farm boundaries , because most of his chapter on " The Rural Landscape " is anFootnotep75extended discussion of field patterns.8 The idea that field patterns have remained stable for a century or more , but operating units have changed repeatedly as individual fields have been added or lost , is supported by work in the Chilterns , and by Williams ' study of a large parish in southwesternEngland . " Field patterns have been stabilized in many parts of Europe because the individual fields are enclosed by such **28;3132;TOOLONG as hedgerows , earthen banks , or stone walls . The size and shape of fields and farms varies enormously in Europe , even within short distances . Houston said that variations in field patterns were the product of two processes , a slow and gradual " evolution " through time , and a sudden and dramatic " creation , " such as the systematic changes associated with the enclosure movement.10 Coppock suggested that fields laid out after enclosure have straighter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also noted a tendency toward elongated farms running across the grain of the country in areas such as the scarplands where different kinds of terrain and soil are in close proximity.11 The success of a farm often depends on such a layout , which includes several different kinds of land within its limits ; Stamp concluded his detailed , and abundantly illustrated , description of farm and field patternsin Britain with the suggestion that an optimum farm operating unit under British conditions in 1948 would consist of 12 ten-acre fields.12CIRCULATION FACILITIES . Every farm operating unit needs circulationfacilities to keep the farmer and his family in contact with the rest of the world . Telephone and electricity ( for the radio and television set ) lines permit the exchange of ideas . Paths , trails , lanes , roads , and highways provide for the movement of people and the transportation of goods . The examination of roads can contribute to an understanding of the countrysidein two ways . The impact of their physical character ( construction , windings , gradients , even the color of their surface materials ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance , but the modern highway may be quite demanding of land ; the old 16.5 foot rightof-wayof horse and buggy days required only two acres of land per mile of road , but the 300-foot minimum right-of-way stipulated by the interstatehighway system in the United States occupies 36.4 acres of land for each mile of highway.13The function of rural roads , as indicated by their arrangement , Footnotep76density , and use , is probably more important than their appearance . Duringthe 1920s in Illinois , for example , " road turnings " were a clue to the boundaries of the trade areas of small central places.r " The rural road system of the United States had been fairly well set by 1920 , and few roads have been added or removed since then . ' Most of the rural roads follow section lines in those parts of the Middle West which were laid out according to the township and range system of land survey , and this has produced a density of roughly two miles of rural road per square mile of land surface . To an ever increasing degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonfarm people who have chosen to live in the country and commute to jobs 10 , 20 , or even 75 miles away . The Family Farm and Farm TenancyAlthough the proportion of " farms " in the United States which are owner-operated has remained fairly stable between 50 and 60 percent since 1900 , the percentage of farmland controlled by owner-operators has been declining fairly steadily since the First World War , and an increasing percentage is in the hands of part owners . Approximately half of the nation 's farmland was operated by its owners in 1920 , but by 1964 this figure had dropped to just over a quarter , whereas the proportion of farmland operated by part owners had increased from one-seventh to almost one-half . The proportion of farmland operated by tenants has dropped from around a quarter to just over 10 percent since the Second World War , but when tenants arc combined with part owners it is evident that almost two-thirds of the farmland in the United States in 1964 was controlled by men who were tenants on at least part of the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbing , or even shocking , to many Americans . It is the very antithesis of the Family Farm , an ideal which has taken its place close to God , Motherhood , and the Star-Spangled Banner in the national pantheon . The ideology of the family farm is an amalgam of many of the traditional frontier values : the self-made man is better than the well-born one , so every man should have enough land to enable him to prove himself ; he should own his land in fee simple , and unencumbered by debts ; his farm should be large enough to provide him with a decent livelihood , so that he can accept responsibility for the economic security of himself and his family ; he and his family should provide a substantial share of the labor on it , but they should receive a fair return for their efforts ( the prices farmers get should bear a reasonablerelationship to the prices farmer have to pay ) ; their income should be related to their diligence , because hard work is a virtue ; and the worth of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes . Generations of Fourth of July orators have rumbled on about the virtues of individual farm ownership as one of the cornerstones of a freeFootnotep77and democratic society , and an enormous amount of sentimental drivel has been written about family farms , much of it quite obviously by those who have n't the faintest idea as to what a family farm really is , or how rapidly they have been changing . A family farm is simply an operating unit which provides an adequate level of living in return for the labor of a father and son , with a hired hand at certain stages of the demographiccycle ( when the son is too young to be of much help , for example , or when the father is too old ) . Neither size nor ownership are stipulated in this definition of a family farm , nor should they be . The amount of land that will provide a reasonable farm income under intensive cultivation in an irrigated area in the West would hardly be enough to keep a single cow alive on **25;3162;TOOLONG range land . Livestock ranches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land than farms which specialize in labor-intensive vegetables , fruit , tobacco , poultry , and dairy products , which demand individual attention and considerable hand labor . Recent changes in agricultural technology not only enable the individual worker to care for a greater amount of land , but also require him to do so if he is to receive an adequate return for his efforts . No matter what the farming system , the amount of land which was large enough for a family farm a generation ago has become , or is becoming , too small , and the size of the operating unit must be enlarged . The ideal way to enlarge a farm operation is to buy more land , but many a farmer is in no position to do so . Like most of the rest of us , a farmer seldom has as much money as he would like to have , or even as much as he needs , and the only way he can get more land is to rent it . But he may have to rent land even if he does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his neighbors is willing to sell . Some of them may think of their land as an investment which is too valuable to part with , or they may simply enjoy the prestige of landownership . Others may have a sentimental attachment to the old home place , which has been in the family such a long time ) The farmer himself can understand these attitudes , but cold-blooded city economists are often baffled , irritated , and impatient when they discover that many rural landowners have a strong , deep-down-in-the-bones , feeling that it is somehow wrong , even " sinful , " to part with a piece of land for mere money ; perhaps economists are the ones who are irrational . The farmer who rents the land he needs to expand his operation , in order to keep his family farm from degenerating into an undersized unit , often discovers that tenancy is not really so bad , after all . He can put his capital to work earning money for him , rather than having it tied up in the land , and this can be pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited resources . " The size to which he can enlarge hisFootnotep78operation is limited only by the amount of land he can find to rent , and his ability to farm it , rather than by the amount of capital he has or can borrow . And his neighbors , instead of scorning him because he is a tenant , may envy him the size of his operation , which enables him to specialize and thus to achieve the economies of large-scale mechanized production . Tenancy rates tend to be highest in areas of cash crop production , where a quick return can be gotten from the land , but both land and equipment are costly . A high rate of tenancy , for example , has been traditionalin cash-grain ( corn and soybean ) farming areas in central Illinois , in wheat farming areas on the Great Plains , and in cotton and tobacco farming areas in the South . New forms of tenancy may be evolving on large field-crop farms in some irrigated areas of the West . In specialized vegetable-producing districts such as the Imperial Valley of southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular crop rotation , with a certain portion of his land in vegetables each year , but he does not wish to have the bother of growing vegetables himself . He rents his " vegetable land " ( a different field each year ) to a " vegetable man , " who provides the necessarymachinery , hires the labor , markets the crop , and takes all the other risks of vegetable production . This system assures the farmer of a regular income and provides the vegetable man , in return for the risks he takes , with land and the chance to make a killing or to lose his shirt in the volatile vegetable market . Some farmers in the Coachella Valley even rent their alfalfa land to dairy " farmers , " who own no land whatsoever , but simply move their herds from one rented pasture to another.1STenancy , admittedly , does not work equally well in all areas and in all types of farming . A stigma is still attached to the idea in some parts of the United States , just as in other parts a farmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tenant and thus increase the size of his operation . As a general rule , tenancy is least successfulon farms with major long-term capital investments in such things as orchards , vineyards , pasture improvements , or herds of livestock . The owner does not want to run the risk of having his investment destroyed by a careless tenant , whereas a tenant would be understandably reluctant to invest in long-term improvements , which will not yield a return very quickly , unless he is secure in his tenure , or unless he has legal assurance that he will be compensated for the unused improvements if the landlord breaks his lease . The worst types of farm tenancy reduce the tenant to the status of a mere laborer . With the exception of slavery and sharecropping on cotton and tobacco farms in the South , and the use of migrant farm workers on intensive fruit , truck , and sugar beet farms , most parts of the United States have been fortunate enough ( thanks in large measure to the family farm ideal ) to have escaped the corrosive effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faceless laboring class of peons , Footnotep79serfs , and slaves.19 In many parts of Europe and Latin America these have sparked demands for agrarian reform , or even revolution . The Cotton Plantation in the American SouthT . Lynn Smith has painted a vivid picture of the debasing effects of large-scale estate , or plantation , agriculture.20 Society becomes stratified , with an elite who believe that manual labor and hard work are degrading , and a rural proletariat whose repetitive chores stunt the development of their intellects and personalities . Stratification restricts social mobility , and tends to breed distinction , conflict , and struggle between the classes , but all classes are conservative in their resistance to innovation , progress , and change . The workers have no reason to believe that they can raise their low level of living by hard work or thrift , and the elite are reluctant to save for investment in improvements which are likely to be misused or neglected unless they are very carefully supervised . These problems are magnified when the barriers of class are reinforced by differences in race , language , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has described so vividly are exemplified in the cotton plantations of the southeastern United States.21 These large landholdings , which have proven remarkably persistentunder changing social and economic conditions , also show how a sytem of land tenure can influence the look of the land . The term " plantation , " as it was first used in the Chesapeake Bay tobacco country , applied simply to a clearing , or " planting , " within a tract of wooded country , and not to the landholding itself.22 In fact , the British Colonial Office was originally known as the Plantation Office , and the term " plantation " was not used to describe a tropical estate until the eighteenth century , but it quickly came to be synonymous with a method of production from the land and a way of life . Plantation agriculture may be defined as the use of cheap ( often slave ) unskilled labor and primitive hand methods on large landholdings to produce a tropical cash crop for export to the middle latitudes . In the New World it apparently was tried first in the sugar-producing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it soon spread to the sugar islands of the West Indies , and thence to the tobacco districts of Virginia and Maryland . Indentured servants , rather than slaves , wereFootnotep80used in the early years on the tobacco plantations , but as soon as they had worked out their period of indenture they obtained land of their own and began to compete with their former masters . The planters soon shifted to the use of Negro slaves imported from Africa , and slavery became an integral part of the plantation system which spread to the rice and indigo districts of South Carolina and the sugar cane areas of Louisiana . The plantation system flourished with cotton , which became the staple crop of the South at the end of the eighteenth century . Although large plantations were never the mainstay of agriculture in the region , their customs and ideology set the patterns for smaller units , because the wealth and influence of the large plantation landowners enabled them to assume political and economic leadership in a society which remained essentially rural . Even today the ownership of land confers more social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nation ; the word " plantation , " like " ranch , " is value-loaded , and carries great prestige within the region , if not nationally . The strength of this prestige is illustratedby the fact that Prunty has coined the term " neoplantation " to describe a large , mechanized farm with a hired labor force in those parts of the South which have a plantation tradition , and he has classified the quail-shooting preserves and winter resorts of wealthy northern industrialistsas " woodland plantations " if they are managed for production of forest products.22The focus of the antebellum plantation was the " big house " of the planter and his family , which was seldom quite as fancy as Hollywood would have us believe . Not far away were " the quarters , " rows of cabins for the slaves , plus implement and tool sheds , the mule barn , the blacksmith shop , and perhaps a cotton gin . Most plantations were on level to undulating land . They were laid out in large fields , which were worked by gangs of Negro slaves and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseer . Cotton was grown on most of the cropland , and many plantations produced little or none of their own food or feed . Before the Civil War , in fact , the city of Cincinnati was nicknamed " Porkopolis , " because its prosperity depended on processing the hogs produced on the farms of the emerging Corn Belt to the north , and shipping the pork to southern plantations . The emancipation of slaves worked great changes in the plantation system.24 After the Civil War the planter still owned the land , but he had no one to work it , and the freed slaves had no land . From this dilemma emerged the infamous system known as sharecropping ; the planter providedthe land , the ex-slave provided the labor , they split the cost of seed and fertilizer , and they shared the crop which resulted . The ex-slave wanted a piece of land of his own , so the planter divided the large fieldsFootnotep81of the old plantation into smaller sharecropper units of 20 to 40 acres , which was about as much land as one family could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privacy of his own house on his own land , so the planter razed the old slave quarters and built new sharecropper cabins , which were scattered through the cotton fields . The ex-slave wanted to be able to use his mules for travel as well as for work , so the planter let him have them . Although the planter had to make many concessions , the one thing he did not relinquish was control of the work that was done on his land . This control was just as tight as he could make it and still keep his croppersfrom " skipping out " on him before they had harvested the crop . Many plantations had a bell which was rung when it was time to get up in the morning , when it was time to begin work , and when it was permissibleto stop . The planter decided when it was time to plant cotton in the spring , when it was time to get out the hand hoes and start choppingout the grass and weeds which were growing up between the young plants , when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when and where it would be sold . The planter or his agent were constantly making their rounds to inspect the work and supervise details , and the sharecropperwas essentially a laborer who made no management decisions . Sharecropping involved a great deal of indebtedness . In the spring the cropper expected the planter to advance him enough money to pay for his share of the cost of seed and fertilizer , and when the crop was in the ground he expected the planter to lend him " furnish " to buy food and other necessities . " Furnish " was always a headache , and some plantations had commissary stores at which croppers were expected to obtain their needs . At settlement time in the fall the planter subtracted all these advancesfrom the cropper 's share before paying him off , but often the planter himself was short of cash , and he had to borrow money to cover his costs during the growing season . In a bad year the planter lost not only his share of the crop , but also the money he had advanced to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his croppers , and he was reluctant to replace them by machines until he was forced to do so . Many planters , in fact , did not mechanize their operations until World War II , when the massive migration of former sharecroppers to city jobs created serious labor shortages . Mechanization has made major changes in the plantation landscape . The old sharecropper " cabin in the cotton patch , " often an unpainted , unscreened , frame shack with primitive water supply and sanitation facilities , is rapidly disappearing ( Fig. 5 ? 5 ) . Some have been razed , and many of those which remain are used only for storage . New and better houses have been built along the highway for the tractor drivers and other wage earners who form the much reduced labor force , although sometimes there are mutterings about " quarters " and slavery times if the houses are placed too close together . Small fields have been combined into larger ones so that the new machine 's can be used at maximum efficiency , and shiny new tractor stationsand implement sheds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have restricted cotton acreages and encouraged many planters to experiment with new crops , such as soybeans , or to convert some of their land into improved pastures for livestock . The modern planter is very fortunate , in fact , because he already owns a large acreage of land at a time when farmers all over the nation are trying to , and need to , enlarge their holdings to a size comparable to his . Apart from its history , and the fact that the labor force may be predominantlyNegro , the modern plantation is not very different from any other large farm in the United States which depends upon a hired labor **26;3217;TOOLONG 84Chapter 6farm enlargement and farm managementIn the United States the family farm of yesterday is too small for today , and today 's family farm will probably be too small tomorrow . Since the Second World War successful farmers in all parts of the nation have been aware of the necessity of enlarging the size of the farm business . Planters in the South were fortunate , because they have been able to assemble adequately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own , but elsewhere the farmer who has wished to enlarge his operation has had to buy or rent the additional land he needed . Most of the pressure for farm enlargement has resulted from the replacement of the horse by the internal combustion engine , a process which did not really begin to get under way until the late 1930s.r In 1926 , for example , Searle could write that " it is not likely that the horse will ever be entirely displaced ; at least one team will be necessary on most farms . " 2 Even as late as 1948 De Graff and Haystead seem to have believed that there was still serious debate about the relative merits of the horse and the tractor , because they devoted no less than 11 pages to a discussion of the subject.3 Today , however , in addition to a tractor , and perhaps a self-propelled combine harvester and/or corn picker as well , an efficient farmer must have a second tractor for hauling grain during harvest , extra power during critical work periods , and miscel-Footnote laneous jobs around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabling him to work more land in less time . In the old days one man with horse-drawn equipment could not handle more than about 80 acres of Corn Belt land by himself , and he needed help from his son or a hired man if he wished to farm a larger acreage ; the maximum size of a father-and-son , family farm operation was fairly close to the 160 acres allotted under the Homestead Act.5 In contrast , Van Arsdall and Elder estimated that one man with 1969 machineryshould be able to handle 580 acres of land in the cash-grain country of central Illinois if he used four-row equipment , and 850 acres if he had eight-row equipment ; they concluded that the most profitable farm in this area would be a two-man family farm , with a total capital investment of $900,000 , using eight-row equipment on 1,640 acres of land.5 In the corn-/hog farming country of western Illinois they believed that the optimal farm would be a two-man operation of only 720 acres with a total capital investment of only $330,000 . Part Ownership as a Strategy for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few decades ? The answer seems to be that the smaller farmers are dropping out of the race , and the larger farmers are taking over their land , either by purchasing it or , in many cases , by renting it . Thirty-one of a sample of 227 southeasternPennsylvania farms went out of business between 1960 and 1965 ; 19 of these 31 had been incorporated in other farms , 11 by lease and eight by sale . ' A study in Indiana concluded that most farmers increased their acreage by renting additional land.8 The part owner , who owns part of his land and rents the rest , now stands on the top rung of the tenure ladder ; in many cases full ownership represents a retreat to a smaller volume of business and a smaller income with the encroachment of age . The man who already owns his land , and has surplus labor , machinery , and buildings , can afford to rent a smaller parcel of land , and can pay a higher rent , than a tenant who must depend on the rented land for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lease prefers a tenant who already owns some land , in the assumption that he will beFootnotep86more responsible , and that he will not require a house to live in nor any farm buildings other than a few simple shelters ; a farmstead , whether or not it is occupied , has such an attraction for the tax assessor that the owner prefers to raze any buildings which are not necessary . Part ownership may also be a useful strategy for keeping the better land in production in areas of very mixed soils and surface features . A rectangular landholding in such an area may contain some very good land , as well as some land which is not worth farming . The owner may use his good land as a base of operations , and " put together " a farm of adequate size by renting land from other landowners in a similar situation , or he may take an off-farm job and rent his better land to another farmer . This strategy has been especially appealing in parts of Appalachia , where land of good quality is commonly found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctance to sell the old family place is so strong that it is quite difficult to purchase enough land for a farm large enough for modern mechanized operations . An American farmer who wishes to expand the size of his operationoften has to travel a considerable distance to find a suitable tract of land which he can rent or buy . Farm expansion , even at a modest level , commonly requires the operation of noncontiguous tracts of land , and in many cases the process of farm enlargement actually appears to be a process of farm fragmentation . Two of every five farms in nine sample Minnesota townships consisted of two or more noncontiguous parcels of land , often separated by several miles.9 More than half of the farms of one township in Lincoln County consisted of noncontiguous units ( Fig. 6-1 ) . A quarter of the land was comprised of noncontiguous tracts , which ranged in size from 40 to 320 acres , and were separated from the farmstead by road distances of one to 22 miles . Farm operating units consisting of noncontiguous tracts are no new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early farmers on the open prairie of Story County , Iowa , owned or rented stream-side woodlots , sometimes as much as 12 miles from the farmstead.10 A quarter of the farmland in a Nebraska community in the 1930s consisted of noncontiguoustracts , and dispersed tracts of land under a single ownership were common in the Oxnard area of California . " Farms consisting of noncontiguous tracts have been common both on claypan areas in the southern part of Illinois and in the cash-grain farming areas of the Grand Prairie in the east center . ' ' ' Footnotep87FigureThe ability of an individual to farm physically separated tracts of land is closely related to the nature of the local rural road system , which farmers must use in moving their equipment from one tract to another . In Minnesota many local roads , which at first glance might be considered nonessential because no dwellings front on them and they carry little traffic , are actually vital because they provide the shortest routes betwc'enfarmsteads and noncontiguous tracts of land ) The **28;3245;TOOLONG of the Middle West , which crisscross the countryside at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noncontiguous tracts because they have enabled farmers to travel and operate farmland in almost any direction from their farmsteads with equal ease . " Off-Farm Residence of FarmersThe increasing number of farms which consist of separated tracts of land raises the question of whether the isolated farmstead itself may be an anachronism , because it is commonly believed that fragmentation of properties tends to encourage farmers to live in central nucleated settlements.Y5During the early 1960s , however , a series of investigations of small central places scattered through the Middle West found scant evidence in support of this belief , and a study of 340 hamlets in Nebraska discovered that only one of every eight household breadwinners was a farmer.16Perhaps the most definitive answer to the question of whether dispersedfarm tracts favor central residence is provided by the work of Kollmorgen and Jenks on suitcase and sidewalk farming on the Great Plains.1 A sidewalk farmer , according to their definition , lives in town , and a suitcase farmer lives 30 miles or more from the border of the county in which his farmland is located . Sidewalk farmers seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and little justification for such a decision can be found in a densely settled rural area which has more or less adequate farm housing , roads , schools , utility services , and opportunities for social contacts and nonfarm employment . In an eastern North Dakota county , for example , only 14 percent of the farmersin 1953 were sidewalk farmers . By way of contrast , in north central Montana 30 percent of the farmers in Toole County in 1955 were sidewalk farmers . The early settlementof Toole County was followed by a series of dry years , and much of the land was abandoned or became tax delinquent . Subsequently the risk of farming has been reduced considerably by new technology and new farming methods , which have been introduced , for the most part , since 1940 , and the farmers who remained in the county have expanded their operations by buying tax delinquent land or by renting land from absentee owners who fled in the early years . Much of this land lacksFootnotep89adequate houses and roads , and a large part of the county does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farming several tracts dispersed over a considerable distance would not reduce his travel very much if he lived on any one of them , and by living in town he and his family have access to the amenities of schools , stores , health care , a supply of drinking water , and the possibility of nonfarm employment . An even more extreme example of the possible impact of farmland dispersal on the place of residence of the farmer is provided by Sully County , in central South Dakota , where less than 10 percent of the farmers in 1952 were sidewalk farmers , but about 15 percent were suitcasefarmers , most of whom lived several hundred miles to the south in the Winter Wheat Belt . The county has a history of severe and prolongeddroughts , which has instilled an attitude of caution in the local farmers , and the traditional crop and livestock farming system in the county is diversified as a hedge against drought hazards and price fluctuations . The suitcase farmers grow only a single crop , wheat , but they have introduced a new kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several different areas . They know that drought rarely hits all wheat-producing districts in the same year , and if they have planted wheat in several different districts they are likely to get a crop in at least one.rs Furthermore , many of these men are combine operators who have been accustomed to following the wheat harvest northward , and they have realized that their expensive plowing and planting equipment could be kept busy for a longer time each year if it also followed the northward advance of wheat farming operations . Sully County , on the main north-south highway long used by combine operators , was a logical place to acquire land when they began to diversifygeographically , although they visit the county only briefly each year when farm operations are necessary . The Management of Larger FarmsSuitcase farming , as it is practiced in Sully County , provides an illustration of the way in which new concepts of farm management are being developed to replace traditional methods . Changes in management systems and management thinking are inevitable as farms grow larger , although the precise form that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitability of changes , and attendant uncertainty as to what those changes will be , is one of the reasons why it is so exciting to be a student of the American agricultural scene in the last quarter of the twentieth century . Although I do not anticipate the development of " factories in the fields , " whatever that phrase may mean , I do believe that the next few decades might well witness changes in farming whoseFootnotep90scale could rival those which took place in manufacturing in the latter part of the eighteenth century . A generation ago farming was an art and a way of life ; today , in response to technological innovations and the rapid increase in scale of operations , the successful farm has to be a modern business operation which uses the latest and most up-to-date techniques , both in productionand in management . As farms become larger , they will have to become more specialized , and the farmer , like any other businessman , will have to concentrate on doing what he can do best , most efficiently , and most competitively . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it needed and need most of what it produced , will have to specialize on the product to which it is best adapted , and buy everything else . The replacement of horses by tractors has relieved the farmer of the necessity of growing feed and pasture , but it has also forced him to increase his volume of sales so that he can pay for gas , oil , and the tractor itself . Better roads and easier access to stores have reduced the need for the farm family to produce its own food , and on many farms the garden and orchard have long since disappeared ; most farmers today buy their food in the same supermarkets where you and I buy ours . Trucks and better roads have also facilitated the transportation of feed from one farm to another , and thus have permitted the separation of feed production and livestock feeding ; one farmer can specialize in producingfeed , and another in feeding it to livestock . CORPORATE FARMING . Despite some of the dire predictions which have been made , I do not believe that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farming , and I suspect that the threat of the corporate farm has been grossly exaggerated . The corporate farm alarmists appear to have confused " big-ness , " which does seem inevitablein agriculture , with " corporate-ness , " which almost certainly is not , because corporate organization is not a prerequisite to capitalizing on any of the efficiencies of size in coordinating and integrating production , processing , and distribution . In fact , the bills forbidding farms to grow larger or to incorporate which have been introduced in some state legislatures are faintly reminiscent of Canute 's command to stop the tide from rising , or the bill to change the value of pi to 3.00 , because the good legislator could never remember 3.1416 . A recent survey by the Department of Agriculture revealed that only about 11,000 farms in the United States are owned by corporations , and four-fifths of these corporations are individual or family affairs . As farms grow larger and the amount of capital required for modern farmingcontinues to increase , one would expect that more and more farmers would adopt the corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to facilitate the accumulation of capital , to limit liability in case of failure , to gain tax advantages , and to ease the transfer of farm assets from one generation to the next . PROFESSIONAL , FARM MANAGERS . Although we have little evidenceof any such trend as yet , I think it is safe to assume that the acreage ofp91land and the number of farms which are operated by professional farm managers will increase . A small fraction of our farmland is already in the hands of banks , insurance companies , elderly persons , or city heirs who require the services of a professional farm manager because they have neither the inclination nor the competence to manage it themselves . The professional manager , or farm management service , has the job of finding tenants , planning a cropping and stocking program , preparing periodic reports and accounting statements , arranging the marketing of products , and doing everything else that an ordinary owner would do for himself . I suspect that professional management can be successful only if the owner is interested solely in the income he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with or interest in his land than a shareholder might have with a factory in which he holds stock . VERTICAL INTEGRATION . I might use vertical integration in poultry farming as an example of a new farm management system which seems to be working fairly well at present , but one which appears doomed to failure in the long run , because most farmers do not like it . A poultry farmer can fatten day-old baby chicks to broiler size in about nine and a half weeks , but he is only one link in a chain connecting the hatchery which produces the chicks , the milling company which buys the grain and prepares the feed , the processing plant where broilers are dressed for market , and the chain of retail outlets where they are sold to consumers . Formerly many poultry farmers bought their own chicks and feed , often with borrowed money , but the profit margin on broilers is so low , and the market fluctuates so rapidly , that some of them went broke , and most have become unwilling to risk their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often a feed dealer or processing company ) stepped into the picture by forging a complete chain of chick hatcheries , grain elevators , feed mills , processing plants , and retail outlets . He can afford to provide the poultry farmer with the necessary risk capital , but in return he retains the right to make all management decisions . The poultry farmer has a contract which guarantees him a fixed price for the birds he feeds , and he likes this sure labor income , but he intensely resents the fact that an outsider can issue him orders on his own farm , and many poultry farmers have told me that they would like to get out of the broiler business as soon as they can afford to do so . THE CITRUS BUSINESS . A more successful new management system has evolved in the citrus business , in large part because ownership of a citrus grove is a form of investment . Most grove owners are local professionalpeople who have made enough money to invest in a grove , or well-to-do residents of distant cities who are attracted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunny Florida , and neither group has the time or inclination to do their own work . Furthermore , most groves are too small to justify the expense of necessary equipment , and their managetncntis erntrustcd to professional caretakers , or to the production departments of citrus packing companies , which have been drawn intop92the business largely by default after they concluded that they could obtain fruit of the quantity and quality they needed only if they producedit themselves . A typical production department of a citrus-packing company would have charge of several hundred groves covering thousands of acres . Its headquarters has enormous shelters for trucks , tractors , and other mobile equipment , and smaller sheds for storing insecticides , fertilizer , and gasoline and oil . A radio tower looms high above it , because all mobile equipment has two-way radios with a range of 50 miles or more , and all operations are directed by radio . The production departmentis prepared to fertilize , cultivate , spray , prune , plant , and perform all other necessary grove operations . The grove owner is billed for each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he receives for his fruit after it has been picked , and his only real contact with his grove is the annual check . " I 've worked for some of my grove owners for over 20 years now , " said one production manager , " but I have never once knowingly set eyes on them . Of course any car with a New York license which is parked beside the grove could have the owner inside , but I have no way of telling . " The Dry LotDRY-LOT FEEDING . One of the most interesting recent developments in agricultural management has been the rapid growth of specializedlivestock feeding operations in the West , and the expansion of this system into the East . The use of grain , mainly corn , to fatten livestockhas been important in the Corn Belt ever since Federal regulations reduced the profit to he made from distilling corn into spirits and encouragedfarmers to market their grain on the hoof . " The fattening or finishing of livestock , known as feeding , became increasingly important as settlement spread westward into the drier grasslands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of meat demanded by the American consumer . For half a century or more , lean animals from the range country , known as " feeder cattle , " have been shipped to farms in the western Corn Belt , where they have been fattened for slaughter . The Corn Belt farmer buys his cattle in October or November , after the harvest is in , feeds them out to slaughter weight during the winter , and sends them off to the stockyards in spring or early summer before his crop work begins again.20 Ideally the cattle are placed on feed at a weight of around 650 pounds , are fed - 120 toFootnote 150 days , and are sold at a weight of around 1,050 pounds , for an average daily gain of 2 to 2.5 pounds , or slightly more.2 ' Cattle feeding has spread to new areas since World War II , and it has become an increasingly mechanized , specialized , assembly line method of production which is concentrated in a smaller number of larger operations . Feeding 100 steers was just about a full-time job for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor-saving machinery and pushbutton control , one man should be able to handle 500 to 1,000 or more.22 The growth of population , a rising demand for meat , and the availability of feed from irrigated farming areas have produced a rapid growth of cattle feeding in the West , but land in irrigated areas is too precious to be used for pasture , and many of the cattle are fattened on dry lots . A dry lot is a piece of bare ground , without grass but provided with water and troughs where cattle can be fed . The individual pens , or " corrals , " are enclosed by stout fences . The feed troughs run along one side of the corrals , and outside the fence so that they may be filled mechanically from a self-unloading truck driving slowly down the lane between them . A single corral holds 40 to 80 animals and covers half an acre , but for maximum profit a feedlot should have a capacity of at least 1,500 head ; in 1964 the West had more than 1,000 feedlots which equalled or exceeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 34,000 head.23Corn , grain sorghum , and barley are the principal grains fed , and alfalfa hay , corn silage , and hay provide most of the necessary roughage , but the cost of feed is such a major factor in the success of the feedlot that the operator will feed almost anything he can purchase cheaply and the cattle are able to get down . Cottonseed hulls and cake are staple feeds in southern irrigated areas , as are sugar beet tops and pulp in northern areas , but the list of feeds also includes spent mash from distilleries , citrus pulp from juice concentrating plants , grape pumice from wineries , almond hulls , peanut meal , olive meal , pear pulp , offal from vegetable and fruit canning plants , and surpus raisins , prunes , potatoes , carrots , and cantaloupes.24Some of the most spectacular developments in dry-lot feeding have occurred in California , which in 1960 had eight of the 16 leading counties in the United States in total number of cattle and calves on farms , and six of the ten leading counties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cattle-feeding area was the Imperial Valley , in the southern part , where the number of cattle tripled between 1950 and 1960 . Most of the beef animals in the Imperial Valley are fattened on some 20 feedlots , each of which can handle more than 3,500 head at a time . A few large yards have an annual turnover of about 2.4 times their capacity.26In another important feeding area , the High Plains of western Texas , cattle feeding began to blossom only in the 1960s , in response to a reduction in the cost of shipping cold meat to market , plus an increase in the cost of shipping feed grains and cattle.2 Greater efficiency in shipping cold meats enabled the meat packing industry to decentralize , and new packing plants were built near the source of cattle ; during the 1960s the High Plains added eight new plants , with a total capacity of 2.2 million head , to the 1960 inventory of 12 plants with a total capacity of only 0.4 million . The number of cattle on feed in the area shot from 100,000 in 1960 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which formerly had been shipped to feedlots in other areas . Abundant feed was available for them in the form of milo maize , a grain sorghum which local farmers had begun to grow on a large scale in the late 1950s as the government reduced cotton acreage allotments . Two studies in California indicate that the availability of feed does not necessarily provide an adequate base for a profitable cattle-feeding operation . In the Sacramento Valley , where rice acreages had been restrictedby government controls , potential management income on a thousand-acre farm could have been increased from $10,000 to $40,000 or more a year in the early 1960s by adding a cattle-feeding program . " In the Imperial Valley , however , a well-managed cash crop farm of 480 acres should already have had management income of around $30,000 in 1960 , and the addition of a feeder cattle operation would have required an initial capital investment of at least $100,000 , the development of new management skills and business contacts , and a willingness to accept considerably greater financial risks . ' 29DRY-LOT DAIRY FARMING . The dry-lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeding beef cattle . The Los Angeles area , for example , has become an intensive dry-lot dairy farm-Footnotep95ing area , with large herds on remarkably restricted acreages . An area of 60 square miles near Chino , California , had approximately 400 dairy farms with 160,000 cows in 1971 ; in contrast , a normal farm in the better dairying areas of Wisconsin would have only 75 to 100 cows . The most densely populated areas in California had more than 50 cows to the acre . Some dry-lot dairy farms have small grass plots to provide drainage areas for the large amounts of water they use , but many have no land other than the bare corrals . The principal building on a dry-lot dairy farm is a " walk through " milking barn , with pipelines which carry the milk to cooling tanks in the adjoining milk house.30 The dry-lot dairy farmer , of necessity , emphasizes quality cattle of high productivity and is quick to cull low producers . His location near the port of Los Angeles enables him to use concentrated feeds imported from both domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pineappleresidues from Hawaii . In an attempt to escape the problem of inflated land values and escalating taxes on a rapidly growing fringe , between 1955 and 1957 three separate areas southeast of Los Angeles were incorporated solely for the purpose of preserving them as dairy farming areas.31 In 1960 Dairy Valley had 53,000 cows on 241 farms , Cypress had 14,000 cows on 50 farms , and Dairyland had 8,300 cows on 32 farms . These places still have two major problems : conflicts with nearby residents over odors , flies , and animal and dairy noises ; and the building up of adjacent open areas which the dairymen had previously been using for waste disposal , thus creating a potentially expensive waste disposal problem.32 The accumulation of manure is an especially severe problem , " because so much is concentrated in so small an area at such a rapid , unending rate . " 33 A dry-lot operation of 1,000 head of cattle has a sewage disposal problem equivalent to that of a city of 15,000 people.34DRY-LOT FARMING IN THE EAST . Just as the intensive dry-lot system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither need it be restricted to the West , and it has actually begun to develop in the East . It may be expected to grow more rapidly as farms become larger and more specialized and the individual farm operator begins to concentrate on a single type of operation . Some farmers in the Corn Belt have already dispensed with livestock , and specialize in producing feed grains , which they sell for cash . Others have begun to concentrate onFootnotep96the feeding of livestock , whether cattle or hogs , and buy all of their feed . Perhaps the dry-lot system has developed most rapidly in the East along the fringes of Megalopolis , where dairy farmers feed their cattle citrus pulp from Florida , sugar beet pulp from Nebraska , and corn from Iowa , because it is cheaper for them to buy feed than to try to grow it . Throughout most of the East , however , one may confidently expect that the production of feed crops and the feeding of livestock , which traditionallyhave been integrated on each individual farm , will be conducted as separate operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in EuropeFarms are being enlarged today in Europe , just as they are in the United States , but in Europe much of the process consists initially of consolidation , or rationalization of holdings , because many farms in Europe not only are woefully small by American standards , but also are fragmented into pathetically tiny parcels ( Fig. 6-2 ) .35 In 1918 , for example , the clachan of Rathlacklan in County Mayo , Ireland , had 56 familiesPart of Recologne ( Doubs , France ) Before and After **29;3275;TOOLONG whose land was split into 1,500 fragments , some no more than a dozen square yards ; one two-acre holding consisted of 18 separate plots . Theredistribution and consolidation of holdings was not completed until 1942 , and then " only at the cost of the physical collapse of one landofficerand the mental breakdown of another . " 36Even today in parts of western Europe the pattern of landholding is best described by the graphic Italian term polverizzazione . " In the 1950s the average German farm comprised 20 plots totalling only 14 hectares ( 34.6 acres ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Savoy , of barely 10 hectares ( 24.7 acres ) consisted of 275 parcels ; a village of 828 hectares ( 1,945.2 acres ) in Loir-et-Cher had 5,075 plots , while extremecases exist in which a holding consists of a few square meters , a grape vine , or a single olive tree . Parcels may lie 4 or 5 kilometers from the farm , and often a fifth of the working time is spent travelling between plots . " 37 In part of Spain the average area belonging to each farmer was only 0.39 acres , and the average area per parcel was only 0.175 acres , but half the parcels contained less than 0.12 acres ( a standard doubles tennis court covers 0.064 acres ) ; grain was sown " on fragments of land small enough to be transported from one site to another by cart . " 38 Farms which consist of small scattered parcels waste considerablepotential farmland in such unproductive uses as access ways and boundaries ; in the 1930s Long estimated that ten parishes in southwestern England had 1,641 miles of hedgerow , " about half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 39Excessive fragmentation of farmlands exists where the individual holdings are too small , or where the many tiny parcels comprising a single holding are too widely scattered ; the two , unfortunately , often occur together . Many factors help to account for this fragmentation . The " fossilization " of the strip patterns of the old open-field system is an importantone in many areas . In some places the land has been excessively subdivided under inheritance laws which require that an estate must be shared equally among all heirs.4 ? In others the prestige value of land ownership is so great that farmers eagerly snap up any stray plot of land that comes onto the market , without regard to its distance from the farmstead or to the way in which it might fit into the farm operation . In alpine districts , and in specialized truck farming areas , where aspect or frost danger may be critical , the nature of the land or the type of farming may necessitate dispersal of farm plots as insurance against natural disaster . **25;3306;TOOLONG and rationalization of land holdings is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The various schemes which have already been attempted range from the very simplest exchange of parcels between individual owners to ambitious programs for regional rationalization of holdings , but an enormous amount of work obviously remains to be done despite the progress which has already been made . And even after rationalization has been completed , many of the new holdings appear pitifully small when they are compared with contemporary American standards for similar types of farming . In Denmark , for example , where farm consolidation was completed in the middle of the nineteenth century , less than 10 percent of the land is in farms of 160 acres or larger , and in England it is estimated that few farms will ever exceed 500 acres.4 ' A primary explanation for this contrast in farm size is the basic difference in the approach to farmland in Europe , where land is dear and labor is cheap , and the United States , where land is cheap but labor is dear . This is another way of saying that the European farmer is prodigalof labor in attempting to wring out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to produce , whereas the American farmer uses his land prodigally ( at least by European standards ) , but is vitally concernedto maximize his production per man-hour . Footnotep99Chapter 7factors that influence farmers ' decisionsIn order to understand any agricultural region , one must begin with a realization of the vital importance of the farmer as a decision-maker . Each individual farmer controls some segment of the earth 's surface , and he alone makes the final decision as to how the land will be used , and how the operating unit will be organized for production of food and fiber . Any farm operation is a complex business , far more complex than the average city-dweller realizes , and in theory a farmer must integrate an enormous range of physical , economic , political , cultural , and perhaps other variables when he makes his decisions . In practice , much of this integration has already been performed many times over , and is available to the farmer in the tradition and experience of the community in which he farms , but the student of the rural landscape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farmer may be able to take for granted . Factors , Features , and Geographic AnalysisThe variables which influence the farmer 's decision might be thought of as the factors which create agricultural regions , and the existenceof an agricultural region produces characteristic features upon the rural landscape . The distinction is seldom this neat and precise , however , because a landscape feature , such as a cotton gin or a sugar beet factory , which might appear to be the product of an agricultural system , may also be a powerful conservative force in maintaining its existence ; to use a bit of jargon , the factors are the inputs of the system , and the features are the onptpnts , but feedback can convert outputs into inputs . Fnrtlornunr , the present state of knowledge is so limited that it is unwise to claim that the factors " create " the system , or that it " produces " features ; it is much safer to think of both factors and features as the geographical covariants , or associates , of the agricultural region . Although each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , their geographical variations are not interrelated , and some vary much more rapidly than others . Variations in price support programs or length of growing season , for example , have little relationship to variations in soil drainage , or to each other ; price support programs change abruptly at political boundaries , and the length of the growing season tends to vary only gradually over fairly large areas , whereas soil drainage conditions may vary considerably within a short distance on a single farm . For the most part , however , the factors which influence a farmer 's decisions are essentially similar over fairly extensive areas , and the overwhelming majority of farmers make their decisions rationally in response to these factors . ( Although economic determinists may prefer to ignore or overlook the fact , a decision based on tradition or on folk culture may be just as rational , as far as the decision-maker is concerned , as one based on the operation of the marketplace ! ) Within a fairly extensive area of more-or-less similar conditions the majority of farmers , being rational men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural region . In a free society , an agricultural region might be defined as " an area in which large numbers of individual farm operators have made similar decisions in response to similar natural and human conditions , with similar effects . " ' At one time , perhaps , a kind of " shotgun " approach to the geography of agricultural regions was justifiable , although such an approach fails to recognize the importance of the farmer as a decision-maker , and it tends to be disappointingly platitudinous and replete with obvious generalizations . It is not good enough , for example , merely to set down a long list of factors which purportedly " govern " crop production , apparently in the assumption that if enough items are listed , at least some of them are bound to be right . ' Mere listing , unfortunately , is no substitute for analysis or understanding ; it is a bit fatuous to list wind direction and precipitation as factors which are related to crop yields without examiningthe precise nature of the relationship . Broad , bald generalizations are no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be acceptable . Within the last decade or so scholars in the field have made increasing use of more rapid and precise quantitative tools ? primarily mathematical and statistical techniques using electronic computers ? for testing the strength of relationships , and these have permitted the examination and testing of a far greater range and variety of relationships than had hitherto been practical . At the same time , these tools necessitate a more rigorous scrutiny of the **30;3333;TOOLONG deserve to be tested . A relationship for which no theoretical , no cause-and-effect , or no process justification can be postulated is one which presumably does not warrant testing , because there is no valid explanation for such a relationship in the embarrassing event that one should be detected.3It is possible , for example , to demonstrate that spatial variations in the density of rural farm population on the Great Plains are directly correlatedwith spatial variations in average annual precipitation , but what is the theoretical explanation for this relationship ? Does anyone really believe that an increase in precipitation will grow more people , or that it will increase the fecundity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps precipitation and farm population density are actually the ends of a complex chain of relationships which might run something as follows : more rain brings better crop yields ; better crop yields provide the same income on less land , which means smaller farm units ; smaller farm units mean more people per square mile , assuming that the same number of people live on each farm unit , no matter what its size . Each of the links in this chain appears to be a reasonable hypothesis which is theoretically justifiable , but the strength of each link should be carefully tested before making the quantum jump between the two ends . If the distant ends of the chain are indeed related , as they have been shown to be , then how much stronger should be the relationships between the individual links ! And how much stronger geographers would be if , instead of examining relationships which have no theoretical basis , they would explore those relationships where some theoretical process of cause and effect may reasonably be postulated . The first step in an approach toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analyze the individual components of farming systems . This would logically be followed by an examination of the manner in which each individual factor influences the farmer 's decisions concerning that component , with a meaningful statementof the process or cause-and-effect relationship . The first step is feasible , and is attempted here , but unfortunately , given the present state of the art , the second is considerably more difficult , because some of the factors which influence the farmer 's decisions have received more careful geographic attention than others . Much of what can be said must be more on the order of a blueprint for future research than a report on existing knowledge and understanding . Footnotep102Plants and the HabitatThe production of plants is an essential component of every agriculturalsystem ; plants can be produced without livestock , but every livestock operation depends upon plant production in one way or another , because plants are necessary for the transformation of mineral matter into nourishment for animals . Plant production , furthermore , is related to a wider range of factors than livestock production , because plants , unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not run , and they can not hide . Animals can survive almost anywhere if suitable food and shelter are available , but plants are subject to every whim of nature . They must be able to withstand the bite of the wind , the scorching heat of the noonday sun , and the numbing cold of the long night watches . Their roots may be starved by a niggardly soil , alternately parched and waterlogged , or even laid bare completely by the ravages of erosion . Cultivated plants , in short , are intimately related to the conditions of their habitat : precipitation , temperature , altitude , aspect , land form , and the nature of the soil . The relationships of plants with climatic and surface features have been so fully explored by agronomists and geographersthat they need only be summarized here , despite their importance . Any given area , and any farm within it , has available a climatically adapted ensemble of plants from which the farmer may select those which he wishes to grow ; this ensemble , quite obviously , is far richer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no matter how rich or how poor it may be , the man who controls a given piece of ground is limited by climate in the kinds of plants he can grow on it , and this limitation will play a major role in determining the nature of his farm operation . Climatic effects are regional , but those of landforms are local ; within the constraints imposed by climate , the form of the land may impose further limitations , or it may offer certain possibilities . Altitude affects the climate ; a rise in elevation tends to increase precipitation , but the temperature is depressed at an average rate of about 3.5 ? F per thousand feet . This effect is less important in areas of continental climate , where the annual march of temperature is rather abrupt , than in maritime areas , where the annual march is more gentle ( Fig. 7-1 ) . In the British Isles , for example , the upper limit of cultivation generally lies only 700 to 800 feet above sea level.6The effects of slope are variable . In higher latitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpendicularly than adjacent level areas , and enable farmers to grow more delicate plants , such as the vine . Slopes are also a favored location for frost-sensitive orchards , because they facilitate the drainage of cold air . In areas of heavy precipitation , **25;3365;TOOLONG , slopes are more susceptible to erosion , and they may require a protective vegetative cover of grass or even trees . In most hilly areas , where slopes are steep , the preferred cropland lies along the level valley bottoms , but bottomland may be liable to flooding , and like level areas elsewhere , it may require drainage . Despite the need for drainage , however , level lands have become increasingly popular as mechanization has increased and machines have grown larger , and in dry areas level lands have obvious advantages for irrigation . The agricultural relationships of the soil are rather more awkward to deal with than those of climate and landforrns , because the soil scientistprefers to tell the farmer what he ought to want to know about his soil , rather than what he actually does want to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with his soil in terms of its fertility , workability , susceptibility to erosion , moisture retentiveness , and drainage requirements , whereas the soil scientist would rather discuss its origin , classification , shades of color , depths of horizons , structure , and other recondite technical details . From the farmer 's point of view , a good soils map would summarize the conditions of climate , parent material , surface features , vegetation , and other physical factors which have a significant relationship to the agricultural decisions he must make , but unfortunately these are reflected only indirectly , if at all , in many soils maps , which are primarily concerned with soil origin . The farmer is keenly aware , however , of the critical importance of maintaining the fertility of his soil , and this awareness influences many of the decisions he makes concerning his farm operation . Soil forms slowly , but under natural conditions the native plant life adjusts itself to the slow rate at which nutrients become available , and most of thep104nutrients removed from the soil are returned to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The farmer upsets this balance when he replaces the native vegetation with crops which require greater quantities of nutrients , and he completely removes some of these nutrients from the farm when he sells them in the form of crops or livestock . Most farming systems return only a fraction of the nutrients removed from the soil , and the farmer must take positive action to replace them . One of the most common modern techniques for replacing the nutrients removed from the soil is to supply them in the form of chemical fertilizers , although this is only one of a number of techniques which may be used to maintain soil fertility . One of the simplest is to let the land lie idle , or fallow , so that nutrients may have time to accumulate in it . Fallowing has been practiced since the very earliest days of farming , and it was the principal means of maintaining soil fertility in the three-field system of medieval Europe . Today fallowing is an essential ingredient of shifting cultivation systems in tropical areas , brush fallowingis still widely practiced in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used in dry farming areas on the Great Plains . ' Another technique for maintaining soil fertility is the use of green manure crops , which are not grown to be harvested , but solely to be plowed back into the soil to enhance its fertility . A green manure crop is especially useful if it is a legume , a plant whose root nodules accumulatethe nitrogen which it is able to extract from the air . Perhaps the most efficient way for a farmer to maintain the fertility of his soil is to ensure the return of the nutrients which his crops have removed from it , insofar as this is practicable . Normally only part of a plant is sold , and the stubble , stalks , stems , leaves , and other residues should be plowed back into the soil . The residues of crops which are consumed on the farm by livestock should also be returned to the soil in the form of barnyard manure , which increases its humus content and adds to its fertility.8 Finally , the necessity of maintaining soil fertility is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of crop rotation . Crop RotationsMany farming regions have evolved a system of crop rotation which is in fairly close equilibrium with natural conditions , and has become more or less integrated with a certain kind of livestock operation . The integration of cropping system and livestock operation provides the foundation for a regionally dominant agricultural system which is modifiedFootnote to fit the specific conditions and requirements of each individual farm . Crop rotations are such an essential element in good farm managementsystems that one is forced to wonder why students of agricultural geography have paid so little attention to the geography of crop rotation systems . Crop rotations provide a far better model than crop combinations for understanding the cropping patterns of most areas . The notion of crop combinations is based upon the percentage of the total harvested cropland in a statistical unit , such as a county , which is in each crop.9 The actual percentages are compared with a set of theoretical distributionsin which equal percentages of the land are assigned to any given number of crops ( 100 percent if only one crop is grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for three , and so on to 10 percent for each crop if ten different crops are grown ) . Differences between the actual and theoretical percentages are calculated for the leading crop , the two leading crops , the three leading crops , and so on . These differences are squared , summated , and divided by the number of crops . The combinationwith the number of crops which yields the lowest value for a county is declared the crop combination for that particular county . The concept of crop combinations is strictly mathematical . The lack of any explicit statement of the theoretical , process , or functional relationship upon which they are based leaves implicit the assumption that a farmer makes decisions concerning the crops he plants on a more or less random basis . The assumption that the crop he chooses to plant in one field , or in one year , is not influenced by functional relationships with those planted in other fields , or other years , might be unobjectionablein an area where a number of unrelated cash crops are produced , but it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern of crop rotation . Although a crop rotation system provides a model which can facilitatean understanding of the cropping system in the area where it is practiced , it is only a model , because any practical cropping system must be flexible . Few , if any , farmers adhere rigidly to one specific system , and even on a single farm the farmer may need to use different systems on differentfields or different parts of the farm . Furthermore , he must be able to make year-to-year shifts in his cropping system in response to his expectationsconcerning costs of production , yields , and prices for alternativecrops.10 In addition , there is always the possibility that government programs might restrict the acreage of a crop which a farmer is permitted to plant in any given year . Footnotep106The farmer 's options in modifying his cropping system are at least partially restricted , however , by his reluctance to disrupt his established crop and livestock patterns too severely . A farm is an integrated operation , and a drastic change in one phase might have serious consequences for another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his longer-range requirements . He might well be foolhardly , for example , to cash in on the accumulated fertility of his soil simply because he expects the price for a given crop to be unusually high in one particular year , and he would be understandably reluctant to grow two crops whose seasonal labor peaks overlapped too closely , or to change to a cropping system which failed to provide enough feed for an establishedlivestock operation . The livestock operation which has been developed on many farms is closely interrelated with the crop rotation . The crops produced on a farm may be divided into food , cash , and feed crops ; some may provide food for the farmer and his family , and some may be sold for cash , but most rotation systems produce some crops which are used most efficiently if they are fed to livestock . The crop rotation does not determine the livestock system ; the same crops can support quite different livestock systems , identical livestock systems can be supported by a variety of crops , and some farmers depend largely or entirely upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many farms , however , depends in large measure on the products made available by the croppingsystem , and the livestock system , in return , helps to maintain the fertility of the land from which the crops are produced . The crop rotation system , in short , provides a fundamental point of departure for understanding an entire farming system . A good rotation is nicely adjusted to the physical conditions of the land . It produces crops which support the livestock operation . The livestock operation helps to maintain the land in good condition for growing crops . A successful farming system , which integrates a good crop rotation with a profitable livestock operation , tends to become dominant , with appropriate modifications , over an extensive area . Substantial variations in farming systems , whether in time or in space , are easier to comprehend if one understands the basic system and the crop rotation upon which it is founded . The Selection of LivestockThe livestock system of a farm or region is related to the kind and amount of feed which is available for animals . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ley ) in Britain , for example , the two cash crops , wheat and barley , also provided straw , which served both as roughage for the cattle and as litter to catch their droppings . At first the principal root crops were fodder roots ( turnips , swedes , or mangolds ) , which provided winter feed for cattle and sheep , but in some areas these were eventually replaced by sugar beets or potatoes , which were sold as cash crops . Sugar beet tops and dried pulp have about half the feeding value of fodder roots , and thus could continue to sup/port a fair number of sheep and cattle , but the farmer who switched to potatoes was forced to reduce the size of his livestock operation considerablyfor lack of feed . Part of the ley was set aside and cut for hay , and the rest was grazed . The Norfolk rotation supported both sheep and cattle . A flock of ewes , which produced both wool and lambs , was pastured on the grass fields in summer , and on the roots in winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy wicker hurdles , which could be moved around the field to ensure that both grazing and droppings were concentrated . The sheep remained on the farm throughout the year , but cattlewere bought lean in the fall to be fattened during the winter and spring in large enclosures , or cattle yards , behind the barn . They were fed roots , straw from the grain which was threshed in the barn , and a rich concentrate compounded of cottonseed and linseed . Although fat cattle were sold , a primary purpose of the cattle-feeding operation was to produce manure , which was spread on the old grassland before it was plowed up for wheat . The Norfolk system enriched the soil with sheep droppings and cattle manure , and it enriched the farmer by producing wheat , barley , lambs , wool , and cattle which he could sell . Although the Norfolk system still provides a useful model for understandingBritish farming , the system itself has been modified extensively in the years since World War I. One of its weakest links was the fodder root crop , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ livestock feed . The death knell of the sheep flock was sounded early on by the enormous amount of labor required for folding sheep on roots . Beef could be imported more cheaply than it could be produced at home , which encouraged many farmers to switch to dairy farming , with greater emphasis on grass . Fodder roots have been replacedon many farms by cash crops of sugar beets and potatoes . The development and increased use of chemical weedkillers and fertilizers have reduced the need for row crops and barnyard manure , and grain crops can be produced on a much larger scale with new and improved machinery . Much of the grain is fed to dairy cattle and hogs . THE MIDDLE WEST . The traditional three-year crop rotation in the American Middle West has been corn in the first year , a small grain ( wheat or oats ) in the second , and a hay crop in the third . Most of the corn crop is harvested for grain , and most of the grain is fed to livestock . Approximately five of every ten ears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fed to cattle , one is fed to other kinds of livestock , and the tenth provides the raw material for industries manufacturing some 600 differentproducts , from breakfast cereals to whiskey . Most of the wheat is sold as a cash crop , but the oats are more likely to be fed to livestock on the farm . Oats are not as important as they were in the horse and buggy days , when they were fed to horses , but they still are an excellent feed for young animals and breeding stock . How does a Midwestern fanner choose between hogs and cattle , or between beef cattle and dairy cattle ? Cattle are more prestigious ,  |p108demand  less work , and many hog farmers dream of the day when they can " trade up " from hogs to cattle . Hogs are better than cattle at convertingcorn and other concentrated feeds into meat , but cattle are more efficient converters of roughages such as silage , hay , and pasture . Farmers with plenty of hay and pasture land lean toward cattle , but the farmer who produces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hogs and corn compete for the same labor , and the size of the hog operation tends to decrease as the amount of corn produced on the farm increases . A hog farmer breeds his own animals , because hogs eat like hogs , gain better than a pound a day , and reach a market weight of 200 pounds in six months . A hog farmer must tend to his hogs at the same time that he is busy with his crops , but a beef farmer can afford to pay a rancher to put the bone and hide on lean feeder calves and yearlings ; he buys them in the fall after he has harvested the crops on which he will fatten them in his feedlot . As a general rule , the farmer with a small corn acreage can afford the time to fatten hogs , the intermediate farmer fattens cattle , and the farmer with a large corn acreage does not have time to raise livestock . Within the Corn Belt , therefore , the small farms of Ohio and Indiana tend to concentrate on hogs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fattening beef cattle which have been shipped in from ranch areas to the west , and the large farms of central Illinois sell their corn and soybeans as cash grain rather than feeding them to livestock . Farmers in the Dairy Belt to the north produce less concentrated feed and a greater abundance of roughages , such as corn silage , hay , and pasture , which are better suited to the production of milk rather than meat ; who ever heard of silage-fed beef ? Other FactorsThe physical environmental factors which influence a farmer 's decisionsare most directly related to his selection of plants and crop rotations , whereas his decisions concerning his livestock operation , as well as many of his decisions concerning crops , are influenced by a far wider range of factors . Among the most important of these is the balance betweencosts of production and prices of farm products , which largely determines the income of the farmer . The price mechanism , in theory , represents an integration of all factors which influence the farmer 's decisions , and on the gross scale this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so neatly at the level of the individual farmer . Most of us do things from time to time that do not make sense in terms of dollars ; why should we expect farmers to be any different ? Most students of the geography of agriculture have focused on the subject from the point of view of economics , which is obviously important.11No one can argue that the balance of costs and prices willFootnotep109not , for the most part , determine which commodities out of the physically practical range will be produced on a given farm , but I prefer to examine some of the factors which have received rather less attention ( although they may well be reflected in the price mechanism ) despite the fact that they most certainly influence the decisions of farmers and the look of the rural landscape . FARM SIZE AND FARM TENURE . The relationships between the decisionsmade by farmers and farm size , farm enlargement , farm tenure , and farm management systems have already been discussed in considerable detail . Other things being equal , a small farm requires more intensive application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an acceptable level of living . The man who has a small farm generally tries to produce a more valuable farm product , or a greater quantity , or both , from a given acreage of land . In the Middle West , for example , one farmer might choose to fatten beef cattle because his crop work did not leave him enough time for hogs , whereas his neighbor on a smaller farm might concentrate on hog production because this enabled him to make effectiveuse of the time he had available . A tenant farmer , unless he has considerable security of tenure , is reluctant to make any substantial investment in the land or buildings of the farm unless he is fairly sure that he can take it with him when he leaves . A tenant farmer , for example , is not likely to plant an orchard or vineyard , and he is probably more interested in cash crops , which will yield a quick return , than in trying to build up a herd of livestock , which might take years . The tenant farmer is often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is notorious for his lack of interest in the appearance and upkeep of the farmhouse and other farm buildings . PHYSICAL DEMAND . The physical ( as distinct from economic ) demand for certain specialized farm products has a powerful influence on the location in which , and the acreage upon which , farmers are able to conduct some kinds of agricultural activities . For example , such perishablecommodities as milk , fruits , vegetables , and perhaps even meat in some instances , must be produced close to the people who will consume them , or close to transportation facilities which can deliver them to the consumers quickly and efficiently . For this reason dairy farms , truck farms , and greenhouse districts are near many urban centers . The physical inability of people to consume more than a limited quantity of certain farm products , such as potatoes , peanuts , and tobacco , restricts the amount of land on which farmers can grow such crops . In the United States between 1961 and 1965 , for example , tobacco was grown on an average of only about 1.17 million acres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the land area of the nation , or one of every 2,000 acres . Tobacco easily could have been grown on a much larger area , as far as physical conditions are concerned , but this limited acreage produced 1.56 billion pounds , which would have accounted for slightly nunr than the total amount of tobacco actually consumed in the United States if it had all been made into cigar ttcs , or fi'c-sixths of the totalp110The physical demand for certain kinds of crops and animals is closely related to the dietary habits of people , the ideas they have about what is fit to eat and what is not , and the foods they prefer and the foods they avoid . Although no one , to the best of my knowledge , has studied the geography of dietary habits in the United States very carefully , most of us would have a pretty fair idea of what part of the country we were in if we were offered gefilte fish , or gjetost , or grits , or guacamole . Eggs , for most of us , come from chickens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ducks , or pheasants , or ostriches , and milk comes from cows , not mares , or sheep , or goats , or sows , or whales . In 1965 Japanese farmers produced one thirty-third as much wheat , one-third as many potatoes , and more than 4.5 times as much rice as farmers in the United States . The demand for dog meat is not what it used to be back in the good old days , when Indians roamed the North American continent , and fattened dogs especially for their feast days ; it was a signal honor for a guest to be served the head of a plump roast dog . Dogs and horses are much more fastidious eaters than hogs , which happily grow fat on garbage and slop , but most Americans , who like to " eat high on the hog , " have never knowingly tasted horse meat , and are slightly revolted at the very thought of eating dog . Even mutton and lamb , which are quite popular in some parts of the world , are not commonlyeaten in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much pork as lamb and mutton ? One possible line of explanation , which has not been carefully explored , would begin with the suggestion that most Americans have never had a chance to taste really good mutton or lamb , because farmers in the Corn Belt , where the nation 's finest meat is produced , are strongly prejudiced against sheep and refuse to have them on their farms . Could this prejudice be traced back to the sandy lands of the North European Plain , where sheep were a menace because they grazed the heathland vegetation so closely that the sandy soil was exposed to wind erosion and destroyed ? Such an explantion would seem to make at least as much sense as more commonly proposed explanations based on wild clogs , fencing problems , low prices , or diseases . PRICE-SUPPORT PROGRAMS . Most politicians are very much awareof the fact that farmers , like the rest of us , have the right to vote , and so the politicians have passed laws which they think will help farmers , or at least , which will get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knack for causing trouble when they start meddling with agriculture , and many farm programs do not appear to work very well . Nearly every country in the world , for example , has some kind of farm pricesupportprogram , which almost inevitably becomes all tangled up with marketing arrangements , acreage and production controls , tariffs and import restrictions , export subsidies , and a host of official regulations . The farm price-support program in the United States , which dates from the depression years of the 1920s and 30s , has been quite simple in theory : farmers can not afford to withhold their crops froni the market , even temporarily ; supply exceeds demand when all farmers sell their crops at the same time , and the price falls temporarily , but often severely ; the government should help farmers to withhold this temporary surplusuntil demand revives by giving them loans equal to the amount they would receive if they could sell their crops at a fair and reasonable price . In practice , of course , the loan price became a support price for the crop , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his crop to any buyer who offered less . Each loan was made for a year ; if the market price failed to rise above the loan price in that year , the farmer let the government keep his crop , and thus it became part of the infamous " government surplus . " 12A guaranteed price for any crop would encourage many farmers to start growing it , which would aggravate the surplus problem , and thereforethey have had to be discouraged by a system of controls known as " acreage allotments . " If the surplus of any crop becomes too great , the Secretary of Agriculture is required by law to reduce the acreage on which the price will be supported in the following year . This reduced acreage is " allotted " to individual states on the basis of the acreage of that crop which their farmers planted in a selected base year ; within the states this reduced acreage is allotted to counties , and within counties , to individual farmers , so that each farmer who grew the crop in the base year receives an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crop he is permitted to plant . He is severely penalized if he grows more than his allotted acreage , but he receives a guaranteed price for all of the crop he can produce on the acreage he has been allotted . In order to maintain his income from reduced acreage , the clever farmer plants his allotted acreage on his best land , and pours on the fertilizer to increase his yield , thus setting in motion a vicious cycle . " Increased yields from a reduced acreage continue to produce a surplus , which requires another acreage reduction and a further decrease in the size of allotments . " Once again the farmer attempts to increase his yields , and the cycle is broken only when bad weather strikes the crop , or when a war comes along to absorb the surplus . Furthermore , a guaranteed price in a major producing nation tends to set a floor for the world price , and farmers in other countries are encouraged to start growing the crop . The home market must be protected from their competition by tariffs and import restrictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable them to compete on the world market . Perhaps the ultimate absurdity has been reached in cotton : cotton textile manufacturers in foreign countries can buy American cotton at aFootnotep112lower price than domestic manufacturers , because cotton exports are subsidized , and the textiles they make from this cheaper cotton can underselldomestic textiles on the domestic market . Farm price-support and acreage-allotment programs have tended to fossilize the geography of crop production by keeping individual crops concentrated in the areas where they were produced in the base year . An acreage allotment is a share in a monopoly , established and guaranteed by the government , for the production of a given crop , and a farmer would be foolish if he failed to hang on to his allotment even when he can not use it very effectively . Furthermore , price-support programs have given thousands of farmers just enough income to enable them to cling to undersized farms which do not really provide a satisfactory level of living , while the lion 's share of the money spent on support programs has gone to large , efficient farms which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price-support programs each year might have been better spent if they had been used in programs to help farm families escape their undersized farms and make better lives for themselves elsewhere . GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS . In addition to price-supportprograms , many other government programs have helped to influence the decisions of farmers and change the look of the land . The construction of dams and ditches has extended irrigation in the West , and grants toward the costs of drainage works have facilitated reclamation and use of wetlandsin the East . Materials , services , and financial aid have been provided for a variety of soil conservation activities , such as contour plowing , strip cropping , construction of farm ponds and terraces , and diversion of cropland.15Perhaps most important of all has been an extensive federal programof education , experimentation , technical assistance , and informationdissemination , which has been conducted in cooperation with the land grant colleges and universities . The agricultural experiment stations in each state publish technical and popular bulletins of great value , and the extension agents in each county can be a mine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tremendous potential impact of government assistance programs is demonstrated by contrasts in the advance and retreat of settlement on either side of the provincial boundary which bisects the Great Clay Belt in Canada.16 Between 1931 and 1957 land was abandoned and settlementretreated on the Ontario side of this boundary , where the provincial government had essentially no program of assistance . On the Quebec side , however , the settled area was doubled by an official program of colonization which included presettlement soil surveys ; a policy of settlementin compact blocks ; careful screening of prospective settlers ; finan-Footnote cial assistance for temporary living expenses , land clearing , plowing , construction of houses and farm buildings , and purchase of livestock andfarm equipment ; provision of heavy machinery for bulldozing stumps , deep plowing , and digging drainage ditches ; and the availability of expert technical assistance and advice . KNOW-HOW AND FACILITIES . An astonishingly large number of citypeople today seem to think that almost anybody can be a farmer , whereas in actual fact the modern farmer is more at home in the city than a city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they are really honest about it , would have to admit that they do not know how to dehorn cattle , or shear sheep , or castrate hogs , nor would they know when to plant wheat , or sucker tobacco , or pick corn , nor could they adjust and operate a hay baler , or a combine harvester , or a milking machine , although it would be difficult to make a living on almost any farm in the United States without possessing at least some of these skills . Any farming system , to be successful , requires managers and workers ( many farmers wear both hats simultaneously ) who have the necessary skills and knowledge , and it also requires the availability of appropriatefacilities and equipment for production and marketing . In most established farming regions these skills and facilities have developed through time . Farm people have the knowledge , experience , and tradition of growing the necessary crops , from preparation of the soil to harvesting and processing , and of taking care of the necessary kinds of livestock . Most farms have grown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings and machinery needed to raise the traditional crops and livestock . In many areas the basic crops are protected by acreage allotments and price-support programs . The local road system is good enough to get farmers to a service center which has knowledgeable merchants with the facilities necessary to buy and/or process their products , and bankers who understand their credit needs . In most successful farming areas the local infrastructure of skills and facilities can be taken for granted , and once established , it plays a powerfulconservative role in influencing the decisions of farmers and maintainingthe traditional farming system.17 It has evolved from the experiences of many farmers over a long period of time , and represents an integration of many of the variables which should influence the decisions of farmers in the area . It largely relieves the individual farmer , as he makes his decisions , of the necessity of having to consider each one of these variables , because he can base his decisions upon their summation , as embodied in local experience and tradition , and the existing infrastructureof skills and facilities . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for granted , or even to ignore them completely , but the student of the rural landscape can not afford to do so . Footnote  |p116fields  where the crops are grown.2 Most processing and marketing structuresfor crops and livestock are in the central place which serves the farm . The farmstead must have protective storage for implements , machinery , fuel , and fertilizer , and most modern farms need a workshop which is well equipped with tools and spare parts . Some of the buildings of the farmstead are multipurpose structures which are put to a variety of uses at different times of the year , but others , such as the oast house or the mint still , serve only a single specific function . The appearance of some structures , such as tobacco barns , is largely determined by the function they are intended to perform , but the farmer has considerably more leeway in designing others , such as fences , and their appearance may vary considerably from region to region , or from one culture group to another within a region.3 Some structures , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not seem to have offered any great challenge to the decorative ingenuity of farmers and their wives , because they have fairly much the same nondescriptappearance in all parts of the country and among all culture groups . Individual StructuresLIVESTOCK SHELTER AND HANDLING . The farmer who has livestockmust protect them from wind , snow , cold rain , excessive sunshine , and extremes of temperature . The structure which houses the animals should permit the farmer to feed and handle them with convenience and safety , both to man and to beast . It should have an adequate water supply , and it should permit easy cleaning and removal of manure . On many small farms in the old days the horses , cattle , hogs , and other livestock were all kept in a single general purpose barn , which was also used to store grain and hay . Most of the larger farms had a separate horse barn for the work stock , but the replacement of horses by tractors has made the old horse barn unnecessary , just as increasing specialization has made generalpurpose barns obsolete , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torn down , or allowed to fall down . Dairy cattle traditionally have been housed in barns with large hay mows on the upper level ; the ground level had individual milking stallsFootnotep117at which the cows were kept tied up in cold weather , except for a short exercise period each day . In recent years , however , some dairy farmers , especially those in milder climates , have begun to use a loose housing system ; the cows are confined in stalls only to be milked , and spend the rest of their time in a yard with an open shelter along one side.4 The cows are milked , a few at a time , in a milking room located in a small building next to the yard . With either system , the dairy farmer must have a separate milkroom , where milk can be cooled and stored until it is picked up . State and local health regulations closely control the design , construction , and sanitation of farm dairy buildings , and the increasing stringency of these regulations has squeezed out of the dairy business many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expensivemodifications of their existing buildings . Hogs , sheep , poultry , and other animals are housed in small buildingsscattered around the farmstead . Hogs may be kept in a permanent structure located near the other farm buildings , but some hog farmers prefer individual hog houses which can be moved around the farm from field to field and always kept on clean ground , thus reducing the risk of disease , to which hogs seem especially susceptible . ' A permanent hog house , with separate pens for each sow , might be 20 to 30 feet wide and 30 to 40 feet long , with three or four low hog doors two feet wide and three feet high on each side . A movable individual hog house seldom measures much more than six by eight feet , so that the sow 's body heat can keep it at a comfortable temperature in winter . ' Many farms have small poultry houses in which hens used to be kept to provide eggs and meat for the family table , and " egg money " for the farm wife . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to reduce air space and heating requirements ; the west , north , and east sides are solid , but the south side is almost all windows , to admit heat and light . The farm poultry house is seldom used for chickens any more ; a few have been converted into hog houses , but the majority stand empty , or are accumulating junk . Commercial poultry houses , which are appreciably larger , are used to produce either broilers or eggs . Broiler houses are long , low , one-story buildings which can house 10,000 to 15,000 birds at a time . ' An unusual kind of relict poultry house is the enormous dovecotes which are still to be seen in parts of England . ' During the late Middle Ages pigeons from the dovecote were a delicacyFootnotep118in late winter , when other fresh meat was scarce , and their droppings were valued as fertilizer.9Most forms of livestock require enclosures and handling facilities as well as shelters , and nearly every farm has some kind of collecting and holding area , which may be called a barnyard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depending on the farm and the kind of livestock . Close at hand one might find weighing scales ; loading ramps ; and chutes or squeeze gates , where animals can be held fast for dehorning , trimming , and other veterinary work . The barnyard must have fences stout enough to hold the animals of the farm , and the lanes connecting the farmstead with fields and pastures must be lined with fences . The pastures must be fenced to keep the animals in them , and the fields must be fenced to keep animals out.10CROP PRODUCTION . The fences which enclose fields and pastures are only one of several types of features associated with crop production which are located in the fields rather than at the farmstead . Orchards and vineyards are an obvious example , as are the greenhouses of truck farming districts and urban fringe areas . The layout of the fields themselvesmay be closely related to the farming system . A striking illustration of such a relationship is the alternation of strips of wheat and fallow land to conserve soil moisture in dry farming areas.11 Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction of low terraces to reduce runoff , also leave their distinctive marks upon the landscape . Low earthen terraces , which snake through field , forest , and pasture alike in many parts of the modern South , are especially useful relict features for the student of land use . They indicate the former extent of cultivated land , because they were originally constructed to reduce the danger of erosion in cotton fields . Crop production in much of the West is not possible without irrigationsystems , which can produce distinctive features on the landscape . Most major irrigation projects require massive dams and large storage reservoirs , or deep wells and powerful pumps , with a close network of canals and ditches to get water to the fields . Center pivot sprinkler irrigationsystems , which came into general use in the 1960s , produce circular " fields " which stand out quite strikingly on the rectilinear American landscape . Paradoxically , areas which have been irrigated also require carefully planned drainage systems to carry away alkaline ground water and to prevent the soil from becoming waterlogged . Large areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ productiveparts of the Corn Belt , could not have been cultivated without the development of extensive drainage works . Geographers have largely ignoredthe importance of drainage , perhaps because its end product isFootnotep119similarity to adjacent areas , rather than distinctiveness from them.12 Apart from large open ditches , drainage works are not readily visible , although the herringbone pattern of buried tile drains sometimes is strikingly apparent from the air . Some features associated with the harvesting and temporary storage of crops are also in the fields rather than at the farmstead . On cotton plantations in the South a portable cotton shed was placed beside each sharecropper 's plot at harvest time , and he stored his cotton in it until he had picked enough to gin out a bale.l3 After peanut vines have been lifted , they are stacked around poles in the field to dry for a few weeks before the nuts are removed . Farmers in parts of Appalachia still cut stalks of corn when they are ripe , stack them in shocks in the field , and shuck out the ears as they are needed during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harvested their heavy fodder roots , store them in pits , or " root clamps , " dug in the field where the roots were grown , which saves the labor of hauling them back to the farmstead.14 And the field structures associated with the hay harvest are so enormously varied that they merit separate treatment . HAY AND FORAGE CROPS . Grasses and legumes are grown morewidely , and on a larger acreage , than any other crop . The field on which they are grown may be used as a pasture , if it is suitably fenced , and the crop may be harvested by grazing livestock , but much of it is mowed and stored as hay or silage for winter feed . In the United States swathes of hay , which may be turned occasionally , are left on the ground to dry , but in the milder , moister parts of Europe farmers have learned from sad experience that they can not count on the sun to cure the hay crop unless they keep it off the damp ground , and they have developed a variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the branches are lopped off young trees fairly close to the trunk , the trunk is then driven into the ground , and hay is hung on the branches . From a distance these " little hay men " look almost like people standing in the hay fields , whence their colloquial name . Many farmers in Europe stack their hay on wooden tripods to keep it off the ground . In parts of Denmark the tripod is replaced by a quadripod , which permits air to flow beneath the drying crop , as well as around it ; quadripods are especially useful for drying the tops of sugar beets . Farther north , in the cooler and damper areas of Norway and Sweden , hay is hung on lines strung between posts which have been driven into the ground , very much as a housewife hangs her weekly washing on the family clothesline . In Slovenia hay is hung on horizontal wooden cross-Footnotep120pieces , spaced about a foot apart , whose ends are attached to sturdy upright poles which also support a sheltering roof over the drying crop.15Once it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bales . Ranchers in some parts of the western United States have enormous haystackingmachines , which can pile up a field stack containing several tons of loose hay in a very short time . Square , flat-topped stacks are found principally in California ; high , round-topped stacks are common in the intermountain states ; and low , round-topped stacks are made on the Great Plains.16 Field stacks of hay are also common in parts of the Southeast , where they are built around a central pole for stability , but in the Middle West most farmers prefer to store loose hay in the loft , or haymow , of a barn . Hay bales , which are a bit more weather-resistant than loose hay , may also be stacked in the fields , or they may be stored in any convenient building ; on some farms in the South , where a changeover has been made from cotton to cattle , I have even seen baled hay stored in former sharecropper shacks . Silage , for most Middle Western Americans , conjures up visions of chopped green corn stored in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but crops other than corn may also be ensiled . A horizontal silo consisting of a trench or pit dug into the ground , or an above-ground bunker constructed of concrete or treated lumber , may serve the same function as a vertical silo.17 Corn is still by far the leading silage crop in the United States , accounting for almost three-quarters of all silage made in 1963 , but sorghums have become increasingly important in drier areas , such as the southern Great Plains , and silage is also made from a variety of other products , including grasses , sugar beet tops , and the byproducts of fruit and vegetable processing plants.18 Vertical silos still outnumber the horizontal ones , but the latter are increasing far more rapidly , because they are cheaper and easier to construct , and they are readily adaptable to self-feeding . Where new cylindrical silos have been constructed , they are often in a feedlot , rather than beside the barn , and they are equipped with automatic unloaders which deliver silage directly into the feed troughs at the touch of a button . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a proprietary glass-lined metal silo , which preservessilage much as glass jars are used by a housewife to preserve fruits and vegetables . Although these silos preserve fodder in almost the condition in which it was harvested , they are appreciably more expensive than conventional models . Apart from their initial expense , many **25;3392;TOOLONG to the big blue metal silos because of their visibility , which is quick to catch the eye of the tax assessor . Many farmers have become increasingly reluctant to trust animals to harvest their forage crops , and prefer to do the job themselves , because they can do it more efficiently . The grazing animals waste some of the crop by trampling it , and soil a surprising amount of it with their droppings . They have to graze it over a period of time , consuming some when it is still green and immature , and some when it is overripe and past its prime . The farmer can harvest the entire crop at just the right time , store it in his silo , and dole out the proper amounts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional grazing areas as the Upper Lake States dairy country , have begun to switch to feedlot feeding year-round , and now harvest their crops with forage harvesters rather than with cattle . The animals never set foot on pasture , and farmers have begun to remove their permanent fences , which are no longer necessary ; if he needs to enclose a piece of ground temporarily , the farmer can " slap a hot wire " ( electric fence ) around it. //percent of the corn , for example ) may be carried directly from the harvest field to the local grain elevator and sold . If all farmers sell their grain at harvest time , however , the price is likely to be depressed , and some farmers have invested in facilities for storing their grain until the price is right . Furthermore , the bulk of the grain crop is produced to be fed to livestock during the winter months , not to be sold , and most farmers must provide storage both for the grain they produce and for any they have to buy to supplement their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bins in other buildings , especially barns and corncribs , but round corrugated-metal bins set on their own individual slabs of concrete have become a common sight in many rural areas as yields have increased and mechanical grain handling equipment has improved . Better grain handling equipment has also produced changes in corncribs in the Middle West . The traditional crib had a lean-to roof , and open spaces were left between the boards on the sides so that air could pass through and dry the corn . Its height was restricted to about 12 feet in the days when ears of corn had to be husked by hand and loaded into the crib with a scoop shovel , and its capacity could be increasedonly by making it longer . Mechanical elevators enabled farmers to lift grain to a much greater height with less effort , and permitted them to construct taller cribs . Two cribs with lean-to roofs were built facing each other at a distance of ten to 20 feet , and the two roofs were extended to form a single gable roof . The upper portion of the central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground level could be used to store machinery and equipment . Both the granary and the cribs on either side could 1 ) e filled through a cupola on the roof . PROCESSING AND SALT ? S. Fodder crops produced on the farm may befed directly to livestock , and grain crops may be sold directly or fed , but some farm products require further processing before they are readyp122for sale or consumption . This processing commonly requires a distinctive structure , which may or may not be located on the producing farm . For some products this is no more than a level area where they can be spread out to dry , but many require a more elaborate structure . Tobacco is a good example of a crop which must be processed on the farm before it can be sold . Tobacco leaves are still green when they are harvested , and they must be " cured " before they are ready for market . The curing process may involve heating , smoking , or simply drying , but a distinctive kind of structure is used , or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which must be processed on the farm , and the structures associated with hop production and processing add a distinctive flavor to the rural landscape in the southeasterncorner of England . The hop vines are trained to grow up strings attached to wires some 12 to 15 feet above the ground , which are strung between stout poles in the hop yard.20 After they have been picked , the green hops are dried over kilns in picturesque oast-houses , squat cylindricalstructures with steep conical roofs . The roof of the oast-house is capped by a revolving cowl , or ventilator , which has a vane to keep it pointed into the wind , thus creating a draft for the kiln.21In some of the more inaccessible parts of the United States it has been customary to process corn on the farm in order to reduce its bulk and convert it into a product of greater value per unit of weight before transporting it to market . This custom has been especially strong in Appalachia , where it has been founded on the technical competence which the early Ulster Scot settlers brought with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from an economic point of view , it has run afoul of the legal authorities , who have seen fit to tax the resulting product at a rate which seems quite inequitable to the producers . Because of the considerable friction which has resulted , it is difficult , and sometimes downright dangerous , to attempt to describe the on-farm structures associated with the practice.22The off-farm structures and plants in which farm crops are processedtend to be somewhat larger than those on farms . They require a capital investment beyond the means of most farmers , although some of the larger farm operations may have their own plants . The processing plant customarily is located in the local service center , and the processor also serves a marketing function , because he buys the crop which he processes . The cotton farmer sells his crop at the cotton gin , the dairy farmer delivers his milk to the creamery , the vineyard owner sells his grapes at the winery , the sugar producer sells his beets or cane at the refinery , and the fruit or vegetable man sells his crop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structures , the cotton gin , the creamery , Footnotep123the winery , the sugar refinery , the packing plant , and the cannery , is a distinctive structure characteristic of the area where a particular crop is produced , although all are as likely to be found in the small towns as in the countryside . Distinctive sales structures which do not involve processing are also characteristic features of the central places of different agricultural regions . Nearly every whistle stop on the railroad lines traversing grain farming districts seems to have its battery of grain elevators . Many small towns in livestock and truck farming areas have local auction barns , where regular sales are held in season . Market centers in tobacco producingdistricts have enormous sales warehouses , roofs studded with rows of skylights to illuminate the cavernous sales floor where the crop is auctioned off in a fascinating process . Central stockyards , where farmers sell their fat animals to meat packing companies , tend to be in larger places than the other structures mentioned here , but all are as much a part of the distinctive landscape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SHEDS . Shelters for machinery and equipment are among the least distinctive and most standardized structures on contemporary farms ; they are also among the dullest . I hope that I am not being too much of an antiquarian when I suggest that this may be because they are the newest . The modern machine shed is a very efficient and very functional metal structure without windows ; one long side is either completelyopen , or consists mainly of large doors , which facilitates movement of machinery . Although machine sheds are not completely alike , they all look as though they had been bought from the same mail-order house , and the feeling persists that " when you 've seen one , you 've seen ' em all , " whether you happen to be in Washington , Maine , California , Florida , or anywhere in between . The differences seem to be mainly a matter of size . Howard Gregor has compared the equipment yards of large farms in California to military depots , and I find the analogy **28;3419;TOOLONG Essay on BarnsBarns are the largest , most impressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hottest arguments I ever witnessed took place between two geographers , both knowledgeable in the ways of the land , who were looking at the same structure and debating whether it should be called a barn or a shed . The one whose roots lay deep in the hills of the Appalachian South was appalled that anyone could be so dismally ignorant as to fail to understand that such a large and imposing structure was a barn . The one who was born and raised in one of the richest corn counties in Iowa had nothing but scorn for anyone who could be so stupid as to suggest that such a " dinky " little old building was anything but a shed . And their discussion of each **31;3449;TOOLONG , genealogies , and general observational abilities was conducted , mind you , while they were both looking at the very same building . The fact that two competent scholars could stand in the same field , look at the same building , and disagree on whether or not it should be called a barn , serves to illustrate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used in different areas and on different continents . For many years I have been interested in the geography of barns , and I have tried to focus on types , or models , and to avoid becoming bogged down in the details which make almost every barn unique . Much of my knowledge has been gained by looking at barns in various areas , and talking to farmers about them , and this essay represents my present state of information , surmise , and conjecture . I should be very much surprised if all of my notions are accepted , but I present them in the hope that they will encourage fellow scholars to start taking a longer and harder look at an important type of landscape feature whose geography has been relatively neglected . BARNS IN WESTERN EUROPE . The word " barn " is derived from theOld English word bereaern , which meant " barley place " ( from here barley + aern place ) . In Western Europe the name " barn " can only be used for the farm building in which grain is threshed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be used to house livestock ; each type of farm animal has its own structure with its own name . In England , for example , any countryman can tell you that the barn is for threshing , and horses belong in the stable , cows in the byre or shippon , and pigs in the sty . In France you thresh in the grange , but keep horses in the ecurie , cows in the etable , and porkers in the porcherie . In Germany , as nearly as I can tell ( although lexicographers , urban types all , are not very helpful when it comes to making such distinctions ) , you thresh in the scheune , keep horses in the pferdestall , and cows in the kuhstall . The names shippon and byre failed to make it across the Atlantic . Even though stable and sty successfully weathered the crossing , in American usage the meaning of the word barn has been expanded to include almostany big old building on a farm which is used to house crops and/or livestock . The modular barn of Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high as a two-story house , with large double doors opposite each other on the two long sides ( Fig. 8-1 ) . One door opened into the rickyard , and the other into the stockyard. ( see Fig. 3-3 ) . At harvest time the sheaves of ripened grain were built into neat , thatchcoveredricks in the rickyard , or stacked in the ends of the barn . The grain was threshed with hand flails on the barn floor betwen the two doors ; the doors could be opened or shut to regulate the draft which carried away the dust and chaff . Right through the winter two men flailed away each day on the threshing floor until they had produced enough straw to feed and bed the cattle in the stockyard . The grain not needed for feed was stored in the ends of the hart which might or alight not have lofts . Thep125Figurep126to sell the fattened animals at a profit , and often did , their principal contribution to the farm was the manure they produced . Although the basic module of rickyard , barn , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscured by a clutter of other structures , and it is especially well concealed if the farmstead is jammed in amongst the other buildings of a village , as so many are . The module can be seen most easily in the " field barns " which have been built on isolated parts of awkwardly shaped farms . Some of the farms resulting from enclosure , for example , were shaped like a slice of pie , with their apices at the old farm buildings in the village ( see Fig. 3-3 ) . The widest part of such a farm , at the " back end , " might be as much as a mile and a half or more from the farmstead . In order to avoid having to haul sheaves of grain all the way to the farmstead , and then having to cart the manure back to the fields , the farmer built a field barn at the back end of the farm . Field barns consisting of a rickyard , a barn , and a stockyard , precisely as described here , are common features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen on many detailed topographic maps . The majority of the barns in Europe are at least a century old , and many have been extensively modified , especially in the years since threshingmachines replaced men with hand flails . On some farms the new threshing machine was permanently installed in one end of the old barn ( Fig. 8 ? 1 ) . In the south of Scotland the threshing mill , as it is popularly known , may be driven by quite a variety of power sources , which are indicated by otherwise mysterious structures or projections on the back side of the barn . A long , narrow , projection parallelling the long side of the barn commonly houses an undershot water wheel , driven by a small stream whose diverted waters might be stored behind a dam in a tiny farm millpond . A small , blocky , projection might contain a coal-fired furnace for steam power , if it has a tall smoke stack , but it might also be the base of an old windmill . If the structure is round or octagonal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was operated , quite literally , by one horsepower.24EUROPEAN BARNS AND FARMSTEADS . At the risk of egregious overgeneralization , the farmsteads of Western Europe might be divided into three broad categories as far as the placement of their barns is concerned . The farmsteads in the first group have no barns , because they are in areas so damp or so cool that oats is the only grain that can be produced , and little enough of oats . Both man and beast are sheltered under the same roof in a single small structure . The crop of oats , even if it ripens , is so meager that it can be threshed on the floor between the front and back doors at the living end of the house.25 Examples , such as the " maison-bloc " of France , the " long house " of Wales , and **26;3482;TOOLONG peasant cottages of the wetter parts of Scotland and Ireland , may be found only in the poorest and most primitive areas . The farmsteads of the second group also consist of a single structure , with people , crops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure is vastly larger than the peasant cottage , and has far more internaldifferentiation . The living quarters , commonly several stories high and one room deep , occupy the front of the building . The central part is the threshing floor , and the back is divided into quarters for animals.26 Today one finds this type of structure mainly in the northwestern marshlandsand in the southern hills and mountains . In hilly areas many are built on slopes ; the second level of the front is at ground level in the back , or may be reached from the ground quite easily by a gentle ramp . The farmsteads of the third group have separate buildings , includingseparate barns , for separate farm functions . They may be divided into two major subgroups on the basis of their ground plans . In one subgroupthe buildings are arranged around a central courtyard , commonly in some formal standardized order . Many farmsteads in Denmark , for example , have the farmhouse facing the barn across the courtyard , with the stable on the left and the byre on the right as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the other subgroup also have separate buildings for separate functions , but these buildings are scatteredaround the farmstead with no apparent order or plan . Farmsteads of this type are common in England and in central Sweden . NEW ENGLAND AND NEW FRANCE . On the basis of similarities inform and function , it is tempting to see European barn and farmstead types as ancestral to those of America . The first settlers in New England and New France built the same kinds of barns they had known in Europe , rectangular structures with a central threshing floor and room for grain storage at either end ( see Fig. 8-1 ) .28 These were barns , not stables orFootnotep128byres ; the very idea of keeping horses or cattle in one of them would have made about as much sense to its owner as the idea of keeping horses or cattle in his living room or kitchen.29The settlers began to modify their notions about their barns , however , as they adjusted their farming system to the climate . Hay became more important than grain , which did not ripen well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hay needed shelter during the winters , so both were brought into the barn , which was cheaper than building a completely new byre and a new hay shed . Stalls for the animals were placed in one end of the barn , and lofts for hay storage were built about seven feet above the floor in one or both ends.3 ? The simple , single-level , New England barn had cattle stalls in one end beneath the hayloft , a transverse threshing floor in the center , and grain or hay storage in the other end . This barn was carried westward to dairy areas in Michigan and Wisconsin , where it was still being built on small farms in the early twentieth century . The barn could be enlarged , if the dairy herd outgrew it , by extending the stall area at right angles to the barn , thereby changing the ground plan from an I-shape to an L-shape . THE BASEMENT BARNS OF UPSTATE NEW YORK . The basement barnsof upstate New York , which was settled by New Englanders in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The New England barn was basically a single level barn for threshing grain , with stalls for stock and a hayloft added as modifications . The New York basement barn had two distinct levels : the basement , commonly of stone , was for livestock , and the threshing floor and hayloft were on the upper level . In many barns the basement was partiallyexcavated out of a hillside , so wagons could be driven straight onto the threshing floor from the uphill side of the barn ; on level sites access to the upper level was provided by a gentle ramp , or barn bank . I do not know where the idea for this basement barn originated . It is possible , but quite unlikely , that Yankees from New England suddenly got smart and invented it once they had crossed the Berkshires . The idea did not come from the Dutch.31 Perhaps it was brought to this country by settlers from the English Lake District , where similar barns are common.32 Perhaps it could be attributed to the small group of PalatineGermans who settled early in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which westward-moving New Englandershad to pass.33 Whatever its origin , the upstate New York basementbarn followed the New England barn westward , and became the standard barn in dairy areas of Wisconsin and Minnesota . THE PENNSYLVANIA BARN . The multifunctional farm structures ofsouthern Germany and adjacent areas ( in which men , crops , and animals were all housed under a single roof ) were much better adapted to the North American winter than the scattered buildings of the English farmstead , and the barns which early German settlers built in southeasternPennsylvania had an important influence on the development of barn types in the United States.34 The Pennsylvania barn ( locally known as a Schweizerscheuer , or Swiss barn ) was larger and better built than the New England barn , and from the very beginning it housed both livestock and crops , but never people , unlike its European prototype.35The Pennsylvania barn was a two-level structure , with all of the livestock on the ground level ( Fig. 8 ? 2 ) . The upper level had a threshing floor , bins for grain , lofts for hay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storage space for farm implements and machinery . The upper level was reached by a gentle ramp , or barn bank , on one side , which led to a central transverse threshing floor . On the opposite side this level projected some three to six feet out over the stockyard in a distinctive forebay . The forebay ran the entire length of the barn , and was an integral part of its structure . The forebay was built on cantilevered joists , and might be supported by pillars under the joists , or by an extensionof the end walls , but on many barns it was supported only by the joists themselves . The forebay sheltered a line of Dutch doors which connected the stockyard with the animals ' quarters on the ground level ; the upper half of these doors could be opened even in bad weather to admit air and light , while the bottom half remained closed to keep out driving rain and snow . The projection of the forebay also helped to keep the doors clear of straw , which was thrown into the stockyard for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The stockyard , as in Europe , was a manure pen where fertilizer was manufactured . The open storage of manure is wasteful , and some farmers , especially the Amish , protected their manure from the elements by adding a " straw shed " almost **25;3510;TOOLONG as the barn itself , which changed the basic rectangular ground plan into a square or an L-shape . " Some elements of the Pennsylvania barn have been copied more widely than others . The idea that crops and livestock both belong in the same barn , for example , is accepted as self-evident truth by most Americans , and barn banks may be found in many parts of the United States , but forebays and decorations remain distinctive features of the barns of southeastern Pennsylvania , and barn decoration is localized even within the area . Most of the barns with " hex signs " ( so called for the benefit of people from New York City and other gullible tourists ) are within a 20-mile radius of Kutztown , between Reading and Allentown ; in the 1830s and 1840s , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added these traditional designs to make them look prettier . Barns with brick-end decorations , highly stylized designs created by leaving selected bricks out of the brickwork in the end walls , are mainly south and southwest of Harrisburg . The resulting openings , which admit light and air , perform the same function as the narrow slits and loopholes which were made in the end walls of stone barns . BARNS AND CRIBS IN APPALACHIA . Although German settlers broughtthe knowledge of basic barn types ( and of log construction methods asFootnotep131well ) to the United States , the dissemination of this knowledge depended on the restless , aggressive Scotch-Irish , frontiersmen par excellence , who made important modifications as they moved southward and westward into areas of very mixed quality . Those who settled on the better limestonelands of Maryland and Virginia continued to raise wheat and build Pennsylvania barns , even though the winters were milder and shelter for livestock was not as essential as it had been farther north . In the poorer hill areas , however , livestock shelters were dispensed with , wheat was replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be threshed , and the palatial barn gave way to a small corncrib of roughhewnlogs ( Fig. 8-3 ) . The simple rectangular log crib with one door in the gable end became the module from which a variety of barn types were developed in Appalachia by manipulating the number and position of individual cribs.37 The simplest addition to the corn crib was a lean-to shed , in which tools and equipment could be stored . If a farmer prospered , he might build a larger crib , with a loft for storing hay , and lean-to sheds for livestock on either side ( Fig. 8-4 ) . The size of his crib was restricted , however , by the fact that a log structure can not be much larger than 24 to 30 feet square , because the taper and weight of the logs limit the length which can be used . If the farmer needed more space he had to build two cribs , either side by side or facing each other ; when he **29;3537;TOOLONG with a common roof he created a double-crib barn . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or it might be planked over and used as a threshing floor ( Fig. 8-5 ) . The ultimate development of the crib barn apparently originated in the rich limestone valleys of eastern Tennessee ; it had four square cribs , one at each corner , with a complete loft above . Hay was stored in the loft , and the cribs housed corn and whatever animals were on the farm . At first the cribs were separated by runways , from side to side and from end to end , but in time the side runway was blocked off to provide more room inside the barn , and this created a structure with openings in the gable ends rather than in the sides . The farmer closed off the side runway instead of the end one because he did not need a threshing floor , and it was much easier to tack lean-to sheds onto the sides of the barn , rather than the ends , if he needed more storage space for animals and machinery . Some students of barns have failed to grasp the importance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The shift from side openings to end openings signified a critical change in the basic function of the barn ; it was no longer a structure for threshing wheat and other small grains , but a shelter for hay . Wheat had given way to corn as the principal grain crop , and the old hand flails had been replaced by new threshing machines . The threshing machine might be set up on the old threshing floor because custom dictated it , but the threshing floor itself was no longer necessary . The end-opening barn , often with lean-to sheds on one or both sides , became the standard barn of the more prosperous farming areas of Appalachia . The vast hay loft , or mow , was filled by a hay fork mounted on a track which ran the full length of the ridgeline , and ex/Figuretended slightly beyond the end . The fork could be raised and lowered , opened and closed , and moved back and forth by a system of ropes and pulleys , which enabled the farmer to lift hay from a loaded wagon outside the barn and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinctive features of an end-opening hay barn . The projection of the hay-fork track beyond the barn was protected by an extension of the barn roof , which might be anything from a small peak to an enormous , boxlike structure whose sheer size appeared to threaten to tip over the entire barn . This structure sheltered the opening under the gables through which hay was lifted into the barn , but on many barns the function was performed more simply by a door which could be closed in bad weather . BARNS IN THE MIDDLE WEST . When their ancestry , form , and functionare considered , most barns in the Middle West belong to one of two basic types . The general purpose barn or feeder barn , which came from Appalachia , has end openings , lean-to sheds on one or both sides for livestock and/or machinery , and a large hayloft which may extend all the way to the ground in the center ( Fig. 8-6 ) . This is essentially a hay and corn barn which became the dominant type in livestock areas . One might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought their barn ideas with them to the Middle West , but the sideopeningPennsylvania barn is essentially a wheat barn , and in the Corn Belt it was eclipsed by the end-opening hay and corn barn when corn replaced wheat as the dominant crop . The basement barn , or dairy barn , was introduced into the Middlep134FigureWest from upstate New York.38 Livestock are housed on the ground floor , which has masonry walls broken by numerous windows , and the upper level is a large hayloft ( Fig. 8-7 ) . Early barns of this type had side openings , with a barn bank leading to a central threshing floor on the upper level , but the combine harvester eliminated the need for a threshingfloor , and many of the newer dairy barns have end openings . On some of the older barns the barn bank , which had become a relict feature , has been removed and replaced by a row of windows to admit more air and light to the ground level . These two basic types have an enormous number of variants , becauseeach farmer has his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and sometimes these ideas have produced barns which do not fit neatly into either category . A quite distinctive and highly localized type of barn was built in the Kentucky Pennyroyal area in the 1920s , after the bottom dropped out of the dark tobacco market , and the former tobacco farmers who switched to dairy farming had to have barns for their cattle . The county agent in Barren County was an overwhelming personality , and he persuaded many farmers to build barns whose ground floors had sides which rose vertically to a height of three to five feet , then slanted outward and upward at a 30 degree angle for a few feet , and returned to the vertical some five to eight feet above the ground . The slanted side formed the outer wall of a manger into which hay could easily be pitched from the loft above . Barren County has many of them , but such slant-sided barns are few and far between outside this one county where the **29;3568;TOOLONG county agent held sway , and most of those few have been built by former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the most obvious of the unusual barn types.33 The first big round stone barn in the United States was built at Hancock , Massachusetts , in 1825 , but round barns had their greatest popularity during the great barn-building spree of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries . They were championed by some of the " improving " writers in the agricultural press because they combine maximum floor space with minimum wall space , but the construction of a round barn required special skills . The basic round barn has a silo in the center , livestock on the ground level , and a hayloft on the upper level , which is reached by a barn hank . Most farmers who have round barnsFootnotep136do not seem to like them very much ; they give a variety of reasons for their dislike , but most of these reasons can be boiled down to the simple fact that our rectangular society has no place for a round structure . The shape of its roof is one of the most immediately obvious features of any barn , but thus far I have ignored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely related to the date of construction than to the type of barn.40 The straight gable roof is the oldest form , the simplest to construct , and the most awkward to live with , because the low headroom under the eaves requires a good deal of uncomfortable bending and stretching in the hot loft ( Fig. 8-6 ) . Around the end of World War I the gable roof was largely replaced by the gambrel type , which provided much greater headroom ( Fig. 8-7 ) . The gambrel , in turn , was replaced by the fornicate , or Gothic , roof around 1940 . It is not at all uncommon , of course , to see a new addition with a gambrel or fornicate roof attached onto the end of an older barn with a gable roof . THE LAST OF THE BARN . MOSt of this essay on barns has been written in the past tense , because barn types began to be standardized and homogenized by the institutionalized designs which started pouring out of agricultural experiment stations a generation or so ago , and now the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a variety of new structures which are better designed to serve specific purposes on the individual farm . On a modern farm the barn is a relict feature ; the hayloft is obsolescent , the threshing floor is obsolete , and who needs stalls for horses ? Of course some use can be found for the old building , if it is still structurally sound , but as soon as it start to deteriorate the best thing to do is to pour kerosene on it and light a match . An essay on barns must close on a melancholy note , because one of the most impressivestructures of the rural landscape is rapidly disappearing , and the examples which still remain deserve careful study while they are still with **29;3599;TOOLONG regions and farmsteadsFarmsteads are one of the major man-made ingredients of the rural landscape . Each farmstead reflects the activities of its farm , and each type of farming has a distinctive type of farmstead ; a dairy farmstead , for example , is quite unlike a cash-grain farmstead , and either one would be out of place on a cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas , because types of farming are similar over fairly large areas . This similarity of farmsteads and types of farming is one of the results of the agricultural regions created by the fact that large numbers of farmers have made similar decisions in response to similar conditions . Few agricultural regions are perfectly homogeneous , but most of them have enough similarity so that we can identify and describe the farmstead which is characteristic , typical , and most common in the region . Delimitation of Agricultural RegionsFour approaches to the delimination of agricultural regions have been more confusing than helpful : 1 . at one one time it was fashionable to divide areas into " natural districts " and to describe farming within each district ; British authors favored surfacefeatures as the basis for their divisions , whereas Americans leanedtoward climate ; Footnotep1382. some geographers have failed to distinguish between the way in which the land is used , which is clearly visible , and the integration of several different kinds of land use into an organization for economic production ; the land may be used to grow trees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but these are no more types of farming than dairying , cash-grain farming , or beef production are forms of land use ; 23. some scholars have attempted to include entirely too many criteria in their classification systems ; detail is useful and desirable , but a system which can produce the classification 4 X V3 ( flmz , lc + it ol ) + Al ( cd + sm ) lm is not likely to have widespread applicability ; 3 and4. some scholars have made their categories too fine ; an attempt to distinguish " grain with roots " farms from " roots with grain " farms may be useful for some purposes , but it probably does not contribute appreciably to a better understanding of rural eastern England.4An agricultural region , if it is to serve the purposes of description and generalization , should be a large ( probably subcontinental ) area , itFootnotep139should be defined by as few criteria as possible , and these criteria should be related to its inherent agricultural characteristics . The most useful agricultural regions probably are those which have been defined in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of income , of the individualfarms within it . No single person could hope to be able to collect information from enough farmers to enable him to delimit agricultural regions over any large area . Energetic scholars have collected the data necessary for excellent studies of local areas by interviewing individual farmers , but at the subcontinental scale we are captives of the data which are collected and published by national census agencies. ? Data on the value of farm production are not collected in Britain , and British scholars have devised a variety of ingenious schemes for inferringthe principal farm enterprise from other kinds of data . The pioneering effort was based primarily on land use , and divided English farms into cropland , grassland , and intermediate types , with five or six subdivisions of each type. ? In Scotland the dominant enterprise of each farm was estimated on the basis of its total labor requirement ; the numberof acres under each crop , and the number of head of each kind of livestock , were multiplied by a standard man-hours-per-year value for that crop or animal , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm was calculated . ' In eastern England the value of gross farm output was substituted for total labor requirement , and a standard value for each crop and each kind of livestock was estimated by multiplying its average yield by its average price. ? Early attempts to identify agricultural regions in the United States were based primarily on the percentage of the land which was devoted to specific crops ; Baker divided the eastern United States into a Spring Wheat Area , a Hay and Pasture Region , a Corn Belt , a Corn and Winter Wheat Belt , a Cotton Belt , and a Subtropical Coast. ? Although Baker 's map has been slightly modified through the years , it remains the standard , traditional map of the agricultural regions of the United States.10 The indirect approach which Baker used has not been necessary since 1930 , however , because in that year , and at each subsequent census , farmers have been asked to report the gross value of the various products which they have produced . In 1964 each commercial farm was placed in one of nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other field crop , vegetable , fruit and nut , dairy , poultry , and other livestock ) if its sales of the specified product or group of products amounted to 50 per-Footnotep140cent or more of its total value of farm products sold , but if no category produced half of its income the operation was classified as a general farm . Virtually all statistical data-reporting units contain more than one type of farm , but the only information available for each unit is the aggregated data for all farms within it . The geographer who wishes to group these units into agricultural regions must devise some scheme which will enable him to classify each unit . In some units a given type of farm is clearly dominant , but in many the decision as to what constitutesdominance must be fairly arbitrary . Ideally , this decision should be based on the amount of land in the unit which is occupied by each type of farm , but in the United States this information is not available at the level of the county ( the smallest unit of area for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of counties into agricultural regions must be based on the number of farms of each type in each county . The Middle WestThe first step in defining an agricultural region is to define a farm . The official definition used by the U.S. Census Bureau is much too broad , and I decided that a census agricultural unit could not be considered a " real farm " unless it had sales of farm products which totalled $10,000 or more in 1964.11 The counties which had at least one real farm per square mile in 1964 were concentrated , to a remarkable degree , in the Middle West ; counties with at least half that number formed a ragged belt around them , with outlying pockets in the dairy areas of upstate New York and southeastern Pennsylvania , the Carolina tobacco country , the Delta and High Plains cotton areas , and the irrigated Central Valley of California ( Fig. 9-1 ) . The concentration of agricultural counties in the Middle West was so striking that I restricted my attention to a block of 13 states in the nation 's agricultural heartland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the type of farming category which was represented by the greatest number of farms in the county . A comparison with the traditionalmap of predominant types of farming in the United States reveals that my classification scheme greatly reduced the dairy farming areas in the north , almost eliminated the wheat and range livestock areas in the west , and completely wiped out the general farming area in the south , except for a few tobacco counties in Kentucky and the northern tip of the Delta cotton area in the Missouri bootheel.12The Corn Belt was divided into a western section where livestock farms were most numerous , a cash-grain farming area in the center , and an eastern section where livestock and cash-grain farming **30;3630;TOOLONG intermingled . The surprisingly large number of cash-grain counties in the Corn Belt may be explained by the increasing specialization of individual farms . Many farmers have begun to concentrate on the single most profitable aspect of their traditional farm operation ; some have dispensed with livestock and are concentrating on the production of cash crops , but others have begun to concentrate on feeding livestock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers . THE LIVESTOCK FARMING REGION . Iowa is the archetype of the CornBelt ( Fig. 9-3 ) . On most farms the basic three-year rotation of corn , oats , and hay has been modified by practices such as continuous corn , growing two successive crops of corn , introducing soybeans as a cash crop , or leaving the hayfield a second year and using it for pasture . Corn , the principal crop , is primarily a meat-producing feed , and most of it is used to fatten hogs and beef cattle ; sales of fat livestock provide the principal source of farm income . Oats and hay , which were never important " money " crops , have been giving way to soybeans as steadily increasing demand has kept pushing up the price of beans . The kind of livestock which are fattened on any given farm will depend mainly on its size and on the Ui1rnmt of roughages it produces . As it general rule , cattle are kept on the larger farms , and on farms withp142Figurea good deal of land in pasture , whereas small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in hog production . Hogs usually have first call on the corn crop , because they are more efficient than cattle at converting concentrated feed into meat . A hog should be fat and ready for market in about six months , and does not pay to buy lean hogs for fattening , so most hogs are raised on the same farm on which they are fattened . Hogs require more attention than cattle , and the man with a smaller acreage of cropland has more time to devote to his hogs . Unlike hogs , most beef cattle are raised on one farm and fattened on another , because beef animals can effectively convert roughages ( such as pasture and hay ) into bone and hide , but they require concentrated feeds to flavor and tenderize their flesh . Most beef animals are raised on ranches in the dry range areas of the West , or on eastern farms with much rolling land whose steep slopes should be kept under permanent pasture or cultivated , if at all , only under a careful rotation system with considerableemphasis on grasses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " feeder cattle , " produced on such farms must be fattened on corn before they are ready for market . A farmer whose summertime energies have been absorbed by his cropland will purchase feeder cattle in the fall , and he will fatten them dining the winter when he cannot Figurework in the fields . He is aware that a certain amount of the corn they eat passes through them undigested , and that hogs are not finicky about how and on what they dine , so he fattens two hogs " free " on the droppingsleft by each beef animal in his feedlot.13Farms in the eastern portion of the livestock farming region , in Ohio and Indiana , were settled earlier and are smaller than farms in the western portion . Traditionally they have concentrated on production of corn and hogs , although cash-grain production has become increasingly important on the larger farm operations . The larger farms in the western portion , centered in Iowa , lie between the range livestock areas of the West , which are the principal source area for feeder cattle , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market for meat , so it is only logical that Iowa farmers should produce fat cattle as well as hogs and corn . A typical corn-cattle-hog farming operation in Iowa involves so many different activities that the farmstead consists of a complex of buildings ( Fig. 9-4 ) . These buildings must provide shelter and storage space for corn , oats , hay , machinery , cattle , and hogs . Ear corn for livestockfeed is stored in a double corncrib , with grain bins for shelled corn and oats above the central driveway ; in recent years yields have increasedI " Eugene Mathrr awl John Fraser hart , " The Geography of Manure , " Land f ' : ronotoWN . Vol. 32 ( 111511 ) , 37.  |p144Figureso  much that a new circular metal grain bin has been added . Baled hay is stored in the lofts of the steer barn and the old horse barn , whose ground floor is now used for general purpose storage . A combination machineshed and workshop near the corncrib provides shelter and repair space for the equipment needed in crop production . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feedlot until around the middle of February ; the steer barn opens onto the feedlot , and the animals can come and go as they please in any kind of weather . Some farmers have large permanent hog houses as part of the farmstead , but others prefer to reduce the risk of disease by having separate portable farrowing sheds , which are moved each year to the field which carries the hay crop . The farmer is proud of the appearance of his farmstead , and the buildings are well maintained ; the farmhouse is painted white , but the other buildings are " barn red . " The farmhouse is completely air-conditioned , and has all of the comforts and conveniences which one would expect to find in the most modern suburban home . The orchard , the garden , and the hen house out back are all relics of an earlier day , when the farm wife raised much of her family 's food ; today she buys it at the supermarket , just as you and I do . THE CASH-GRAIN FARMING REGION . Although farms in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois are roughly twice as large as those in the livestock farming region , the farmsteads are appreciably smaller and simplcer , because soybeans have almost cumAgricultural//pletely replaced small grains and hay in the traditional rotation , and cash-grain farmers concentrate on the production of corn and soybeans to the excusion of all else ( Fig. 9-5 ) . One man with modern machineryFigureshould be able to handle 200 to 300 acres each of corn and soybeans , but this keeps him pretty well occupied from April through October , and he does not feel that he can spare the time from crop production to operate an efficient livestock enterprise . Without livestock , however , he is underemployed during the winter months , and there is little to prevent him from enjoying a nice long vacation in the Florida sunshine . Envious neighbors , in fact , refer to cash-grain farmers as " B. C. M. farmers " ; B for beans , C for corn , and M for Miami , where they spend the winter months.  |p145A  typical cash-grain farmstead on the Grand Prairie of eastern Illinois consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for shelled corn and soybeans above the central driveway , and perhaps a combination garage-workshop-machine shed ( Fig. 9-6 ) . The house is attractive on the outside and livable on the inside , because the farmer and his wife desire and can afford all the creature comforts , but the lack of paint and disrepair of the weatherbeaten outbuildings indicate that neither the fanner , who is a tenant , nor his landlord is willing to spend very much money on them . The farmstead used to have a barn for@@1350.txtp100It has been observed by Freud and others that sexual dreams are rarely if ever with one 's mate . Some people become disturbed by these nocturnal lapses and would like to feel that their dreams come not from themselves but from some capricious god who imposesthis phantasmagoria to plague or test them . The dream allows for fanciful indulgences and excursions into immorality and transgressionthat generally go against one 's wakeful integrity . To some observers , this has been an indication that our morality is but skindeepand is subject to strong pressures from an inner life which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with poets and dramatists , has uncoveredthe conflictual nature of man in regard to the opposing forces of orderliness and disintegrative chaos . The great struggle , as Freud defined it , is between the pleasure principle , which would seek gratification without much thought about consequences , and the reality principle , which would measure gratification of an impulsein terms of present and future variables . Under the reality principle one would then take into account both self-preservation and altruistic , ( nsiderations. hi dreams , the pleasure principle often prevails . Dreams help keep us goal-directed in our waking hours by draining off in harmless nocturnal phantasy those asocial and wanton acts of sexuality and aggression , so that in our waking hours we may act and play properly . But dreams reveal what we hate to admit in our conscious state , that the past is very much with us and may haunt us in ways not usually clear to us . Dreams regularly reveal intense sexual desires toward members of one 's own family . For instance , fathers , in dreams , see themselves in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brothers as lovers . These family romances are almost " organic " in their persistence and power in the lives of all of us . Fortunately , in most instances , they are relegated to , and perhaps partially handled by , the dream drain , and this allows us to live rationally the rest of the time . In many instances they are not " contained " by dreams and spill over into the day where they are apt to be most disruptiveof important object relations and personal aims . These errant sexual thoughts from infantile life may interfere with conjugal sexual behavior . Because sexuality has become taintedp101by its association with " unnatural " objects , i.e. , family members , etc. , it becomes a forbidden act even where normally and legally permitted . Some , then , act as if sex with a mate is incest , with all the revulsion and disgust that such violation of basic social rules would entail . Thereupon , there can ensue a search for objects outside the home or the social group , where the taint of family sexuality can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a frequent motivation for a search for more gratifying and safer sexual objects . Getting someone from another world might eliminate the incestuous plague . But most often , because the " disease is within , " the new fresh objects become contaminated with the old affects and they too , becoming tainted , cease to satisfy . Freud 's discovery that the oedipal complex ( mother as the first sexual object with concomitant rivalry with father ) is a dominant overwhelming force in the development of every individual , has brought the realization of the long history of sexuality in each of us . As indicated in Chapter I , mating is an old story , not springing from " legal " marriage as our social convention would have it . Because of this long history , those who design simple explanationsand even solutions to sexual problems , as if they are solely current and contemporary " problems of living , " are most unrealistic . It is for this reason that efforts at marriage counseling , mental health advice , punitive legal measures , by professionals and do-it-yourself devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polygamy , etc. , have offered very little to distressed people . There are no panaceas and no substitutes for the work and agony involved in the confrontation of one 's history . In seeking these ersatz and makeshift solutions , an individual most often commits his greatest infidelity ; he becomes faithless to himself . With all our science , we must not be above the wisdom of certain aphorisms of our heritage . In this instance , we can profitably quote Polonius in his farewell speech to Laertes : " Above all , to thine own self be true . " The turning away from one 's origins , from one 's history , the denial of impulses and relationships , are attitudes of deception about one 's own being . They are the greatest infidelities of which we are capable . Not the least amongst these auto-infidelities is that to one 's work . Here , often using the rationalization of adapting to realityp102and expediency , we may make compromises that chip away at the ideals which are the source of life-sustaining hope . The distinction between right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And if anything goes , so may life itself , and one is reduced to a humanoid state where the only goal that remains is getting by . Work , however , is not as merciful as one 's mate ; it can not talk back , gives no warning such as : " You have been unfaithful to me ; you have been flirting with whores ; you are jeopardizingall that is valuable to you . " Work has been cuckolded more than any mate has , at inestimable injuries to self-esteem , leading to aimlessness , with its attendant cynicism . The alienation and dehumanization of man in relationship to his ' Work as well as to the societal institutions have been well. , .. Scumented by writers such as Kafka in " Metamorphosis , " more recently by William H. Whyte in " Organization Man , " and Paul Goodman in " People or Personnel . " In Kafka 's idiom human beings are often reduced to cockroaches by the betrayals of others in work as well as the compromises against fidelity which we are often forced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources and sustainers of man 's reality , fidelity to both appear vital for the maintenance of the human spirit.8The literature of our civilization is replete with descriptions of consuming jealousy . In Greek mythology Hera , wife of Zeus and goddess of storm , was known for her intense jealousy and was said to have made life pretty miserable for the highest god , at one time nearly succeeding in shackling him . On the other hand we are told that Zeus became morbidly jealous and distraught because his queen had produced a child all by herself . Not to be outdone by Hera producing Hephaistos parthenogenetically , he himself gave birth to Athena.9The Old Testament describes the disturbed King Saul 's jealousy of the incumbent David . And , of course , Shakespeare 's Othello is a classical study of jealousy . Some historians believe that jealousy as we know it in marriageis an outgrowth of the patriarchal monogamous system . Beforethat , in the neolithic days of matriarchal polyandry , because any woman could choose any number of lovers she pleased , natural jealousy could hardly have existed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be looked upon as another by-product of male-dominance. 10The play , " The Guardsman , " by Ferenc Molnar , deals with a jealous husband . Briefly , an Actor , married six months , is compelled by suspiciousness to test the faithfulness of his wife . The Actor explains to his old friend , the Critic , that he is certain that his wife is tired of him and is looking for a new interest , a new friend . He proclaims that this would be unendurable to him because " I 've never really been in love until now . This time it is the last , the greatest , the most torturing love , the love that exhausts my inner-most power of feeling ? the richest in beauty , the richest in pain . " In order to test the fidelity of his wife ( and to display his acting ability ) , he disguises himself as a Guardsman with the idea : " I will make her love me again . " The Critic asks the Actor what he hopes to get out of this , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she will not . If she does not , then I will be very happy . For I will know that she is true to me . If she does yield , then I will be very unhappy ? but at least I will know .... But anyway , I will have had one sincere kiss from her . " In the ensuing seduction , the Guardsman suffers some success which leads him to remark : " Pity the husband , but congratulate me . " The climax comes when the Husband-Guardsman reveals his identity but the wife indicates complete intelligence . Yet the husband and the audience are left mumbling , " Did she or did n't she ? " 11This farcical plot brings forth many questions . First of all , what was the origin of the suspiciousness ? After six months of seemingly pleasureful relations , what provoked the need for the test ? Why the disguise ? Why is the Actor compelled to go into competition with himself , intent on succeeding in his seduction ? Here is a manufacturedtriangle , obviously serving some purpose for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gratification is evident in the intensity of the feelings experienced by the Actor in the layingand executing of the plan . Psychologically , one is immediately impressed with the idea that this is a manifestation of the oedipal triangle . The Actor attempts to work out his conflict as an actor might , through drama.  |p104One  suspects that the Guardsman is the son trying to steal mother away from father . The fear that the woman is succumbing to the " other man " may be the wish that mother should do this , the other man being , in truth , the son himself . The wish is revealed in the test . The mechanism finds its full expression when the ActorGuardsmansays : " Pity the husband , but congratulate me . " The son has won over the father . This general idea was pointed out by Freud as the nuclear complex . He stated : " The lover with whom the mother commits the act of unfaithfulness almost invariably bears the features of the boy himself , or to be more correct , of the idealized image he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by growing to manhood . " 12Amphitryon 38 by Jean Giraudoux is a play expressing the same mechanism with the essential elements of " the test " and " the disguise . " 13 Jupiter reveals to Mercury his love for Alkmena , the faithful wife of the mortal Amphitryon . Jupiter aspires to win Alkmena , not as he has won so many others in the past , but as a mortal man . He poses the question : " Faithful to herself , or faithful to her husband . . . . You know , Mercury , most faithful wives are unfaithful to their husbands with everything except man ? with jewels , with perfumes , with reading , with religion , and the contemplation of Spring , with everything , in fact , except a man . The difficulty with these virtuous wives is not to seduce them , but to persuade them that they may be seduced confidentially . " The two gods deduce that the only possible way Jupiter can realize his aspiration with Alkmena is to be her husband , to appear to her as Amphitryon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mercury arranges a war so that Amphitryon is called to duty . Consequently , Jupiter gains entrance to Alkmena 's chambers , although she is able to see through the disguise . Again , Jupiter is both triumphant and chagrined by his conquest . In reply to Mercury , Jupiter states : " What do I want ? What every man wants ! A thousand contradictory desires ! That Alkmena should remain faithful to her husband and also give herself to me . That she should remain chaste under my caresses and yet that desire should flame up in her under my very sight . That she should know nothing of the intrigue , and yet that she should connive at it with all her might . "  |p105The  play continues in a series of mixed identities and feelings among Jupiter , Amphitryon , and Alkmena , later including Queen Leda . Again , the woman is being tested for faithfulness with quite ambivalent feelings on the part of the disquieted male as to whether he seeks success or failure in his venture . Jupiter 's abovequotedspeech could easily be that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pathological jealousy , the teasing and playfulness are not present . The patient is very seriously preoccupied and distressed by the infidelity of the mate . The idea can not be dispelledby reassurance ; all evidence is transformed to suit the conceptof unfaithfulness and sexual looseness . The idea has the strength of a delusion . These instances of malignant jealousy have nevertheless the same underlying motive in the normal relationship . However now there is no pleasure , but instead agony . A twenty-two-year-old male student presented himself for psychiatric treatment because of extreme depression characterized by frequent crying spells , agitation , and somatic symptoms of anxiety . He related that he had been seeing a young girl with whom he was deeply in love and was debating the issue of marriage . The obstacle as he saw it was the fact that he had knowledge of her previous sexual experiences with other men . This thought tormented him in spite of the fact that he himself had intercourse with her . This jealous thought could not be dispelled by all the " broad-mindedness and tolerance " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her but always returned . The fact that she was of a lower economic and social status was not the determining factor , he thought . He could not " tolerate " the idea of her previous sexual promiscuity . Yet his own sexual activities were not of a limited nature . Further exploration revealed another mechanism . As therapy continued , he brought out that he had always been fascinated by " loose women , " always preferring their company . He would become intrigued by gossip about them and always sought intimate details as related by other boys . In the present instance he was overtly consumed with jealousy about his girl friend . He had to learn from her and from male acquaintances a full inventory of her past sexual experience . He found himself inextricably involved ; he could not marry her because of her " promiscuity , " yet would not leave her . He always came back , as he described it , " crying in her lap . " This individual came of a family of moderate means . There was an older brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " quick-tempered , unreasonable and stubborn ; a man who pushed his children to achieve his own end . " Mother , on the other hand , was described as an emotional person , " basically sentimental " ; mother was overprotective and restrictive , always fearful that her children would get hurt . Extremely reserved in her attitude and behavior , she saw danger in everything . The idea of the woman with clandestine sexual experiences was discussed . In his early childhood he had thought much about the circumstances of his parents ' marriage . They had eloped , an unusual occurrence in a religious family such as theirs . Later he wondered if his mother had been pregnant so that she had to get married quickly and quietly . The origin of the idea of woman being sexually promiscuous was speculation about mother . Yet in the beginning the day dreams about mother were of a pleasant nature . It was only later , with the mother substitute , that the suffering manifested itself . No longer could the conscience allow pleasure to be experienced with these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another situation , similar to the one described early in this chapter , was that of a fifty-four-year-old male who had been urged toward a psychiatric consultation by his wife . Life had becomeunbearable for them because in the last four of their twenty years of marriage , he had successively accused her of infidelity with three male acquaintances of theirs . He was quick to notice little gestures that his wife made , and he had thought of many devices to " catch " her . Through these devices , although he had no concrete evidence , he felt without doubt she was untrue to him . And he was apparently tormented , anxious , and extremely despondent . He felt that life was no longer worth living with the situation as it was . Somatic symptoms appeared , fear of heart trouble , cancer , etc . He felt deep sorrow for his eighteen-yearoldson who would have to live with the embarrassment of an immoral mother . He contrasted his own home life ; his mother had the respect of all who knew her . Never had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Needless to say , he was a devoted son to his mother . Because of this deep understanding between them , no overt gestures of affection had to be displayed , so he stated . There was another brother , with whom the patient had always quarreled ; for the last five years they had not spoken to each other . Father appeared to be quite a passive individual , about whom the patient had little to say . At the age of 34 , the patient had severe misgivings about marriage , even though he stated he was madly in love with his bride-to-be . He had the feeling that she really did not love him but married him because he was well off financially . Before the marriage took place he demanded and received a letter from a gynecologist attesting to her virginity . Early in the marriage suspiciousnessof a benign nature began to show itself . He always teased her with , " I know that your heart is somewhere else . " Up to this point , this might be delusional jealousy with repressed homosexuality as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for virginity ( the Virgin Mother ) , accusationsof infidelity with male friends , etc . However , another more pertinent and basic mechanism seemed to be the underlying psychopathology . He told , in the nature of a confession , that for many years , in spite of her overt decorum , he had visualized his mother affectionatelyembracing and having sexual play with a younger man , not his father . In recalling these thoughts , he stated that they were absolutely insane because he had never seen his mother display affection toward any man , including his own father , brother , or himself . During his adolescence , these thoughts about his mother began to disturb him but he said he dismissed them from his mind . The daydream of this patient appeared to be corroborative evidence that he identified , not himself , but his wife with his mother . The patient was identified with his father . The delusion of jealousy in this instance is actually a wish that mother should be loose sexually and that she should have an affair with another man ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself . So , again , the fear is actually the wish . It is most significant in these cases that the mother in each instance was very reserved ,  |p108modest  , and restrictive in attitude . These phantasies betray the desire on the part of the son that she be otherwise ? that the illicit and clandestine seduction of the son should proceed . In everyday life the teasing by suspicion is based on a desire of the individual to have his mate free sexually ? with him . On the oedipal level , it is a similar feeling toward mother . The depreciation of the unfaithful mate is always a concomitantfeature of malignant jealousy . This degradation as explained in 1912 by Freud again serves to disguise the mother and at the same time to allow " sexualization " of her.14Now the question of the extreme suffering and anxiety of the jealous patient must be answered . If the jealousy seems to fulfill a wish for sexual freedom with mother , why should patients become so disturbed about the infidelity ? This can not be answered with direct evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the subjective symptoms are based on guilt feelings because of the incestuous wish . The fears accompanying jealousy , i.e. , fear of breaking up the home , fear for the reputation of the family , fear of insanity and general physical breakdown , so often expressed , are most likely in the nature of castration fears because of the tabooed wish in the phantasy and delusion . In the beginning the phantasy is most pleasureful ; only later does a hypertrophied conscience demand its price and obfuscate the original gratification . Clinically , the jealous person resists reassurance ; on the contrary , he comes to therapy for substantiation of his phantasy . He will not easily give up the gratification inherent in this mechanismof jealousy . Although the more dramatic and communicable problems of marriage have to do with " low " fidelity , a subtle form of imitation is high or exaggerated fidelity . In this there is a devotion and obeisance that can be oppressive , stifling and enraging . One mate may become a puppy-dog to the other , following , imitating , obeyingwith such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the maddening process of this relationship is that it is very difficult to lodge a complaint . In this world of cruelty , alienation , and abandonment , how can one tell a judge that " my mate loves me too much " ? Yet our poets and dramatists have told us thep109vagaries of loving unwisely . If , for some situations , love may not be enough , for others it can be too much . The observer soon sees that servile love is a sign of immaturity in the giver and an act of oppression to the object . It is a " killing with kindness " syndrome , really a grave insincerity which hides behind the euphemismof devotion . This sort of " devotion " led one woman to seek psychiatric help . Her chief complaint was that her husband spent his time following her around the house . His overriding preference was to be with her every moment that he was home from work . Her company pre-empted all social and recreational activities . His home was his castle ; he seemed to have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the outside with whom he would rather be than the woman whom he had chosen and loved . At parties and social gatherings , her presence and conversation were always the most attractive and most stimulating . What friends they had were ones whom she had " found " ; he was grateful that she assumed this social responsibility . Similarly , he relinquished his ties to his own parents and siblings , and seemed to prefer his in-laws . The most oppressive aspect of his uxorious devotion was the imitative component . He liked to follow her in her interests and hobbies . When she signed up for a course in adult education , he immediately thought this would be a good idea for himself and matriculated . When she undertook to play a musical instrument , he dusted off his adolescent violin . He similarly took his cues about political , religious and moral issues from her . She appeared to be , to say the least , like an overbearing wife and perhaps the promotion of this image was one of his underlying motives . Ultimately she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would appear . Although she was gratified to some degree by her husband 's seeming compliance with her wishes , she was also distressed by having too much of a good thing . She , in her own right , had never sought or demanded this sort of authority in the home . As a modern woman she cherished what she considered a reasonable degree of autonomy for herself but showed no particular lust to possess the will of her mate . This he seemed all too freely to relinquish ; for her this was no valuable acquisition , but indeed a tiresome burden.  |p110He  wished to effect a fusion with her in hope of gaining needed support , but for her this was a severe threat to her own boundaries and integrity . The observer could see his behavior as reminiscent of a boy tied to his mother 's apron strings ? a manifestation of extreme dependence on a woman , eclipsing needs to maintain the conventionalimage of the male as independent , strong , outgoing , and self-sufficient . Yet , in his own mind , he was nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was annoyed with his behavior . Could he help it if he loved her so dearly ? What he was unable to see was that in giving himself over to her , he was performing a religious act of adoration ? one that should be reserved for one 's Deity . Or , again using the idiom of religion , he emptied himself of his own identity in the manner of theophany , and became a devotee . He hoped thereby to obtain for himself the blessings that accrue to what might appear as unselfishness but which was really selflessness . Ironically , the above type of devotion may be normal conventionalexpectation for a woman . Her " theophany , " her emptying herself of all personal goals when she marries , is looked upon as perfectly normal , and her docility is viewed as a prime virtue . When a male does it , it becomes a clinical case ! Indeed , part of the above female patient 's confusion was that her husband was acting out the role that would be expected of her . She was suspicious thal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps to goad her into relinquishing , or at least feeling guilt about , the autonomy she had secured . Rarely , if ever , is there the complaint that a wife is too docile , too submissive , too much at home . She may without danger become her husband 's devotee . We might conclude that " high " fidelity on the part of the male is considered highly " unnatural " for him and at best looked upon with a great deal of suspicion . Conversely , the usual expectation of fidelity on the part of the woman is part and parcel of her docility , submission , and consequent dependence on the authority of her husband . Biblical Ruth 's credo to this day largely defines woman 's destiny . Montaigne 's admonition in the 16th century is still largely ignored . He wrote : " We have not made a bargain , in gettingp111married , to keep continually tied to each other by the tail , like some little animals or other that we see , or like the bewitched people of Karenty , in doglike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so greedily fixed on the front of her husband that she can not see the back of him , if need be . " 1 ' Fidelity as a sentiment as opposed to logic , as a function of the superego , was explained by Chekhov in the play alluded to above " Uncle Vanya . " This is expressed by the oafish character Telyegin in the following : " Voynitsky : Because her fidelity is false from beginning to end . There is plenty of fine sentiment in it , but no logic . To deceive an old husband whom one ca n't endure is immoral ; but to try and stifle one 's youth , one 's vitality , one 's capacity to feel ? that 's not immoral . ' " Telyegin ( in a tearful voice ) : Vanya , I ca n't bear to hear you talk like that . Come now , really ! Anyone who can betray wife or husband is a person who ca n't be trusted and who might betray his country . ' " Voynitsky ( with vexation ) : Dry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vanya . My wife ran away from me with the man she loved the day after our wedding , on the ground of my unprepossessing appearance . But I have never been false to my vows . I love her to this day and am faithful to her . I help her as far as I can and , to bring up her children by the man she loved , I gave all that I had . I may have lost my happiness , but my pride has been left me . And she , poor soul , her youth is over , her beauty , in accordance with the laws of nature , has faded , but the man she loves is dead . . . . Now what has she left ? ' " 16Fidelity thus becomes a rigid virtue unrelated to integrative functions . It is for the mind that must operate through authority and command that would not trust a logical approach . As such it is a strait jacket into which one comfortably fits oneself . It is with such mentation that one returns to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in change protest or to speak of revolution . E. M. Forster conceptualizes a hierarchy of loyalties in which interpersonal relations would claim his highest feelings . In an oft-quoted , if unlikely , credo , he states : " If I had to choose betweenbetraying my country and betraying my friends , I hope I should have the guts to betray my country . " 17 This may be a finep112democratic sentiment but is a luxury which few have in this world . And it is a highly theoretical and abstract position . We really do not know how he would act in this reality . The question of his loyalty may be out of his hands because loyalty in such situations may be influenced from above . And the issue of loyalty can not be divorced from the power that one has or the power that can be exerted on one . Lord Acton might tell us that those with power may exempt themselves from the very loyalty and fidelity that they can impose on others . One generally hears of loyal servants or subjects , rarely of loyal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of faithfulness in marriage where the rules of conduct as far as infidelity are concerned are much more stringent and condemnatory for the relatively powerless woman than for the man . Therefore , in the maledominantsociety the infidelity of the male is generally excused whereas the woman 's lapse has severe consequences . This wellknowndouble standard has been rationalized and vindicated in the fiction that the male of the species is basically polygamous , and therefore his transgressions are a part of his basic nature ; whereasthe woman 's is a moral fault . This is another instance where power can write its own favorable rules supported by an ongoing mythology . We might have to agree with the cynic when he says that if one is powerful enough one does not have to be sexually faithful and yet at the same time can demand unswerving loyalty from another . The best safeguard for mutual fidelity may in the end be a healthy balance of power . There is an overwhelming amount of evidence that seems to confirm Lord Acton 's wisdom . Power always does seem to corrupt . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalties and adverse consequences . Virtue thrives on consequences . The problem of fidelity was for a long time dealt with by psychoanalysis as an " id " problem , based on the oedipal complexand its variegated offshoots . Fidelity as an ego entity awaited explication by Erikson . He did this in an adroit re-examinationof Freud 's analysis of the famous Dora case . She , the adolescent girl , was sent to Freud by a distraught father because of her general rebelliousness as well as hysterical symptoms . Freud uncovered at that time as the chief , but not only , source of herp113troubles a conflict over a love situation with an older man , Herr K , who was the husband of her father 's nurse and paramour . She in turn was taken into the unsolicited confidences of her parents and the K couple about the confused interfamily relationship but always with half-truths and circuities . Freud felt that Dora , with her budding but Victorian sexuality , " fell ill " from the exacerbationof an unresolved father complex now reactivated by Herr K 's seductive behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier formulation , that Dora , concerned with the structuring of convictionsand values , as adolescents must be , was brought to a prematurecrisis in her life by the circumstances of family problems ? in particular the behavior of her father with his nurse . His example and explanations served as a crushing blow to any ideal of fidelity that she might have been constructing inside herself . Erikson in effect stressed the importance of fidelity as an ego need . Never discounting this later need from factors of earlier development , he nonetheless , at the risk of taking a narrow moralistic stand , spelled out fidelity as more or less basic for the **30;3662;TOOLONG wrote : " If fidelity is a central concern of young adulthood , then her case appears to be a classical example of fatefully perverted fidelity . A glance back at her history will reveal that her family had exposed her to multiple sexual infidelity , while all concerned ? father and mother , Mrs. K and Mr. K ? tried to compensate for all their pervading perfidy by making Dora their confidante , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sure ) with half-truths which were clearly unmanageablefor an adolescent . " Again , Erikson : " Dora needed to act as she did not only inorder to vent the childish rage of one victimized but also inorder to set straight the historical past so that she could envisagea sexual and social future of her choice ; call infidelities by theirnames before she could commit herself to her own kind of fidelity . " For those investigators who view the formulation of conviction , ideas , and values of adolescence of no less importance thanearlier events , Erikson 's interpretation is a welcome leap forward . If Dora was the victim of hypocrisy and double talk , herp114destiny was sealed finally by the greatest act of infidelity of all committed by her father on her by turning from her to her brother . Erikson writes of Dora : " A vital identity fragment in her young life was that of the woman intellectual which had been encouraged by her father 's delight in her precocious intelligence , but discouragedby her brother 's superior example as favored by the times , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accessibleto a young woman of her class . The negative identity of the " declassee " woman ( so prominent in her era ) she tried to ward off with her sickness : remember that Mr. K , at the lake , had tried to seduce her with the same argument which , as she happened to know , had previously been successful with a domestic . " 19This disloyalty of fathers to their daughters in first valuing them as bright young people and then in adolescence viewing them as nothing but " homo sexualis " is a most prevalent disease . As fathers do it , so do husbands who , although promising to love and honor , most often end up by only loving . And as we have been reminded love is not enough . If Giraudoux is correct in saying that " most faithful wives are unfaithful to their husbands with everything except a man , " it may be truer that fathers and husbands are unfaithful to their women in everything except sex . And it is the sexual role that they faithfully and unambivalently assign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place women in strictly biological roles whether that of nursing , feeding , love making , etc . This is an ongoing , unrelenting perfidy of our civilizationwhich is sealed by the mythology of " naturalness . " We can affirm that fidelity with its partner , trust , is a necessity for harmonious social relationships . Without it , no family , no community , no nation can long exist . Fidelity , although born in the family , permeates all subsequent relationships and understandingsand must be prominent in the hierarchy of commitments from marriage , to business , to profession , to church , to country . " Fundamentum enim est justitiae fides , " said Cicero . Fidelity is the foundation of justice . Simone de Beauvoir has expressed with candor the question of fidelity as it arose between two " liberated " people . Although unmarried , she revealed the same problem of preserving basic faith , and at the same time the maintenance of autonomy of the individ/uals involved . Even with a great deal of abstract philosophy and high-sounding intentions , she reveals plenty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related his feelings for M. As an overall philosophy for their relationship , she writes : " Often preached , rarely practiced , complete fidelity is usually experienced by those who impose it on themselves as a mutilation ; they console themselves for it by sublimations or by drink . Traditionally , marriage used to allow the man a few adventures on the side ' without reciprocity ; nowadays , many women have become aware of their rights and of the conditions necessary for their happiness ; if there is nothing in their own lives to compensate for masculine inconstancy , they will fall prey to jealousy and boredom . " There are many couples who conclude more or less the same pact as that of Sartre and myself : to maintain throughout all deviations from the main path a certain fidelity . " I have been faithful to thee , Cynara , in my fashion . ' Such an undertakinghas its risks ? it is always possible that one of the partnersmay prefer a new attachment to the old one , the other partner then considering himself or herself unjustly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim and a torturer confront each other . " If the two allies allow themselves only passing sexual liaisons , then there is no difficulty , but it also means that the freedomthey allow themselves is not worthy of the name . Sartre and I have been more ambitious ; it has been our wish to experiencecontingent loves ' ; but there is one question we have deliberately avoided . How would the third person feel about our arrangement ? It often happened that the third person accommodatedhimself to it without difficulty ; our union left plenty of room for loving friendships and fleeting affairs . But if the protagonist wanted more , then conflicts would breakout . " 20Finally , something should be said about the word opportunity ? so disdained in sophisticated psychological circles . It is easy to say that moral behavior is overwhelmingly determined by internalp116needs , defenses , prohibitions , and values . We hear that the sound person will respond ethically to all and any temptations . Even if it is true that the morality or lack of it in any individual may be predictable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " more or less . " Only belief or illusion has absolute certainty . If it is so that we can say that a person will be " more or less " faithful , we must then take into account unpsychological factors such as proximity and opportunity . With lack of opportunity , the worst scoundrel would have to be a saint . As Goethe said : " Opportunity makes connections as it makes thieves . " " ' Taking into account drives , ego needs , and the vagaries of opportunity , one is justified in speaking of fealty in human terms of more or less ? that the relationshipwithout blemish is not to be condemned as rigid or compulsive . Nor is a lapse or two to be interpreted as a sign of deep and unalterable corruption of character . Inconstancy is not necessarilyinfidelity . It was the genius of Freud that turned away from unalterable positions in favor of conceptualization in terms of fluidity ? of progressions and regressions . Freud never did accept the vision of man 's unswerving and unfaltering propulsion to heaven . One can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spirit and body . The issue of certainty as a human quest has already been alluded to in Chapter I. The question of fidelity and jealousy that arises is inextricably tied to man 's basic wish for the absolute , for the unalterable and infallible . Jealousy in a sense is the byproductof the breakdown of belief in another human being . His belief system has been shattered not only by actual infidelity but by the inherent incapacity of his fellow human beings to sustain and imitate the model of God . As indicated above , certainty is found only in religion and does not characterize the world of reason . Jealousy therefore never requires of itself that it have a real or provable basis . Love gives the illusion of certainty and therefore becomes precious in a world built on doubt and probabilities . We can again gainfullyquote Balzac : " Certainty is the basis for which human beings crave , for it is never lacking in religious sentiment ; man is always certain of being fully repaid by God . Love never believes itself secure but by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ap117woman , to make her your religion , the fount of life , the secret luminary of all your least thoughts ? is not this a second birth ? And a young man mingles with this love a little of the feeling he had for his mother . " 22Years later another perceptive Frenchman , Albert Camus , was to write in the rhetoric of existentialism the following : " A faithful love ? if it does not impoverish ? is one way for man to maintain the best of himself to the greatest possible degree . It is thus that fidelity is re-established as a value . But this love is outside the eternal . It is the most human of feelings with all the word includesboth of restriction and rapture . That is why man only realizes himself in love because in it he finds in a dazzling form the image of his futureless destiny ( and not , as idealists say , because it approaches a certain form of the eternal ) . The type : Heathcliff . All this is illustration of the fact that absurdity has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that which does not . It being understood that there is only one way of enduring which is to endure eternally and that there is no middle term . We are of the world that does not endure . And everythingthat does not endure ? and nothing except what does not endure ? is ours . Thus it is a question of recovering love from eternity or , at least , from those who disguise it as an image of eternity . I see the objection already ; the fact is that you have never loved . Let us leave it at that . " 23Notes1 . Jean Giraudoux , Amphitryon 38 , adapt . S. N. Behrman ( New York : Random House , 1938 ) , pp. 18-19. 2 . William Shakespeare , " Othello , " The Complete Works of William Shakespeare ( Cleveland , Ohio : The World Publishing Co. , n.d. ) , p. 1007. 3 . Albert Camus , " The Artist at Work , " Exile and the Kingdom ( New York : Penguin Books , 1958 ) , p. 84. 4 . Anton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Major Plays ( New York : Signet Classic , The New World of Literature , Inc. , 1964 ) , p. 171. 5 . Sigmund Freud , " Certain Neurotic Mechanisms in Jealousy , Para/noia , and Homosexuality , " Collected Papers , ed . Ernest Jones ( London : The Hogarth Press , 1949 ) , p. 232. 6 . Martin Wangh , " Othello : The Tragedy of Iago , " Psychoanalyt . Q. , XIX ( April 1950 ) , p. 202. 7 . William Shakespeare , " The Winter 's Tale , " The Complete Works ed . W. J. Craig ( New York : Oxford University Press , n.d. ) , p. 375. 8 . William H. Whyte , Organization Man , and Paul Goodman , People or Personnel ( New York : Random House , 1965 ) . 9 . Charles Seltman , The Twelve Olympians ( London : Pan Books , Ltd. , 1952 ) , p. 60. 10 . Ibid. , p. 26. 11 . Quotations are from Ferenc Molnar , The Guardsman ( New York : Boni and Liveright , 1924 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sigmund Freud , " Special Types of Objective Choice , " Collected Papers , IV ( London : The Hogarth Press , 1950 ) , p. 199. 13 . Quotations are from Jean Giraudoux , Amphitryon 38 , adapt . S. N. Behrman ( New York : Random House , 1938 ) , pp. 18 , 19 , 101. 14 . Sigmund Freud , " Contributions to the Psychology of Love , " CollectedPapers , IV , ed . Ernest Jones ( London : The Hogarth Press , 1949 ) , p. 203. 15 . Donald M. Frame , " Montaigne . A Biography , " Sunday Herald Tribune Book Week ( Nov. 21 , 1965 ) , p. 19. 16 . Anton P. Chekhov , " Uncle Vanya , " Chekhov : The Major Plays ( New York : Signet Classic , The New World of American Literature , Inc. , 1964 ) . 17 . E. M. Forster , Two Cheers for Democracy ( New York : Harcourt , Brace &; World , 1938 ) , p. 68. 18 . Quotations are from Erik H. Erikson , " Reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assoc. , X ( July 1962 ) , pp. 459-60. 19 . Ibid. , p. 459. 20 . Simone de Beauvoir , " The Question of Fidelity , " Harper 's Magazine , CCXIX ( Nov. 1964 ) , p. 57. 21 . J. W. Goethe , Elective Affinities , trans . Elizabeth Mayer and Louise Bogan ( Chicago : Henry Regnery Co. , 1963 ) . 22 . Honore de Balzac , A Study of Woman ( New York : P. F. Collier &; Son , 1839 ) . 23 . Albert Camus , " A Writer 's Notebook , " Encounter , XXIV ( March 1965 ) , p. 29. 24 . As every anthropologist knows , the sexual jealousy and possessivenesswe see so much of in our culture is by no means universal . For instance , amongst the Irigwe of Nigeria ( see footnote Chap . I ) in their system of primary and secondary marriages , marital partners leave for others without engendering hostility and rancor.  |p119is  Anatomy Destiny ? Women are the universal depressed minority group which is why they are looked down upon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew that . Emile CapouyaTHE PSYCHOANALYST must turn to Mill , not Freud , for the heuristic statement about the problems of women in our civilization . The disappointment with Freud in this matter is all the more distressing since psychoanalysis cut its eye teeth on the psychic illnesses of women patients . The Studies in Hysteria by Breuer and Freud dealt with women exclusively . Preoccupied with psychosexual matters , they missed the opportunity to illuminate the psychosocialfactors which , as Erickson was to point out later in the Dora case , were more consequential . This error of psychoanalysis , unfortunately , has resisted correction in the mainstream of orthodoxy . How one would have welcomed in Freud something similar to the opening statement of John Stuart Mill in his essay , " The Subjectionof Women " : " That the principle which regulates the existing social relations between the two sexes ? the legal subordination of one sex to the other ? is wrong in itself , and now one of the chief hindrances to human improvement ; and that it ought to be replaced by a principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one side , nor disability on the other . " 18p120Rumor has it that Freud was concerned about the social inequityof the sexes but his outlook , it is reported , was less than egalitarian . R. V. Sampson in his exciting book , The Psychology of Power , writes : " There must be inequality , ' Freud is reported to have remarked in a conversation with Dr. J. Worthis on the subject of the relations between the sexes . And since this inequality must prevail , superiority of the man is the lesser of the two evils . ' There is no reason to doubt that this aptly summarized Freud 's own relations with his wife . The adored Gretchen of courtship is wooed tenderly and ardently in order to be raised subsequently to the respected position of matriarchal Hausfrau . The husband remains devotedly loyal , but distantly so in terms of emotional involvement . " 23We are being told in essay and novel today that womanhood is an atrophic disease rather than an identity. ? These writers , for the most part , are convincing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side Phyllis McGinley extols the virtues and pleasuresof domestic chores.1 ? However , as a Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist , she herself is not exactly a typical housewife or homemaker . Her wonderful accomplishments elicit from us great admiration for her as a person , but these same achievements make us doubt her sincerity and objectivity as an adviser on these matters . Those who reside on Parnassus have no difficulty recommending simple pleasures for the non-literati . Woman 's status in the world today , even in the United States , where it is better than most places , is grossly unequal to that of her sexual counterpart.t2 Most women , apparently succumbing to the euphuistic prose and poetry about sweet femininity and domesticity , do not seem to know or care about the grossly inferior place to which they have been relegated . As a matter of irony , women themselves , in a form of self-hate , generally condemn members of their own sex who strive for something better . As an indication of woman 's snail-like progress in gaining recognition as a person one recent news item is enlightening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time certain nuns and leaders of Catholic women 's organizations would be admitted as " auditors " of debates of the third session of the Ecumenical Council known as Vatican II . Pope Paul VI 's statement is commendable but some/what cautious and perhaps overdue : " We believe that the day has come in which it is necessary to place in higher honor and greater efficiency feminine religious life . " This is gratifying progress and certainly a step toward justice . It is also a reminder of just how ignored and suppressed womankindhas been . Even though she has been the bulwark of religion in every country through the ages , and has steadfastly upheld and promoted religious belief and practice ? as even in Russia today ? even in the face of scoffing and rebellious males , she has been excluded from any authoritative role in central church activities and given pitifully little honor . It is therefore laudable if somewhat overdue that women for the first time in two thousand years may be allowed in the ecclesiastical chambers to observe , giving hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an allmaleconclave . The records of other major religions on this score are no better . Religions are habitual laggards in the major moral issues . The church traditionally has been run on male homosexuallibido . Margaret Brackenbury Crook , holder of a Certificate in Divinity , hopes that in the future it will be otherwise.33 The progresshere , as she freely admits , is somewhat slower than a snail 's pace.3Women gain little from the messages about them found in our heritage . Graves and Patai say : " Hebrew myths treat women as fields to be ploughed and sown by godlike heroes ? passive and thus necessarily guiltless if the wrong farmer should enter . " 10The Talmud in its parable about the origin of woman was all too prescriptive in tone : " God deliberated from which part of man to create woman . He said , I must not create her from the head that she should not carry herself haughtily ; nor from the eye that she should not be too inquisitive ; nor from the ear , that she should not be an eavesdropper ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talkative ; nor from the heart that she should not be too jealous ; nor from the hand that she should not be too acquisitive ; nor from the foot that she should not be a gadabout ; but from a hidden part of the body that she should be modest . ' " ( Genesis Rabbah 18:2 ) The woman who has a feeling for autonomyand involvement might question whether there is anything in the above for her.  |p122The  renegade psychoanalyst , Otto Rank , writes : " Although the role of the Jew in human civilization epitomizes on a worldhistoricscale the psychological paradoxes of human nature and behavior , there is still another story of symbiotic assimilation much more profound in its basis and much more significant in its effect on human nature , because it does not concern the perpetuationof culture throughout the ages but the very core of life : the perpetuation of the human race as such . We are referring to the matter already discussed at length ? the position of the woman in this man-made world , and her position as ascribed to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without . In this sense , woman 's place in life and her psychology has often been compared to that of the Jew , inasmuch as she has been subjected throughout history to the treatment a slave is given , has been persecutedperiodically as the scapegoat for all human evils ( medievalwitchcraft ) , in fact , was pictured as the cause ' of evil itself , a curse which the Jew took from her not only by becoming the scapegoat but by inventing the first psychology as an explanation of evil in the human being . " 21aPerhaps a step up from the woman as field ( Graves and Patai ) is Claudel 's metaphor of woman as plant in his novel , The Satin Shoe . " The husband of Dona Prouheze , the Judge , the Just , as the author regards him , explains that every plant needs a gardener in order to grow and that he is the one whom heaven has destined for his young wife . " 5Shakespeare 's Rosalind , disguised as a male , tells Orlando : " ... but indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was in his youth an inland man , one that knew courtship too well : for there he fell in love . I have heard him read many lectures against it , and I thank God , I am not a woman , to be touch 'd with so many giddy offences as he hath generally tax 'd their whole sex withal . " 25It is the old story that , once they have gained it , men and institutions rarely give up power without pressure to do so . In the case of women , the pressures have been minimal because they have dutifully " known their place " and made virtues out of submission , docility , and inferiority . " Facis de necessitate virtutem . " They become ecstatic over the niggardly crumbs handed to them.  |p123In  public matters , theirs is a role played from the balcony as in synagogues of old . They are generally resigned to this role and have taken it as being " natural , " rather than man-made . The difficulty here is that all those tasks and roles assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the having and feeding of children , the care of the lean-to , and a variety of things that a self-respecting male would consider demeaning and would stalk off the job if asked to do . Even at work away from home , she is the secretary , not the boss ; laboratory worker , not scientist , teacher but rarely principal ; social worker but never director of the agency . Nursing is about the only profession where women controltheir own house , supplying both the executive and working force . According to statistics , there are in 1969 , 26 million working women . But the vast majority are working at very menial jobs . When the Harvard Business Review attempted to make a survey of women 's executive opportunities , they gave up in despair , the barriers being so great that there was scarcely anything to study . The percentage of women in the professions have actually declined since the 1930s . There is tragic irony in the generally held belief that women are strongly " narcissistic . " This term is applied to them because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The importance they place on their clothes , mannerisms , and other attention-getting devices as well as their so-called propensityfor hypochondriasis and psychosomatic disorders have led many erroneously to feel and write that women have a high level of narcissism in them . The opposite , of course , is the case . It has been observed that self-love , as far as the female is concerned , is grossly wanting . It is both scarce in women and poorly tolerated by society when it exists . Lionel Trilling 's words are perceptive indeed . " There is a great power of charm in self-love , although , to be sure , the charm is an ambiguous one . We resent it and resist it , yet we are drawn by it , if only it goes with a little grace or creative power . Nothing is easier to pardon than the mistakes and excesses of self-love : if we are quick to condemn them , we take pleasure in forgiving them . And with good reason , for they are extravagance of the first of virtues , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But we distinguish between our responsep124to the self-love of men and the self-love of women . No woman could have won the forgiveness that has been so willingly given ( after due condemnation ) to the self-regard of , say , Yeats and Shaw . We understand self-love to be part of the moral life of all men ; in men of genius we expect it to appear in unusual intensity and we take it to be an essential element of their power . " 30Freud recognized this absence or diminution of self-love in women . However , he characteristically attributes this quality to anatomy rather than to society . He states that the girl " is wounded in her self-love by the unfavorable comparison with the boy who is so much better equipped .... " 22 , 29 Clearly then for Freud anatomyis destiny . Freud , however , might have pondered whether the girl is victimized by the equipment she is born with or by what she is later denied . Clara Thompson wisely pointed out that the girl 's envy of the boy could be adequately explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her voice has not received the attention it deserves . By demonstrating the frustrations and renunciations that generally held for the female in the patriarchal society , she eclipsed Freud 's anatomical theory . Similarly , Karen Horney was in the forefront of exposing the social aspects of woman 's plight . Her treatment at the hands of mainstream psychoanalysisis a sad chapter in the history of that science.31 Freud 's was a hard act to follow.28 , 29It is generally agreed that one has to search far and wide for female geniuses in science or in the arts . This has been used as evidence of cerebral inferiority or at least psychological inhibition or inadequacy . Psychoanalysis , following Freud , tends to explain the woman 's seeming lack of creativity on the nature of her being and on psychological ontogeny . Greenacre postulates that the woman 's creativity becomes absorbed in her biological function of producing children . And in a strange twist of values , she seems to indicate that because a woman creates children , she would therefore have no need to express herself creatively in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold that man 's creativity results from his frustration at not being able to become pregnant , i.e. , he is reduced to having brain children . Although quite poetic , this simplistic formulation regarding creativityin the male and female is unconvincing.  |p125On  the contrary there is evidence to indicate that the factors of opportunity and salutary climate play decisive roles . The most pertinent and perceptive statements on the subject seem to come from those outside of psychology and psychoanalysis . For instance , in the matter of woman writers , Madeline Chapsal finds the dearth of women novelists is due primarily to cultural restraints . She states : " The act of writing , a hyperindividualistic act , would seem to be incontestably linked to social condition , that is , to the degree of individual freedom with respect to the group and to the society as a whole ? the society itself having to be not only free , but economicallydeveloped . ' " She also writes : " For centuries , and especially in the 19th century , the one thing forbidden to girls above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speech , which was suspected of leading ? and we see how right they were ? to freedom of thought , then of action . " The above statements appear to be more logical in their explanation of the woman 's lack of artistic production than the focus on her biology . Without in the least knocking the value and delights of having babies , writing books would seem to be another thing again . The picture might be quite different if her spiritual freedom went hand in hand with her child-producing license . Today there are great actresses although it is only in recent times that they have been allowed on the stage . In spite of their successes on the stage , their struggles for achievement are still quite difficult . The unconscious ( ? ) prejudice against them shows no sign of abating . It has been observed that although we have outstandingly talented actresses , very few playwrights write substantialparts or plays for them . Harold Clurman , in an article called " Our Neglected Women , " writes in this regard : " The reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has so painfully shrunk in the past 20 years . That of course is a major factor but beyond this is the failure of our dramatists to provide truly interesting parts for women . During the years of decline only Williams , Inge and Arthur Laurents have consistently written central roles for our actresses . Only in After The Fall has Arthur Miller leveled his sights to the feminine ( independent of the purely maternal ) sphere of life and that from a largely male point of view ? which indeed is one of the points of his play . " Mr. Clur/man , admittedly straying from his thoughts in the theater , goes on to say : " Women today are free but the stage neglects them . We are all crazy about them , but do we love them ? They are rarely seen for and in themselves . They are seen as babies or brides who need protection , monsters from whom we must protect ourselves , martyred saints , mothers who stifle us , thorns in the flesh , solace to broken men . Even as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obsolete . At their most enthusiastic , dramatists see them as destroyed persons , victims . And so in a sense they are . Ibsen 's A Doll 's House is now held to be outmoded . And it is : Nora does n't have to leave the house and slam the door ; she is virtually pushed out . But once she 's out , where , humanly considered , does she go ? " He blames this on the harassment of modern-living rather than deliberate oppression . " There is no personal villain to this story . The pressure of our society on its men folk ( the prosperous as well as the poor ) is so great that they have little time , patience or energy except for partners in business or in bed and hardly ever for true companionship . The moral and emotional stature of men has contracted ; women suffer from this diminution ; and the stage offers them insufficientopportunity to realize themselves .... " 2 If Mr. Clurman 's existential analysis appears to exclude the factor of personal psychology as well as the demiurge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women in society in human terms . And , sadly enough , he shows how little actual progress toward equity has been made . One statement of Mr. Clurman warrants emphasis and is applicableto areas of involvement other than the stage . He indicatesthe training , willingness and freedom of the woman today but the lack of opportunity . There is no place for her to go . She is shut out by design or bias from all but the menial and routine jobs . Unfair to those already in the market , the real damage is done to the will and hope of the young who are deprived of models to emulate . Thus a malignant constraining force is produced which diminishes the options and alternatives for the young girl . This may account for the stampede toward marriage and the relinquishingof educational opportunities . Mr. Clurman says that there are no villains here . Therep127does n't have to be , for as in other instances of prejudice and persecution , the dirty work is done by the institutions , the silent coalescence of man-made and man-dominated systems of education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which effectively does the job of exclusion and diminution . So effective has this work of attrition been that chastity belts need no longer be applied ? women have been reduced to insuring their own modesty . It is this depreciatory attitude toward their daughters that largely accounts for the hostility that daughters feel toward their parents ? especially their mothers . The mother characteristically looking to her son for the fulfillment of her own frustrations , relegatesthe member of her own sex , her daughter , to second-class status . This is felt by the daughter as a horrible betrayal and disloyalty . Psychoanalysis , routinely finding this rage in daughters toward their mothers , has attributed it to the sexual rivalry betweenwomen for the father 's love , the classical Oedipus triangle . In addition , the concept of the castration complex has been invoked to explain further this antagonism . This complex in women is derived from the daughter 's alleged phantasy that mother had taken her penis away when she was an infant , i.e. , has castrated her . On this basis , the daughter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her imagination and a derivative of her " unreasonable " penis envy . Professor Andrew Hacker at Cornell writes : " It is the fate of . . . girls not to be taken seriously by their parents . After teaching young women for a dozen years , I never cease to be depressedover the low level of expectations that most parents . . . set for their daughters . Even the most up-to-date mothers and fathers persist in thinking of Judy and Carol as sweet , scatterbrained young things to be dutifully raised and ultimately married off in a white gown at the neighborhood church . " 12These anatomical and bio-sexual explanations have proved to be oversimplifications . For as Hacker points out above , " the castration " of the girl in her childhood and adolescence does in fact take place via the lack of serious consideration that is afforded her . Therefore the daughter 's phantasy of " being cut off " is not an irrational phantasy ? but a social reality . She is in fact cut off from the world that we have always defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no myth as psychoanalysiswould have it . Yet much of the injury to women is self-inflicted . They have succumbed to the culturally-directed penis awe and fully cooperate in the apotheosis of the male . Ask a woman for whom she would rather work and most often she will say " for a man . " In seeking out a physician or a lawyer , most women would say they would have more trust in a male regardless of matters of training , competence , skill , etc . Just as many Negroes are " Uncle Toms " in the civil rights movement , most American women would rather be docile and cooperative than fight for their self-respect . In this process , they hate women who do seek out other than the traditionaldestinies . It is most difficult for them to understand that they indulge in self-hate when they heap ridicule or scorn upon those of their own sex who may attempt to break through some of the male-female shibboleths . These are the Marthas of the world who , having to wait and serve , deeply resent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former the words of Jesus of Nazareth , Rudyard Kipling notwithstanding , are still appropriate : " Martha , Martha , you are anxious and troubled about many things . . . . " It was Mary 's position that he defended . Theologians today seem to have forgotten this . Again , the progress that is made , such as woman suffrage less than fifty years ago , or the Federal equal-pay law in 1964 , is welcomebut really serves to highlight the extent of the lag and newnessof bare recognition of the inequity . It took until 1964 for the basic element of justice to be proclaimed whereby two persons of equal skill and competence and productivity should be similarly rewarded , But the public aspirations of women have always been lightly taken , as evidenced in Presidential news conferences where the Chief Executive would handle a question about women 's rights with a quip that would bring down the house : " I thought women always ran everything . " Similarly , Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith 's entry into the Presidential primaries of 1964 lent a humorousnote to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lightly by solicitous gentlemen , she was openly scorned by her fellow-women . Because women are traditionally bossy around the home ,  |p129|permitted  a great say in inconsequential matters , there has arisen in America , the mythology of the matriarchy . Everybody seems to know and remember that Mother appeared to run everything ; nothing is further from the truth . ( In the so-called American matriarchy , seven states do not give mothers equal control with fathers over their children . ) There was a joke a few years back concerning a harmonious marriage . When asked the reason for their harmony for thirty-five years , the husband replied that there had been an agreement to divide the authority and decision making . The husband made the major decisions and his wife the minor ones . The husband was then asked if he would give examples of what constituted the major decisions . He answered this way . " The decisions about NATO , relations with the Soviet Union , our activities in Vietnam , and the missile build-up are left to me . My wife takes care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in thirty-five years . " This sounds like the typical condition of the American " henpecked " male in which harmony can be reached only by abrogation of all say in his life and family . However , there is tremendous irony in this joke . For in reality the consequential and crucial decisions of the destiny of Americans are in the hands of the males . There are no women in the National Security Council , rarely in the President 's cabinet , and never in significant numbers in legislative positions . Women are given a say in their families perhaps as a compensation for their almost total exclusion from influence in public matters . And this compensatory authority in the home ( and we know in life and clinically ) is often less than salutary to powerless children . Mothers often " identify with the aggressor " and bludgeon the children to degrees of their own exploitation as people . That boys grow up feeling that their mothers have castrated them comes as no surprise . Similarly , girls , who find their mothers inadequate models for themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bossy and overbearing mother is not somebody whom one could profitably and honorably emulate . This is if anything a pseudomatriarchy. system ? with all the ill effects of responses that accompanychronic subjugation , hypocritically called equality and even dominance . There are differences between men and women and , as thep130French say , long live the difference ! Yet it was a Frenchman , Gregoire , who wrote : " Respect for women is the test of national progressin social life . " It is the highest attainment of human mentation to acknowledge and accept differences between man and woman , the gifted and the dull , black and white , Christian and Jew . This does not mean that deliberately cultivated differencesor inequities are to be similarly tolerated or respected . The words of Dr. John Paul Mather , President of the American College Testing Program and former President of the University of Massachusetts , are germane to this subject and are most welcome even though it is discouraging that they are presented as a discoveryin the year 1965 . The New York Times reported his remarksat a symposium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He declared that rapidly advancing researchdirected , computerized , automated civilization ' would offer increasingchances for women to meet their family commitments and at the same time find positions , challenges , exciting and productiveoutlets outside of the home . ' Indulgent parents , ' Dr. Mather said , have soothed daughters , troubled by fractions or algebraic equations , with the admonition that women are n't supposedto be able to keep a checkbook in balance or figure out a bank reconciliation . And the daughters have listened , even when they had real ability , and quit trying . ' Actually , he asserted , many women have a flair and capacity for mathematics and constantly demonstrate ability to be more careful , more accurate and more imaginative than men . ' He foresaw growing opportunities for top and middle management career women , particularly those who have finished the child-bearing , child-rearing phase of their lives . " isThe concept of " equal but separate " roles for male and female is to a degree a necessary one and a sine qua non for the merger known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibilitiesand this dichotomy must be responsive to the all-important biological needs served by women . Theirs is to bear and nurture and there can be no adequate substitute for this ? nor should one be sought . Childbearing and the rearing of children do not take second place in importance to anything the husband accomplishes.  |p131Granting  these irreduceables , one must then carefully examine whether womanhood has been encumbered by many labors of unlove which are the result of the male-dominant society . The dictum , separate and equal , too often suffers pejoration wherein those with power take unto themselves more and more , to the attrition of the other . Moliere was correct in saying : " Du cote de la barbe est la toute-puissance . " ( All the power is with the sex that wears the beard . ) The male has always been and must be more than a husband or a father . If that is all he aspires to , we know that he is destined to fail , for one can be nothing before there is identity as a person with goals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and some measure of success with them , he will fail miserably as a husband or a parent because he will expect his wife and children to provide the gratification which should come , must come , from his own achievements . Furthermore , unless he has some modicum of creativity , he brings very little of enrichment to the family other than his biological presence . What of the woman ? Strangely enough , she may be censured if she aspires to anything more than mother and wife . There are many voices in the land , who , witnessing the general discontentmentof women today , have seriously advocated a new and separate college curriculum for women . Note the recommendation of Dr. James J. Rue , director of a " marriage clinic , " before a national psychological association , reported in the New York Times . The article appeared under the rubric , " Rise in Divorces Laid to Ed-ucation " : " Los Angeles ( Religious News Service ) ? A blistering attackon the American educational system that trains women to become men 's competitors rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the eighth annual meeting of the American Catholic Psychological Association . " Dr. Rue , director of the St. Thomas More Marriage Clinic here and president of the Southern California Association of Marriage Counselors , blamed the skyrocketing ratio of divorce in the United States and marital unhappiness in millions ofp132homes on the materialistic concept of a part-time wife , ' for which the present educational system prepares women , instead of the old-fashioned wife and mother . ' " To save the family structure in America , he said , the entire educational system must be reoriented toward home economics to teach women how to be wives and mothers and to teach men how to be good husbands , tasks that the average American is no longer performing . " Only after these fundamentals are achieved can American women afford the luxury of intellectual pursuit and careers , he added . " z0Instead of liberal arts and the sciences , which are taken in classes with boys , women , they say , should be taught a separate curriculum to prepare them for wifedom and motherhood . This would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would avoid education which gives the female a feeling that her mental abilities , capacities , and performance are at least equal to men . Encouraged in these beliefs and being witness to comparativeresults in the academic world , she finds it difficult to remainin the house watching the division of work and roles evolve in which her husband just happens to be able to use his education effectively and participate in worldly affairs , to be stimulated by contacts with other minds , and on the other hand finds herself immersedin activities about 180 degrees opposite . Instead of having stimulation , opportunity , rewards , etc. , she is witness to her lack of opportunity , inability to use her skills ( which are gradually lost through disuse ) , and sees herself reduced to the menial labors of the day which she is told are feminine . It is a paradox of our civilization that even the deprived peasant women of Europe and Asia were more than mothers and wives ; they were indeed expected to do the work of the fields and the community . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guaranteeing equal pay for men and women , something achieved in only 30 states of the United States. ) 35 Yet the American woman , often highly educated and sharp-witted , is supposed to be able to turn her back on what she has learned , and accept her period of education as a happy interlude to be recalledp133but never put to the test . It is said that being a wife and a mother are full-time jobs and of inestimable importance ; for , of course , the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world . But a mother before she is anything else must be a person with self-respect , assured of her own worth , and , more importantly , must feel that she has not paid an inordinate price for motherhood in terms of her personal striving and aspirations . If she has , her motherhood will produce sour milk and the offspring will know there is something horribly wrong . If , as we are told , love is not enough for children , it is equally true for parents . For a woman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by children , by family , is not enough in the quest to be whole . Meeting the biological needs of one 's self and of others , as important and as basic as these are , can not alone sustain either man or woman . If love is not enough , neither is bacon from the male or milk from the female sufficient to make life worthwhile . Being a decent model for a child is a most worthy objective , but one can become a worthwhile model for a child only if one feels himself worthwhile . And there must be some confirmation of " worthiness " from other people than those who love you or who depend upon you . This entails performance , use of skills , **26;3694;TOOLONG , and varying degrees of competition in the market-place of talents not found at the supermarket . When a woman is able to find the formula that successfully combines personal and family fulfillment , her comfortable level of self-esteem makes family life actually easier . For one thing , she does not feel " gypped " and does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persecutors . She can also enrich the family with the example of achievement that she sets and the worldly knowledge that she can bring back with her . But finding that formula , striking that happy balance , is a most difficult task , attainedoften only after agonizing appraisals and prodigious soulprobing . It is a task that a man has simplified for him in that he rarely has to make a decision between being a father and making a livelihood ; he has a built-in stimulus and opportunity for personal achievement . Is work a cure ? If it is used as one , beware ! Women who get married or have babies to solve deep intrapsychic problems arep134destined for disappointment or worse . Similarly , " going to work " as a solution for longstanding personal conflicts will be found a weak reed for both men and women . " Going to work " should never be considered a cure for neurosis , or a usually good thing , or a submission to a contemporary fad , or some heaven-directed categorical imperative , but rather a derivative of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater effect than any other technique of living in the direction of binding the individual more closely to reality ; in his work , at least , he is securely attached to a part of reality , the human community . However , did he have only men in mind when he made this statement ? Or are women to look elsewhere for reality-finding devices ? It would be consistent with truth for a dependent and aimless person to seek shelter and not meddle with situations too fearful and too complex for his capacities . So , too , those who have goals within the realm of achievement , by reason of training , skill , and personal investment , would be untrue to themselves if they turned their back on , or were blocked from , pursuit of them . Therefore a " back-to-work " movementas a cure for unhappy or discontented women has a built-in self-destroying mechanism . No one can or should work unless adequately prepared and honestly motivated . This motivation has to do with the ego ideals ? those internalizedimages of worthwhile goals , which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These internalized ideals give direction as well as stimuli . Generally speaking , it was once assumed that these ideals differed sharply between man and woman . For the man it was work , success , achievement , fatherhood . For the woman , it was marriage , motherhood , being a helpmateto a loving husband . And as some have said , " God may have created women to mollify men . " We now realize that this neat abstract dichotomy is not and probably never was , as clearly defined as the dualists would like to have us believe . We are now coming to accept the idea that the differences are not as great or as important as we were led to believe , or wanted to believe . In Shakespeare 's Cymbeline , when Imogen is to disguise herself as a male , she is advised by the servant Pisanio of the necessary changes , revealing in this advice the inconsequential and super/ficial difference between the sexes . It was Shakespeare 's genius that he saw through the folly of these artifacts . " Pisanio : Well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a woman : change Command , into obedience . Fear , and niceness ( The handmaids of all women , or more truly Woman its pretty self ) into a waggish courage , Ready in gibes , quick-answer 'd , saucy , and as Quarrelous as the weasel ; Nay , you must Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek , Exposing it ( but oh the harder heart , Alack no remedy ) to the greedy touch of Common-kissing Titan , and forget Your laboursome and dainty trims , wherein You made great Juno angry . ' " 26The ideals of many women in their own development are not solely homemaking . They often share the goals of their fathers and brothers . These ideals which may be commonly shared with their brothers should not be labeled " masculine " or " feminine , " but perhaps " family " truths . Whether the one sex or the other succeeds in the propagation of this inheritance depends on a myriadof complex circumstances , including luck , opportunity , and social tolerance . As some substantiating evidence for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn of the present century , women had not been thought of as having the wisdom to cast a political ballot . In Switzerland , women to this day are not given the right of franchise . Imagine the circumstance that Eleanor Rooseveltor Margaret Smith would be considered less competent to vote at the polls than the crudest male imbecile . This was the case in this country a few years ago ! Anatomy may be destiny , just as skin color or religious backgroundplay an overwhelming force in determining one 's destiny , but it must be remembered that these circumstances of anatomy or destiny loom as large or small as the social rules of society make them . If these rules place a great premium on , say , the penis , then anyone without one will be looked on as a reject , a cripple , and inferior . There is a great tendency in humanity to fear differences , and an equally great tendency to find excuses to relegate the subjugatedto inferior roles . Women have been the subjects of men and have been badly exploited . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have never made a realp136protest because they have been sold a bill of goods that their " assigned " role was a " natural " one and to protest was to go against nature . The words of Goethe seem quite appropriate : " No one is a greater slave than he who imagines himself free when he is not free . " Women have been called the defeated sex probably from the time when men learned that women could not produce children by themselves . Stripped of this magic , woman was thereafter placed in a secondary role in human society . To keep her subjugated , she was " endowed " by men with unfavorable and demeaningcharacteristics . Eric Fromm writes : " The war between the sexes has been going on for several thousand years , and men 's propaganda about it is just as silly as war propaganda . Men say women are less courageous ; it 's notorious that they are more courageous . That they are less realistic ; it 's notorious that they are more realistic . Women are more concerned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ' 3Let her strive for excellence in almost any field and she will be called " masculine . " 36 And at one time , we recall , it was consideredagainst nature that she be given an anesthetic for childbirthand against nature that she vote . The doctrine of natural law has had an infamous history of being invoked to vindicate all types of subjugations and suppressions , but nowhere more flagrantlythan in the treatment of women . " Quam multa injusta ac prava fiunt moribus . " How many injustices and wrongs are enacted through custom . Separate-but-equalism has worked as badly here as in race relations , because the power to give or withhold and to balance is reserved to the dominant group . It results operationally in the accretion of the one and the attrition of the other . How could a woman attain the wisdom of a bishop or a cardinal if until today she was not permitted to audit their dialogues ? And to those who would say that women are not fit for high religious duties , religion must ask itself about its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. de Valois , " whether stupid women take naturally to piety or whether piety , on the other hand , has a stupefying effect on an intelligent girl . " 4The woman who seeks a professional identity in the world is faced with many hazards . They arise not only from a hostile andp137resentful environment , but also from her own inner doubts about what she is doing . Even when she reassures herself or is given support that her stand is proper and justified , she frequently manifestsa feeling of guilt about not being in her proper place ? the home . As a result she distorts her character into shapes which are often quite grotesque and unappealing . She may appear not as " mannish " but , regretfully , " apish . " One result is a pseudoaggressivestance wherein she constantly seeks to prove , and usually finds , that she is being unfairly treated . She may thereby divert most of her energies and time to a personal " civil rights " issue which makes her an anathema in any office and generally loathed by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosed as not really productively working but primarily interested in a life-and-death struggle with men . This type frequentlyearns a male " backlash " ; the men reaffirm their basic prejudicethat women belong in the home . Behind the facade of bravado , these women are usually very fearful of their new roles and overreact . Their difficulty in adjusting , their perpetual grievancehunting , contain a hidden appeal to be sent back to the kitchen from which their liberation has been specious . They hurt their whole " race " thereby . A twenty-four-year-old woman became a junior executive in an industrial firm , having been graduated from a school of engineering . Her attitude was that she would neither ask nor give any quarter . She was most serious in every project she undertook , brooked no levity , and resented any flirtatiousness , even though in spite of her austere manner she was quite attractive . No slight , real or fancied , passed her by . At certain social affairs of the company , when invitations to " employees and their wives " were sent , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was indeedthe 20th century and routine form letters have to be altered to acknowledge the existence of female employees . She studied the salary scales of the men and women and brought the inevitable inequities under the nose of her employer . She also ranted and bellowed about the inefficiencies and stupidities of the men around her who appeared to have little interest in their work other than paychecks and automatic promotions . Her general behavior made her male associates very happy with their own wives . She broughtp138that ray of darkness into their working lives that made their homelifeappear that much brighter . She was married but disdained anything about her own home and had made an agreement with her husband that there would be no children until she was well along in her career . As she worked in this manner , she came into heated controversyover policies with her boss . She threatened to go to the stockholdersabout the terrible state " management " was in . She was fired in this clash of personalities . Although her competency was never in question , her adaptability was zero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a while she railed against her former employer , against men in general , and against civilization that sanctioned injustices . But she appeared to lose interest in work as if mortally wounded and made no attempt to find other employment . Instead she preferred to stay at home and lick her wounds like Philoctetes on Lamnos . She too could not be induced to return to the wars ; instead she withdrew into herself . Her condition of distress manifested itself now by severe phobic reactions whereby she became completely housebound , needed the constant presence of her husband , and was obsessed with losing her mind . If she tried to cross the threshold of her front door , she was stopped by feelings of dread . All the shopping as well as communication with the outside world had to be done by her husband . She appeared too fearful to answer a doorbell or the telephone . Here was a transformation of a person as complete as could be imagined . Anyone who had known her in her former state of independence and arrogance could not recognize her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by rank injustice ( that a man in her job might have been dealt with with more respect and would have been more tolerantly listened to ) or that her " aggressive " behavior had been a manifestation of an incipient mental illness . This question is indeed difficult to answer . We could never say that extreme frustration and disappointment could not destroy a person . Yet her nature was such that she ignored the need for adaptability . Who can say that she was wrong in wanting equality , in acting directly , and in not submitting to the circuitous and hypocritical modes of behavior that are expected of in/feriors ? In defense of her employer , it may be said that he felt a personal sense of nobility in hiring her against the advice of others who worried about allowing a woman to enter the managerial level . He then looked upon himself as her benefactor and expectedher gratitude and loyalty , if not obeisance . Instead he got the opposite and had to suffer the humiliation of the attacks from her and the smiles of his confreres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transition , the period when both sides are unsure that what they are doing is right . They then are apt to overreact , make fools of themselves , and swear " never again . " Another type , equally insecure , is the woman who must exaggerate her femininity in the so-called masculine world . She wants to do a reasonably successful job , but runs from any accusationof being competitive with men . She dresses consciously in the " feminine " mode , usually on the sexy side . She takes every opportunity of appearing helpless and never relinquishes those aspects of etiquette traditionally due a woman . Unlike the woman described above , she overlooks inequities and tries to defer to men as much as possible . At critical points , she appeals to their strength and ultimately may proclaim that line of Americana , " But I 'm only a woman ! " In line with this posture is her vulnerability to the reawakening of the adolescent " crush " syndrome ? falling in love with some man she is working with who has given her aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance of others . He then appears like her true knight in armor , performing the rescue mission she has always dreamt of . In this he eclipses her husband , who is usually in no position to promote her career in more than a passive way . Her enthrallment with her new benefactor may lead to phantasied or overt marital and sexual disloyalties which may wreck her household . In her anxieties about her new role , she reacts with imprudence and may destroy both her homelife and career . An example of this hazard was the case of a thirty-six-yearoldwoman , mother of three , who decided to return to her field , experimental psychology , after fourteen years of marriage and professional inactivity . She felt that her children no longer needed as much care as formerly and that she could profitably pick upp140her career . She returned to work on a part-time basis with the general approval of her family . She was filled with enthusiasm and hope , in spite of the many years of being away from her field of endeavor . Being an affable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laboratory . She was given extensive briefings by co-workers and was praised for her enthusiasm if not competence . She was a delight to have around because of her good nature . She expressed her gratitude frequently and asked that her shortcomingsbe tolerated until she could learn the required techniques . She came under the tutelage and supervision of a senior male psychologist who appeared especially attracted to her . He patiently introduced her to the new techniques , and they set up a research project . They became a research team , or partnership , as they preferred to call it . With him , she attained a degree of competency which led to having several scientific papers accepted and published . She began to become known in her field . Her husband and children joined her in the pleasure of her accomplishments and continued to encourage her in her pursuits . Seemingly not loving her husband less , she had deep affection for her research partner , who had been largely responsible for her success . Her husband 's benevolent attitude had afforded her the opportunity to achieve in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclipsed by the active help that the senior psychologist gave . In the course of two years at work , the friendship and teamwork of the two led to feelings of deep love for him . He , on the other hand , felt deep affection for her but never moved to indicate that he desired a relationship other than friendly professional . But he was also attractive to others . His work had become highly thought of , and he was offered a chair at a leading university , which he accepted . On learning of this change , she , at first joyful over his good fortune , privately became despondent . Her life and personal success had been intimately tied to him and his presence . He had been her rescuer and was about to desert her . She had no confidence that she could function on her own or could cooperate with the others in the laboratory without his kindly intervention . Her despondency became overt ; she could no longer tolerate her husband or her children ; she felt now that she had been victimized but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she attempted suicide but was saved by a thoroughly perplexedhusband . No longer able to work or relate to her family , she asked to be hospitalized . Her adventure had brought ruin on herself and her loved ones . Who or what was at fault ? The husband for being cooperative ? She , for wanting to pursue her career ? The psychologist for wanting to be a helpful friend ? Let the reader decide . It was my personal impression that the fault belonged to no one of them , and yet a little to all . Unpreparedness , imprudence , and lack of perspective were the predominant shortcomings . The suddenness of her success and the strangeness of the " downtown " environment clouded her judgment and threw her value system out of balance . Her freedom was a fresh new penny and she became penny-foolish to the distress of all . Yet this evident failure should not provide a moral to prove a " basic " weakness of femininity or naturalness of this or that role . Rather , it should point up the complexities and challenges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered a " cultural shock " ; hers was a problem of re-entry no less difficult than that which is encounteredin space exploration . A man usually handles this problem with more aplomb because he has tradition and experience to guide him . It is all new for women , and they often succumb to the onslaughts of a hostile environment as well as inner distortions . These failures , and they are frequent , become living ammunition for those who preach that such roles are unnatural for women ; much is always made of the mess they make in any but their divinely directed life of domesticity . For the patient observer , these instances , far from proving feminine inferiority , or biological or divine determinism , point up inherent problems of transition which will eventually be resolved , as both sexes accommodate to new and more equitable modes of behavior . Many women who sincerely possess strong convictions about the value of their professional work find that married life and the pursuit of traditional feminine expectations are quite impossible for them . Dr. Alice S. Rossi , at an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Hence women who enter the more demanding professions may remain unmarried , not simply because they are not chosen by men but because they findp142fewer men worth accepting , and because marriage is not an exclusivelife goal . It is also the case that marriages among professionalwomen are slightly less apt to succeed ' in the conventional demographic sense of persistence . " 14Those who find solutions to problems of all women through work and competition in the " outside " world are highly unrealistic . There are basic psychological obstacles today that make this step most difficult , if not impossible , for an overwhelming number of women . First of all , there must be some tradition or example in her own family ? a tradition that stamps approval on such activity for a woman . A mother or an aunt who has successfully achieved business or professional goals can reassure a woman that similar goals for her are " morally " right . In this , as in many other facets of living , it is difficult to be a pioneer , proceeding into the unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an example of success within her own kinship orbit , showing that a woman can achieve without being considered mannish , or apish . If a girl in her development has no other than the image of a woman in the domestic role , this image will be internalized and become her principal knowledge of what a woman is and does . It forms the basis of her morality , and behaving differently sets up a moral conflict . In spite of later worldly education , the earliest lessons come from all-powerful , life-giving and sustaining giants ? parents ? and they stick . This learning is , then , the education of how to please , how to be loved , how to survive . These earliest lessons from kin take priority and can be overcome only by vigorousself-purging efforts . The little girl who sees her own mother and aunts and grandmothers invested completely in household matters and disdainful of women who are active in the world will feel that any but the attitudes and roles of her female relatives are unnatural and immoral . She is getting her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what a woman should properly do . Contrary to the expectations and demands of reformers , human growth is never acrogenic . Even though it is very high-sounding and presently popular to claim that the chief goal of living is to be or become " a person , " very few individuals have the strength to overlook or transcendp143their sexual identities . No woman will treasure any fame or glory she may achieve at the price of being called " unfeminine . " This below-the-belt blow sends most women into despair . Therefore , we see that the doubt cast on sexual identity is another great deterrent to worldliness . The problem of sexual identity , never absent in everyday living , may become particularly acute and distressing because of personal developmental experiences . One woman in her childhood had the misfortune of losing her mother through an acute illness . She , along with three brothers , was thereafter raised by her father and transient housekeepers . There was no woman with whom she could identify . She was exposed to a masculine world and for a while enjoyed being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adolescence , however , she became acutely conscious of her different attitudes and modes of behavior . Now the youths shunned her even as they had played with her earlier in her life . She was n't feminine ! However , she would do something about it . In college she asked for help from her roommate about how to dress , how to use cosmetics , how to behave on dates . Yet it all came to her with great effort and unnaturalness . She did begin to date but continued to have grave doubts about what she really felt and who she really was . In her conscious effort to be feminine , she rushed into marriage , forfeiting her educational goals . She married a man with two children by a previous marriage . This , she felt , would keep her feminine and motherly . She became a good mother , endured financial hardshipsthat plagued her husband , and was generally successful except for recurrent periods of mental depression . She felt , however , that she would have to stick it out to prove that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children and had " two of her own . " In later life , when her children were grown , she resumed her education . She did very well in her studies and was faced with the issue of working at her interest . She now had severe misgivings about going out into the world , even though both her home situationand outside opportunities were conducive to her doing so . She was faced with her old dilemma of identity . Was she now to risk the emergence of her old " masculine " ways if she were to work and compete with men ? She had spent years proving that she wasp144feminine and now was on the threshold of placing her " acquisition " in jeopardy . At this point in life , on the threshold of achieving worldly goals , she began to have obsessive thoughts that her body was changing , turning into a man . If she were to work , it would mean to her that this was what she had wanted all along ? that her motherhood was a sham , that she was really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only by the external problems of a middle-aged woman seeking a place in the world , but also by the internal issue of identity that was a recurrent source of anxiety for her . As it turned out , she could not risk the doubts of her femininity that working might bring , and she relinquished her ambitions . As if serving the expiatory needs of a male-dominant society , physicians are now telling American women that the distress of their lonely and alienated middle years is due mainly to an internal hormonal imbalance to which all women are allegedly heir ? no less than 85 per cent of them ? the other 15 per cent miraculously escaping by dint of a fortuitous and still unknown biological factor . Furthermore , the women have been told that both the imbalance and resultant distress are readily cured by proper medication . Although the cause and the cure are subject to question , the proportions of women 's agony are here acknowledged and documented . We can not fully trust the gynecologist 's eye view of the world in these matters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be consequential in the destiny of American women . There may indeed be an imbalance ? one that the physicians care not to see , for it might entail healing themselves , not their patients . 31Whether or not psychoanalysis , used in a doctrinaire fashion , has also contributed to modern woman 's dilemma , as Betty Friedan suggests , is an interesting issue.37 The argument is that psychoanalysis , by stressing the importance of motherhood and the early infant-mother relationship , has kept woman in the home for fear of imparting mortal damage to her offspring . Allusion has also been made to psychoanalysts ' loosely used male and female character classifications , and their purported jubilance when an analysand marries , a woman 's acceptance of her " feminine " role ,  |p145etc  . Psychoanalysts are indeed responsive to conventional expectations ( although less so than most ) . The psychoanalyst in theory does not tamper with the ego ideal of the analysand . This is strictly his or her business . Admission for therapy requires that the ego ideal be reasonable , be within the frame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interfere with ? much less destroy ? the convictions and aspirations of the fellow human being before him . It is instead the analyst 's job to help an individual pursue his goals more effectively . Whether these goals are " masculine " or " feminine , " as convention sees them , should not concern either analyst or analysand . The success or failure of therapy is based mainly on whether an individual is able to reaffirm and act effectively on those inner truths which he deems most valuable and important to himself . The issue in analysis is whether the analysand can free himself of the doubts and ambivalences wrought of experiences throughout his life . If a woman wants to become an atomic physicist like her father , the analyst does not seek to change her mind . Nor is the analyst apt to extol the virtues of marriage and motherhood to her , as some critics have intimated . He is more likely to hear her aspirations with the attitude of one who would fiercely resent any tampering with his own . We have seen that the ego @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband , parent , and achiever , and that these are more or less compatible . On the other hand , for the female the ego ideal as achiever may sharply clash with ideals connected with her womanhood . She can not easily be a " good " wife , mother , and homemaker and at the same time aspire to " soul-satisfying " goals . There is set up for this more complex woman a conflict of goals or ego ideals which she somehow must integrate . Today it is past saying that women ought to be brought up or educated with only the one ego ideal , that for which she was biologically built . Her task is most difficult because she is made to feel guilty if her other aspirations impinge on her role as a mother . Therefore she needs help not only from an exceptional mate who genuinely understands her struggle and provides a proper milieu and opportunity for her fulfillment , but from society , which needs a re/orientation on the male-female question similar to the one it is attempting in the racial issue . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that themselves and usually out-perform the men here . They must be given full opportunity for the expression and use of their skills without discrimination and condemnation . The idea of masculine professions and female jobs should be done away with . All of these should be done by qualified people without regard to sex . In this there might have to be legal protection ? stronger laws and a bit of militancy on the part of those who are oppressed . Change of attitude would be nice , but unfortunately , as the Negroes have learned , this is unlikely . Human nature being what it is , a group does not relinquish its power unless forced to . Contrary to the euphuisms of some " realistic " politicians , morality generally has to be legislated . If a woman is allowed to accomplish the more difficult task , her shame about loss of identity will be lessened , and she will be more apt to accept her children as developing human beings rather than despising them as burdens , or clinging to them as toys or as parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schizophrenogenic mother , it is the one whose aimlessness causes her to cling to her children with the desperation of a drowning person . The child is never allowed to test reality on his own , never learns his own boundaries , often fails to distinguish between the animate and inanimate . He treats the world as a " thing , " just as he has been treated by a mother who has no thing . A mother who has something is apt to behave quite differently . Although it is a vast oversimplificationto attribute mental illness to one cause , we are becomingaware of social forces that filter down to the family and mother-child unit . The effects of a male-dominant society on " mothering " can not be overlooked as potentially and actually disintegrative . Justice and equality for women may pay the dividend of more stable male offspring and females with a more hopeful model to emulate . Men have never wanted to compete with women , whether on a tennis court or in a court of law.38 The prospect of being bested is altogether beyond toleration . Misogyny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the witch and witchcraft , perhaps the all-time low point in man 's intellection , bearsp147evidence of the hatred and depreciation that the male was capable of toward woman whom he purportedly loved and loved to protect . He simply placed the blame and burden for his impotency on her . If she could n't be cajoled into returning his powers to him , then she had to burn . This was all backed to the hilt by the judgment and morality of the church hierarchy , which had no women in it . The irony of this blackness is that to this very day the word witch is used to characterize a bad female ; there is no word at all for bullies whose delusioned creations they were . Some very serious psychiatric historians have come up with a new phantasy , diagnosingthese women as mentally ill . In their scientism and misogyny they seem to overlook the fact that witches were pure delusions in the minds of men . If mental illness was involved ( and if it was then we must indict all of humanity for periods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where witches are floridly described ) , it was the illness of those harboring the delusions , rather than the victims of this projection . If all this was in the past and over with , if it was just an object lesson in foibles of which man is capable , then we should content ourselves with being happy historians and leave it at that . But just as McCarthyism did not die because it was roundly condemned , the fear and daemonization of women is not alien to contemporarymentation . In the dark years of each man in the desperation of facing his inadequacies , whether moral , political , ethical , economic , social , or sexual impotence , he can even today find it within himself to place the blame on his wife . This is not to say that women are incapable of bitchery , and they have done their share of harm in the subtle and circuitous ways open to them . They too share the heritage with their sexual counterpart of aggression , demonolatry , and destructiveness . Yet the sexual imbalance , blatantly evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefers to maintain it that way . Power corrupts , we are told , and it also perpetuates itself . A great deal of the ignoble in women can be viewed as an excretion caused by the pressures directed against them . Much of what has been decried as malignant and irrational and " feminine " can be explained as resultant distortions . She gossips because she is excluded from meaningful communication ; she chatters because she is deprived of a voice ; she isp148hysterical because she is not taken seriously ; she is indecisive because she is left out of any decisions of importance ; she is a spendthriftbecause she ca n't earn much ; and she is petty because her life has no aim . Would there be chaos if women were allowed equality ? Marya Mannes adroitly observed : " Most men of our society , although they claimed to be interested in women are not interested in Woman . What concerns them is not what a woman is but what she is to them . Their interest even their affection is still relative rather than absolute . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered . Jules Feiffer , who can be listened to with great advantage on most social issues , under the rubric " Men Really Do n't Like Women , " wrote in a popular magazine : " The American woman is a victim . She is unique , as far as victims go , in that she has been trained to be ill at ease admitting it . Her trouble is that she is doing comparatively well as a victim ? making a buck , running a family : and then , too , there are so many more imposing victims around . " 21Great men are expected to transcend throughout their lives all the banalities of their environment . In his own green years , Freud spoke with the same male condescension and euphuistic drivel that would be expected of Untermenschen . In a letter to his fiancee , Martha Bernays , answering an inquiry of hers about the startling new expositions on the feminine problem by John Stuart Mill , Freud wrote : " It seems a completely unrealistic notion to send women into the struggle for existence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my delicate , sweet girl as a cornpetitor ? After all , the encounter could only end by my telling her , as I did seventeen months ago , that I love her , and that I will make every effort to get her out of the competitive role into the quiet , undisturbed activity of my home . It is possible that different educationcould suppress all woman 's delicate qualities which are so much in need of protection and yet so powerful with the result that they could earn their living like men . It is also possible that in this case it would not be justifiable to deplore the disappearance of the most lovely thing the world has to offer us : our ideal of womanhood . But I believe that all reforming activity , legislation andp149education , will founder on the fact that long before the age at which a profession can be established in our society , nature will have appreciated woman by her beauty , charm , and goodness , to do something else . . . . The position of woman can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweetheart in youth , and a beloved wife in maturity . " 77Here Freud reveals the typical attitude of his day toward women , that they should be there for the needs of man . " They have to be meek , docile , weak , dependent , not because these qualities are good for them , or necessarily promote their own feelings of worth and identity , but because all of these serve " our ideal of womanhood . " This is the rhetoric of the Southern racists in our own times who can not give education and suffrage to Negroes because it will take away their carefree , irresponsible nature and possibly their love of folk singing , and shatter the social-comforting ideal of white supremacy . In fairness to Freud , with the wisdom that , hopefully , comes with maturity and being witness to the circumstances that women , including his own beloved daughter Anna ( and none of his sons ) , contributed to the new science of psychoanalysis disproportionatelyto their number , he wrote quite differently in later scientific papers . In 1932 , Freud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic with either masculinityor femininity , even such opposites as activity and passivity , which had been solidly ensconced in all psychoanalysis as male " nature " and female " nature " respectively . He wrote , speaking of the bisexual problem : " In recent times we have begun to learn a little about this , thanks to the circumstances that several of our excellent women colleagues in analysis have begun to work at the question . The discussion of this has gained special attractivenessfor the distinction between the sexes . For the ladies , wheneversome comparison seemed to turn out unfavorable to their sex , were able to utter a suspicion that we , the male analysts , had been unable to overcome certain deeply rooted prejudices against what was feminine , and that this was being paid for in the partiality of our researches . " 7 And in the last paragraph of this chapter , Freud admits that psychoanalysis has occupied itselfp150mainly with the woman in so far as her nature is determined by her sexual function . Then , in a concession that may become an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true that that influence ( sexual function ) extends very far ; but we do not overlook the fact that an individual woman may be a human being in other respects as well . " Finally Freud succumbed to the wisdom of the inadequacy of his own appraisal , and perhaps the invincibilityof his own prejudices , and advised : " If you want to know more about femininity , enquire from your own experiences of life , or turn to the poets , or wait until science can give you deeper and more coherent information . " Psychoanalysis continues to drag its feet in understanding the plight of women . Even our " liberal " psychoanalysts have an inaccurate understanding of how it really is . One of these , Marmor , writes : " One need not assume that motherhood and a fullfilling life in the outside world are incompatible , any more than fatherhoodand such a life . In contrast to men , however , who are expected to combine these two aspects of life , women have alternatives now ; they may or may not choose to combine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no truth in what Marmor says . When he says men are expected to be out in the world and a father , he makes this sound like some imposed hardship like saying Nixon is expected to be Commander-in-Chief of all the armed forces as well as Chief Executive of all the people ? poor fellow has no alternatives ! Furthermore , Marmor 's statement that women can now do both or have a choice sounds like a liberal telling about the great advancesof the Negro in America ! Has Marmor seen statistics of women in academe , the professions , in business ? Apparently not . Even a cursory investigation would show that their number in public life are actually decreasing . The sad reality is that women The Marriage Relationship , Psychoanalytic Perspectives , Edited by Salo Rosenbaum and Ian Alger , Basic Books , New York , 1968 . Judd Marmor , " Changing Patterns of Femininity : Psychoanalytic Implications , " Chapter 3 , pp. 31-44.  |p151do  not have a choice ? they are given a choice but a choice so weighed with inequities that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only if they do not take what they do seriously . That is , in no , even trifling , way jeopardize their marriage and/or their image as a wife or mother . She is tolerated as a working person only if she is ambitiousless and steers clear of decision-making areas . After all , who likes a woman who is not " feminine " ? The job by the male on the woman has been so well done , using every important social institution ? religions , schools , law , medicine , psychology ? in his own behalf , that he has been successfulin extinguishing even the wish of women to have equality with the male in those matters which stamp the value of a human being . She has bought the bill of goods about the determining effects of her biological nature . " Anatomy is destiny ; anatomy is destiny , " they repeat until there is no room for the examination of any other dimension . Thankfully , the female is different , but because she is different , she should not be hated and despised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men have always considered their God-given and " natural " rights . Men have not shown proper respect for differences ? sexual , academic , racial , or religious . Man 's fear of differences has made him reluctant to extend opportunity to those who are different . In the unconscious of men as found in psychoanalysis , there is a deep-seated fear and loathing of women . All the songs of love do not dispel this underlying contempt for those " unfortunates " with gaping wounds where a penis ought to be . It is the loathing of differences that encourages and maintains the male homosexual culture from which females are regularly excluded . And the culture embraces infinitely greater numbers than the handful of so-called " queers " who parody society in general by their flagrant behavior . Men 's preference for their own is seen in any gathering and in most living rooms where people may come together for sociability and conversation . It is not only the Church or the Army , as Freud alleged , that are homosexual institutions , but also big business , science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just are not comfortable with women unless some degree of flirtation is involved.  |p152The  issue of intellection and even passion between the sexes is largely dismissed . It is an old story . Kenneth Rexroth writes : " To judge by primitive song , legend and epic , romantic love has commonlyexisted between members of the same sex , and seldom in the institutionalized relations between men and women until those institutionspass through formalization to etherialization , as in the court circle of The Tale of Genii. " 22In a treatise , surprisingly late in coming for something so obvious , sociologist Tiger confirms the strong affinity ( and bonding ) men have for one another in both public and private endeavors. *No argument against this verity . However , Tiger reaches the conclusion that this is quite salutary and attributes civilization'smajor advances to it . For those ( women ) automatically excluded from the most creative and exciting aspects of their community and must experience these vicariously , if at all , such successes might seem pyrrhic , just as black people might not be particularly enthralled by white America 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " our way of life " has achieved so much . But for whom ? Some might consider Tiger 's conclusionsas derived more from self-serving , male chauvinism than from " science . " Our present society , based on male dominance as it is , most reluctantly accepts women for positions of authority and/or possibleleadership . Women are different , but most of their purporteddifferences are cultivated in the minds of men in order to justify oppressing them . Then , men have interpreted women 's aimlessness , which results from this oppression , as intrinsic and natural to them . Women , then , must be kept down because they are not trustworthy . They must then be loved and protected because they are too stupid to fend for themselves . Unfortunately , we can not turn to most women for statements confirming this oppression , for , as indicated above , for the most part women have fully succumbed to the propaganda against themselves . Yet they do not know why they are so bored , restless , hysterical , hypochondriacal , and too often mentally stunted . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The impotent rage of Shakespeare 's Beatrice in being Tiger , L. Men in Groups , Random House , New York , 1969.  |p153unable  to act in the injustice done to Hero is shown in the following : " Beatrice : Is a ' not approved in the height a villain , that hath slandered , scorned , dishonoured my kinswoman ? 0 that I were a man ! what , bear her in hand , until they come to take hands , and then with public accusation uncovered slander , unmitigatedrancour ? 0 God that I were a man ! I would eat his heart in the market place . ' " Later she laments the poor job that the male is doing with his power . Lacking the power herself , grieving over the loss or injustice is all that is left to her . She states : " Princes and Counties ! surely a princely testimony , a goodly Count , Count Comfect , a sweet gallant surely , 0 that I were a man for his sake ! But manhood is melted into curtsies , valour into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and trim ones too : he is now as valiant as Hercules , that only tells a lie , and swears it : I can not be a man with wishing , therefore I will die a woman with grieving . " 2 ' The corroding effects of the unfair use of power at each level of existence from interpersonal to international , is the theme of a recent book by R. V. Sampson . We know of the corrupting as well as self-blinding effects of power and its disabling effects on the person in subjection . We have recognized these in international and political spheres but have been reluctant to see them in the structure of family life . Sampson 's words are most instructive : " To the extent that the forces of power prevail over the forces of love , domination and subjection characterize human relations . The former is good and leads to human well-being ; the latter is bad and leads to human suffering and strife . The struggle between these dialectical forces is always the same . No one may contract out of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For of necessity , everyone at all times and in all positions stands on a relation with other men which will be predominantly of one category or the other . In this sense , what happens in the world , what happens in history , inevitably reflects the contribution , active or passive , of everybody who participates in the vast web of human interrelations . There are not diverse planes of reality to be judged by different stands . There are no separate , insulated planes of the cloister and the Chancellory Office . Jesus Christ and Adolf Hitlerp154belong together to the common plane of our single human experience . It is merely that they represent extreme polarized positions within our common moral spectrum . " 24It may be argued that the quest for equality is Utopian and that , as Freud purportedly said , there must be a leader in every social unit . If this is indeed so , that marriage can be based on no other than a dominance-submission model , then let us at least face the reality to which our sisters , wives , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of love and devotion to cover up what is nothing else but servility . Then , if servility is all that is wanted or can be hoped for , so be it . At least women will not have to bear the burden of guilt when , as is happening in ever increasing instances , they rebel against their assigned role of inferiorityand subjugation . Furthermore , if their basically unjust treatment is recognized , men will no longer be puzzled and dismayedby the atrophy of mind and emotions that befalls their daughters and wives that inferior status inevitably brings . Men will then be able to understand the zombie-type apathy of those who have totally submitted and the Medea-like frenzy of those women who have nothing remaining but intransigent desires for revenge . Love conquers all , we are told . Yet if it does , there must be concern for protecting the vanquished . Until now , the defeated party in love and marriage has been the woman . Therefore , if love is to have the transcendent meaning we purportedly hope for , Buber 's " I and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human relations wherein loving the other includes concern for her well-being apart from the pleasure and services she can provide ? Let us not ignore " Love 's Body " but , hopefully , therein can also be tolerated an intact soul.4 ?  |p1551  . Madeline Chapsal , " Feminine Plural , Present Tense , " New York Tunes Book Review , Sec. 7 , March 12 , 1967 , p. 5. 2 . Harold Clurman , " Our Neglected Women , " The World Journal Tribune Magazine , New York : March 12 , 1967 , p. 25. 3 . Margaret Brackenbury Crook , Women and Religion , ( Boston : BeaconPress , 1964 ) . 4 . Honore de Balzac , " The Old Maid , " Great French Short Novels , ed . F. W. Dupee ( New York : Dial Press , 1952 ) . 5 . Simone de Beauvoir , The Ethics of Ambiguity ( New York : CitadelPress , 1962 ) , p. 138. 6 . Simone de Beauvoir , The Second Sex , ( New York : Bantam Books , published by arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Betty Friedan , The Feminine Mystique ( New York : Dell Publishing Co. , Inc. , 1963 ) ; Edith de Rham , The Love Fraud ( New York : Potter , 1964 ) , p. 319 ; Judith Heiman , The Young Marrieds , ( New York : Simon and Schuster , 1961 ) ; Ann Helming , A Woman 's Place ( New York : Coward-McCann , Inc. , 1962 ) . 7 . Sigmund Freud , New Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis ( New York : Norton &; Co. , 1932 ) , p. 116. 8 . Sigmund Freud , New Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis ( New York : Norton &; Co. , 1933 ) , p. 172. 9 . Sigmund Freud , " Some Psychological Consequences of the AnatomicalDistinction Between the Sexes , " International Journal of Psychoanalysis , 8 ( April 1927 ) , p. 133. 10 . Robert Graves and Raphael Patai , " Hebrew Myths , " The Book of Genesis ( London : Cassell , 1964 ) . 11 . Phyllis Greenacre , " Woman as Artist , " Psychoanalytic Quarterly , 29 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " How You Got Your Jewish Son-in-Law , " The World Journal Tribune Magazine ( New York , March 26 , 1967 ) , p. 4. 13 . Richard Heffner , " An Interview with Eric Fromm , " McCall 's , Oct. 1965 , p. 216. 14 . John Lear , " Will Science Change Marriage ? " , Saturday Review , Dec. 5 , 1964. 15 . Marya Mannes , " What Every Male Should Know , " Sunday Herald Tribune Book Week , Feb. 14 , 1965 , p. 2. 16 . Phyllis McGinley , Sixpense in Her Shoe ( New York : Macmillan , 1964 ) .  |p15617  . John Stuart Mill , Letters of Sigmund Freud , selected and ed . Ernst J. Freud ( New York : Basic Books , 1960 ) , p. 76. 18 . John Stuart Mill , " The Subjection of Women , " Three Essays ( London : Oxford University Press , 1912 ) , p. 427 and p. 522. 19 . New York Times , Jan. 25 , 1965. 20 . New York Times , Sept. 27 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't Like Women , " Look Magazine , Jan. 11 , 1966 , p. 60. 21a . Otto Rank , Beyond Psychology ( New York : Dover Publications , 1941 ) , p. 285. 22 . Kenneth Rexroth , " Sappho ? Poet and Legend , " Saturday Review , Nov. 27 , 1965 , p. 27. 23 . R. V. Sampson , The Psychology of Power ( New York : Pantheon Books , 1966 ) , p. 47. 24 . R. V. Sampson , The Psychology of Power ( New York : Pantheon Books , 1966 ) , p. 2. 25 . William Shakespeare , As You Like It , ed . G. B. Harrison , ( New York : The Shakespeare Recording Society , Inc. , 1963 ) , pp. 50-51. 26 . William Shakespeare , Cymbeline , ed . G. B. Harrison , ( New York : The Shakespeare Recording Society , Inc. , 1963 ) , p. 58. 27 . William Shakespeare , Much Ado About Nothing , ed . G. B. Harrison , ( New York : The Shakespeare Recording Society , Inc. , 1963 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Envy in Women , " Psychiatry , 6 ( May 1943 ) , p. 123. 29 . Clara Thompson , " The Role of Women in this Culture , " Psychiatry , 4 ( 1941 ) , pp. 1-8. 30 . Lionel Trilliing , Beyond Culture ( New York : The Viking Press , 1955 ) , p. 38. 31 . Robert A. Wilson , " A Key to Staying Young , " Look Magazine , Jan. 11 , 1966 , p. 66. 32 . Faith A. Seidenberg , The Wave of the Future ? NOW , in The Cornell Law Forum , vol. 21:2:1969 ; also by the same author . The SubmissiveMajority : Modern Trends in the Law concerning Women 's Rights , Cornell Law Review , vol. 55:262:1970. 33 . That Cynthia Wedel was elected president of the National Council of Churches in December , 1969 , is certainly an indication of a greater consciousness that women will have a voice at the decision making level . Hopefully , this will lead to equality of participation for women as part of the clergy . In this regard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now completing her training at the Rochester Center For Theological Studies with the prospect of becoming the first woman to be ordained as priest in the Episcopal Church. 34 . There is , however , ample evidence that mainstream psychoanalysis continues to view women as an inferior breed . Here are the written words. of an eminent analyst , Dr. Judith S. Kestenberg : " Feminine integration is completed when woman learns to adjust to her role as wife and mother . In this she can succeed only if she is teachable and can accept her husband and children as organizers of her femininity " ( Page 485 . ) Again , she explains : " Women who are teachable , but unsuccessful in meeting and attractingmen able to teach and assume domination ( sic ) in a relationship , frequently adapt to habits , neurotic attitudes , and unconscious fantasies ofthe men they do find . " ( page 479 , in the Journal of the American PsychoanalyticAssoc. , July , 1968 . ) From what Dr. Kestenberg says , not only is a woman to be dominated , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can think of no other instance in human relationships or social or political life , outside of brutal totalitarian societies , where domination becomes an imperativefor " health " ? a proud goal to be sought after , a sine qua non for the good life , a described condition for survival . Dr. Kestenberg herself leads an active professional life and is , from all reports , an excellent teacher+of men and women in psychiatry and psychoanalysis. 35 . The much heralded American instinct for utilitarianism apparently does not extend to women . O'Neill writes : " Whether they know it or not , American women are an exploited sector of the work force ; they contribute in measurable terms far less to society than their education warrants : and their objective position is generally inferior to that of women in other developed countries . " ( O'Neill , Wm . L. , Everyone Was Brave , The Rise and Fall of Feminism in America , Chicago , Quadrangle Books , 1969 , p. 347. ) 36 . Stoller has made a contribution in reminding us of the distinction between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a biological given , whereas gender is largely socially and historically determined . It follows then that someone on earth decided what is masculine and what , feminine . ( Stoller , R. J. , Sex &; Gender , New York , Science House , 1968 , part 1. ) 37 . One can not deny that psychoanalysis has been no friend of feminists . O'Neill writes : " The jargon of psychoanalysis gave the old charge that feminists were unnatural ' a more sophisticated appearance . Of course , it is also true . When society decrees that a woman 's place is in the home , the woman who leaves it is by definition aberrant . " ( William J. O'Neill , in Everyone Was Brave , Chicago , Quadrangle Books , 1969 , p. 290. ) 38 . Seidenberg , Faith A. , The Woman Lawyer , in Case and Comment , vol. 74:30 : May-June , 1969. 39 . Freud 's statement on the importance of work for a person has been widely quoted by social scientists . Freud wrote : " It is not possible within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significance of work for the economics of the libido . No other technique for the conduct of life attaches the individual so firmly to reality as laying emphasis on work ; for his work at least gives him a secure place in a portion of reality , in the human community . The possibility it offers of displacing a large amount of libidinal components , whether narcissistic , aggressive or even erotic , on to professional work and on to the human relations connected with it lends it a value by no means second to what it enjoys as something indispensable to thepreservation and justification of existence in society . " ( Freud , S. , Civilization and its Discontents , New York , W.W. Norton , 1962 , p. 27 ) . Does this apply to women as well ? How is the housewife to " test reality in the human community ? " And unto whom is she to displace libidinal components ? Freud 's statement adroitly defines the role of work ( professional , he says ) in keeping one 's identity , integrity , yes , sanity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an imperative , for both sexes. 40 . The inequalities in what is advertised as the ecstasy of love lead not only to the degradation of the victim but to the inevitable corruption of character of the dominant male who gains ascendency and power through " inheritance " and custom rather than earned worthiness . This corruption erodes morality in the same manner that white racism has corrupted Caucasians . John Stuart Mill long ago told us of this ; it is as relevant today as then : " All the selfish propensities , the self-worship , the unjust self-preference , which exists among mankind , have their source and root in , and derive their principal nourishment from , the present constitution of the relation between men and women . Think what it is to a boy , to grow up to manhood in the belief that without any merit or any exertion of his own , though he may be the most frivolous and empty or the most ignorant and stolid of mankind , by the mere fact of being born a male he is by right the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the human race : including probably some whose real superiority to himself he has daily or hourly occasion to feel ; but even if in his whole conduct he habitually follows a woman 's guidance , still , if he is a fool , she thinks that of course she is not , and can not be , equal in ability and judgment to himself ; and if he is not a fool , he knows that , notwithstandingher superiority , he is entitled to command and she is bound to obey . What must be the effect on his character , of this lesson ? " ( 18 ) In order to " love " as he professes , the man must overcome his historical privilege of dominance , abhorring the role of master as he would that of the slave . To do this , he must transcend the dictates of custom as well as the seeming compliance of the subjected . Marriage should encourage bonds but not bondage in which the identity of one is all but submerged . ( Even her name goes ? an anonymity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used between people , a type of charade is substituted for conventional language which may involve not only gestures and movements but also the use and cooperation of the tissues and systems of the body . This phenomenon is in the province of psychosomatic medicine , that catchall for poorly understood occurrences . There may be pseudocyesis ? the makebelievepregnancy that " befell " Honey in Albee 's Who 's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? ( to be discussed in Chapter X ) . Honey typifies the woman with classical hysteria ? the actress par excellence who can play the role so well that she pressed her own cells into the service of the performance . This type of control and direction are part of a body language that has the purpose of both an appealfor help and a desire to keep one 's problem obscure . The ultimate hope is that some parental wisdom will understand the distress and give the relief without the ambiguities and dangers of verbal demands . Hysteria was , albeit wrongly , thought to be a female disease , perhaps because it was so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can perhaps be understood because , 157p158although they are purportedly great talkers and chatterboxes , they have had very little voice in matters of importance . The following two cases illustrate phenomena of direct yet uncanny body participation in mental conflicts having to do with the vagaries of relationships in marriage . One type of hyperhidrosis ( excessive sweating ) has been called mental or emotional by dermatologists and neurologists . They have noted that a profuse , cold , clammy sweating occurs on the palms and soles , or in the axillae ( armpits ) , during mentally stressful activities . It is always bilateral and usually unrelated to external temperature changes or internal diseases . Often the palms and feet are involved together , but the condition can be confined to one or the other . The sweating in the axillae appears to be independentof that in other areas . Kuno noted that thermal sweating appears universally over the general body surface , whereas " mental " sweating appears over the palms , soles , and axillae. 1 He postulated that moisteningthe surface of the palm would increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact . Consequently every sort of muscular work would be facilitated not only for this physical reason , but also because the sense of touch becomes more acute when friction increases . Therefore , palmar sweating would provide a better adhesive surface for grasping and doing work . On the other hand , axillary sweating was thought to be for sexual purposes . Sulzberger and Herrmann indicated their agreement with Kuno when they observed that " practically any activity , e.g. , the lifting of an object , attentive listening , conversation , etc. , is , in certain persons , sufficient to elicit profuse sweating in the areas of pre-dilection . " They also noted the severe vocational and social handicap that is caused . 2Since sweating has always been known as a sign of anxiety , it is surprising that this condition has received so little attention in the psychiatric literature . Hyperhidrosis was a common condition among the anxiety cases of World War II . " Sweating it out " is an overworked phrase today . The material following may be of some value to readers in understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties and linkages affectp159adaptations . The concept of early ties and connections has been alluded to in Chapter I.A coy , attractive woman of twenty-seven came for treatment because of marital difficulties . Married for two years , she felt no love for her husband and wanted to leave him . She could give no tangible reasons for her disenchantment . She only knew that the relationship could not continue . Both of them were German nationals , recent emigrants from West Germany . He had lived here for a short while before this and had met her on a business trip to his native land . They had known each other several years before . She had no enthusiasm about marrying him and coming to this country , but her mother finally convinced her that this would be a good opportunity for happiness and security . Always prone to be submissive and obedient to her mother , she consented to the marriage . After arriving in this country , she found employment in a job commensurate with her education and also made a fair social adjustment . However , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beginning she tried to be amiable , but found that intimacies had become completely repulsiveto her . Her husband was a good provider and seemed to have the ingredients for a good husband , but these did not endear him to her . Her husband and several close friends who were familiar with the situation suggested that she might seek psychiatric help . She herself saw no reason for this move but felt obliged to try . It was her feeling that the only solution to her problem was terminating the marriage . In the course of history-taking , she indicated that she had a lifelong " physical " problem ? that of excessive sweating of her hands , but of no other part of her body . She had had this affliction since the age of eight , and it had become progressively worse . There was no familial history of this condition . She describedher hands as literally " dripping like a faucet " on certain occasions . Nothing she could do ever gave relief , although the sweating did diminish for certain periods of time . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She recalled that at the age of eight , she took piano lessons . Whenever she practiced , the keys would become so wet as to makep160impossible further attempts at playing . As she grew older , she became aware that anticipation of any activity involving the hands would immediately cause them to become wet . Shaking hands in particular became a nightmare for her . Eating in public was difficult , for the silverware and tablecloth near her would becomewet . This condition did not involve the feet or axillae . Her father was a well-educated , taciturn person , the superintendentof a coal mine in the Ruhr . Absorbed in his work , he left the household and care of the children strictly to his wife . For example , after perfunctory greetings in the evening , he would retire to his library and become occupied in his reading and business work . She recalled that she would accompany her father each Christmas to the mining area , where he would shake hands with each miner and wish him a Merry Christmas . Witnessing the handshaking made her own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work in the mines during the war . She and her mother would take them bread . She was extremely close to her mother and antagonistic to her only sister , three years senior . She had been told that as an infant she was a chronic headbanger . This activity ceased as she grew older , but she remained a " difficult sleeper . " For example , her sister could not sleep in the same room with her , for she noisily thrashed about , turning her head abruptly from one side to the other . She still has this problem at night . She also has difficulty in falling asleep and in arising in the morning . At the age of twelve , she reverted to bedwetting . She felt that this was caused by nightly bombing attacks on their city by the Americans . Because of the bedwetting , she could not be evacuated with the other children to a country school . Therefore she remained through the war years with her parents . She claimed that the bedwetting ceased four years later , concomitantwith the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the war , and she remained with her mother . The sister teased her a great deal because of her bedwetting and other " childish " traits . During her adolescence she shied away from dates and parties , turning her back on youthful boy friends whom she had known since childhood . Instead , in her late teens , she becameenamored of several older men . These were men in theirp161fifties , married , all quite prominent in the field of music and the arts . She had - sexual affairs with them , but also liked their fatherly attitude toward her . Boys her own age always seemed to be " ugly or boorish . " She grouped her husband with the younger men . Although she tolerated sexual relations with him , kissing was especially repugnantto her . Because of her coldness towards him , her husband accused her of being a Lesbian . She felt that this was not true because she had had strong feelings toward older men in the past . Disclaiming any gross nervousness or , for that matter , any problems , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about personal cleanliness and expected the same in others . She was particularly disdainful of other girls in the office who did not correct sweating under their arms . Another fear that she recalled was of earthworms . She would not touch them and would become upset if she actually stepped on one . She avoided going to classes in biology when worms were studied ; she said that they were cold and slimy . It was also " eerie " the way you could cut them in two and each end would continue to live . During her early adolescence she was a shy person , closely attached to her mother . She attributed her shyness to her " hand problem , " for it was the custom in Germany to shake hands before and after any social encounter . ( Although far from being enchantedwith the United States , she was happy to find that handshakingis not so common a practice here . ) Shortly after coming to this country , she received news of the death of her mother . This came as a severe and unexpected blow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own family except an indifferent , and often hostile , sister . This added fuel to her resentment towards her husband , for , in taking her to this country , he had deprived her of being with her mother during her last days . She was employed at a nearby university as an assistant in the training program for air force personnel . Was she resentful of the country and air force which bombed her native city and brought terror at night ? " No , " she replied , " that is all in the past . I hold no grudge against anyone . " One day she reported being at a graduation of the air force candidates . She stated that she suffered when she witnessed the Chancellor shaking hands with them . Onp162watching his her own hands began to " drip like a leaky faucet . " She was very happy that it was the Chancellor and not she who had to do the handshaking . She had many cultural interests , especially classical music . Beethoven 's Ninth Symphony was her favorite . Whereas good music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , noises , especially sudden ones , were disturbing to her . The pop of a winebottlecork , the sound of an icicle falling , an unexpected cough , children shooting toy pistols in the streets , caused her hands to become wet immediately . It is important to note that she reported the effects of these disturbances as being directly on her hands . She did not indicate the presence of panic or fearfulness . She did not say that she was fearful of being injured or that she . would lose control . She looked upon treatment as another intrusion , a type of conspiracyto keep her in an untenable marriage . " Is a person crazy because she does not love her husband ? " she asked . She disclaimedbeing nervous and felt that the sweating of her hands might be a physical condition . It became apparent that the prospect of a psychological exploratory treatment , with the concomitant relationship that had to be made with the therapist , was a grave threat to her . When it was indicated to her that therapy might prove beneficial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently heard of a new operation which might be immediately corrective . In spite of obvious causes and reactions , she could not accept psychological treatment for herself . She did , however , participate to some degree . Having heard somewhere that dreams might be helpful , she mentioned the following dream . " A little boy friend appeared that I knew when I was six or seven years old . We played together . The dream was quite vivid . I even recall the house . His sister was there too . " To this dream she associated the following : " I do n't know why I dreamed of him . I have n't seen him in ten years . We played together as children . I admired him at that age but when I was a teenager , I did n't like him ? but he seemed to like me . Sometimes I dream of people I never think of . " The age that she saw herself in this dream was shortly before the onset of her hand symptoms . It was the therapist 's hypothesisp163at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in her life which had undergone repression without adequateresolution . The playing with the boy and his sister being present might have indicated the oedipal conflict . There were also indications from her associations that during her adolescence , when fulfillment was possible , she had to turn her back on heterosexualfeelings that would result in a close tie with an eligible male . Also , by identifying herself as " six or seven years of age " in the dream , she may have been indicating that this was the time of severe stress for her , a time of life when postoedipal phobic reactionsare prominent . The onset of her symptoms was about at the age of eight . It can be hypothesized that the usual resolution did not occur , but in its stead there occurred faulty repression with symptom formation . From her history it became apparent that strong preoedipal forces operated to make a resolution at the higher level most difficult . A second dream presaged her termination of treatment and gave further insight into the genesis of her symptoms . " I was on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a man washing windows with a wet sponge . As I watched him , the strap by which he was attached to the building broke loose and the man was hurled to the ground below . I immediately went to him . He was a mass of blood but he was not as yet dead . He lifted his head and reached for me as if he had something to tell me , but he slumped back dead . " For her this was a terribly sad dream . She was always sympathetic toward people who had to risk their lives in order to make a living . She recalled the miners who were killed and the tragic sight of their families . There was once a wounded flyer who fell from the skies and was killed . She herself could not see how window cleaners could trust the meager connections they had to the building while they worked . It made her happy that she was a woman and would not be exposed to such occupational hazards . The dream was a signal that she was forced to break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then she indicated that this type of treatment now seemed senseless for her under the circumstances . Her husband and the marriage were the sources of her immediate difficulties , and her money would bep164better spent on a divorce and possibly for fare back to Germany . However , in the above dream and the associations , one can detect an identification with the fallen workman who had something he wanted to say but could not get it out . Instead he slumped back in silence ( death ) , a solution which the patient decided was best for her . In fact , she had effected a denial of any personal problems or conflicts of living , excepting perhaps a bad decision in her marriage . Indeed , she was even able to deny to herself that she was anxious ! Because contacts and attachments had come up so frequently in regard to her hand symptoms and in her general conversation , the symbol of the workman cleaning windows and being attached to the building was thought to be very significant . During the interviews it was difficult to assess the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few sessions , during which no interpretations were made , she reported a marked improvement . She recalled , however , that this diminution had occurred on previous occasions , i.e. , during her first contacts with the older men in her life . As the treatment relationship progressed , . with concomitant interpretive work , she became increasingly perturbed . She had envisaged a friendly , protective , erotically tinged union but now was faced with the prospect of work involving painfulself-reflection and exposition of infantile needs . ( Note the dream of the fallen window cleaner . ) Thereafter , she reported that her sweating was as bad as it ever was . She became visibly disturbed by noises in and around the consultation room , i.e. , the ring of the telephone , doors banging , and street noises . They elicited the dripping-faucet type of sweating of her hands . She was distrustful of the linkage with the therapist , whom she now saw as an agent of a hostile , intrusive world . Certain cultural problems undoubtedly played a prominent role here , too . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ideational content from emotions and responds to indifferent stimuli . In addition , as noted above , she has no awarenessof the presence of anxiety . There is , therefore , not only a repression of ideational content but also of a major component of affect . This accounts for a relatively " painless " existence . As ap165result her hand sweating appeared to her , and might to an observer also , as a casual autonomic response or , if not casual , then related to external stimuli which had nothing to do with intrapsychic forces . From her history we see early preoedipal difficulties , i.e. , headbanging and sleep disturbances . Bedwetting , which recurred at the age of twelve during the war years , indicated an ease of ego regression . Her choice of objects showed a propensity for parental figures rather than for individuals her own age with whom she would have to deal on a more equalitarian basis . Are we dealing with a vegetative neurosis ? 3 In favor of this concept , we see a response unquestionably mediated through the autonomic nervous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but is largely confined to the hands . Is there a symbolicmeaning to the sweating hands ? Can this be conversion hysteria ? In favor of this diagnosis is the repression of ideationalcontent and the typical " belle indifference . " We could give free rein to speculation about the affected hands and with further study it might be shown that they symbolize certain displacements , etc . One can readily see how the hand can be eroticized or connected with aggression . There is an alternate explanation that embodies the " organic " aspect of the vegetative neurosis and at the same time encompassespsychological considerations . In addition , one could avoid the dubious concept of autonomic system regression . ( Organ or system repression seems to be biological and " extramental , " and therefore outside the frame of inquiry for the psychological worker . ) This is found in the concept of linking or linkage as alreadydiscussed in the psychoanalytic literature by Bion , Ostow , and myself.4 Briefly , linking is the concept relating to the ties that an individual may have to external and internal objects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in oral , anal , or genital terms . The archetype for this would obviously be the umbilicalconnection , but no claim is made here that an actual memory of this attachment exists . The links , real and fancied , are those made during the individual 's development . In later efforts in human relations , there are struggles to break away and also to become connected . Often there are feelings of love and a deep need for the object and also a desire to destroy and incorporate it.  |p166One  sees a need to break the link from one object in order to becomeattached to a more favorable one . Also , an individual may face a conflict between linkages to internal and external , as well as animate and inanimate , objects . There can be conflict between linkages to the past and to the present . The patient under study here has shown a great deal of difficulty in making and breaking connections . We may look again to the second dream , which preceded her breaking her connection with treatment . In this dream , she described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her only constant tie was to her mother . In her late adolescence she became fascinated with older men , but these relationships were ephemeral , for they were married and tied to others . In her marriage she was intent on dissolving the bonds as quickly as possible . It is of interest here that she abhorred kissing , an oral tie , more than any other contact with her husband . Also , she had an " eerie " feeling about the idea that both ends of an earthworm could live after a disconnection . This woman 's linkage to an internal object ? the mother ? competed with , and precluded , any attachment to external objects . This conformed to the well-known formula : everything inside is good and clean ; everything outside is dirty and wicked . Yet at the same time she would reach out for older men , i.e. , external objects , but never for permanent attachments . Hands are for grasping and holding . Sweating is the anticipatoryresponse to these . Excessive sweating here could indicate anxiety concerning the prospect of grasping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases friction to facilitate this , an excessive amount prevents a favorable connection from being made with the object . It appears that her difficulties in the hand-object ( animate , inanimate ) connection are a representation of her ever-present fearfulness in the general area of objectrelatedness . The excessive sweating may be viewed as a primitive bodily expression of overwhelming anxiety about forming adult , mature ties and connections . Preferring what she thought to be a safe , a symbolic relationship with an internal image , she fought off disturbing external ones . This woman , no common garden variety in either her makeupor destiny , brought many problems to her marriage which werep167insurmountable . Furthermore the union and intimacy which marriage demands were detrimental to her welfare . Her unique psychosomatic expression of conflicts became aggravated as she was stampeded into a closeness that was completely dystonic with her internal identity . Outwardly she was a woman who supposedly was taught the docility and servility that every good hausfrau must have . Brutalizedby war , separated from loved ones , she could trust nobody . It was as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanity , for they meant her no good . She had to get married to fulfill her mother 's needs and to follow the pattern that society demands . There could be no verbal protest or rebellion ; her upbringing precluded this type of behavior . There remained , however , body language which was occult and mysterious for which she could have little responsibility . Her body language indicated her distrust of contacts , linkages , and intimacies , and at the same time effectivelybroke those bonds which were so threatening to her . Marriage is psychosomatic in that it is supposed to bind people together in intimacies which promote and gratify bodily feelings . The behavior of the sexual organs is the elementary example , the original paradigm for psychosomatic phenomena . The sexual act in marriage was abhorrent to her because it expressed something directly opposed to her own drive for isolation and separation , whereas her own psychosomatic symptoms , taken from her youth , made her slippery to effect escape and disengagement . This was not the lubrication to receive that a woman typically secretes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she had taken her sexual psychosomatic mechanism in her own hands ( sic ) ; she displaced it and indeed reversed it . Distrustful of a world of cruelty which she knew in her childhood and adolescence , she had no trust , basic or otherwise , in others . Certainlythe male of the species had given her no evidence that her fate would be safe with him . Union meant fusion for her ; this was incompatible with her survival . Her hope lay in separation , even isolation from the purported benefits of human relations . From her experiences she " knew " that even the heavens were dangerous , for they spewed fire and bombs ; the heavens proved as untrustworthy as the earth which gave way under her feet.  |p168Her  husband was innocent , even a rescuer from the horrors of Europe . He took her to a new world ? the promised land ? sanctuaryin , of all places , the land of her enemies ! He married the woman he was in love with ; he planned to care and provide for her , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectations were in no way unusual ; therefore his shock and disturbance were understandable . He ingenuously believed that he was doing nothing different from a million or more other men in similar circumstances . He did not know that in this union he was indeed taking on the problems of the world in microcosm . Who would marry if he knew he was taking the world to bed ! This woman could not trust the therapy and therapist any more than other " helpers " and institutions . Therapy was talk ? perhaps smooth talk designed to direct her into doing what the " system " thought best . She was suspicious of words because she had learned to distrust anyone 's word . Words were vehicles of betrayal . When she was reassured with words that everything would be all right , it never turned out that way . Instead she wished to end her embarrassing symptoms through surgery ? severance of tissues and nerves , mutilation . This was closer to the violence she grew up with . This was the tragic irony of her existence , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could understand and trust . Her nightmares were the safest remnants of her memories . Another woman suffered mental conflicts which were translatedinto symptoms referable to her mouth . There are things we may and may not do with our mouths , depending on age , sex , occupation , social status , etc . In infancy there are few prohibitionsof oral activity , except perhaps biting and thumbsucking . Enthusiastic suckling , eating , and noisemaking are usually most gratifying to parents . Biting is generally poorly tolerated ; thumbsuckingmay be accepted or prohibited , varying with class status and occupation of the parents . Generally in the lower classes , it is fairly well tolerated , whereas in the middle and professional classes it is borne poorly by the parents . Thumbsucking in adults is generally not tolerated . Nailbiting in adults does not provoke censure except in professional groups . Among these , facial tics and stammering are also taboo . Lipbitingp169is quite general and is accepted as a mannerism denoting concern . Tonguelicking of the teeth and oral mucosa are deemed private activities , and nothing much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oral habits , the dynamics derived mainly from the libido theory . Nailbiting has been described as providing gratification and atonement , satisfying a desire to bite and be bitten . It has also been looked upon as an integratedrelease of aggression , denial , and self-punishment by biting at the claws , particularly favorable because of the element of reversibility ? the nails grow back , unlike other mutilations. 5Pouting can be a distinctly acceptable coquettish mannerism in a woman but is not tolerated in an adult male . One researcher found it an infantile mode of expression , representing an oral conflictwhen persisting in adult life . " The thrusting out of the lips seemed to be a literal reaching out for the breast and milk . " He concluded that pouting represented a regressive wish to return to a state of satisfactory maternal contact . 6Blathering is a less familiar activity . It is a rapid , noisy , recurrentprotrusion and withdrawal of the flattened relaxed tongue through moderately relaxed lips and jaws . Dr. Clifford Scott found it in an adult female patient . He related it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object fed upon , referring to the rapid tongue movements of the infant during the act of feeding . 7Freud described lipsucking and tonguesucking , along with thumbsucking , as manifestations of infantile sexuality . Here the tongue may become a substitute for the breast , thumb , or other external object . 8The use of the mouth as a sexual organ is influenced by both cultural and psychological factors . For instance , a prostitute took almost puritanical pride in that she did not " do it the French way , " like some of her sisters in trade . On the other hand , the daughter of a clergyman repeatedly performed fellatio instead of genital intercourse so that she could remain a virgin . Oral activity in foreplayseems to differ among the social classes ( it is more prominent in the upper ) . There is a stratification among homosexuals based on predilectionsfor the anal or oral routes . Homosexuality has both sociological as well as psychological determinants . Proust thoughtp170of homosexuals as a persecuted minority group , a race accursed . He wrote : " Just as there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no such thing as homosexuality in the epoch when it was customary and befitting to live with a young man as nowadays it is to keep a ballet dancer ; when Socrates , the most virtuous man - there ever was , cracked jokes about two youths sitting side by side as we might about a nephew and niece who make eyes at each other ? so that the sin of homosexuality dates its historical origin from when , having lost its good name , it did not conform . " In the matter of the ubiquitous kiss or buss , we are aware of the role of social custom . ( It is illegal to kiss in public in some communities . ) The kiss has been codified by the acting profession . In the movies and on television , the kiss as an act of passion is freely enacted and shown to an accepting public . However , there persists a squeamishness about saliva . Recently , the coquettish open-mouthed female with quivering lips has received wide acceptance in movie-going circles . However , the male who keeps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of children and adults are well known to us . Besides the fads , medically sanctioned diets ( pertaining to cholesterol regulation , etc. ) have become popular . Religious rituals regarding food are present in almost every sect . Orthodox Jews demand extensive precautions to see that only bloodless meat touches their lips , yet the twentieth century gourmet will send the steak or roast beef back to the kitchen if it is not minimallybroiled . The most prevalent oral social habits in our western culture are smoking and drinking . Drinking , at least for the majority , is a mark of sociability and probably masculinity . Smoking is advertisedas pure pleasure , alcoholic beverages as the great social catalyst . On the other side , moralists have been joined by medical science in claiming the somatic and social destructiveness of both . As yet , with some notorious exceptions , women confine their smoking to cigarettes . Smoking habits vary according to occupation . Many business offices prohibit working girls from smoking on the job , although it is freely permitted in the executive offices.  |p171Cigar  smoking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as , along with the pipe , it may be restricted in individual households . The recent cancer scare has added a medical dimension to the cigarette smoking habit . This has placed women in quite a quandary . They can not easily switch to cigar or pipe as men can . It is part of the etiquette of the medical profession in the United States that physicians abstain from smoking during an interview , examination , or treatment of a patient . It is of interest that psychiatrists and psychoanalysts do not follow this custom and thus in this respect divorce themselves from the medical model . Psychoanalysts , generally , seem to be heavy smokers and may smoke in the treatment room while prohibiting the analysand to do the same . One possible reason for this is that Freud , like WinstonChurchill , never appeared in the flesh or in photographs sans cigar . Social custom dictates that lawyers may smoke with clients , but not in court ; and those working with children , i.e. , teachers , etc. , are not expected to smoke during their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the form of social , political , religious , and medical prohibitions . Abstemiousness has been adopted by many religious groups , i.e. , Methodists and , more rigidly , Seventh Day Adventists . Abstinencebecomes the other side of the coin . To abstain , then , aids morality and tends to promote individuality . One 's superiority is demonstrated by the ability to resist the " evil " to which the majority has succumbed . Interestingly enough , such people now receive a bonus for their abstinence from medical science , which attributes a myriad of diseases and degenerative processes to chronic alcohol and tobacco usage . We see that both addiction and abstinence may be used as adjuncts to social adjustments . It is therefore not surprising that we find attitudes about smoking and drinking communicated by patients either directly or via symptoms . Such is the case with the patient whose history follows . A fifty-six-year-old school teacher was referred by a physician from a rural community . He indicated that he thought she was suffering from a nervous condition which had not responded top172tranquilizers or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be helped if she had " someone to talk to , " although she had " no " apparent problems . A pale , emaciated , sickly-looking woman appeared , accompanied by a corpulent husband who looked like an ex-prize fighter . - He was , however , quite meek in manner . When I motioned her into the office , she had difficulty arising from a chair and staggered across the room with a loose-jointed , wobbly gait , supportingherself on adjacent furniture . She pointed to reddened sores on her lips and corners of her mouth . She indicated that these sores were causing all her difficulties . They were very painful , making it impossible for her to eat . She lived on liquids , but really had no . desire for food . As a result of this , she had lost thirty pounds in the last year . The lesions had not responded to any of a myriad of medications , both local and systemic . She and her doctor now felt that it might be due to " nerves . " Because of the appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would not teach in the last school year . At the same time her dentist observed that there seemed to be an increase of tooth decay . In spite of the incapacity due to the ataxia , she made no reference to this symptom . Only on direct questioning did she reveal that her difficulty in walking appeared concomitantly with the lesions of the mouth . Her " nerves " seemed to be centered in her mouth . Whenevershe " got upset , " she tensed up in this region . She described a behavior like pouting but also tightening of her lips in purselike fashion . She would vigorously press her tongue against them . This would invariably produce the lesions . She knew this but could not help herself in this behavior . She had heard of psychological treatment , but concurred with her family physician that she was a happy person with no family or social problems . Her husband , a retired policeman now convalescingfrom a heart attack , was devoted to her and met her every need . Her two children , one a school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of excellent character . The younger , a son , was still at home but completing his education . The daughter had been married for five years and had one child . Her nervous symptoms first appeared at the time of the daughter 's marriage five years previously . However , she admittedp173that she was of a general " nervous temperament , " taking sleeping medicine every night since her own marriage . Although happy about her daughter 's forthcoming marriage , she had been overcomewith concern as to how the couple would make ends meet on the meager income of an apprentice teacher . ( Her son-in-law was also a teacher . ) She had been insistent that she would not have a wedding reception for them because of the expense . She said that she had nothing against the boy and no reason to feel snobbish about him , but she " knew " how her daughter had been brought up . They were not wealthy , but she had inculcated in her children a high sense of honor and dignity . However , the fact that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undue influence on her part , she said . She was extremely proud of her children because they resisted the temptations that other young people appeared to be succumbingto . As they entered their adolescence , they both took religious pledges that they would neither drink nor smoke . She was proud that they had done this on their own ; it was not a " command . " Her husband had his " plebeian " habits , which she had not been able to do much about . She felt it was not her right to deprive him of his smoking ( although it " dirtied and smelled up the house " ) , his beer drinking , and his Thursday night bowling . She " wished " she could smoke like the rest of them ; it might " settle her nerves . " Beer always tasted terrible to her , although she had drunk it occasionally during courtship . She had some concern about her son-in-law , but he proved to be abstemious like herself and her own children . She came , she said , from " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in religion and respectable in social conduct . Her father and two older brothers worked on the railroad . They were largely illiterate . The patient wrote reports for her father as needed on his job . Two of her uncles had died early of alcoholism . Her mother consequently made her children take religious pledges to abstain . The older brothers had little education , in contrast to the patient and the younger brother , both of whom became teachers . She stated that she was constantly pampered by her brothers who , characteristically , treated her as the family baby . However , she helped her younger brother through college and remained closestp174to him . Her mother was constantly on guard against the drunkennessand irresponsibility in the largely immigrant community where they lived . She was extremely proud of her two younger children , who broke away from the pattern . The patient was married in her late twenties . Her husband was below her educational level , . but she stated that he pampered her as her brothers had . As noted above , she started taking sleeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " sores " which had first erupted when her daughter was married five years before , the patient was at that time admitted to a specialized clinic and hospital where she received an intensive work-up . During the course of the tests and examinations , the lesions cleared up completely within one week , and she was restored to health without any specific treatment , whereas the remedies of her local physician had had no effect . The lesions reappeared two years later , and again disappeared after three days of hospitalization . They developed again two years after that , and she was put under the care of a psychiatrist in a nearby town . She was immediately given a course of electroshock treatment , without relief ; and since that time her state of health had deterioratedconsistently . She was unable to teach or even leave her house . She expressed great hope of being helped by someone with whom she could talk . She was quite impressed with the fact that she had to wait a long time for an appointment . She was also reassured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her one concern was that she did not know why she needed help , since she had always lived a virtuous life and really knew of no personal problems . She could not understand any reason for an emotional illness , since everyone was and always had been good to her . The children had been moral and respectful . She had a kind and devoted husband and children who gave her a great deal of respect and pride . True , they were not wealthy and had survived hard times , including the loss of all their possessions during a flood several years before . She felt that " nerves " caused her mouth lesions . At the end of the hour , it was agreed that she would return inp175one week to discuss her problems further and to see what else could be done . She expressed gratitude and promptly wrote out a check with a very shaky hand . To the suggestion that she might wait for a statement at the end of the month , she protested that she did not want to " owe anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next appointment she walked in briskly and the lesions around her mouth had completely disappeared . They had cleared up three days after her initial visit . She could not explain how it happened ; but it seemed to reaffirm her doctor 's confidence ? that all a woman like her needed was to talk to someone , rather than be subjected to shock treatments . She had begun to eat and now was able to go shopping , which she had previously been fearful of doing . She felt that she could return to her job as a teacher ; she subsequently did and was able to teach for the next year . Although she felt that she had recovered from her difficulties , she wanted to continue on a weekly basis to insure her " recovery . " She continued " talking " about one year . During this time she came accompanied by her husband , who generally slept during the hour in the waiting room . She asked for frequent changes of time and days of appointments , which were granted in the beginning . She had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such special treatment . She brought her problems of school to the sessions , and these revealed her intense rigidity . She now taught the first grade , having transferred from the fourth grade because she felt the younger children would be more cooperative . She stated that she got along well with the children , but it was the parents who upset her by their misunderstanding of the role of a teacher . She said that this was entirely different from the early days of teaching , when people had respect for the position and authority of a teacher . Now all that was changed ; the parents seemed to take no responsibility for the children . She became fearful of giving low grades to the children lest the parents should think that she was being unfair . One day , while she was taking the pupils to the cafeteria , the dietitian told her that she was five minutes behind schedule . This brief remark completely unnerved the patient , causing her to feel depressed for the following three days . She lamented that itp176was not her fault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the principal . At home she was annoyed with the drinking and smoking of her husband , but she tolerated it as best she could . As treatment continued , changing the hours was refused , and she was not allowed to pay at each session . However , after statementswere sent , she became delinquent in payment . She felt very hurt about this new treatment , but then explained it by saying this was a way of " testing " her . About a year after she started treatment , her oral lesions and anorexia returned . This was in a setting of three concurrent situations : a less indulgent attitude on the part of the therapist ; the end of the school year , when she would be left to face a summer vacation ; the graduation of her son from teaching college and his leaving home to take a job in another city . The patient stopped eating , complained bitterly of her lesions , and could not go out on the street any more . Her husband and son felt they could not manage her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the office visits were not providing the proper magic at this time . Therefore , she voluntarily admitted herself to the local psychiatric hospital . She entered on Friday , and by Monday her symptoms again disappeared . By Wednesday of that week , she was gleeful over her quick recovery , and had effusive praise for the young intern who had been taking care of her and had spent so much time with her . She was grateful for having a special room . ( This was not true . ) She also claimed that she was very interested and compassionateabout the other patients around her . She felt particularlyfortunate in having come upon doctors who were skilled and who were interested in her . Her doctor ( the intern ) was young but seemed to know his business . She was in the hospital for approximately three weeks , during which time she had her husband visit her daily , making a trip of 150 miles from their home . It is to be noted that during her hospitalization she greatly antagonized the medical students and some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humility , asked for special considerations , desisted from going to occupational therapy with the other patients , etc . She immediately identified herself with the doctors and not with the patients . She was dis/charged from the hospital and continued to be in " good health " and to teach with somewhat lessened rigidity . Her initial symptoms did not reappear , and she gained weight steadily . The internist 's general impression had been that her oral lesions , including a dry , red sore tongue , were manifestations of a vitamin deficiency ; but he was unable to see how a well-nourished woman on a well-balanced diet could develop such a deficiency . It is quite apparent that , with middle age , this woman found it increasingly difficult to deal with her changing situation . In her work , she could no longer compete with the younger teachers in the field and had to compensate through becoming more authoritarianin her class . At the same time she was in constant fear of what she called " dirty notes " from parents who might not like her handling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from her children whom she was no longer able to dominate . She found herself in more contact and greater intimacy with her husband , now retired and dependent , whom she had always secretly felt was inferior to herself . On a psychological level , one may understand her symptoms as an oral regression that displayedher rejection of the situation in which she found herself . However , it was felt there was another component in her symptomatology which could be understood only in terms of a particular social interaction . In her haughtiness , she betrayed her fears and contempt for the people with whom she had been associated , past and present . She had known of drinking , fighting , and other barbarities . She felt that she had risen above this and demanded strictness in the members of her family . It is significant that her daughter , at seven years of age , became obsessed with the idea that she had sinned . The daughter had been taken to a counselor at that time . Later in life the patient demanded that her children abstain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , her symptoms take on a more specific meaning . These are the people she had known in her childhood , the men who reeked of sweat , tobacco , and alcohol . Her father was illiterate and blustering . She saw her uncles with blotchy , swollen faces , and ataxia , dying of alcoholism . She had struggled against this way of life and , along with her younger brother , had succeeded in elevating herself . Yet her husband , al/though neither illiterate nor alcoholic , showed lower-class habits and attitudes . At school , she had to contend with the rudeness of the janitors and cafeteria help , as well as the " country-bumpkin " parents of her children who sent " dirty notes " complaining about marks and the general handling of their progeny . With her oral symptoms and staggering gait , she was identifying with the drunkennessand low nature of the " contemptible " individuals she felt were around her . At the same time she was displaying her own repressed oral cravings . She then became , in the phantasy of the symptoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around her . This was like the parlor game of charades ? a pantomime . Freud at one time likened hysterical symptoms to a pantomime.10Thus an identification with the contemptible object or objects is effected . ( Identification with the aggressor is a wellknownpsychoanalytic concept . ) In regard to her speedy recovery on contact with new therapists , it is not appropriate to use the term " transference " in this connection . The phenomenon here was in the nature of an instant identification . She gained a great feeling of importance in being interviewed by specialists ; she would not respond to an ordinary doctor . Her constant dread was of being " ordinary , " a state of being she had tried to avoid most of her life , but which she was now slipping into in her postclimacteric period . When she could be made to feel like someone special , she was able to overcome her bitterness and forego her mimicry of the " immoral , " orally addicted , internal objects . This immediate response was evident in each instance of recovery . This case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . It highlights the oft-neglected social representation of symptoms . About the production of lesions around the mouth , one can only speculate . Undoubtedly there are complex psychological and biological factors involved . However , it was apparent that this woman indulged in intense pouting , as well as tonguesucking , and thrusting her tongue against the mucosa of her mouth and lips . It may be that the synergy of this constant physical trauma , plus bacterial pathogens , combined to produce the lesions . The evidence for this speculation is herp179immediate recovery when she was able to stop her psychical-oral activity . On the other hand , her staggering gait was purely hysterical , without any physiological or organic components . Her ' symptom complex appeared to be the opposite of what one might consider acting-out behavior , for in acting out an individualgenerally expresses internal conflicts via social behavior . However , this individual , through mimicry , expressed her social feelings through psychological mechanisms . This woman might have shown her protest by acting out behavior , such as becoming an alcoholic or an excessive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the contemptible objects , i.e. , her husband , father , uncles , railroad workers , shanty Irish , etc . The advantage of her autoplastic defense was that , via the mechanism of the pantomimeinstead of the deed , she was able to be expressive and yet retain , or even enhance , her virtue . This may be called " acting in , " a term already used by Zeligs.iiThe competition of ties in the present against those in the past is intrinsic to the human condition . Gulliver knew that one could be as helplessly and as securely bound by a thousand microscopic strands as by the gross chains which encumbered Prometheus . Gulliver 's experience is more germane to human existence because the imperceptible ties in the unconscious are the significant and determining ones . The thick umbilical cord , as everyone knows , is cut at birth ? no problem there ! In living there is nothing so unsophisticated as the Gordian knot which succumbed to one well-placed blow . In human relations , therefore , the therapist soon learns that changing , or turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Philip Roth 's idiom ? is never a simple matter . The middleagedschool teacher described above was suffering the consequences of the sequences of generations , and dramatically and pathetically attempting to undo her social inheritance ? struggling to deny the ties which linked her to a sinful past . Until recently , the existence of social classes , with their attendantstruggles and tensions , was America 's best kept secret.20 In England , yes , but not in the land where all men are created equal . You were to be judged by your morality or your accomplishments ? no one was to be excluded or resented because of his birth ,  |p180social  class or job status . Everyone knew that people married for love ? the song that confirmed this was : " I Found My Million Dollar Baby in the Five and Ten Cent Store . " Psychoanalysis did nothing to demythologize this belief . Freud rarely mentioned social class as relevant to any of the problems he dealt with . His main concession to the acknowledgmentof social differences was that psychoanalysis as treatment was limited to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eternal truths " that transcended class , race or sex . Marx , with his emphasis on alienation and disaffection because of the vicissitudes of class struggle , was totally ignored by Freud and most of his followers . This denial of the relevance of social class resonated well with American tradition . Freud , not Marx , gained ascendancy in the United States . Yet the acknowledgment of social classes and their vicissitudes had to come and with it its relevance to emotional problems . This writer , trained in the Freudian tradition , nonetheless has found that social class tensions , as exemplified in the case under consideration , do play a crucial role in the " psychopathology " of individuals . These anxieties , long overlooked , play a central role in symptom formation . Psychoanalysts in America have noted a " disappearance " among their patients of the grosser and more flamboyant symptoms such as paralysis , ataxia . They attribute this to increased sophistication as well as knowledge of more bizarrepsychiatric syndromes . The more literate people somehow are able to avoid these . More to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predilections of social classes to begin with . The " disappearance " of these symptoms may reflect the non-appearance of poor and low-income patients in general in the clientele of psychoanalysts . It seems reasonable that the more literate classes would have psychological symptoms of an " intellectual " nature ; the poorer classes on the other hand , whose primary concerns are the biological problems of getting enough to eat and a roof over their heads , would have psychologicalsymptoms , not of an intellectual nature , but those related to biology and bodily functions . The bizarre conversion symptoms are less frequently seen in affluent areas than amongst the ruralp181poor where physical deprivations are the greatest . Furthermore , these symptoms are apt to appear , not in the steady state of poverty and despair , but in situations where there is some change imminent , even an improvement in living conditions with which an individual , rendered inelastic by cultural alienation and physical deprivation , can not cope . The writer recalls the instance of a woman who developed a hysterical paralysis of all her limbs when her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The prospect of better housing for her in another area had little appeal ; her community as she knew it was gone , along with its sustaining qualities . She had no resiliency for a new adventure , even for so-called improved living conditions . Yet this was impossible to express in any but body language . She was taciturn to begin with ; an expression of her panic about moving might reflect an ingratitude to the " generous " people who insisted on helping her . Total paralysis was her reply . To return to the case of the ataxic woman , the traditional psychoanalytic interpretation would most likely emphasize genetic problems ? those of earliest childhood , to which she had regressed . No one can deny that this woman 's psychic structure and its particularity had their origins in oedipal and preoedipal phases of her life . Yet these postulates do not explain the occurrence of such symptoms at her age . Only when these genetic factors are combined with existential ones can an intelligent analysis be derived . The patient was very conscious of her past and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regressivetendencies to infantile levels of psychic organization . True . But equally pertinent is this woman 's struggle with forces , real and fancied , which would cause a status regression with a husband who embarrassed her with his low-prestige job and manners and with children who might stray from her ideals of moral impeccability and possibly bring disgrace to her . These ambitious strivings and anxieties could not be directly expressed or admitted ; in fact they were to be strongly denied . They came out as the opposite ; namely , love , concern , and humility . Her symptoms communicated and expressed her anxieties of not being able to maintain the upward social mobility that she had initiated . Threatened by her ownp182failing physical self ( aging ) and faltering mental acumen , she " feigned " physical disability to warn her kin of what a drunkard looks and acts like and at the same time through her symptoms attempted to mobilize the attention and power that are due to an ailing but self-sacrificing mother . Textbooks in psychiatry are quick to diagnose hysterical symptoms as attention-getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the larger gestalt in which the frantic appeal for attention is vestigial to disappearing influence and authority . The attention-getting mechanism connotesfailure and slippage ? the bathos of a defeated person . The world has not yet arrived at a state where competition , power , and dominance have been entirely eliminated from human aspirations . This woman , like the deceased mother in Philip Roth 's Letting Go , felt that she had married someone who was her inferior , in social class and education . It is part of societal pressure on young girls that they make compromises in order to avoid being spinsters . They are told that a girl must not be too particular , for there are only a few opportunities . " He is n't so bright but he 'll make you a good husband . " With this advice , women have married men for whom they not only have no love but of whom they are ashamed . They feel that they have been betrayed and sold as slaves by worried parents . And in an unconcerned society , a woman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixed with desperation . She rues the day of her female birth and feels that the penis was wasted on her husband . She feels that she might have accomplished so much had she been granted the unearned position of the male . Such frustration in the ataxic patient led to contempt for her inept husband who was an obstacle rather than a help in elevating the family position . Shakespeare wrote of such frustrated , ambitious women . He would have been able to diagnose this woman 's oral symptoms . Volumnia , in Coriolanus , embittered by the banishment of her son , states : " Anger 's my meat ; I sup upon myself , and so shall starve with feeding . " 12 And could not the woman in this protocol have spoken the words of Lady Macbeth : " Come you spirits/That tend on mental thoughts , unsex me here , /And fill me from the crown to the toe , top-full of direct cruelty " ? **27;3749;TOOLONG with a blemish was acceptable to the Lord . The Bible contains no fewer than sixty references to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sacrificed to the Deity . No man with a blemish or deformity could carry offerings to the Lord . " ... Whosoever he be of thy seed in their generations that hath any blemish , let him not approach to offer the bread of his God . For whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish , he shall not approach : a blind man , or a lame , or he that hath a flat nose , or any thing superfluous , Or a man that is brokenfooted or brokenhanded , or crookbackt or a dwarf , or that hath a blemish in his eye , or be scurvy , or scabbed , or hath his stones broken ; No man that hath a blemish of the seed of Aaron the priest shall come nigh to offer the offerings of the Lord made by fire : he hath a blemish ; he shall not come nigh to offer the bread of his God . . . . Only he shall not go in unto the veil , nor come nigh unto the altar , because he hath a blemish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lord do sanctify them . " 14There , then , were strong prohibitions against the blemished , the lame , the blind , and the infirm . " Without blemish " took on a moral meaning : to be spotless , blameless . Here is undoubtedly an obfuscation of the difference between physical and moral stain . It is an instance of transmogrification , a moral " somato-psychism . " Society loathes the blemished and the crippled , frequently causing a deformity of character and mind to fit the physical deformity . The opening lines of Shakespeare 's Richard III tell how the " crookmind " came from the " crookbackt . " It should be rememberedthat nature formed the latter and societal prejudice the former : " But I , that am not shap 'd for sportive tricks , Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass ; I , that am rudely stamp 'd , and want love 's majesty , To strut before a wanton ambling nymph ; I , that am curtail 'd of this fair proportion , Cheated of feature by dissembling Nature ,  |p184Deform  'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , scarce half made up , And that so lamely and unfashionable , That dogs bark at me , as I halt by them ; And therefore , since I can not prove a lover , To entertain these fair well-spoken days , I am determined to prove a villain , And hate the idle pleasures of these days . " " Richard is matched in literature by the hunch-backed servant girl Maritornes in Don Quixote . Deprived of Richard 's " assets " of maleness , power , and cunning , she was consoled by the vicarious excitement of tales of adventure and romance . This misshapen woman fares poorly indeed in the mating game . Man seeks for beauty in another as for the holy grail . The " why " of this is anybody'sguess . Jean-Paul Sartre sees beauty as a magical protection : " The beautiful , " . . . " seems indestructible , its sacred image protects us . As long as it resides in our midst , no catastrophe can happen . " isNietzsche similarly writes : " What do we desire when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we imagine that beauty carries with it great happiness , but this is a mistake . " 17The quest for perfect beauty was the theme of Hawthorne 's tale , " The Birthmark. " 18 Here the scientist , Aylmer , deeply in love with his beautiful young wife , nonetheless revealed to her his abhorrence of a birthmark on her cheek , the only evidence of imperfection on her . At first she was unaffected by his revelation , having placed no great significance to it . She said : " To tell the truth , it has been so often called a charm that I was simple enough to imagine it might be so . " Not so for Aylmer . He replied : " Oh , upon another face perhaps it might but never on yours . No , dearest Georgiana , you came so nearly perfect from the hand of Nature that this slightest possible defect , which we hesitate whether to term a defect or a beauty , shocks me , as being the visiblemark of earthly imperfection . " Georgiana 's indifference was shortlived after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became a point of fixation for both of them . Thep185blemish threatened to destroy their union . They both agreed that it would have to be removed , as Georgiana said , " . . . whatever be the cost , or we shall both go mad . " Aylmer produced a potion against such a blemish but it was untried and dangerous . Georgiana fully ingested it . The " stain " steadily faded from her cheek , as did life from her body . This tale reaffirms the antinomy of perfection and existence . It also tells of the obsession with beauty and stainlessness that goes back to Leviticus and beyond . It shows the historical misogynythat demands the same virginity and purity in woman as in an unblemished animal to be sacrificed to the Lord . The psychoanalystscould add from familiarity with such phantasmagoria that the tale reveals through " displacement upwards " the fear and loathing of the " castrated " person . The female genitalia , in the irrational part of the male unconscious , are often conceived of as a gaping wound , a defect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , following an artist like Hawthorne , with a case history . There is some consolation in the adage , " Truth is stranger than fiction . " One hastens to add that truth is no stranger to fiction . Roberta was the elder of two daughters in an upper middleclassAmerican family . As such she had many advantages as well as responsibilities . The crucial trauma of her early life was the death of her father when she was ten . Two years later her mother remarried . The mother was quite aware that with two small children she was at a disadvantage in the marriage and tried to impress on the children that they would have to be well-behaved in the presence of their new father . They would now have to make special efforts to show gratitude toward the man who had taken on this familial responsibility . Although the younger sister was more of a problem in this regard and as a result was subjected to discipline as well as rejection by the parents , Roberta cooperated and capitulated without too much personal attrition . Her adolescencewas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , well built , and generally attractive , but she suffered from severe myopia which necessitated the wearing of thick lenses . Self-conscious about this , she showed great timidity about dating and social engagements . She could not participate freely in sports andp186dancing . Dorothy Parker did not help her morale . Predictably , she became a voracious reader . This made her parents apprehensivebecause of her poor eyesight . At one time her mother approached their family physician about warning her against reading lest she go blind . This deprivation Roberta passively resisted ; she made matters worse by reading in bed with a flash light . College was some relief from parental nagging . She did well academically and her social relations improved . In her senior year she met Tom , a quiet and serious student in electrical engineering . They were of different ethnic and social backgrounds but shared many intellectual and emotional interests . They fell in love and after their scholastic work was completed they were married . Although Roberta 's mother was less than enthusiastic about Tom 's background , at least her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Roberta , herself , was happy , as she put it , " for the first time in my life . " Tom loved her , myopia , thick glasses , and all ! She resolved to be a devoted and loving wife . She did not , at this time , make the connection , as with her stepfather , that she would again have to be " grateful . " The first years of their marriage were highly successful . One child was born at the end of the first year . Another child followed three years later . It was after the birth of this child that the second trauma of her life occurred . She noticed a disease of her scalp for the first time . This was soon diagnosed as psoriasis . As far as prognosis was concerned , the doctor hoped that it would not spread ; it was , however , a most difficult condition to treat . The condition did spread ? to elbows and knees ? then over the entire trunk . There were ugly red patches which coalesced . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were exacerbations and remissions ; and typical of such obscure conditions , there were a large number of treatments , including stringent diets , X-ray therapy , and both internal and external medications . Her life was now transformed into an unexpected nightmare . Unlike Hawthorne 's Aylmer , Tom was most solicitous ; he helped with the housework and children and encouraged Roberta to seek the best medical advice . He reassured her that this un/fortunate blow made no difference in his love for her . He tried to overcome her newly developed reluctance to undress in front of him and to show her body . Tom was sincere in his devotion and Roberta 's apprehensions that he might turn to more attractive women were groundless . They resolved that they would both try to put this disease out of their minds ; it simply could not be a relevant issue between them . Roberta developed a change of character . The evening cocktailmultiplied . In addition there were nips of wine during the day . At night there were now the inevitable sleeping pills . Tom was alarmed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She in turn became increasingly argumentative and belligerent . She now accused him of being indifferent and unfeeling . The altercations became frequent and at times they came to blows . One Christmas eve , Tom arrived to find Roberta in a comatose state , having taken a large dosage of sleeping pills . He rushed her to a hospital where she was resuscitated . Psychoanalysis followed , lasting four years . In the beginning Roberta spoke exclusively of her disenchantment with her marriage and Tom . She berated his lower-middle class puritanism . Her mother 's doubts about him had proved correct : education alone can not make up for an uncouth background . In listening to her one could hardly detect a trace of the love that had characterizedtheir earlier relationship . She loathed him ? did not want ever to touch him . For many months there was no mention of her psoriasis even though its severity went unabated . Now it was as though he had the " blemish . " This is how she defended against the humiliation of her own deficiency . She protested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , in the course of psychoanalytic dialogue , allusions to it emerged . The agony of this seemingly benign disease lay not only in the affliction but in the treatments . Besides the disfigurement and discomfort , the search for treatment was ongoing and generally inconclusive . Each new clinic had to be investigated . Both Roberta and Tom checked the medical journals for new ideas for cures . Fat-free and sulphur-free diets were amongst the least offensive regimens . There were hospitalizations under rigid conditions of isolation and immobility . Concomitant experiments involving the gatheringp188of all bodily excrements had to be performed . X-ray and ultraviolettherapies often produced severe burns to compound the pain . Yet the search went on , as it usually does when medical science has no answers . At times she readily identified with the victims of the inquisition ; she recanted a million times with the torture , but she found no redemption . Roberta 's plight was proof that it is more difficult to receive than to give . In her childhood she and her sister were the recipients of her stepfather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She later felt because of her bespectacled appearance that she was again no bargain . Yet a man whom she loved did overlook her infirmity and she could then hope to show him love and devotion , not merely out of gratitude but of genuine I and Thou concern . The added blow of her biological destiny created a new and irreconcilableimbalance . Uncomplaining and supportive , Tom found himself nonetheless an object of scorn by an embittered wife . He was puzzled ; only in his most lucid moments could he understand that Roberta was heaping upon him the shame and humiliation she felt about being unattractive . The more helpful he was , the more ashamed she became of being unable to match his devotion with an equal response . Also , the chronicity as well as the incurability of her affliction caused her to indulge in the magical thinking which turned the blemish of body to that of soul . What had she done to deserve this mark of Cain ? She loathed herself as both a physically and morally inferior person . She matched Tom 's compassion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She , in truth , loathed herself for her disease , which she considered a betrayal of her marriage vow . Once again she was to become an object of charity . Difficult for anyone , disfigurement is a terrible hardship for a woman in a world that still judges feminine worthiness and value on physical appearance . In Tennessee Williams ' The Glass Menagerie , Laura 's lameness is her destiny . Service , generosity , and gentleness as well as intelligence are secondary to appearance . Chekhov 's Sonya ( Uncle Vanya ) had all of the above but they went for naught ; she laments : " Oh , how awful it is that I am not beautiful ! How awful ! And I know that I 'm not beautiful , I know it , I know . Last Sunday , as people were coming out ofp189church , I heard them talking about me , and one woman said : She is so good and generous , what a pity she is not beautiful . ' Not beautiful ... " 19Notes1 . Y. Kuno , Human Perspiration ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chaps . 10 and 12. 2 . M. B. Sulzberger and Herrmann , The Clinical Significance of Disturbance in the Delivery of Sweat ( Springfield , Ill. : Charles C. Thomas Publisher , 1954 ) , p. 2. 3 . F. Alexander and T. French , Studies in Psychosomatic Medicine ( New York : The Ronald Press Co. , 1948 ) , p. 3. 4 . W. R. Bion , " Attacks on Linking , " Int . J. Psa. , XL ( 1959 ) , p. 40 ; M. Ostow , " Linkage Fantasies and Representations , " Int . J. Psa. , XXXVI ( 1955 ) , p. 387 ; Robert Seidenberg , " Household Appliances and the SymbolicProcess , " Psychiat . Q. , XXXII ( 1958 ) , p. 376. 5 . H. Michael Rosow , " The Psychoanalysis of an Adult Nail Biter , " Int . I. Psa. , XXXV ( 1954 ) , p. 35 ; Joseph C. Solomon , " Nail Biting and the Integrative Process , " Int . J. Psa. , XXXVI ( 1955 ) , p. 393. 6 . Carl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Psychoanalyt . Assoc. , V ( 1957 ) , p.245. 7 . Clifford M. Scott , " A Note on Blathering , " Int . J. Psa. , XXXVI ( 1955 ) , p. 348. 8 . Sigmund Freud , Basic Writings of Sigmund Freud ( New York : RandomHouse , 1938 ) , p. 585. 9 . M. Proust , " A Race Accursed , " On Art and Literature 1896-1919 ( New York : Meridian Books , 1958 ) , p. 220. 10 . Sigmund Freud , " General Remarks on Hysterical Attacks , " CollectedPapers , II ( London : The Hogarth Press , 1949 ) , p. 100. 11 . Meyer Zeligs , " Acting In , " I. Amer . Psychoanalyt . Assoc. , V ( 1957 ) , p. 685. 12 . William Shakespeare , " Coriolanus , " The Complete Works of WilliamShakespeare , ( Cleveland : The World Publishing Co. , n.d. ) , p. 706. 13 . William Shakespeare , " Macbeth , " The Complete Works of William Shakespeare ( Cleveland : The World Publishing Co. , n.d. ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cleveland : The World Syndicate PublishingCo. , n.d. ) , p. 118. 15 . William Shakespeare , " King Richard III , " The Complete Works of William Shakespeare ( Cleveland : The World Publishing Co. , n.d. ) , p. 562.  |p19016  . Jean-Paul Sartre , Situations ( New York : George Braziler , 1965 ) , p. 56. 17 . Albert Camus , Notebooks 1935-1942 ( New York : Modern Library , 1963 ) , p. 97. 18 . Nathaniel Hawthorne , " The Birthmark , " Complete Works and SelectedTales ( New York : Modern Library , 1937 ) , pp. 1021-1033. 19 . Anton Chekhov , " Uncle Vanya , " Six Plays of Chekhov . New Englishrevision and introduction by Robert W. Corrigan . Foreword by Harold Clurman ( New York : Holt , Rinehart and Winston , 1962 ) . 20 . Albronda , H.F. , Dean , R.L. , and Starkweather , J.A. , Social Class and Psychotherapy , in Archives of General Psychiatry , 10:276:1964 ; also see Hollingshead , A.B. , and Redlich , F.C. ; Social Class and Mental Illness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1958.  |p191Do  n't Touch Me ! The water 's wide , I can not cross ; Neither have I the wings to fly . Give me a boat that will carry two . And both shall row ? my love and I.Folk SongMANY METAPHORS exist involving the sea and matrimony . Together with the achievement of the voyage and the joys along the way , there are difficulties and dangers . Storms and shoals , being struck or becalmed , and other external threats are to be expected . But where is the captain ( in either situation ) who fears internal threats ? He is not likely to consciously mistrust his own management . And he certainly does not expect mutiny . If it occurs , he is non-plussed . The voyage may continue , but it can scarcely be a happy one . Less dramatic but more familiar , the boat being rowed by two may go on toward the other side of the lake if one stops rowing , but the trip is bound to be erratic . Unfortunately , this happens often in marriage . The owl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume that their bliss continued wherever that pea-green boat went . A common form of mutiny in marriage is the withdrawal of one partner from the other . He or she " stops rowing , " and in extreme cases will have nothing to do with the other . " Don'tp192touch me ! " the partner says , and is no longer a partner . Eventually there follows emotional chaos ? silence , harassment , violence , alcoholism , going home to mother , a triangle or quadrangle , separation or divorce , or other suffering ? unless the motivation for withdrawal can be uncovered , understood , and dealt with . The withdrawal , sudden or gradual , momentary or prolonged , from the male by the female , or the opposite , probably has been an occurrence in every marriage . Freud and other husbands have interpreted the withdrawal of the female as a derivative of the advice of mothers to their daughters : " Do n't let him touch you . " It is understood when the wife recoils from the touch of her husbandwhen she is aggrieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any known grievance . A husband laments : " I 'm completely puzzled . We seemed to be getting along so well and suddenly she wo n't let me touch her . " When asked about her behavior , the wife will appear equally bewilderedby her behavior . " He 's been all right ; I simply ca n't stand to have him touch me . I do n't know why it is , but I cringe at the thought of his arm around me and dread going to bed with him . I do n't want any part of him to touch me . " One woman related : " It was after the birth of our second child . Our sexual relations were fairly good up until then ; after that I turned cold ; he seemed like a stranger or even an enemy to me . " Again , in all of these instances the husbands by most standards were fairly attentive , even indulgent , faithful husbands . They were usually powerless to romance or cajole their wives into continuing their former conjugal relations , and arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or sickness . The idea of secondary gain appeared unlikely in the circumstances of these individuals . Their psychological knowledge led them to deduce that there must be a deep sexual block from childhood which had now asserted itself to overwhelm their " happy home . " They generally knew about the oedipal complex and all seemed to come to therapy with the preknowledge of an unresolved father attachment which made sex with any man , sooner or later , a cause of deep conflict . One such woman came to treatment with the " encouragement , " if not the command , of her husband They had been married forp193six years without incident , but then trouble seemed to begin about three months after the birth of their second daughter . He was a well-educated person of thirty-three , an engineer by profession , who seemed destined to get ahead . He was bright , socially as well as professionally , was continent in his habits , and gave no indication of infidelity or discontent . He was a self-made man , having worked through college , and supported his family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife , he was generally supportive but never intrusive or demanding . His general behavior made their problem all the more perplexing . If he had been a martinet or a cunning Odysseus , then one could readily point the accusing finger , but this was not the case . She was unlike him in character makeup . Although also well educated she described herself as a timid person , never at ease in a group , lacking confidence in her ability to manage her own and family affairs . She looked to her husband for advice and instruction in many of the decisions about the household . She admitted , however , that she was generally " good " with the childrenbut worried about doing them psychical harm . Yet she gladly spent her whole day caring for them and never felt either bored or deprived in this activity . She felt less comfortable with her husband in the evenings , for she could contribute little to worldly conversationand was generally in awe of his erudition and poise . In company , she generally deferred to him about opinions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ describing herself as a " plodder " who did the work . She had gotten good grades but never really learned anything , and should not be expected to be informed on any subject . During therapy , her one positive attitude was her disdain for her mother , whom she blamed for ruining her life . She had been told by a psychologist that her mother was " sick " and it was a miracle that she had grown up as well as she did . She had been an only child and had been the recipient of all her mother 's love and the target for all her wrath . As analysis continued , she began to reveal both facts and phantasies about her parents ' marital life . She told of the constant harassment of her father by her mother , wondering how he could take the constant nagging and depreciation that was meted out . In growing up , she experienced continual embarrassment at being ap194witness to this seemingly " unfair " struggle . Although without any concrete knowledge about it , she phantasied that her parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother withheld sex from her father as part of her punitive regimen . This was imagined , but based on what she thought was good circumstantial evidence . The mother turned to her daughter for respite from the frustrations she felt so acutely in her marriage . It was then a mother-daughter family , with the father in the role of an outsider . However , the parents never separated ; they wanted the girl to " know family life . " Later knowledge and insight revealed that this utter coldness between parents , although true to a large degree , was made up by her ? motivated by a wish that the parents be divided and that she could be the sole object of her mother . She then operated in the phantasy that there was a cold war between the sexes , and that the male should be excluded from the family constellation as much as possible . It was as if her mother had established a matriarchy to which she was heir and to which she owed her efforts and loyalty . It appeared that after she had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's example and did her one better in shutting out the male for all purposes except financial support , to which he was now morally and legally committed . Rather than having the problem of a " father complex , " she proved to be engaged in a role for which she was prepared in the example of her mother 's behavior and intentions . Although it would be incorrect to say that sexual fears and taboos were not involved , an overriding motivation appeared to he this deep-rooted antagonism and hostility toward the male . ( She did participate and fully enjoy sexual relations in extramarital circumstances . ) Her unconscious antagonism was unrelated to any personal grievance toward her husband for what he did or acted toward her , but rested on the basis that he was the enemy as defined by the instructions of her mother . It is akin to the struggles of war engaged in by neighboring countries , such as France and Germany , where the enmity was handed down from father to son . It was this woman 's unconscious desire to establish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She was most comfortable in the role as mother , never findingp195her children 's touch or their demands anything but welcome and desirable . She would go one step beyond her mother ; she hoped that her husband might be eliminated completely from the family constellation ? thereby proving to her daughters the strength , competence , and independence of the female sex . It was only after the full recognition of this inherited prejudice that this person was able to face the alternatives of living that were open to her , and to put some order into her life . Up to that point she deceived herself by assuming that she had some rare illness or affliction of which she was the helpless victim . She had wanted to see herself as too shy and timid to have a thought or conviction of her own . These defenses of self-effacement appeared to place her on the side of the angels , and thereby promoted a pleasing image , not unlike the Virgin Mary , with whom she privately identified . But they blocked her from an understanding of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a life-and-death struggle with a male , in the hope of eliminating him as a force in her life and the lives of her children . She therefore had secretly hoped to promote her mother 's battle of the sexes . The withdrawal of the male from the female is seen less frequently , but probably occurs as often as the reverse . For fairly obvious reasons , a wife is not likely to make the loud complaints that a husband would . She may have been . taught that she should have no interest in sexual relations , and she has almost certainly been exposed to the myth of the male 's sexual avidity , so that her husband 's withdrawal indicates something wrong with her , not him . Also , it is an unwise wife who casts any doubt on her husband 's " maleness , " so that , by instinct or reason , she remains quiet about the problem . Current novels , such as Bruce Friedman 's A Mother 's Kisses , portray women who are not at all quiet about sex . The aunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of " modern " woman in today 's literature . Perhaps the type is increasing in society as well , but the overwhelming majority of women do not wish to announce publicly that their sex lives are inadequate . While a man may call his wife frigid and receive sympathy from all directions , a woman who calls her husband inadequate may very well find herself labeled a nymphomaniac.  |p196A  twenty-five-year-old woman who asked an internist for diagnosis of an eye condition was examined and found to be in good health . However , her eyes were greatly swollen each morning . They returned to normal during the day while she was at work , but began swelling again as soon as she returned home . Close questioning revealed that her relationship with her husband was almost exclusively " intellectual . " He was a highly educated man and had married much later than his friends and university associates . Before marriage his parents , both university teachers of high caliber and achievement , had impressed on him the importance of intellectual attainments and the necessity for " leaving women alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marry . He had obeyed his parents . Of the information obtained , this seemed the most pertinent , and the internist asked to see the husband . Here there was a further problem , for the parents had also impressed on him that if he were " clean " he would also be healthy , that doctors were for " dirty " people . This is an oversimplification , but essentially the husband 's attitude was that he was " clean " and therefore did not need to see a doctor . In fact , he became infuriated by the request . Tranquilizers gave some relief to this woman , but the eye problem did not disappear and she also suffered from insomnia . She had no history of illness and hence no acquaintance with medical attention and , because of her husband 's attitude toward doctors , was uneasy about seeing the internist . She felt , however , that he was paying close attention to her and might have some solution , and so continued to see him . The husband was working at a job far below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advised that she " put her foot down , " that is , insist that he become a stronger husband if he wished to remain married to her . When the woman had summoned enough courage to threaten the husband with separation , he explained that he found it nearly impossible to work in a large , " dirty " city . The business world was also " dirty , " he said , and he had been thinking for some time of taking a job as a caretaker of an establishment in the mountains . This idea seemed incredible to the wife , but the husband insisted that all that was wrong with their marriage was the dirtiness ofp197the city and his associates , that in the clean air of the mountains they could be happy . They would not have much , but did they need much ? After all , they had their intellects , and that was the important thing . Material possessions should be beneath their consideration . At the same time , the husband pointed out that " animal " behaviorwas beneath them , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward this was a mistake . In the mountainsthey could come to understand each other better . He pointed out that if they drove into the country they could see cows huddled together for warmth . " But we 're human beings , " he said , " and we have blankets . " Her tendency to " huddle " was repulsive to him , but she was an educated woman and could be made to see how ridiculous it was . They could then have a happy marriage . He had expressed himself on the subject before , but now was adamant about it . Tearful and completely hopeless , the wife returned to the internist . He referred her to a psychiatrist , but this frightened her badly . Her feeling of failure in her marriage , of failure to elicit normal responses from her husband , was complete ; now the internist , in recommending psychiatry , seemed to be implying that things were even worse than she had thought , that she was mentally confused . Her husband reacted to the idea of a psychiatrist even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had been right all along , that her attitudes were wrong ? so wrong that they needed correction by methods unheard of in either of their families . This case might have had a better outcome if husband and wife could have accepted aid , but the " anti-doctor " orientation prevented this . Eventually the husband disappeared ( perhaps to the mountains ? ) and the wife entered a state mental hospital . While the situation described is extreme , it points up the sufferingcaused by inherited prejudices that make satisfactory life adjustments difficult or impossible . Whether it is the male or the female who withdraws from union , there is generally unrecognized deep-seated antagonism or revulsion or fear that must be eliminatedif the marriage is to continue.  |p198Noli  me tangere ? do not touch me ? were the words of the newly purified Jesus to a loving Mary Magdalene . They were also the words of the abandoned Philoctetes to a self-seeking , although comparatively compassionate , Neoptolemus . Over the generationsthis has been the idiom of alienation . Touch we must , if we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the child passes through an animistic period in the apprehension of reality , in which every object appears to him to be endowed with life , and in which he seeks to find again in every object his own organs and their activities . S. Ferenczi , Sex in PsychoanalysisSEXUAL IMPULSES ARE often denied or " extinguished " largely because they may have been embroiled during their histories in potentially disruptive social situations . They are capable of causing grave antagonisms , with resultant fears of loss of love , of bodily parts ( castration complex ) , social security , and life itself . We recurrentlysee that sexuality , although vital to the preservation of race , may go against self-interest and self-preservation . If one 's erotic life can be so potentially socially discordant , then it would best be denied . The hysteric truly acts as if she or he has successfullyfreed himself of this scourge . The denial of one 's nature , like the suppression of truths in general , can have only limited success . The attempts at denial require distortions ? of identity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object relations ? to degrees which frequently cause clinical syndromes of discontent and unhappiness . Inextricably linked to the variability of the sexual impulses is the matter of symbolization , the intellection that more than anyp200other characterizes the human animal . Man soon found that he was able to do many things more economically by the use of symbols ? words , numerals , etc. , a simple neutral artifact which representssomething else , sensory condensations which can be readily understood and communicated . It was infinitely easier to write the numeral 6 and after it a picture of a cow than to take someone all the way to the back pasture and show them that number of animals . This great convenience , working so well in so many instances , was put to use by man to solve the sexual ambivalence to which he found himself heir . Why not ? do n't we try to apply our newly discovered tools to almost every conceivable task ? ( Was n't Dr. Jonas Salk , the discoverer of the polio vaccine , asked to work on mental illness ? ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perversion of application and intent occurred . Whereas symbols were meant to be commonly known and easily understoodto the communicants , symbols as representing sexual needs and urges were made deliberately obscure and undecipherable by the mind so as to be hidden and misunderstood by others and by one 's own conscious self . They might be called negative symbols , for their purpose seemingly was not to communicate the presence of sexuality but indeed the opposite . Symbol as found in bodily symptoms would , for example , indicate to an observer a severe headache rather than an erotic conflict . The use of symbolization with the purpose of obscuring rather than informing became a chief device in the attempt to deny sexuality . Psychoanalysts and some artists before them were able to " break " the code and discover the reality beyond the representations . The following case illustrates quite directly this " negative " symbolization . A thirty-two-year-old married woman was referred to a psychiatric hospital by a physician from a nearby town because her malady had exhausted the acumen of many skilled physicians . She had also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center in a metropolitan area . All this was to alleviate unmitigated and unalterable " headaches . " The full gamut of therapies was tried . She was gradually becoming addicted to morphine , much to the alarm of her family and physician . There appeared to be no organic cause for the disorder ; nonep201of the therapies proved efficacious . The patient was irritable and openly challenged the hospital 's ability to give her any aid in the light of past failures . She had been told in the past that her headache was migraine ; but she said it was not the type of " migraine " from which her mother and grandmother had suffered . The problem was the presenting symptom , the headache . The physician offered to attempt to treat the patient , but his own prerequisitewas an exhaustive , detailed description of the presenting symptom . The patient agreed that this request was not unreasonable so long as painful physical procedures were not repeated . The following is the description obtained from the patient : First of all the headache was not an ache at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not synchronous with the heart . The pounding was mild at first but became increasingly severe , to a point of intolerance . The location was then ascertained . The patient pointed to a specific area at the lower end of the head between the insertions of the neck muscles . It was between these " cords " in the midline . The area of activity was round and had the diameter of a silver dollar . The pounding was localized in this area . It penetrated deeply into the head in the midline and did not radiate . It was a rhythmic pounding , relentless and with crescendo . This , of course , was only the beginning ; other questions were asked to determine duration , periodicity , environmental factors , and progress . It was learned that she had been troubled with this pounding sensation for the last eight years , growing progressively worse . The attacks were periodic , on the average of twice a week , and occurred almost always at night when the patient was in bed . The duration was of from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her physician was usually called after an hour of the pounding , but as a rule medicines proved ineffective . The pounding would subside , and the patient would lie back exhausted , falling into a sound sleep . She would awaken refreshed and renewed in spirit . In addition , she revealed that this pounding sensation ceased when she left her home and family . These , essentially , were the details given by the patient spontaneously . Indeed , the syndrome presented by the patient was certainly not typical of " migraine " as the patient herself deduced , nor wasp202it characteristic of anything in the physician 's experience of encephalopathy . The patient had cooperated well and had fulfilled her part of the agreement . However , in the light of previous experiences , it was thought that the patient might be able to make a graphic representation of the head sensation . Pencil and paper were given to the patient and she was asked to draw a picture of her presenting symptom . She smiled at this suggestion , saying she was no artist and anyway could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After some encouragement , she took pencil in hand , drew the back of the head as an arc-with two lines described as " cords " tangential to the are . The lines were connected by an arc and circles were drawn between the lines representing the point of contact ? the area in which the pounding occurred . She was then asked what she had drawn . She replied , now a little irritated , with supercilious but somewhat fearful smile : " Nothing at all ? nothing ? it 's so silly ? I would n't dare say what it is , I do n't know . " No suggestion was given and the point was carried no further during that session . During succeeding interviews the drawing came to be an object of derision for the patient ? this was indeed a queer hospital ! The investigation continued . The patient became more at ease with each interview . Her attitude toward the personnel and other patients had changed . She became very helpful and participated actively in the hospital activities . She began to reminisce about her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puberty , a separation that followedyears of marital discord . She and a brother were brought up by the mother . Mother was good but firm . She supported the family without aid from the father . " Daddy had his hands too full with his own wife and her family to support us . " Yet the happiest days were the ones spent with the father on weekends and short vacations . Mother was stout , practical , substantial . " Sure , " said the patient , " she gave us everything but Daddy always understood me ? everyone likes Daddy . " She was a popular girl and made friends easily . When she was sixteen years old , she married a man whom shep203had known a few months and who had been her first beau . This union was without love , on her part at least ; it was a school girl 's attempt at getting away from the parental home and a mother whom she should love but apparently could n't . Her marriage proved disastrous ; and she sustained physical injury from a husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexually . " I was alwayson the cold side . In talking to other girls , I found that sex was different for them . I 'm afraid it does n't mean much to me . " The marriage was annulled after one year . The patient was remarried four years later to a man from her hometown . " He is n't anything like the first one ? he is kind and jolly . Everyone likes him . " She spontaneously added , " He 's just like Daddy . " Shortly after her second marriage her symptoms appeared . Her menses , always irregular , were not associated with a great deal of pain . Two years later a child was born . Menstrual symptoms ? themenses became prolonged to as long as 28 days a month . Now the headaches were associated with irritability , fainting spells and general malaise . The patient was now known in the offices of every physician in her immediate community and several consultants in nearby larger cities . In addition to strictly medical treatment , in the past ten years she had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cure the headaches and menstrualdisorders . They were in effect piece-meal extirpations of her female organs and the surgical compli cations thereof . Two years before her hospitalization the last vestiges of her uterus and adnexae were removed ; surgical menopause had been effected . The surgical procedures served to stop the flow of blood ; but the complete castration resulted in no alleviation of the patient 's symptoms . She became increasingly irritable and was incapacitatedby her headaches . She was plagued by a feeling of hopelessnessand inhibited to a point where she was neither wife nor mother . She had never understood what appeared to be excessive interest in and assault upon her sexual organs by zealous surgeons . In retrospect she lamented her passivity in allowing the repeated operations to be performed . It was as if the doctor suspected that her headache was rooted in her female organs.  |p204At  this point , it is perhaps needless to reiterate that her sexual interests were nil . Her only desire was to satisfy her husband and to conceal from him the fact that sex , in her own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep our men contented . " Indeed , this was a " small " price to pay for the companionship of a husband who was a pillar of strength , one upon whom she could rely , liked by everyone , " just like my Daddy . " Yet the patient began to realize that perhaps the price she was paying was not so small as she had supposed . She made inquiries about her sexual relations with her husband and , for the first time , wondered why the headaches would disappear during periods when they were not having intercourse . Her inquiry was directed back to her with " What do you think ? " and " How could that be ? " At this point the patient was asked to " draw her headache " again . She was reluctant to do so but finally reproduced with great precision her former representation . There was much visible anxiety ? the patient stared at the drawing . She was asked the cause of the sudden change in her behavior and she replied , " Why , that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be the abdomen that it is placed against . " The genital organ , blocked from functioning by the incestuous taboo ? disillusionments wrought of past and present traumas ? becameinert . In the case of this patient , the head became energized , took over the cathexis and indeed the actual performance of intercourse . Thus the patient was able to describe the sex act in terms of a rhythmic pounding in the midline posterior aspect of her head . The pounding , which started when she was in bed , increased to a high point , a crescendo , and left her exhausted and somnolent . Deep sleep followed , and she awoke the next morning refreshed . No imagination is necessary to recognize the tumescence and detumescenceof sexual intercourse , and one must keep in mind that the headache was not an ache at all ? a point which had eluded every physician who examined and treated her . It was apparent that the patient had discarded the mother and had in effect replaced her . The impulse directed toward the father could not be tolerated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the impulse in its hands , directed it into another organ , an organ well prepared for its role because of a family pattern ( mother and grandmother having suffered from headaches ) . With the patient 's first husband , the need for displacement was less because he did not resemble the parental image . However , the second husband , by his appearance and behavior , became closely identified with the father , making sexual relations tantamount to incest . It was not surprising , then , to find the patient 's symptoms arising after her second marriage , followed by a series of surgical procedures that appeared to remove genital sexuality . To leave this woman 's dilemma at this point , with the explicationof an oedipal complex alone , does an injustice to her and to humanity . We know that there is more than one explanation , more than one truth . Freud , taking from John Stuart Mill , was quick to learn and apply the conceptual tool of overdeterminism or the plurality of determinations , namely that there can be and usually is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as behavior . The penis juxtaposed to the head picture proved to have further significance in terms of an identity problem . For , as was discovered later , she was also grappling with the issue of what a woman can be and do . Many women sardonically ask whether brains are supposed to be in the penis since , they reflect , that if you do n't possess that organ you are not given credit for any cognitiveability . The male organ supposedly produces what is vital in our civilization , and there is little respect for the opinions and thoughts of those who do not possess this fine organ of " mentation . " The woman with the headache in effect drew a caricature of the present state of affairs , pointing out an irony of civilization pertinentto her own hopes and frustrations . She drew a steeple unto the church . She was confronted by a world , inner and outer , where penis and brains were very close , perhaps co-extensive , where you were n't expected to have the one without the other , or where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to have the other . She heard and knew that the woman who attempted to use her brains in areas of social importance would sooner or later be called masculine . Perhaps this patient had discovered the meaning of the unicorn , that elusive mythological animal that could be captured only by virgin maidens . Assuming that the midline horn is a phallicp206symbol , does the unicorn tell again that the world equates penis with brains ? As these symbolizations play on the body of an individual , as shown in the above case , where the need is greater and disintegrationhas been more extensive in an individual , this process is extended to the environment . This will be shown in the following cases of housewives in both their night-and-day-mares . That cultural patterns and developments affect the psychic apparatus , the symbolic process in particular , is no new knowledge . For instance , the infant is introduced to the benefits and vagaries of household appliances almost as soon as he becomes aware of his parents , his siblings , and his own body . As he starts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibitions , even earlier than those about auto-erotic activities , are against touching such things as the stove and electrical outlets . In a recent psychiatric case seminar , an instance was revealed of a mother who kept an electric egg beater running outsideher child 's bedroom supposedly to help him overcome his fear of noises . Later in life this child came to analytic treatment because of extreme passivity . A study of his phantasies revealed a conceptualization of the vagina with internal whirling blades , the modern equivalent or mechanical counterpart of the " vagina dentata . " Household appliances hold many realistic dangers , as well as gratifications , for the child , as well as for the adult , and may thereby become objects onto which affects may be readily displaced . In psychopathological states , as Kubiel has brought out , the symbol and its concept no longer are separated , but may overlapto various degrees . In normal development , the use of householdappliances provides comfort , as well as a sense of mastery over the environment . For girls , they may be aids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , whole toy kitchens in miniature can be purchased so that the daughter may act out in play what the mother performs . The appliances may liberate but for what ? In unconscious phantasies and dream life , these appliances , as noted , readily lend themselves to inappropriate effect . In adult life , in depressive and schizophrenic states , suicides and macabrep207mutilations are performed in the kitchen ; and death by gas oven asphyxiation is a common type of suicide . Cases are reported where the individuals put their heads into the oven . The obsessive-compulsive neurotic fears sharp instrumentsand constantly worries about the gas heater being turned off or the toaster being disconnected . In the hysterical individual , the appliances often symbolize objects of both an oral and genital nature , wherever there can be substitute gratification and punishment . The hysterical patient may be fascinated with gadgetry and at the same time be worried about the safety of such automaticcontrols as timers , defrosters , and thermostats , as are built into the appliances . All modes of energy are transformed , neutralized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposedly more pleasureful . Very often the hope is that new devices will be both labor-saving and in the long run " pay for themselves . " Abetting the economic factor is the condensation of many processes and functions in the same unit . So there are **39;3778;TOOLONG ; clock-radios , coffee-making radios , units that heat and humidify in the winter and do the opposite in the summer . The multipurpose appliance , par excellence , is the stove . For instance , it cooks on its surface , broils , bakes , and grills in the inside and at the same time may heat and give light to the room . This is aside from such things as timers , thermostats , clocks , radios , and bells . The stove may be supplied by one , two , or even three different sources of energy , separately , or in combination . Here is an excellent object-representation of condensationand overdetermination . If there is dysfunction , the stove may explode , cause injury to life and property , become disfigured , dischargedangerous fumes and odors . Other breakdowns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become major household disturbances . Appropriately enough , the comic in his skit has captured the disintegrative potential in the householdwherein faulty wiring causes music to come from the refrigeratoror the radio freezes over . In the treatment of certain neurotics , but most often in borderlinecases , one is impressed with the way appliances are woven into the matrix of phantasy life . Kitchen and household items veryp208often symbolize conflicts for the woman about her destiny and identity . Is she to be turned into an appliance ? On a deeper level ( that of James Thurber 's now classic cartoon ) the house and woman are fused . A woman in her early thirties came for analysis because of difficulties in interpersonal relations . Her marriage of five years had ended in divorce . Now , male acquaintances seemed to be frightened away , even though ( or because ) she frequently fed them and lavished expensive gifts on them . She was fearful of driving her car , having the feeling that oncoming cars would force her off the road . Her history revealed catastrophic circumstances in her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation when the patient was five . Eight months later , her father was killed in an accident on his farm . Thereafter , the patient was brought up in several foster homes , supported by public welfare . She made a submissive , passive adjustment to the women of these homes and managed to get through school and college on scholarships . Thereaftershe went into professional life and became fairly successful in her chosen work . Sexually , she " had been " with several men , she had orgasms , and knew of no conscious fears in this regard . However , she revealed persistent fears about the process of childbirth , which she visualized as a gory mess . She had heard weird stories in her foster homes about what a woman went through and about the complications that might occur . The early hours of treatment were characterized by long periods of silence and the patient 's feelings of nausea . Her first dream was as follows : She was at a typewriter . She had a secret which she wrote out . She looked at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know her secret . There were no associations to the dream , and she had no idea what the secret could be . Treatment was temporarily interrupted at this point by the therapist 's vacation . On his return the patient brought the following dream at the first hour of the resumed treatment . " I was in my apartment . I went to the refrigerator looking for food . I found that it had been turned around , the door facing the back wall and hence unavailable . I was deeply disappointed . I thenp209turned to the stove . I touched a match to the burner . There was an immediate explosion . The stove became charred , gas emanated from it , and a stream of purple liquid seeped out from it . I was terrified and awoke . " The associations were as follows : At one of the foster homes , she had been warned repeatedly that only the foster mother could light the stove , lest it explode in somebody 's face , or set the house afire . She is very sensitive to gas fumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave the house when there are odors . About the purple fluid , she could make no associations . She recalled that it was purple but did not know what it could have to do with a stove . She was asked if she knew of any chemical or medicine of that color . She then recalled that five years before she had been treated for a vaginal discharge with the use of purple tablets which were dissolved in the vagina . With this added information , something of her latent thoughts could be pieced together . The stove represented her ano-genital region , not to be touched digitally . This area might become hot , explode , exude gas and colored liquids . Her secret , then , was her infantile masturbatory activity ( she had discovered her hidden genitals ) . During the therapist 's absence she was deprived of access to food ( the unavailable refrigerator ) , and her present masturbatory activities increased . A reconstruction of her problem became possible . Her unconsciousfear was that through masturbation she had injured her genital and reproductive organs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The burner on the stove represented her exterior clitoral region which was touched and heated . This caused an explosion which charred the stove 's exterior ( anal contamination ) and also destroyed the inside of the oven ( the womb ) . She feared that her chronic masturbatory activity had led to her vaginal dischargeand to the need for the purple medication . These feelings of self-injury and mutilation were also related to the deaths of her parents , especially that of her mother . The goiter operation was visualized by her as a mutilative procedure , connected with oral impregnation phantasies . Her nausea and silence in the early hours of therapy proved to be on the basis of these oral phantasies . Another example of this type of primitive symbolization was@@1361.txtp200life " which we are constantly forced to set up in antithesis to the school . In no function of life is any one going to be judged by a composite ability to read , write , spell , figure . One succeeds not through any average skill or average information , but through the ability to throw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is demanded . A measurement of intelligence by averages will always produce just that ineffectiveness and vagueness for which the products of the public school are censured at present . The fallacy of the educational " average " involves another fallacy , equally obvious but equally prevalent . This is the fallacy of the " partially perfect . " The school ranks the seventy per cent child equal to the hundred per cent child . Children pass to more difficult work on an admitted basis of imperfect accomplishment . But for any real effectiveness in the world it is not enough to be habitually only seventy per cent right . Whenever you need to be literate , the world demands that you be actually literate . If you have information , you are either useless or dangerous unless your information is accurate . It is better not to know arithmetic at all than persistently to make only seven hits out of ten . For all practical purposes your child is as much a failureat seventy per cent as he is at zero per cent . It will avail him little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rate and an excellence only seventy per cent of the standard . In any situationwhich requires these elementary skills he will be almost as much handicapped as if he were entirely illiterate . It is time that the school faced the bitter truth that life demands an approximateperfection in whatever one tries to do . Education must shape all its technique towards this approximate perfection . It is not necessary that all should do the same thing . But it is necessarythat what one pretends to do one should succeed gradually in doing . The individual who is allowed to persist continuously on a level of imperfect accomplishment is not being educated . For him education is a failure . He should either drop his technique , or ways should be found to improve him towards mastery . What children are learning at any one time they should be learning with a sense of control . The more difficult should not be confronted till the less difficult has been absorbed . And this controlled progress will be possible only in a school where childrenwork with their equals . Classification in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " experimental education " is engaged in making dramatic in the schools these truths . It is a force even more revolutionarythan the idealism of the " experimental school . " The situation suggested by the " curve of distribution " is one of the most momentous facts to be reckoned with by us of today . It is making over our theories of democracy , social reform and social progress . To work out its manifold implications in the school is to touch the very nerve of our democratic future.  |p202A  recent article in the New York Times ( Oct. 17 , 1915 ) by Dr. Thomas S. Baker , Headmaster of the Tome School , contains an able pedagogical criticism of the Gary school which is typical of the general attitude towards the Gary idea on the part of conservativeschoolmen . Nothing could bring out more clearly the difference in educational values between this professional teachingopinion and the broad social vision of Superintendent Wirt . Dr. Baker admits the impressive social effectiveness of the plan . It is " the last development in socializing the schools . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a social reformer , a city worker . " But Dr. Baker 's argument is really the specialized pedagogical one against the social . Where Mr. Wirt sees the school as a community center , a children 's world , Dr. Baker sees it as an educational factory . " The social value of the Gary schools , " he says , " is beyond question . Its pedagogic excellence has still to be determined . " From this point of view , a school is not so much a place to train effective citizens as to make " thorough scholars . " He questions whether " these side issues in the scheme of child-training " ? the gymnasia , shops , laboratories , which the Gary school contains ? " are really essential in mental development . " He is afraid that the young citizens of Gary learn more from their industrial shops and science laboratories than from their books . Dr. Baker 's guarded argument is really a glorification of " intellectualdiscipline " as against an intelligent capacity to lead an organic life in a modern society which needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a question of ideals , and no more important issue was ever put to a people than this one of how we want our next generation trained . The school is not only the one institution which assimilates all the people , but it is the most easily modifiable . It is not only the easiest lever of social progress but the most effective , for it deals with relatively plastic human material . To decide what kind of a school we want is almost to decide what kind of a society we want. if we only want that kind of a school which would " make hard-working and accurate scholars and produce thoughtful men , " we must resign ourselves to a progressive softening of the fiber and capacity of the mass of our people . The averagep203educator acts as if he thought of his child-world as a level plain of capacities . There is the mass of unskilled , unawakened minds ; here is the level of scholarship , knowledge , civic virtue , appreciations . Education is to him the process of lifting up the mass from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school is the elevator into which all are to be shoveled and transported to the upper story . And the American public school in the last fifty years has been faithfully following this ideal . The truth is , of course , that mental aptitude is not any such level desert , but rather a series of inclined planes . When we try to educate all the children of all the people , we are not dealing with a homogeneous mass , but with sliding scales of capacity . A mental test of the school-children of a state would reveal an inclineextending in orderly gradation from the genius down to the imbecile . A physical test would give us a different slant , a test for artistic or mechanical capacity another . Stand at the center of divine average and try , to lever any of these slopes into a horizontal position and you find half of your society squatting heavily at the lower end . You may ascribe it to race capacity , personal heredity , social environment , malnutrition , defective nervous organization or anything you please , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material will be permanently resistive to or only dully appreciative of any attempts to elevate them to a level . This is true of any capacity you may choose . The outstanding truth of society seems to be the heterogeneous distribution of capacities . And the irony of it is that after artistic capacity true intellectual capacity is probably the rarest . For the public school to try to make intellectualists of all its children is a sheer defiance of sociological reality . Some educators , while they recognize this diversity , yet insist on uniform standards , uniform curricula , uniform discipline , on the ground that social order in a democracy is imperiled unless the highest degree of like-mindedness prevails . Such a democracywould be the stagnant democracy of China . The result of these attempts at standardization have been the automatic centrifugalflinging off into space of the children whose interests were not intellectual , who were no more capable of being made into " accurate scholars " than they were into artists and poets . And from those who did not get quite flung off , but clung on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pseudo-culture . To keep on trying to " develop the mind " and produce " thoroughp204scholarship " in those whom we force to submit to educational processes , means simply to go on creating a nerveless and semi-helpless mass of boys and girls who will never take their effective and interested place in the world because they have no mental tools which they can wield . Such a course is coming to be generally recognized as a kind of slow national suicide , a slow suffocation of industrial and social progress which Dr. Baker proposes for evaluating the Gary plan . Submit , he says , the highest class in the Gary schools to an examination by the CollegeExamining Board . If the students pass , the Gary system will be justified of its children . Was ever a more patent assertion of the professional bias ? Let the children drop out of the lower grades untrained except in the rudiments , but if the small minorityin the highest class passes its Vergil and algebra and English literature and German with marks as high as the graduates of the Tome School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " mere experiment . " If this is what the critics of the Gary plan mean when they plead for an " evaluation of this novel experiment , " we may well hope that it will escape the peril . Such a conception of educational values can not become too speedily obsolete . A public school is a mockery unless it educatesthe public . It can not make the rarefied and strained productat the top the test of its effectiveness . And the public is not ideally educated unless its individuals ? all of them ? are intelligent , informed , skilled , resourceful , up to the limit of their respectivecapacities . Life itself can no longer be trusted to providethis education ; the school must substitute . The Gary school deliberately sets such an ideal . Democracy does not mean uniformity , but it does mean equality of opportunity . A democratic school would be one where every child had the chance to discoverand develop aptitude . The Gary school , with its harmoniousactivities of intellectual , manual , artistic and scientific work , physical education and play , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the provision of separate schools for different kinds of children , or even separate courses in the same school , as the movement for industrial education is now threatening to bring . This is to create at once invidious distinctions , and fasten class education upon us . To say that children are different does not - mean that some are fitted to be scholarsp205and others to be manual workers , some to be artists and some to be scientists . The differences are differences of focus and not of quality . To most children will appear in the course of school life some dominant interest , and it is upon the cultivation of that interest that the child 's chance of being more than a nerveless mediocritywill depend . It is upon that training that his chance of being absorbed out of the school into the social and industrial world will depend . At the same time , without a common , background with his fellows he will be alien and adrift in the world . Interest and skill in one 's work , whether it be making automobiles or teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alert intelligence which is always seeking to diminish the area of things human that are alien to one ? a man or woman with this would be truly educated in any society . But both focus and background are supremely necessary . The present educational system does not really set itself to provide either . Only in a school organized on some such plan as the Gary plan will such education be possible . This does not mean that every child is to marvelously blossom into ideally alert and skilled intelligence . But we can be sure that a school which gives opportunity for the development of the most varied aptitudes in the free play of a child-community life will have done all that it could . No one pretends that the Gary education is the intrinsically ideal education for all time . But we can say that , given the best social demands of America today , this school will make for the most robust , effective , intelligent citizenship of which we are at present capable.  |p206The  proposed experimental school which the General Education Board is to found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shiver through the conservative schoolmen of America . It is assumed that the policy of the new school will followDr . Flexner 's manifesto of the " Modern School , " that adroit and uncompromising crystallization of the radical philosophy of our new American education . Dr. Flexner has proved himself to be an admirable agitator , for he has succeeded , with doctrines that public-school educators have been discussing for ten years and which experimental schools all through the country have been testing out , in rousing the slumberous camp of private secondary schoolmasters to a sense of what is going on in the educational world . The private secondary school is the last stronghold of educational conservatism . Enlightenment has to proceed upward through thick layers of prejudice and smugness . Dr. Flexner 's voice seems to have broken in the walls and gotten a hearing for the new education even in the walls of the traditional New England academy . It is for these people that the " Modern School " was written , for only those will find its proposals " revolutionary and dangerous " who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall , never read a copy of an educational journal , never visited an experimental school , or even the newer plants of the best public schools in American cities . There is irony in the location of the new school at Teachers ' College . For the latter has been one of the most persistently experimental educational centers in the country . If its " model " schools have felt in the course of time the blighting touch of conventionality , at least in the Speyer course of industrial arts there has been developed a method of permanent value . There is no more accurateapplication of Dr. Flexner 's demand that " children should begin by getting acquainted with objects , " " follow the life-cycles of plants and animals , " " the observation and execution of industrialand commercial processes , " and so forth . In this industrial arts course the children are concerned from the beginning with food-products and clothing and building and the way different peoples make their living . Out of this handling of homely things grow the geography and science and history and mathematics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be scarcely anp207elementary school untouched by this practical approach to knowledge through objects and projects and concrete facts . Dr. Flexner 's tilting is not against our rapidly improving public elementary school so much as it is against the private secondaryschool , with its sub-college , classical , formal curriculum , and its obsolete educational theory of formal discipline and salvationthrough drudgery . It is as an object-lesson for this branch of American education that the new school will have permanent value . It will be the heaviest assault which has yet had to be met by that vested , educational interest which we know as the privatesecondary school . The private school has made it its functionto prepare the sons and daughters of the well-to-do for college , and so keep up the tradition of leisured and cultured wealth . This is the ideal at the bottom of the hearts of the conservativeschoolmen . A knowledge which is useless , like the formal classics and mathematics , is only a sharpened tool of exclusiveness , for only the younger generation of a ruling class can afford to give its time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education becomes ever more and more a dividing line between classes . That the public high school has been largely controlled by the same ideals does not mean at all that this kind of education has been democratized , but merely that the unthinkingand clambering middle classes have been hypnotized by vague aspirations of " culture " and " intellectual training " into imitation of the traditional ruling-class education . Some of the strongest opposition to vocational education in the public schools comes even from the ranks of the ambitious wageearnerswho " want their children to have the educational advantagesthey were denied . " They resent what they misinterpret as an attempt to keep their younger generation in a subordinate labor class . What they do not see is that the traditional educationwhich they admire is no real education for the modern world . We find the industrious proletarian and the exclusive Tory joining hands in opposing the new democratic education which is meant to have the effects of freeing both classes and making them fit together to administer a free society . The Tory wants to keep for his children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his children this privileged status . " Book " education , innocent of practicality and use , is still an accepted mark of this geniality . Neither class has any real sense yet of ap208democratic attitude that finds both the " utilitarian " and the " cultural " irrelevant terms , and demands only effective activity and imaginative understanding from every citizen up to the limit of his capacity . The " old " education then is a class-education , and therefore has no place in a society which is trying to become democratic . How much class-feeling is behind the current allegiance to the education of discipline and drudgery is shown in a paper by Miss Edith Hamilton of the Bryn Mawr School in the New Republicfor February 10 , 1917 . She pleads for the " old " education in behalf of her girls . But when she says " school " she has in the back of her mind an institution for the training of the well-to-do classes . Her argument against a change in education seems to be based on the idea that change would be prejudicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunate classes with which she is best acquainted . Her argument is that life will make no stern demands upon the sheltered , economically endowedleisure which most of her girls will enjoy . Without external standards their fiber must deteriorate unless they have learned the joy of work by the doing of things because they are hard . Without impersonal intellectual interests , their personal energy , she says , will waste away in futility or in a meddlesome control of their own daughters:The boy is harnessed into some kind of self-discipline by the exigencies of business life . But for the girl , the substitution in the " modern school " of domestic science for " elegant accomplishments " is only an illusory discipline . Not only are these arts of housekeeping too easy to provide discipline , but they will never be demanded from the upper-class girl . Only the traditional curriculum , therefore , impersonal , cultural , laborious , will give her the needed stimulus to play her leisuredrole worthily . At first sight nothing could be more ironic than this gospel of strenuous effort preached in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl be disciplined , trained to do things " because they are hard , " for a life which becomes " easier and easier , " unless her teachers wish to provide her with some kind of moral and intellectual justification for her social role ? The " old " education combines uselessness and effort , and it is just this combination which would maintain leisure-class functions and yet leave the individuals morally justified . The uselessness makes you exclusiveand the effort satisfies your moral sense . It is a little curiousp209to find Miss Hamilton using the " utilitarian " argument against domestic science , that is , that it will never be used by her girls . Yet she wishes them to acquire " impersonal intellectual interests , " which they can never use except in not very real " cultural " dabblings and social work . Miss Hamilton 's argument for tradition is the orthodox one that is now being repeated by all those who oppose the new Rockefellerschool . The old education is superior to any training which makes interest not discipline , , efficiency not knowledge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest and disciplinehas been so thoroughly discussed by John Dewey in his " Interest as Related to Will " and other writings , that one is surprised at this late day to find responsible educators who are willingto give the impression that they are unacquainted with Dewey'sarguments . Even if disciples like Dr. Flexner and myself in our enthusiasm unconsciously caricature him , the philosophy is there in its classic form in Dewey for all to read . The curious notionof the " old " educator that interest makes work " easy , " instead of intensifying the effort , is only possible , of course , to minds soaked in a Puritan tradition . Dewey shows that interest and discipline are not antagonistic to efficiency and knowledge , but that knowledge is merely information effectively used and manipulated , and discipline is willed and focused interest . Each has an element of the other . It is meaningless to talk of interest vs. discipline when all real interest has an organizing effect on one 's activity , and any real discipline is built up on a foundation of interest . Indeed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception , I define discipline as " willed skill , " which is as far from any conception of " making things easy , " of " smattering and superficiality , " as could well be imagined . It is a superstition , of course , as Miss Hamilton says , to suppose that all childrenburn with a hard gem-like flame of curiosity to know , but it is equally a superstition to suppose that with all children strenuousdrudgery flowers into the immense by of work and creation , or that effort taken consistently against the grain of interest can suddenly be transmuted into spontaneous activity . A certain habit , a mechanical routine spirit , may be evolved by drudgery , but not imaginative skill . All true discipline comes from overcomingobstacles beyond which one is conscious of a goal in itself worth while . It is only a feeble spirit which can be drugged by effort in and for itself . In those admired cases where facilityp210comes after conscientious but uninteresting effort , let the oldfashionededucator ask herself whether the child gained the satisfaction of accomplishment because he went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he liked the satisfaction of accomplishment that he was willing to go through the drudgery . If you admit the latter , then you have admitted the case for the new education . Temperaments , impulses , interests ? or , if you like , the lack of interests ? will insist on dominating , on determining the way each child takes his experience . All education can ever do is to provide the experience , and stimulate , guide , organize interests . Anything else may produce , at its best , a trained animal . It will not be education , and it will not produce men and women . The task of the democratic school is to provide just this generalexperience and stimulation . Miss Hamilton 's paper shows that such a school would be a challenge to the kind of institution she has in mind when she speaks of education . When leisureclassfunctions and leisure-class education clasp in a perfect circle , a new sociological and industrial emphasis , such as the " Modern School " suggests , might make the leisure-class pupils uneasy , restless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you might find yourself calling into question the sincerity of those " impersonal intellectual interests . " If you emphasized efficiency instead of knowledge , you might make uncomfortably evident the unreality of much of what passes for culture in society today . You would be making insecure the moral and intellectual justifications of caste . But that is exactly the critical and undermining work which a democratic education is designed to stimulate . These new educators are seeking a type of school which shall provide for children as human beings and not as members of any one social class . They want a school which creates a commonsympathy , a common intimacy with the various activities and expressions of the modern well-rounded personality , just so far as each individual is capable , with his endowments and intelligence , of acquiring such an intimacy . The " Modern School " would turn the child 's attention to the projects , objects , processes , facts , of the active world about him , not because they are good in themselves , but because they are the common stock of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every family more or less into touch with the activep211world out of which the " Modern School 's " curriculum grows . It is in the study of these " real things , " rather than in the logical systemsof text-books , the predigested ideals of literature or a leisuredclass , the technical manipulation of dead languages and official science , that common interest and the sense of common possession will arise . The expectation is that interpretations and ideals which grow out of such a study will be more vital and sound because they will have come out of the child 's own experience , and not have been merely shoveled into his memory . It is expected that the " strenuous effort " of the past , which was so much an effort of memory and routine , will become , in a curriculumharnessed to occupational life , an effort of interest and intelligent enthusiasm . Out of such a spirit and such a school should issue the self-sustained discipline by which all good work is done in the world. 1 In the article later cited by Bourne , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave the boys altogether to life for the sterner training ; they will not be able to escape the adamantine nails of the dread goddess Necessity . But give to the girls , denied that exacting education , schools where the central idea is work that results in discipline , whether of the mind or the will must be left to the psychologists , but at all events in some power to make oneself do thoroughly the task that lies at hand ; where it is recognizedthat the best preparation for life in the " real " world is the habit of not shirking what is hard , and that only through steady , strenuous effort , yes , and through drudgery too , can the immense joy of work ever be tasted.  |p212In  these days of academic self-analysis , the intellectual caliber of the American undergraduate finds few admirers or defenders . Professors speak resignedly of the poverty of his background and imagination . Even the undergraduate himself in college editorials confesses that the student soul vibrates reluctantly to the larger intellectual and social issues of the day . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , suggests that too many undergraduates regard their college in the light of a glorified preparatory school where the activities of their boyhoodmay be worked out on a grandiose scale . They do not act as if they thought of the college as a new intellectual society in which one acquired certain rather definite scientific and professionalattitudes , and learned new interpretations which threw experience and information into new terms and new lights . The average undergraduate tends to meet studies like philosophy , psychology , economics , general history , with a frankly puzzled wonder . A whole new world seems to dawn upon him , in its settingand vocabulary alien to anything in his previous life . Every teacher knows this baffling resistance of the undergraduate mind . It is not so much that the student resists facts and details . He will absorb trusts and labor unions , municipal government and direct primaries , the poems of Matthew Arnold , and James 's theory of the emotions . There is no unkindliness of his mind towardsfairly concrete material . What he is more or less impervious to is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The college has to let too many undergraduates pass out into professional and business life , not only without the germ of a philosophy , but without any desire for an interpretative clue through the maze . In this respect the American undergraduate presents a distinct contrast to the European . For the latter does seem to get a certain intellectual setting for his ideas which makes him intelligible , and gives journalism and the ordinary expression of life a certain tang which we lack here . Few of our undergraduates get from the college any such intellectual impress . The explanation is probably not that the student has no philosophy , but that he comes to college with an unconscious philosophyso tenacious that the four years of the college in itsp213present technique can do little to disintegrate it . The cultural background of the well-to-do American home with its " nice " people , its sentimental fiction and popular music , its amiable religiosityand vague moral optimism , is far more alien to the stern secular realism of modern university teaching than most people are willing to admit . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret hostility if it would more frankly recognize what a challenge its own attitudes are to our homely American ways of thinking and feeling . Since the college has not felt this dramatic contrast , or at least has not felt a holy mission to assail our American mushiness of thought through the undergraduate , it has rather let the latter run away with the college . It is a trite complaint that the undergraduate takes his **25;3819;TOOLONG more seriously than his studies . But he does this because his homely latent philosophy is essentially a sportingphilosophy , the good old Anglo-Saxon conviction that life is essentially a game whose significance lies in terms of winning or losing . The passion of the American undergraduate for intercollegiateathletics is merely a symbol of a general interpretation for all the activities that come to his attention . If he is interested in politics , it is in election campaigns , in the contests of parties and personalities . His parades and cheerings are the encouragementof a racer for the goal . After election , his enthusiasm collapses . His spiritual energy goes into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every activity which is translatable into terms of winning and losing . In Continental universities this energy would go rather into a turbulence for causes and ideas , a militant radicalism or even a more militant conservatism that would send Paris students out into the streets with a " Cail-laux as-sas-sin ! " or tie up an Italian town for the sake of Italia Irredenta . Even the war , though it has called out a fund of antimilitaristsentiment in the American colleges , still tends to be spoken of in terms of an international sporting event . " Who will win ? " is the question here . Now this sporting philosophy by which the American undergraduatelives , and which he seems to bring with him from his home , may be a very good philosophy for an American . It is of the same stuff with our good-humored contempt for introspection , our dread of the " morbid , " our dislike of conflicting issues and insoluble problems . The sporting attitude is a grateful andp214easy one . Issues are decided cleanly . No irritating fringes are left over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculation seem superfluous . The point is that such a philosophy is as different as possible from that which motivates the intellectual world of the modern college , with its searchings , its hypotheses and interpretationsand revisions , its flexibility and openness of mind . In the scientific world of the instructor , things are not won or lost . His attitude is not a sporting one . Yet the college has allowed some of these sporting attitudes to be imposed upon it . The undergraduates ' gladiatorial contests proceed under faculty supervision and patronage . Alumni contributetheir support to screwing up athletic competition to the highest semi-professional pitch . They lend their hallowing patronageto fraternity life and other college institutions which tend to emphasize social distinction . And the college administration , in contrast to the European scheme , has turned the college course into a sort of race with a prize at the goal . The degree has become a sort of honorific badge for all classes of society , and the colleges have been forced to give it this quasi-athletic setting and fix the elaborate rules of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be easy enough to get all classes competing for it , and hard enough to make it a sufficient prize to keep them all in the race . An intricate system of points and courses and examinations sets the student working for marks and the completion of schedules rather than for a new orientationin important fields of human interest . The undergraduate can scarcely be blamed for responding to a system which so strongly resembles his sports , or for bending his energies to playing the game right , rather than assimilating the intellectual background of his teachers . So strongly has this sporting technique been acquired by the college that even when the undergraduate lacks the sporting instinct and does become interested in ideas , he is apt to find that he has only drawn attention to his own precocity and won amused notice rather than respect . In spite of the desire of instructors to get themselves over to their students , in spite of a real effort to break down the " class-consciousness " of teacher and student , the gulf between their attitudes is too fundamental to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the undergraduate is left in a sort of Peter Pan condition , looking back to his schoolboy life and carrying along his schoolboy interests with him , instead of anticipatingp215his graduate or professional study or his active life . What should be an introduction to professional or business life in a world of urgent political and social issues , and the acquiring of intellectualtools with which to meet their demands , becomes a sort of sequestered retreat out of which to jump from boyhood into'a badly prepared middle age . The college will not really get the undergraduate until it becomesmore conscious of the contrast of its own philosophy with his sporting philosophy , and tackles his boyish Americanisms less mercifully , or until it makes college life less like that of an undergraduate country club , and more of an intellectual workshopwhere men and women in the fire of their youth , with conflictsand idealisms , questions and ambitions and desire for expression , come to serve an apprenticeship under the masters of the time.  |p216The  marked and immediate reaction of the thinking public to the Scott Nearing case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conventional forms of university control . It implies a sense that universities , whether supported by the state or privately , are becoming too vitally institutions of public service to be much longer directed on the plan of a private corporation . University trustees are generally men of affairs , and as men of affairs they naturally tend to hold the same attitude towards the university that they do to the other institutions ? the churches and railroads and corporations ? they may direct . The university officers whom they appoint seem to have exactly the same duties of upholding the credit of the institution , of securing funds to meet its pressing needs , of organizing the administrativemachinery , which their corporation officers would have . Professorsare engaged by contract as any highly-skilled superintendentwould be engaged in a factory . If a well-paid subordinateof a mining corporation could not get along with his colleaguesand his men , or if he consorted with the I. W. W. or made revolutionary speeches in the streets , his services would be dispensed with as readily as the Pennsylvania trustees rid themselves of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professor more than they do intrinsically a fourth vice-president . They may tend to err , as Chancellor Day has suggested , on the side of " merciful consideration . " But they can not see that the amenities of the case materially alter the professor 's status . This would be the case of university trustees stated in its rawest terms . That they tend so often to act as if they were a mere board of directors of a private corporation gives rise to endless suspicion that they consult their own interests and the interests of the donors of the vested wealth they represent as trustees of the university , just as they would protect , as faithful corporation directors , the interests of the shareholders of the company . It is just this attitude which the thinking public is no longer inclined to tolerate . We are acquiring a new view of the place of the university in the community . When the American collegewas no more than an advanced boys ' academy , there may have been some excuse for this form of control by selfperpetuatingand irresponsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Yale , Princeton , Pennsylvaniaand Columbia , were founded . Now this determined autocracy may not have worked so badly when most of the trustees and practically all of the instructors were ministers of the Gospel , although even in those days facultiessometimes complained that their careful plans were overriddenby men ignorant of collegiate business and little interested in educational policy . The demand that trustees ' functions should be limited to the management of funds , leaving the facultiesto regulate administration and control appointments is a hoary one . But with the passing of control from the ghostly to the moneyed element , the gulf between trustee and professor has become extreme . Professors have fallen into a more and more subordinate place , and the president , who used to be their representative , has now become almost entirely the executive agent of the trustees , far removed in power and purse and publicdistinction from the professor . The university president in this country has become a convenient symbol for autocratic power , but even when he has become a " mayor of the palace " and professorsmay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autocracy still lies in the external board behind him . This absentee and amateur form of university control is being constantly ratified by our American notions of democracy , and that folkway , which runs so omnipresently through our institutionallife , of giving the plain ultimate citizen control , in order that we may be protected from the tyranny of the bureaucrat . The newer state universities are controlled in exactly the same spirit . Regents , elected by legislatures , have shown themselves quite as capable as the most private trustees of representing vested political interests . Nor has democracy been achieved by the cautious admission , in recent years , of alumni trustees , as in the case of Columbia , or , as in the case of Harvard and Yale , by the substitution of alumni for the former state officials . Selfperpetuatingboards will always propagate their own kind , and even if alumni trustees were ever inclined to be anything but docile , their minority representation would always be ineffective for democracy . The issues of the modern university are not those of private property but of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notables is no longer adequate for the effective scientificand sociological laboratories for the community that thep218universities are becoming . The protests in the most recent case imply a growing realization that a professor who has a dynamic and not a purely academic interest in social movements is an asset for the whole community . The latest controversy between trustees and professors seems to have been very definitely an issue between interested policy and accurate , technical fact . It seems to have been clearly a case of old tradition against new science , the prejudiced guesses of corporation officials against the data of a scientific student of economics . Any form of universitycontrol which gives the prejudiced guess the power over the scientific research is thus a direct blow at our own social knowledge and effectiveness . The public simply can not afford to run this risk of having the steady forging ahead of social and economic research curtailed and hampered . We can not afford to depend wholly on the tempering of trustees by the fear of the clamor of public opinion . It is wholly undesirable that trustees should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom they find uncongenial or who they feel are spreading unsound doctrine . Make university trustees directors of a private corporation and you give them the traditionalright of terminating contracts with their employees without giving reasons or any form of trial . But if the university is not to be a mere degree-manufactory , or a pre-vocational school representingthe narrow interests of a specialized economic class , but is to be that public intellectual and scientific service that we all want it to be , the governance must be different from that of a mining company , and the status of the professor different from that of a railroad employee . Professors should have some securityof office . An interested public which feels this way will demand that the faculties be represented strongly in the determination of all universitypolicy and in the selection and dismissal of the instructors . It may even demand that the community itself be represented . Trustees who really envisage the modern university as a public service , as a body of scientific and sociological experts , will gladly share their power . If they do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university differs from the general one , and it will be the duty of professors to asserttheir rights by all those forms of collective organization whereby controlled classes from the beginning of time have made their desires effective.  |p219When  Dr. Alexander Mackintosh Butcher was elected to the presidency of Pluribus University ten years ago , there was generalagreement that in selecting a man who was not only a distinguishededucator but an executive of marked business ability the trustees had done honor to themselves and their university as well as to the new president . For Dr. Butcher had that peculiargenius which would have made him as successful in Wall Street or in a governor 's chair as in the classroom . Every alumnusof Pluribus knows the story told of the young Alexander Mackintosh Butcher , standing at the age of twenty-two at the threshold of a career . Eager , energetic , with a brilliant scholastic record behind him , it was difficult to decide into what profession he should throw his powerful talents . To his beloved and aged president the young man went for counsel . " My boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no profession offers nobler opportunitiesfor service to humanity than that of education . " And what should he teach ? " Philosophy is the noblest study of man . " And a professor of philosophy the young Butcher speedily became . Those who were so fortunate as to study philosophy under him at Pluribus will never forget how uncompromisingly he preached absolute idealism , the Good , the True and the Beautiful , or how witheringly he excoriated the mushroom philosophies which were springing up to challenge the eternal verities . I have heard his old students remark the secret anguish which must have been his when later , as president of the university , he was compelled to entertain the famous Swiss philosopher , Monsfilius , whose alluring empiricism was taking the philosophic world by storm . Dr. Butcher 's philosophic acuteness is only equaled by his political rectitude . Indeed , it is as philospher-politician that he holds the unique place he does in our American life , injecting into the petty issues of the political arena the immutable principles of Truth . Early conscious of his duty as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party which had earned the eternal allegiance of the nation by rescuing it from slavery . By faithful service to the chiefs of his state organization , first under the powerful Flatt , and later under the well-known Harnes , himself college-bred and a political philosopher of no mean merit , thep220young Dr. Butcher worked his way up through ward captain to the position of district leader . The practical example of Dr. Butcher , the scholar and educator , leaving the peace of his academic shades to carry the banner in the service of his party ideals of Prosperity and Protection has been an inspiration to thousands of educated men in these days of civic cowardice . When , three years ago , his long and faithful services were rewardedby the honor of second place on the Presidential ticket which swept the great states of Mormonia and Green Mountain , there were none of his friends and admirers who felt that the distinctionwas undeserved . President Butcher is frequently called into the councils of the party whenever there are resolutions to be drawn up or statementsof philosophic principle to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state conventions , which his rare academic distinction lifts far above the usual level of such affairs . It was at one of these conventions that he made the memorable speech in which he drew the analogy between the immutability of Anglo-Saxon political institutions and the multiplication table . To the applause of the keen and head-headed business men and lawyers who sat as delegates under him , he scored with matchless satire the idea of progress in politics , and demonstrated to their complete satisfaction that it was as absurd to tinker with the fundamentals of our political system as it would be to construct a new arithmetic : In such characteristic wisdom we have the intellectual calibre of the man . This brilliant and profound address came only as the fruit of a lifetime of thought on political philosophy . President Butcher 's treatise on " Why We Should Never Change Any Form of Government " has been worth more to thoughtful men than thousands of sermons on civic righteousness . No one who has ever heard President Butcher 's rotund voice discuss in a public address " those ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand years of experience " will ever allow his mind to dwell again on the progressive and disintegrating tendenciesof the day , nor will he have the heart again to challenge on any subject the " decent respect for the common opinions of mankind . " President Butcher 's social philosophy is as sound as his political . The flexibility of his mind is shown in the fact that , although an immutabilist in politics , he is a staunch Darwinian in social/ogy . Himself triumphantly fit , he never wearies of expressing his robust contempt for the unfit who encumber the earth . His essay on " The Insurrection of the Maladjusted " is already a classic in American literature . The trenchant attack on modern social movements as the impudent revolt of the unfit against those who , by their personal merits and industry , have , like himself , achieved success , has been a grateful bulwark to thousands who might otherwise have been swept sentimentally from their moorings by those false guides who erect their own weakness and failure into a criticism of society . Dr. Butcher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the " American Academy of All the Arts , Sciences , and Philosophies , " but has made him almost as well known abroad as at home . He has lectured before the learned societies of Lisbonon " The American at Home , " and he has a wide circle of acquaintances in every capital in Europe . Most of the foreign universities have awarded him honorary degrees . In spite of his stout Americanism , Dr. Butcher has one of the most cosmopolitanof minds . His essay on " The Cosmopolitan Intellect " has been translated into every civilized language . With his admired friend , Owen Griffith , he has collaborated in the latter 's endeavor to beat the swords of industrial exploitation into the ploughshares of universal peace . He has served in numerous capacities on Griffith 's many peace boards and foundations , and has advised him widely and well how to distribute his millionsso as to prevent the recurrence of war in future centuries . Let it not be thought that , in recounting President Butcher 's public life and services , I am minimizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the largest universitiesin America , he has raised the position of college president to a dignity surpassed by scarcely any office except President of the United States . The splendid $125,000 mansion which President Butcher had the trustees of Pluribus build for him on the heights overlooking the city , where he entertains distinguishedforeign guests with all the pomp worthy of his high office , is the precise measure both of the majesty with which he has endowed the hitherto relatively humble position , and the appreciation of a grateful university . The relations between PresidentButcher and the trustees of Pluribus have always been of the most beautiful nature . The warm and profound intellectual sympathy which he feels for the methods and practices of thep222financial and corporate world , and the extensive personal affiliationshe has formed with its leaders , have made it possible toleave in his hands a large measure of absolute authority . Huge endowments have made Pluribus under President Butcher 's ruleone of the wealthiest of our higher institutions of learning . With a rare intuitive response to the spirit of the time , the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its kind . Already its schools are numbered by the dozens , its buildingsby the scores , its instructors by the hundreds , its studentsby the thousands , its income by the millions , and its posses , sions by the tens of millions . None who have seen President Butcher in the commencementexercises of Pluribus can ever forget the impressiveness of thespectacle . His resemblance to Henry VIII is more marked now that he has donned the crimson gown and flat hat of the famous English university which gave him the degree of LL.D . Seated in a high-backed chair ? the historic chair of the first colonial president of Pluribus ? surrounded by tier upon tier of his retinue ofthe thousand professors of the university , President Alexander Mackintosh Butcher presents the degrees , and in his emphaticvoice warns the five thousand graduates before him against everything new , everything untried , everything untested . Only one office could tempt President Butcher from his highestate . Yet even those enthusiastic alumni and those devoted professors who long to see him President of the United Stateshave little hope of tempting him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hand to the plough , he must see Pluribusthrough her harvest season , and may God prosper the work ! So , beloved of all , alumni and instructors alike , the idol of the undergraduates , a national oracle of Prosperity and Peace , PresidentButcher passes to a green old age , a truly Olympian figure of the time . Footnote ... we stand for ideal interests solely , for we have no corporate selfishness and wield no powers of corruption . We ought to have our own class consciousness , " Les Intellectuels " ! WILLIAM JAMESAmerican intelligence has still to issue its Declaration of Independence . It has still to proclaim that in a democratic system the intelligencehas a discipline , an interest , and a will of its own , and that this special discipline and interest call for a new conception both of individual and of national development . HERBERT CROLYThe American intellectual class , having failed to make the higher syntheses , regresses to ideas that can issue in quick , simplified action . Thought becomes any easy rationalization of what is actually going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BOURNEp227Randolph Bourne 's social criticism testifies to an individualistic style of thought . It is not theoretically anchored and does not have the character of a blueprint . But the lack of systematic rigor is offset by a greater persuasiveness and precision . Because general applicability is an inherent claim , large designs often put up with colorless arguments . in Bourne 's case , however , we observe a preference for detail . This tendency does not result from intellectual resignation but from Bourne 's understanding that social reality can be experienced and that its complexity might invalidate the comprehensive system . Recognition of the concrete thus takes the place of abstract conceptualization . Bourne was certainly far from setting great store by this polarity or from seeing it as necessary . The opposite is the case . Becausehe believed that subjective experience is in principle capable of truth , he attempted to express the general in the particular . It is also true , however , that after the event he often noted that he had failed ; in retrospect , he sharply criticized his book Youth and Life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of his personality . The rhetorical structure of texts such as " A Mirror of the MiddleWest , " " Emerald Lake , " " What is Exploitation ? " and " The Scientific Manager " corresponds to this fundamental ambivalencein Bourne 's thought . The argument always progresses from the expression of subjective participation to a definition of the general situation . This strategy of the argument is also indicative of a dilemma , however . For Bourne 's ability to argue politically always encounters its limits where it would be necessary to deal with political organizations . But Bourne avoids that . Although a concept of class used increasingly in the Marxist sense crystallized in the writings of his final years , reflection upon problems of organization is almost entirely absent . In part ,  |p228this  is due to the fact that Bourne 's ideas about the movement of thought can not be harmonized with its organization . His call for " desperate spiritual outlaws " was meant seriously , indeed literally . Besides , Bourne bases his notion of intellectual radicalism on the rejection of any and every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought and class was something Bourne could see only as a way of rationalizing a lack of freedom . The essay " What is Exploitation ? " shows how Bourne breaks through the context described ? a discussion with a factory owner concerning the problems of the strike ? because he wants to deal with the question of exploitation from the perspective of his own experience . The ambivalence referred to and the dilemma that results from it become apparent where Bourne says of his discussion partner : He recognizes only individuals , I recognize classes . " But then he himself insists on the necessity of individual experience : One has to feel exploitation perhaps before one understands it . " The ambivalence in the structure of the argument in this essay signals Bourne 's problem : how does one mediate between individual and collectiveexperience ? In The Price of Radicalism , " he bemoans his insufficient knowledge of the thoughts of the working class . But he also warns young intellectuals of the dangers of socialist organization . Because he lacked a concept of ideology in the Marxist sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific to a particular class and not altogether free of elitist and leadership elements . Yet these are irreconcilable with his insistence on the right to autonomous experience . But this gives him a chance to reflect about the possibilities the middle class may have to take on leadership tasks because it is intellectuallyradical . The only way by which middle-class radicalism can serve is by being fiercely and concentratedly intellectual . " What Bourne had in mind were both engagement and the kind of analytical dispassionateness Bertrand Russell embodied . They were qualities which appeared to naturally entitle the intellectualto claim leadership roles . Further thought about the role of the intellectual would have been necessary , had Bourne had the opportunity to reflect carefullyabout this dilemma . But historical developments forced his political speculations and his social criticism into the oppositep229direction at whose terminal point we find his thoughts about the treason of the intellectuals . Under the impact of the First World War and the consequences of the United States ' entry into it , the critical motive for Bourne 's hopes in the intellectuals paled : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only be defined negatively . Bourne uses the concept " intellectual " primarily to refer to the liberals on the staff of the New Republic . But those from whom he expected a critical position in the emphatic sense he called " malcontents . " Only in the beginning did Bourne see the treason of the intellectualssolely in their support for America 's entry into the war . As he pondered their responsibility , he also attempted to understand the causes of their failure . This failure had occurred on several planes : it lay in the advocacy of barbarism , of strategies of rationalization which had no logical coherence but merely served those ruling elites which have always proven themselves fundamentally undemocratic , in the backsliding from a developedto a more primitive level of thought , and finally in the regression to a phase of political and cultural colonialism , the dependence on Great Britain . The principal reason for the failure of the intellectuals , in Bourne 's view , was their inability to endure contradictory situations , the weakness that lies in wanting to retreatto safer positions . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the paradoxical nature of reality itself . There is the further assumption that the intellectualalways feels inferior to the man of action . Starting with the principle that intellectual conflicts must either be resolved in a synthesis ? i.e. , a qualitative leap ? or by the return to ideas which were believed to be obsolete , Bourne writes : The American intellectual class , having failed to make the higher syntheses , regresses to ideas that can issue in quick , simplified action . Thought becomes an easy rationalization of what is actually going on or what is to happen inevitably tomor-row ' : Not only have the intellectuals become rationalizers , they also suffer from the illusion that they have an influence on the course of things . What really happens is that intellect is sacrificed on the altar of the factual . Critique , which requires vision , is absorbed in the mere description and justification of what is . The intellectual becomes the mouthpiece of things as they are . In his denunciation of the intellectual as being corrupted byp230historical events , Bourne occasionally attains a precision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who formulated the same insights , Karl Kraus . Both articulate not only their horror at the War itself but also at the levity and opportunism with which the intellectualsaccepted it . Bourne 's sentence " War is the health of the state " reads like the sum of all the denunciatory descriptions of those who profited from the war in both a spiritual and a material sense and who are presented to us in Karl Kraus ' The Last Days of Mankind . How justified Bourne 's attacks were can easily be reconstructed . In the New Republic , on April 14 , 1917 , in an unsigned editorial entitled Who Willed American Participation , " Bourne could read this proud confession : " The bankers and the capitalists have favored war , but they have favored it without realizing the extent to which it would injure their own interest , and their support has been one of the most formidable political obstacles to American participation . The effective and decisive work on behalf of war has been accomplished by an entirely differentclass ? a class which must be comprehensively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tablep231Tablep233THE DOCTRINE OF THE RIGHTS OF MAN AS FORMULATED BY THOMAS PAINEDThe doctrine of the Rights of Man , of which Thomas Paine was so eloquent an exponent , is perhaps the most important in resultand influence of those leit-motives that run through the political philosophy of the centuries of intellectual awakening and speculation that followed the Italian Renaissance . In the writingsof Thomas Paine , we have its culmination ? the first account of a great political laboratory experiment attempting to put into practice in the reorganization of a modern State a theory that for two hundred years had been a fancy in the minds of philosophers . Paine 's discussion of the Rights of Man shows the doctrine at last loose in the world , doing work ? deposing kings , overturning classes , and altering long-established social habits . In its origin , however it had had little of this revolutionary character ; it had been merely an effort of the advanced thinkers of the intellectual class of Western Europe to discover a new basis for civil society and a new authority for the government of men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great WorldEmpirefade slowly away from their sight ? an empire which should control all temporal things , unite all peoples and confer upon all men an indestructible citizenship . The rise of nationalities , however , with their hopelessly conflicting claims and rivalries , had given the coup de grace to this political ideal , and the Reformation came to deal a similar blow to the spiritual Empire ? the Church Universal through which all men were united to God and derived spiritual authority from him . The old bases for authority seemed to be irrevocably gone , and the acutest philosophers began to look for a new unshakable foundationthat would appeal with axiomatic force to the moral and spiritual nature of every intelligent man . This new basis they found , as they found so many of their ideas , in the Roman Law . Taking an old conception of Roman equity , which had gradually come to lend a symbolic meaning to what was at first simply the common law of the Mediterranean peoples , and to be thought of as an abstract extra-human law of Nature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of God in the spiritual ? taking this conception , they deduced the natural rights of man , which postulatedhis original equality in a state of Nature and a social compact as the bond which had joined individuals together andp234still united them . From this law came the authority and justificationof government and of the relations of individuals to each other and to the State . The doctrine did away at once with the need of a spiritual Vicar , through whom temporal princes derivedtheir authority from God , of a Church which controlled the spiritual life of men and gave meaning to his social customs and his family and class relations , and of a World-Empire to confer universal citizenship . From this original source , then , did Paine and his fellowradicalsof thought and action derive their philosophy . The doctrine , however , before it came to them had passed through a curious evolution . From a justification of authority , it became a justification and even incitement to revolution . From its original purpose of providing a secular basis for existing legitimate government , it became the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 1625 , the doctrine of Natural Rights had meant a tacit and implied promise on the part of the members of society to obey the majority , or the organ of society to whom power had been delegated . Hobbes , writing a little later , deducedfrom the pristine equality of men , an absolute government as the only way to curb the anarchic spirits of individual and lawless men . Equality and independence , he said , though the original state of nature , mean hopeless anarchy and war ; in order to put an end to the intolerable strife , men contract togetherand surrender as much of their natural right as is inconsistentwith their living in peace . The rights of freedom are surrenderedfor security . Mere agreement , however , will not control them ; there must be a common power to whom they surrender their rights , and who will keep them in awe and direct their actionstowards the common benefit . An equality of dependence is therefore necessary . The natural rights of man lead infallibly to an autocracy , but an autocracy tempered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make their existence good can not be surrendered . The ethics of revolution is success , but rebellion against authority is an impious crime . With Locke , however , who wrote at the time of the English Revolutionof 1688 , and whose purpose was to justify that very conservative change , the implications of the doctrine begin to veer away from autocracy . The State , to Locke , is a joint-stock company ; men , free , equal and independent , had voluntarily esp235tablished government , not for their own control , but for the preservationof their lives , liberties , and estates . Men in the state of nature , he says , are subject to the law of reason , which teaches all mankind , who will but consult it , that , all being equal , no one ought to harm another in his life , health , liberty , and possessions . Society , then , is not a mutual surrender , but a mutual compact of its original members , perpetually renewed by each generation which gives its allegiance to the State . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil state . Rousseau , in his Social Contract , continues the process and goes practically the whole way towards democracy . His State purports to be a. common sovereign power , and yet to leave every contracting party as free as he was before , still owing obedience only to himself . The common power to which rights were surrendered ? which to Hobbes could mean only an autocrat ? signifies.to Rousseau the whole of society . Each of us , he says , puts his person and faculties in a common stock under the sovereign direction of the general will . The right of all men to be free , equal , and independent postulates a society formed by contract to be a partnership of equals and not an equality in the sense that all are equally subjected to a sovereign power . The ideal is a covenant of social brotherhood , not a covenant of mutual subjection . The attempt of Rousseau to combine the perfectsovereignty of society with the perfect freedom of the individual , however , left the doctrine very much up in the air . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which might better have been recognized at once as insoluble . The mass of men , feeling dimly the hollowness and lack of grip in this attempt to reconcile perfect individual freedomwith perfect social control , rightly accepted his theories as destructive of society . It was not Rousseau 's specious analysis of the sovereignty of the people that attracted them , but the phrase with which he opened his Social Contract ? " Man is born free , and is everywhere in chains . " To Hobbes , the natural state of man was anarchic and intolerable ? a state to be transcended as soon as possible . To Locke , society was desirable from a utilitarian point of view , as the pooling of interests , in the same manner that a business corporation is more effective than a singlebusiness man . But to Rousseau , filled with an emotional revulsionat the artificialities of civilization , the freedom and equal/ity of man was a bright pristine social state from which we had drifted disastrously far , and to which it was imperative that we return . Thus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been a mere theory to fill the intellectual gap caused by the passing of the old authorities , developing into a satisfactory juristic explanation of the origin and evolution of society and a justification of legitimate government , became in Rousseau 's mouth ' a revolutionary cry , calling society back to sounder and primitive bases . In his pleading persuasive voice , he called upon all men to throw off their chains and become human and natural again . Shall we say that the French Revolution was the answer to that call ? It is true that great social forces reck little of the writings of philosophers or of the thoughts of men . The true causes of the Revolution we shall find rather in the rise of the middle class in France after the commercial revolution of the seventeenth century , without a corresponding advance in political rights , and in the expensive and unwieldy administration which was driving France on towards bankruptcy ? in other words , in the economic factors of the time . Without the bankruptcy , the economic crises , and the suffering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revolution might not have been postponed for decades , just as the revolution in Russia is being postponed today . The effect of the political philosophy was rather to mellow the popular mind , to create an expectant attitude and prepare social opinion for the great change . And its chief function was to furnisha channel into which all sentiment ran when once the change had begun . It was the most potent factor in dictating the course that events took then , and in sweeping away the old abuses that had festered for centuries . The social philosophy was , as spiritual forces always are , the indispensable ally of socialprogress , preparing the way and backing it up with a set of definite principles , rather than actually forcing and accomplishingthe change . The work of Rousseau was to do this preparing , and it was the work of Paine to defend and fortify the actual movement in its early concrete stages . It is this that gives Paine 's formulation of the Rights of Man its unique interest . Here is something more than a body of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base his speculations , because he could find no moderndemocratic States that corroborated him ? on the legendaryp237accounts of lawgivers and republics of antiquity . Paine had all the advantage of a working model before him . He imagined that he was witnessing in the early years of the Revolution the formationof the very social compact about which the philosophers had written , and the direct exercises of that sovereignty and foundation of civil rights which they had discovered in original society . The concrete embodiment of the Rights of Man , the transmutation of philosophy into political institutions , was workingitself out before his very eyes . He could find illustration for his principles in the stirring events that succeeded the meeting of the National Assembly . He writes in a fresh flood of enthusiasmthat was natural in those early days of innocence when the Revolution seemed like a peaceful and orderly change in government by a great people in full command of their reason , and with a consistent purpose of embodying in a national Constitutionthe most idealistic social philosophy of the age . But because he could not see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private ambition , and class struggle , that drew France rapidly through a reign of terror into despotism , his point of view and enthusiasm is not thereby invalidated . For through all the vicissitudes of post-revolutionary France , the great political achievements of the French Revolution did stand unscathed . Its work did endure , and it was thorough and healing . However inadequate for permanent social regeneration we may judge the doctrine of the Rights of Man , looking at the Revolutionin the broad perspective of a century , that Revolution still remains the most amazing thing in history . A great nation , trained for centuries to absolutism , did deliberately , in the face of the counter-revolution of the monarch , the active hostility of all Europe , economic distress at home , defy all laws of social inertia , social conservatism , and social timidity , and alter its form of government in accord with abstract and idealistic principles . In comparison , our own boasted Revolution , by reason of our small population , the distance from the mother country , our already semi-independent status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achievement than the leaving home of a big boy who has outgrownparental control . But the Revolution in France was analogous to the self-reformation of a drunkard , the conscious and willed alteration of a nation 's habits of life . It was this aspect of it that caused the passionate enthusiasm , the hope , the deliriousjoy , that swept through the youth of Europe at the sight.  | " Good was it in that day to be alive , And to be young was very heaven ! " It was Paine 's Rights of Man that carried the first lucid account of the Revolution and the principles on which it was founded to English-speaking peoples . His story of the events of the first two years of the Revolution , which to readers of today seems so just and balanced , came as a shock to the conservativelyinclined , who had been fed by Burke and others on distortedtales of horror and carnage and treason and blasphemy which were ruining France . Even in republican America the good John Quincy Adams took it upon himself to answer Paine in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England Paine had to answer to a charge of treason on account of his inevitable comparisonsof the prerogative-ridden British Constitution with the legislation of the National Assembly . The logic and candor of the book only served to inflame the bigoted conservatives in both countries , and only a fortunate escape to France saved the authorfrom serious consequences in London . In the United States , the disfavor with which the book and all similar literature were greeted by the wealthy classes , coupled with enthusiasm for the French , caused a wave of popular democratic sentiment that rocked the Federalist Administration to its foundations . It may be a salutary thing for an American to pause now and then and wonder what would have been the character of our Federal Constitution if the Philadelphia Convention had met five years later than it did . It is safe to say that after 1791 our oligarchic Constitution could never have been ratified in a single State of the Union . The people would have insisted that the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the measures of the National Assembly be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Constitution , and the aristocratic philosophy of Hamilton and Madison . It might not then have been still necessary in the year 1912 to be fighting the wearisome struggle for political democracy , and Thomas Paine might be our political oracle , rather than the authors of the Federalist and Edmund Burke . For it was Burke , of course , whose Reflections on the Revolution in France had driven Paine to his defense of the Rights of Man , in which he so thoroughly exposed Burke that the latter 's nineteenth century apologists could only save his reputationby ascribing the incredible Reflections to senility or hysteria . But there was no senility ; there was no hysteria . Burke was simplya reactionary unmasked ? a reactionary like hundreds of " liberty-loving " Englishmen and Americans , whose reverence for Anglo-Saxon institutions and the palladia of English freedom alwaysstops just short of any attempt to make that freedom vital and significant instead of a superstition . Our strongest modern exponents of the rights of " freedom " and " property , " oppose all attempts to extend the sphere of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change our social system , where the majority of men are economically unfree in everything but a Pickwickiansense , and in which only a minority own any property at all . Conservatives , however , will always prefer to hear the doctrines of English freedom expounded by Edmund Burke rather than Thomas Paine . For to Burke freedom meant freedom to be governed by a representative class . To Paine , however , it meant the equal exercise of civil rights in society . His exposition of the Rights of Man follows in its general outline the theories of Natural Rights and the Social Compact that we have sketched above . He differs from Rousseau in giving a religious twist to the explanation of the equality of men . His Quakerism leads him to base it on the fact that every man is a child of God . For authority as to the Rights of Man , he says , we must go back to the time when Man first came from the hand of his Maker . " What was he then ? Man . Man was his high and only title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This original generation of men had equal natural rights , since all derived their existence equally from God ; in the same manner , posterity has equal rights with them , just as if the race had been continued by creationand not by generation . Paine riddles Burke 's contention that the Parliament of 1688 in England was able to submit not only its own generation , but all posterity forever to the Crown , and thus make a change of government forever illegitimate and impious . This tyranny of the dead hand , Paine says rightly , is worse than the tyranny of the living ; and we of America today , whose desires for social reform are blocked by a sacredly archaicConstitution may say Amen to his plea that each generationis competent to deal with its own affairs and formulate anew the political and social principles that shall guide it . Men must never lose sight of their divine unity and equality , says Payne . Only when he forgets his divine origin , his birth and family , so to speak , does he become dissolute . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barriers and turnpike-gates of kings , priests and nobility , through which man has to pass , has brokenp240down this unity . Since his origin , artificial government has been presumptuously working to unmake him . " His natural rights are based on this equality . Paine quotes them from the famous Declaration of the Rights of Man , adopted August , 1789 , by the National Assembly . Men are born and continue free and equal in respect to their rights , it runs , which are liberty , property , security , and resistance of oppression . All men in society are entitled to honors and rewards according to their different abilities , without other distinction than their own virtues and talents . But Man could not depend on his natural rights alone , which he receives by reason of his existenceas man ; he has certain civil rights , which are his by right of his being a member of society , and which grow out of his naturalrights . For man did not enter society to become worse than he was before ; not to have fewer rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here Paine parts company with Rousseau . The State is not based on an impossible combination of perfect civil freedom with perfect individual freedom , as Rousseau fondly believed , but by a frank exchange by the individual on entering society of certain of his natural rights for civil rights . The natural rights which he retains are all those in which the power to execute is as perfect as the right itself . Such are all rights of the mind , and of individual action where no one is concerned but the person himself . Those rights which are exchanged are those in which , although the right is perfect in the individual , the power to execute is defective . Such , for instance is the right of judging one 's own cause . Each has that right , but it avails him little , since he has no power in himself to make redress . He therefore deposits this right in the common stock of society , and takes the arm of society of which he is a part , in preference to , and in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a civil right , and not as the grant of society . He draws on the capitalof society as a proprietor and not as a pensioner . Every civil right , then , in Paine 's theory , grows out of a natural right , is a natural right exchanged . The civil power is made up of an aggregate of that class of natural rights which becomes defective in point of power and answers not the individual 's purpose , but when collected to a focus becomes competent to the purpose of every one . " But this civil power can not be made to invade those natural rights which are retained by the individualp241and in which the power to exercise is as perfect as the right itself . In his theory of rights Paine seems to make a sort of synthesis of Hobbes and Rousseau . He agrees with Hobbes that there is a surrender of rights to society , but with Rousseau that this societyis a common power and not a central sovereign to which all the members are subject . For government , as the institution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a compact between those who govern and those who are governed , as Hobbes implied , but a compact between the individuals themselves , who each in his own personal sovereign right enters into a compact to create a government , founded on the common interest of societyand the common rights of man . What is government but the management of the affairs of a nation ? says Paine , not the property of any particular man , but of the whole community . Sovereignty appertains to the nation only , and not to any individual . The nation is the source of all sovereignty , and no individualor body of men can be entitled to any authority which is not expressly derived from it . In his illustration of these principles Paine compares the Englishgovernment , which , he says , arose by conquest over the people , with the new French government arising out of the people . The new National Assembly he sees as the people in the act of expressing the social compact ; its members are delegatesof the nation in its original character . Its duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the social will and found a true government whose authority shall be derived straight from the people . Paine jeers at the English governmentas no government , because it has no Constitution and derives its authority not from the people but from the original Norman conquest . The fancied English love of freedom is but an empty word , for England 's enthronement of aristocracy denies equality , and there can be no real freedom without equality . Aristocracycannot exist with the free exercise of man 's natural rights . Titles , Paine says , are like circles drawn by the magician'swand to contract the sphere of man 's felicity . The French people have abolished aristocracy , because it has meant family tyranny and injustice ; because of the unfitness of aristocrats to be legislators , since their ideas of inequality corrupt justice at its very source ; because a body of men holding themselves ac/countable to nobody ought not to be trusted by anybody . It might be said here in parenthesis that our universal American practice of organizing our institutional life in every department with Boards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances rather by divine right than by the direct authority of those whose actions they control , and responsible in only a perfunctory fashion to those dependent upon them , shows how little our inherently oligarchic " spirit of American government " has recognized the truth of this last great principle . Paine insists justly that government must never lose sight of the common interest for whose protection it is founded , or of the responsibility those in power have primarily to those below ? the people whose sovereignty the government is expressing and from whom it derivesits authority . This is the formulation of the origin and nature of the natural and civil Rights of Man , according to Thomas Paine , and he seems to have had no doubt that it constituted a true historical picture and a valid philosophical basis , for the relations of men to each other and to the State . In a modern critique of these principles , it is necessary that both the history and the philosophybe seriously questioned . In the light of modern knowledge , the theory of the original freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far different from what we know of early man , and in the light of the nineteenth century and modern ideals , the philosophy is inadequate . For , far from its being true that in their original state , men were free and independent , and combined into societies in order to increase their security and prosperity , modern science is convinced that the most primitive state of man is actually the social state . Primitive man is found everywhere highly socialized with an elaborate system of social customs controlling the individual ? a state utterly unlike Hobbes ' autocracy or Rousseau'sfree-and-easy democracy . There is equality but little individuality , for all are bound by tradition and custom which has grown up on lines of evolutionary selection to secure the safety and welfare of the group as a social group , and not as a collection of individuals . Most anthropologists , moreover , agree that man 's first appearance was in a horde , which with the passing of barbarism split into tribes , tribes into clans , and clans into families . The progress of society , then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the members of thep243group , and not a combination and compact ; Man was not social because he willed it but because if he was not he perished . He was social by an evolutionary process of selection , and not by any contract . The only rights of primitive man were social rights , so he could not have made the exchange which Paine imagined . Individual rights would be a much later development and only possible after a toilsome period of civilizing . This historical error of the Natural Rights philosophers entails a more serious one in methods of reform . Paine and Rousseau are filled with the idea that the French people are somehow repeatingan eternally right and consecrated program for the reformationof a society , for they are proceeding along the same lines on which society was originally organized . And this idea is fundamentally unscientific . For it means the forcing of society into harmony with a preconceived plan or scheme , and reverses the practicable process . Instead of investigating actual conditionsand then asking what can be built out of them by rational direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that makes for the general welfare of all , it starts with the finished plan and then asks how can the social conditions as they are be forced into the mould . Of this discredited type of social philosophizing are all those today who argue against a change in our form of government , not on the plea that the present system is adequate to modern conditions , but on the ground that the form of government in existence embodies bertaineternal a priori principles to which human society must be made to conform . This is the reason why modern Socialism , so fundamentally scientific in its philosophy , has displaced the old doctrine of Rights as an engine of social change . For Socialism , accepting the scientific demonstration that economic reasons are at the bottom of all social change , and that human nature in its social relations is capable of almost indefinite modification in accordance with the stimuli which institutions and ideals apply to it , seeks to abolish poverty and class hostility and the attendanthuman ills by controlling the economic order and moulding institutions to secure desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is this attitude from the constant assumption of Paine and his fellow reformers that societyis composed of units which can be combined and separated like marbles in a box ! and from their childlike innocence of the infinite complexity of the social fabric with its interweavings ofp244personal ambition with class antagonisms and variety of cultural and traditional influences . Modern Socialism recognizes society as a process , determined by economic forces ; Paine thought of it as a state , determined by the agreement of individuals . This contrast is sufficient to explain the increasing inadequacy that was felt through the nineteenth century by the radical classes who had caught the spirit of the new dynamic industrial age which was being born in England at the time that Paine wrote . What was actually taking place before Paine 's eyes was something far different from what he and his contemporaries imaginedit to be . What they saw as the emancipation of man from tyranny proved to be simply the emergence out of the old feudal order of a new industrial order . The contest , as 1848 well showed , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploitation and a new rational industrialexploitation . The middle class , which had put through the French Revolution and abolished the aristocracy , became in turn the masters of society , and exploited through the economic organization the classes beneath them . The attainment of politicalfreedom had not prevented the political machinery which the industrial revolution put in the hands of the entrepreneur class from sidetracking that positive and aggressive principle ? justice . The working classes soon found that men might be everywhere equal in respect to their rights , and yet that economic disadvantagewould render that political freedom valueless to secure for them even a modicum of prosperity and happiness . Freedom to work means little in a social system whose very existence depends on the presence of a reserve army of the unemployed . When the relation of employer and employee in the new system gave one class economic power over the other , the equal rights of men before the law became almost an empty dignity . What avail was the guarantee of life and property to classes whose life and labor were infinitely cheap , and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them of ? The most perfect political rights could scarcely prevent such classes from falling into a practical economic serfdom , holding their livelihood , as they did , at the mercy of another . Men of Paine 's time were obsessed by the idea that the State and Society were identical . They tended to think of men 's civil rights as embracing all his social relations , or at least all those social relations which were vital and significant for his prosperityp245and happiness . This fatal but fascinating fallacy , which has vitiatedthe writing of History for so long , will partly explain the failureof political philosophy to extend the conception of equality and freedom to the economic order . Men did not see that the new industrial order was pushing the role of the State more and more into the background , until it has become simply one of the expressions of our institutional life , and in countries like France and America one of the less significant of those expressions . Our interest in the State in this country is rather a sporting interestthan a feeling that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ordinary citizen . And everywhere in the modern world , the elaborately organized hierarchy of industry ? an economic State built up alongside the political State and based on a curious mixture of status and contract ? has taken its place as the dominant social element . The State has been reduced to a mere reservoir of armed force ; its role has become that of helplessly attempting ? as in our American trust laws ? to grapple with economic maladjustments , and enforcingcontracts made within the economic order . About the status of classes and individuals in that order it has nothing to say ; that has been fixed by the struggle of classes . Modern Socialism is simply a movement to make the economic order supreme ; although it has been occasionally attracted by the fallacyof the State , its real aim is to absorb the State into the industrialorganization , and abolish class antagonisms by thoroughly socializing this joint organization . Since , then , the doctrine of the Rights of Man has retained this incorrigibly political character , modern Socialism does not derive its philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , broadly interpreted , all the principles of democracy , both political and industrial might be derived from them , just as they can be deduced out of the Gospels . But they were not , and perhaps we can find some explanation of this fact in the consideration that Liberty and the Rights of Man are after all negative rather than positive principles . Men appeal to rights as a defensive weapon , as a resistance to aggression rather than as a call to constructive work . We have seen the destructive force of Rousseau'swriting . The doctrine was well enough as a war-cry of an intelligent and self-respecting middle class against the lumbering , decaying Old Regime , but with the accomplishment of its overthrow the force was about spent . It is perhaps significantp246that the great attempts to embody it in political history were in our Declaration of 1776 and the French Declaration of 1789 ? both proclamations of the independence of a nation . The principleswere powerful in moving men 's minds to a fanatical enthusiasm for throwing off oppression , but left them , when that was done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be that an appeal to Rights is too egotistical to appeal permanently to so complex a bundle of instincts and sentiments as the human spirit ? Mazzini felt this failure , and tried to remedy it by an appeal to Duties . Paine had distinctly said that a declaration of rights was by reciprocity a declaration of duties ? duties towards God , expressed in religion ? " man 's bringing to his Maker the fruits of his heart " ? and towards one 's neighbor , expressed in doing as one would be done by . But a doctrine of Duty as a dynamic engine of social reform makes use of too few of men 's desires and tendencies to replace successfully even a doctrine of Rights . A combination of the two doctrines results only in that nerveless sentimentalism which the Christian churches preach today as the solution of social problems . Only some kind of a strong fusion could make a permanent appeal , and this the modern dynamic Socialism which we have suggested above , provides in the ideal of social justice . An applied scientific ethics is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extends the ideals of democracy , equality , and fraternity from the political to the economic order , and adds the ideal of Justice , which makes its appeal to men as social beings albeit with personal desires . And Justice provides in addition that slight aesthetic appeal without which no complex ideal ever had dynamic force ? the idea that its realization will bring what is rational and beautiful and satisfying . Sublimating all of these ideals is that of both individualand social Self-realization as the end and purpose of all social effort . The modern ethic demands the development of the personal potentialities of every human being , and of the social potentialities of the great age of invention in which we live . The modern radical opposes the present social system not because it does not give him his " rights , " but because it warps and stunts the potentialities of society and of human nature , And he finds the social sciences establishing with greater force every day this ethic of Justice and Self-Realization . Whoever has felt the full import of this contrast between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Justice and Liberty will havep247acquired the correct perspective and seen the great principles of the French Revolution in their proper light in the history of socialideals . Footnotep248No reverberatory effect of the great war has caused American public opinion more solicitude than the failure of the " meltingpot . " The discovery of diverse nationalistic feelings among our great alien population has come to most people as an intense shock . It has brought out the unpleasant inconsistencies of our traditional beliefs . We have had to watch hard-hearted old Brahmins virtuously indignant at the spectacle of the immigrant refusing to be melted , while they jeer at patriots like Mary Antin who write about " our forefathers . " We have had to listen to publicistswho express themselves as stunned by the evidence of vigorous nationalistic and cultural movements in this country among Germans , Scandinavians , Bohemians , and Poles , while in the same breath they insist that the alien shall be forcibly assimilatedto that Anglo-Saxon tradition which they unquestioninglylabel " American . " As the unpleasant truth has come upon us that assimilation in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked out for it , we found ourselves inclined to blame those who were thwarting our prophecies . The truth became culpable . We blamed the war , we blamed the Germans . And then we discovered with a moral shock that these movements had been making gr@at headway before the war even began . We found that the tendency , reprehensible and paradoxical as it might be , has been for the national clusters of immigrants , as they became more and more firmly established and more and more prosperous , to cultivate more and more assiduously the literatures and cultural traditions of their homelands . Assimilation , in other words , instead of washing out the memories of Europe , made them more and more intensely real . Just as these clusters became more and more objectively American , did they become more and more German or Scandinavian or Bohemian or Polish . To face the fact that our aliens are already strong enough to take a share in the direction of their own destiny , and that the strong cultural movements represented by the foreign press , schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not , however , to admit the failure of Americanization . It is not to fear the failure of democracy . It is rather to urge us to an investigationof what Americanism may rightly mean . It is to ask our/selves whether our ideal has been broad or narrow ? whether perhaps the time has not come to assert a higher ideal than the " melting-pot . " Surely we can not be certain of our spiritual democracy when , claiming to melt the nations within us to a comprehension of our free and democratic institutions , we fly into panic at the first sign of their own will and tendency . We act as if we wanted Americanization to take place only on our own terms , and not by the consent of the governed . All our elaborate machinery of settlement and school and union , of social and political naturalization , however , will move with friction just in so far as it neglects to take into account this strong and virile insistencethat America shall be what the immigrant will have a hand in making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those British stocks which were the first permanent immigrants , decide that America shall be made . This is the condition which confrontsus , and which demands a clear and general readjustment of our attitude and our ideal . Mary Antin is right when she looks upon our foreign-born as the people who missed the Mayflower and came over on the first boat they could find . But she forgets that when they did come it was not upon other Mayflowers , but upon a " Maiblume , " a " Fleur de Mai , " a " Fior di Maggio , " a " Majblomst . " These people were not mere arrivals from the same family , to be welcomed as understood and long-loved , but strangers to the neighborhood , with whom a long process of settling down had to take place . For they brought with them their national and racial characters , and each new national quota had to wear slowly away the contemptwith which its mere alienness got itself greeted . Each had to make its way slowly from the lowest strata of unskilled labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social success . We are all foreign-born or the descendants of foreign-born , and if distinctions are to be made between us they should rightly be on some other ground than indigenousness . The early colonists came over with motives no less colonial than the later . They did not come to be assimilated in an American melting-pot . They did not come to adopt the culture of the American Indian . They had not the smallest intention of " giving themselves withoutp250reservation " to the new country . They came to get freedom to live as they wanted to . They came to escape from the stifling air and chaos of the old world ; they came to make their fortune in a new land . They invented no new social framework . Rather they brought over bodily the old ways to which they had been accustomed . Tightly concentrated on a hostile frontier , they were conservativebeyond belief . Their pioneer daring was reserved for the objective conquest of material resources . In their folkways , in their social and political institutions , they were , like every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in spite of the " Revolution , " our whole legal and political system remained more English than the English , petrified and unchanging , while in England law developed to meet the needs of the changing times . It is just this English-American conservatism that has been our chief obstacle to social advance . We have needed the new peoples ? the order of the German and Scandinavian , the turbulenceof the Slav and Hun ? to save us from our own stagnation . I do not mean that the illiterate Slav is now the equal of the New Englander of pure descent . He is raw material to be educated , not into a New Englander , but into a socialized American along such lines as those thirty nationalities are being educated in the amazing schools of Gary . I do not believe that this process is to be one of decades of evolution . The spectacle of Japan 's suddenjump from mediaevalism to post-modernism should have destroyed that superstition . We are not dealing with individuals who are to " evolve . " We are dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about to have , will start level with all of us . Let us cease to think of ideals like democracy as magical qualities inherent in certain peoples . Let us speak , not of inferior races , but of inferior civilizations . We are all to educate and to be educated . These peoples in America are in a common enterprise . It is not what we are now that concerns us , but what this plastic next generation may become in the light of a new cosmopolitan ideal . We are not dealing with static factors , but with fluid and dynamic generations . To contrast the older and the newer immigrantsand see the one class as democratically motivated by love of liberty , and the other by mere money-getting , is not to illuminate the future . To think of earlier nationalities as culturally assimilated to America , while we picture the later as a soddenp251and resistive mass , makes only for bitterness and misunderstanding . There may be a difference between these earlier and these later stocks , but it lies neither in motive for coming nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The truth is that no more tenacious cultural allegiance to the mother country has been shown by any alien nation than by the ruling class of Anglo-Saxon descendants in these American States . English snobberies , English religion , English literary styles , English literaryreverences and canons , English ethics , English superiorities , have been the cultural food that we have drunk in from our mothers ' breasts . The distinctively American spirit ? pioneer , as distinguished from the reminiscently English ? that appears in Whitman and Emerson and James , has had to exist on sufferancealongside of this other cult , unconsciously belittled by our cultural makers of opinion . No country has perhaps had so great indigenous genius which had so little influence on the country 's traditions and expressions . The unpopular and dreaded German-American of the present day is a beginning amateur in comparison with those foolish Anglophiles of Boston and New York and Philadelphia whose reversion to cultural type sees uncriticallyin England 's cause the cause of Civilization , and , under the guise of ethical independence of thought , carries along European traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ categories themselves . It speaks well for German-American innocence of heart or else for its lack of imagination that it has not turned the hyphen stigma into a " Tu quoque ! " 2 If there were to be any hyphens scattered about , clearly they should be affixed to those English descendants who had had centuries of time to be made Americanwhere the German had had only half a century . Most significantlyhas the war brought out of them this alien virus , showing them still loving English things , owing allegiance to the English Kultur , moved by English shibboleths and prejudice . It is only because it has been the ruling class in this country that bestowedthe epithets that we have not heard copiously and scornfullyof " hyphenated English-Americans . " But even our quarrels with England have had the bad temper , the extravagance , of family quarrels . The Englishman of today nags us and dislikes us in that personal , peculiarly intimate way in which he dislikes the Australian , or as we may dislike our younger brothers . He still thinks of us incorrigibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , literary , political America ? is still , as a writer recently expressed it , " culturally speaking , a self-governing dominion of the British Empire . " The non-English American can scarcely be blamed if he sometimes thinks of the Anglo-Saxon predominance in America as little more than a predominance of priority . The Anglo-Saxon was merely the first immigrant , the first to found a colony . He has never really ceased to be the descendant of immigrants , nor has he ever succeeded in transforming that colony into a real nation , with a tenacious , richly woven fabric of native culture . Colonials from the other nations have come and settled down beside him . They found no definite native culture which should startle them out of their colonialism , and consequently they looked back to their mother-country , as the earlier Anglo-Saxon immigrant was looking back to his . What has been offered the newcomer has been the chance to learn English , to become a citizen , to salute the flag . And those elements of our ruling classeswho are responsible for the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cities , have every reason to be proud of the care and labor which they have devoted to absorbing the immigrant . His opportunities the immigrant has taken to gladly , with almost a pathetic eagerness to make his way in the new land without friction or disturbance . The common language has made not only for the necessary communication , but for all the amenities of life . If freedom means the right to do pretty much as one pleases , so long as one does not interfere with others , the immigrant has found freedom , and the ruling element has been singularly liberalin its treatment of the invading hordes . But if freedom means a democratic cooperation in determining the ideals and purposes and industrial and social institutions of a country , then the immigrant has not been free , and the Anglo-Saxon element is guilty of just what every dominant race is guilty of in every European country : the imposition of its own culture upon the minority peoples . The fact that this imposition has been so mild and , indeed , semi-conscious does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just the degree to which that purpose of " Americanizing , " that is , " Anglo-Saxonizing , " the immigrant has failed . For the Anglo-Saxon now in his bitterness to turn upon the other peoples , talk about their " arrogance , " scold them for notp253being melted in a pot which never existed , is to betray the unconsciouspurpose which lay at the bottom of - his heart . It betraystoo the possession of a racial jealousy similar to that of which he is now accusing the so-called " hyphenates . " Let the Anglo-Saxon be proud enough of the heroic toil and heroic sacrificeswhich moulded the nation . But let him ask himself , if he had had to depend on the English descendants , where he would have been living today . To those of us who see in the exploitation of unskilled labor the strident red left-motif of our civilization , the settling of the country presents a great social drama as the waves of immigration broke over it . Let the Anglo-Saxon ask himself where he would have been if these races had not come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigrant contemplate that region of the States which has remained the most distinctively " American , " the South . Let him ask himself whether he would really like to see the foreign hordes Americanized into such an Americanization . Let him ask himself how superior this native civilization is to the great " alien " states of Wisconsin and Minnesota , where Scandinavians , Poles , and Germans have self-consciously laboredto preserve their traditional culture , while being outwardly and satisfactorily American . Let him ask himself how much more wisdom , intelligence , industry and social leadership has come out of these alien states than out of all the truly American ones . The South , in fact , while this vast Northern development has gone on , still remains an English colony , stagnant and complacent , having progressed culturally scarcely beyond the early Victorian era . It is culturally sterile because it has had no advantage of cross-fertilization like the Northern states . What has happened in states such as Wisconsin and Minnesota is that strong for , gn cultures have struck root in a new and fertile soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political ideas and social energies have expanded to a new potency . The process has not been at all the fancied " assimilation " of the Scandinavian or Teuton . Rather has it been a process of their assimilation of us ? I speak as an Anglo-Saxon . The foreign cultures have not been melted down or run together , made into some homogeneous Americanism , but have remained distinct but cooperating to the greater glory and benefit , not only of themselves but of all the native " Americanism " around them . What we emphatically do not want is that these distinctivep254qualities should be washed out into a tasteless , colorless fluid of uniformity . Already we have far too much of this insipidity ? masses of people who are cultural half-breeds , neither assimilatedAnglo-Saxons nor nationals of another culture . Each nationalcolony in this country seems to retain in its foreign press , its vernacular literature , its schools , its intellectual and patriotic leaders , a central cultural nucleus . From this nucleus the colony extends out by imperceptible gradations to a fringe where nationalcharacteristics are all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who retain their foreign names but have lost the foreign savor . This does not mean that they have actually been changed into New Englanders or Middle . Westerners . It does not mean that they have been really Americanized . It means that , letting slip from them whatever native culture they had , they have substituted for it only the most rudimentary American ? the American culture of the cheap newspaper , the " movies , " the popular song , the ubiquitous automobile . The unthinkingwho survey this class call them assimilated , Americanized . The great American public school has done its work . With these people our institutions are safe . We may thrill with dread at the aggressive hyphenate , but this tame flabbinessis accepted as Americanization . The same moulders of opinion whose ideal is to melt the different races into AngloSaxongold hail this poor product as the satisfying result of their alchemy . Yet a truer cultural sense would have told us that it is not the self-conscious cultural nuclei that sap at our American life , but these fringes . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his fathers and boasts of that venerable culture of his who is dangerous to America , but the Jew who has lost the Jewish fire and become a mere elementary , grasping animal . It is not the Bohemian who supports the Bohemian schools in Chicago whose influence is sinister , but the Bohemian who has made money and has got into ward politics . Just so surely as we tend to disintegrate these nuclei of nationalistic culture do we tend to create hordes of men and women without a spiritual country , cultural outlaws , without taste , without standards but those of the mob . We sentence them to live on the most rudimentary planes of American life . The influences at the centre of the nuclei are centripetal . They make for the intelligence and the social values which mean an enhancement of life . And just because thep255foreign-born retains this expressiveness is he likely to be a bettercitizen of the American community . The influences at the fringe , however , are centrifugal , anarchical . They make for detachedfragments of peoples . Those who came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and jetsam of American life , the downward undertow of our civilization with its leering cheapness and falseness of taste and spiritual outlook , the absence of mind and sincere feeling which we see in our slovenly towns , our vapid moving pictures , our popular novels , and in the vacuous faces of the crowds on the city street . This is the cultural wreckage of our time , and it is from the fringes of the Anglo-Saxon as well as the other stocks that it falls . America has as yet no impelling integrating force . It makes too easily for this detritus of cultures . In our loose , free country , no constrainingnational purpose , no tenacious folk-tradition and folk-style hold the people to a line . The war has shown us that not in any magical formula will this purpose be found . No intense nationalism of the European plan can be ours . But do we not begin to see a new and more adventurousideal ? Do we not see how the national colonies in America , deriving power from the deep cultural heart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the age-long tangles of races , creeds , and dynasties , may work out a federatedideal ? America is transplanted Europe , but a Europe that has not been disintegrated and scattered in the transplanting as in some Dispersion . Its colonies live here inextricably mingled , yet not homogeneous . They merge but they do not fuse . America is a unique sociological fabric , and it bespeaks povertyof imagination not to be thrilled at the incalculable potentialitiesof so novel a union of men . To seek no other goal than the weary old nationalism ? belligerent , exclusive , inbreeding , the poison of which we are witnessing now in Europe ? is to make patriotism a hollow sham , and to declare that , in spite of our boastings , America must ever be a follower and not . a leader of nations . If we come to find this point of view plausible , we shall have to give up the search for our native " American " culture . With the exception of the South and that New England which , like thep256Red Indian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no distinctively American culture . It is apparently our lot rather to be a federation of cultures . This we have been for half a century , and the war has made it ever more evident that this is what we are destined to remain . This will not mean , however , that there are not expressions of indigenous genius that could not have sprung from any other soil . Music , poetry , philosophy , have been singularly fertile and new . Strangely enough , American genius has flared forth just in those directions which are least understanded sic of the people . If the American note is bigness , action , the objective as contrasted with the reflective life , where is the epic expression of this spirit ? Our drama and our fiction , the peculiar fields for the expression of action and objectivity , are somehow exactly the fields of the spirit which remain poor and mediocre . American materialism is in some way inhibitedfrom getting into impressive artistic form its own energy with which it bursts . Nor is it any better in architecture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are inarticulate of the very values which we profess to idealize . But in the finer forms ? music , verse , the essay , philosophy ? the American genius puts forth work equal to any of its contemporaries . Just in so far as our American genius has expressed the pioneer spirit , the adventurous , forward-looking drive of a colonial empire , is it representative of that whole America of the many races and peoples , and not of any partial or traditional enthusiasm . And only as that pioneer note is sounded can we really speak of the American culture . As long as we thought of Americanism in terms of the " melting-pot , " our American cultural tradition lay in the past . It was something to which the new Americans were to be moulded . In the light of our changing ideal of Americanism , we must perpetrate the paradox that our American cultural traditionlies in the future . It will be what we all together make out of this incomparable opportunity of attacking the future with a new key . Whatever American nationalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something utterly different from the nationalisms of twentieth-century Europe . This wave of reactionary enthusiasm to play the orthodox nationalistic game which is passing over the country is scarcely vital enough to last . We can not swagger and thrill to the same national self-feeling . We must give new edges to our pride . We must be content to avoid the unnum/bered woes that national patriotism has brought in Europe , and that fiercely heightened pride and self-consciousness . Alluring as this is , we must allow our imaginations to transcend this scarcely veiled belligerency . We can be serenely too proud to fight if our pride embraces the creative forces of civilization which armed contest nullifies . We can be too proud to fight if our code of honor transcends that of the schoolboy on the playgroundsurrounded by his jeering mates . Our honor must be positiveand creative , and not the mere jealous and negative protectivenessagainst metaphysical violations of our technical rights . When the doctrine is put forth that in one American flows the mystic blood of all our country 's sacred honor , freedom , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the signal for turning our whole nation into that clan-feud of horror and reprisal which would be war , then we find ourselves back among the musty schoolmen of the Middle Ages , and not in any pragmatic and realistic America of the twentieth century . We should hold our gaze to what America has done , not what mediaeval codes of dueling she has failed to observe . We have transplanted European modernity to our soil , without the spirit that inflames it and turns all its energy into mutual destruction . Out of these foreign peoples there has somehow been squeezed the poison . An America , " hyphenated " to bitterness , is somehow non-explosive . For , even if we all hark back in sympathyto a European nation , even if the war has set every one vibrating to some emotional string twanged on the other side of the Atlantic , the effect has been one of almost dramatic harmlessness . What we have really been witnessing , however unappreciatively , in this country has been a thrilling and bloodless battle of Kulturs . In that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the hyphenated German-American and the hyphenated English-American ? there have emerged rivalries of philosophies which show up deep traditional attitudes , points of view which accurately reflect the gigantic issues of the war . America has mirrored the spiritual issues . The vicarious struggle has been played out peacefully here in the mind . We have seen the stout resistiveness of the old moral interpretation of history on which Victorian England thrived and made itself great in its own es eem . The clean and immensely satisfying vision of the war as a contest between right and wrong ; the enthusiasticp258support of the Allies as the incarnation of virtue-on-a-rampage ; the fierce envisaging of their selfish national purposes as the ideals of justice , freedom , and democracy ? all this has been thrown with intensest force against the German realistic interpretationsin terms of the struggle for power and the virility of the integrated State . America has been the intellectual battleground of the nations . The failure of the melting-pot , far from closing the great Americandemocratic experiment , means that it has only just begun . Whatever American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will have a color richer and more exciting than our ideal has hitherto encompassed . In a world which has dreamed of internationalism , we find that we have all unawares been building up the first international nation . The voices which have cried for a tight and jealous nationalism of the European pattern are failing . From the ideal , however valiantly and disinterestedly it has been set for us , time and tendency have moved us further and further away . What we have achieved has been rather a cosmopolitanfederation of national colonies , of foreign cultures , from whom the sting of devastating competition has been removed . America is already the world-federation in miniature , the continent where for the first time in history has been achieved that miracle of hope , the peaceful living side by side , with charactersubstantially preserved , of the most heterogenous peoples under the sun . Nowhere else has such contiguity been anything but the breeder of misery . Here , notwithstanding our tragic failuresof adjustment , the outlines are already too clear not to give us a new vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . It is for the American of the younger generation to accept this cosmopolitanism , and carry it along with self-conscious and fruitfulpurpose . In his colleges , he is already getting , with the study of modern history and politics , the modern literatures , economic geography , the privilege of a cosmopolitan outlook such as the people of no other nation of today in Europe can possibly secure . If he is still a colonial , he is no longer the colonial of one partial culture , but of many . He is a colonial of the world . Colonialismhas grown into cosmopolitanism , and his motherland isp259no one nation , but all who have anything life-enhancing to offer to the spirit . That vague sympathy which the France of ten years ago was feeling for the world ? a sympathy which was drowned in the terrible reality of war ? may be the modern American 's , and that in a positive and aggressive sense . If the American is parochial , it is in sheer wantonness or cowardice . His provincialismis the measure of his fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is not uncommon for the eager Anglo-Saxon who goes to a vivid American university today to find his true friends not among his own race but among the acclimatized German or Austrian , the acclimatized Jew , the acclimatized Scandinavian or Italian . In them he finds the cosmopolitan note . In these youths , foreign-born or the children of foreign-born parents , he is likely to find many of his old inbred morbid problems washed away . These friends are oblivious to the repressions of that tight little society in which he so provincially grew up . He has a pleasurablesense of liberation from the stale and familiar attitudes of those whose ingrowing culture has scarcely created anything vital for his America of today . He breathes a larger air . In his new enthusiasms for continental literature , for unplumbed Russiandepths , for French clarity of thought , for Teuton philosophies of power , he feels himself citizen of a larger world . He may be absurdly superficial , his outward-reaching wonder may ignore all the stiller and homelier virtues of his Anglo-Saxon home , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will be essential to all men and women of good-will if they are ever to save this Western world of ours from suicide . His new friends have gone through a similar evolution . America has burned most of the baser metal also from them . Meeting now with this common American background , all of them may yet retain that distinctiveness of their native cultures and their national spiritual slants . They are more valuable and interesting to each other for being different , yet that difference could not be creative were it not for this new cosmopolitan outlook which America has given them and which they all equally possess . A college where such a spirit is possible even to the smallest degree , has within itself already the seeds of this international intellectual world of the future . It suggests that the contribution of America will be an intellectual internationalism which goes far beyond the mere exchange of scientific ideas and discoveriesp260and the cold recording of facts . It will be an intellectual sympathywhich is not satisfied until it has got at the heart of the different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have immense preferences , but it will make understanding and not indignation its end . Such a sympathy will unite and not divide . Against the thinly disguised panic which calls itself " patriotism " and the thinly disguised militarism which calls itself " preparedness " the cosmopolitan ideal is set . This does not mean that those who hold it are for a policy of drift . They , too , long passionately for an integrated and disciplined America . But they do not want one which is integrated only for domestic economic exploitation of the workers or for predatory economic imperialism among the weaker peoples . They do not want one that is integrated by coercion or militarism , or for the truculent assertion of a mediaeval code of honor and of doubtful rights . They believe that the most effective integration will be one which coordinates the diverse elements and turns them consciously toward working out together the place of America in the worldsituation . They demand for integration a genuine integrity , a wholeness and soundness of enthusiasm and purpose which can only come when no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discriminated against or that its cultural case is being prejudged . This strength of cooperation , this feeling that all who are here may have a hand in the destiny of America , will make for a finer spirit of integration than any narrow " Americanism " or forced chauvinism . In this effort we may have to accept some form of that dual citizenship which meets with so much articulate horror among us . Dual citizenship we may have to recognize as the rudimentaryform of that international citizenship to which , if our words mean anything , we aspire . We have assumed unquestioningly that mere participation in the political life of the United States must cut the new citizen off from all sympathy with his old allegiance . Anything but a bodily transfer of devotien from one sovereignty to another has been viewed as a sort of moral treason against the Republic . We have insisted that the immigrantwhom we welcomed escaping from the very exclusive nationalism of his European home shall forthwith adopt a nationalism just as exclusive , just as narrow , and even less legitimate because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet a nation like France is said to permit a formal and legalp261dual citizenship even at the present time . Though a citizen of hers may pretend to cast off his allegiance in favor of some other sovereignty , he is still subject to her laws when he returns . Once a citizen , always a citizen , no matter how many new citizenshipshe may embrace . And such a dual citizenship seems to us sound and right . For it recognizes that , although the Frenchmanmay accept the formal institutional framework of his new country and indeed become intensely loyal to it , yet his Frenchnesshe will never lose . What makes up the fabric of his soul will always be of this Frenchness , so that unless he becomes utterly degenerate he will always to some degree dwell still in his native environment . Indeed , does not the cultivated American who goes to Europe practice a dual citizenship , which , if not formal , is no less real ? The American who lives abroad may be the least expatriate of men . If he falls in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and seeks to saturate himself with the new spirit , he is guilty of at least a dual spiritual citizenship . He may be still American , yet he feels himself through sympathy also a Frenchman . And he finds that this expansion involves no shameful conflict within him , no surrender of his native attitude . He has rather for the first time caught a glimpse of the cosmopolitanspirit . And after wandering about through many races and civilizations he may return to America to find them all here living vividly and crudely , seeking the same adjustment that he made . He sees the new peoples here with a new vision . They are no longer masses of aliens , waiting to be " assimilated , " waiting to be melted down into the indistinguishable dough of Anglo-Saxonism . They are rather threads of living and potent cultures , blindly striving to weave themselves into a novel internationalnation , the first the world has seen . In an AustriaHungaryor a Prussia the stronger of these cultures would be moving almost instinctively to subjugate the weaker . But in America those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live together . Along with dual citizenship we shall have to accept , I think , that free and mobile passage of the immigrant between America and his native land again which now arouses so much prejudice among us . We shall have to accept the immigrant 's return for the same reason that we consider justified our own flitting about the earth . To stigmatize the alien who works in America for a fewp262years and returns to his own land , only perhaps to seek Americanfortune again , is to think in narrow nationalistic terms . It is to ignore the cosmopolitan significance of this migration . It is to ignorethe fact that the returning immigrant is often a missionary to an inferior civilization . This migratory habit has been especially common with the unskilledlaborers who have been pouring into the United States in the last dozen years from every country in southeastern Europe . Many of them return to spend their earnings in their own country or to serve their country in war . But they return with an entirely new critical outlook , and a sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . This continued passage to and fro has already raised the material standard of living in many regions of these backward countries . For these regions are thus endowed with exactly what they need , the capitalfor the exploitation of their natural resources , and the spirit of enterprise . America is thus educating these laggard peoples from the very bottom of society up , awakening vast masses to a new-born hope for the future . In the migratory Greek , therefore , we have not the parasitic alien , the doubtful American asset , but a symbol of that cosmopolitan interchange which is coming , in spite of all war and national exclusiveness . Only America , by reason of the unique liberty of opportunity and traditional isolation for which she seems to stand , can lead in this cosmopolitan enterprise . Only the American ? and in this category I include the migratory alien who has lived with us and caught the pioneer spirit and a sense of new social vistas ? has the chance to become that citizen of the world . America is coming to be , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forth , with the other lands , of many threads of all sizes and colors . Any movement which attempts to thwart this weaving , or to dye the fabric any one color , or disentangle the threads of the strands , is false to this cosmopolitan vision . I do not mean that we shall necessarily glut ourselves with the raw product of humanity . It would be folly to absorb the nations fasterthan we could weave them . We have no duty either to admit or reject . It is purely a question of expediency . What concerns us is the fact that the strands are here . We must have a policy and an ideal for an actual situation . Our question is , What shall we do with our America ? How are we likely to get the more crea/tive America ? by confining our imaginations to the ideal of the melting-pot , or broadening them to some such cosmopolitan conception as I have been vaguely sketching ? The war has shown America to be unable , though isolated geographically and politically from a European world-situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wandering star in a sky dominated by two colossal constellations of states . Can she not work out some position of her own , some life of being in , yet not quite of , this seething and embroiled European world ? This is her only hope and promise . A trans-nationality of all the nations , it is spiritually impossible for her to pass into the orbit of any one . It will be folly to hurry herself into a premature and sentimentalnationalism , or to emulate Europe and play fast and loose with the forces that drag into war . No Americanization will fulfill this vision which does not recognize the uniqueness of this trans-nationalism of ours . The Anglo-Saxon attempt to fuse will only create enmity and distrust . The crusade against " hyphenates " will only inflame the partial patriotism of trans-nationals , and cause them to assert their European traditions in strident and unwholesome ways . But the attempt to weave a wholly novel international nation out of our chaotic America will liberate and harmonize the creative power of all these peoples and give them the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been given , of a world . Is it a wild hope that the undertow of opposition to metaphysics in international relations , opposition to militarism , is less a cowardly provincialism than a groping for this higher cosmopolitan ideal ? One can understand the irritated restlessnesswith which our proud pro-British colonists contemplate a heroic conflict across the seas in which they have no part . It was inevitable that our necessary inaction should evolve in their minds into the bogey of national shame and dishonor . But let us be careful about accepting their sensitiveness as final arbiter . Let us look at our reluctance rather as the first crude beginnings of assertion on the part of certain strands in our nationality that they have a right to a voice in the construction of the American ideal . Let us face realistically the America we have around us . Let us work with the forces that are at work . Let us make somethingof this trans-national spirit instead of outlawing it . Already we are living this cosmopolitan America . What we need is ev/erywhere a vivid consciousness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survivals of the melting-pot ideal for the promise of American life . We can not Americanize America worthily by sentimentalizing and moralizing history . When the best schools are expressly renouncingthe questionable duty of teaching patriotism by means of history , it is not the time to force shibboleth upon the immigrant . This form of Americanization has been heard because it appealed to the vestiges of our old sentimentalized and moralized patriotism . This has so far held the field as the expression of the new American 's new devotion . The inflections of other voices have been drowned . They must be heard . We must see if the lesson of the-war has not been for hundreds of these later Americans a vivid realization of their trans-nationality , a new consciousness of what America meant to them as a citizenship in the world . It is the vague historic idealisms which have provided the fuel for the European flame . Our American ideal can make no progress until we do away with this romantic gildingof the past . All our idealisms must be those of future social goals in which all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the environment of the Beloved Community . No mere doubtful triumphs of the past , which redound to the glory of only one of our transnationalities , can satisfy us . It must be a future America , on which all can unite , which pulls us irresistibly toward it , as we understand each other more warmly . To make real this striving amid dangers and apathies is work for a younger intelligentsia of America . Here is an enterprise of integration into which we can all pour ourselves , of a spiritual welding which should make us , if the final menace ever came , not weaker , but infinitely strong . Footnotep265No Easterner , born forlornly within the sphere of New York , Boston , or Philadelphia , can pass very far beyond the Alleghenies without feeling that American civilization is here found in the full tide of believing in itself . The flat countryside looks more ordered , more ( armlike ; the Main Streets that flash by the carwindowssomehow look more robust and communal . There may be no less litter and scrubbiness ; the clustered houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , well-worn ; but it is a litter of aspiring order , a chaos which the people are insensitive to because they are living in the light of a hopeful future . The East has pretty much abandoned itself to the tides of immigration and industrial change which have overwhelmed it : no one really believes that anything startling will be done to bring about a new heaven and a new earth . But the intelligence of the West seems to live in apocalyptic sociological ? not socialistic , however ? dreams . Architects and business men combine half-heartedly to " save New York " from the horrors of the Jewish clothing-trade invasion , but Chicago draws great maps and sketches of a city-planning that shall make it not only habitable but radiant and palatial . Hope has not vanished from the East , but it has long since ceased to be our daily diet . Europe has infected us perhaps with some of its world-weariness . The East produces more skepticsand spiritual malcontents than the West . For the Middle West seems to have accomplished most of the things , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do , and it has done them better . The Middle West is the apotheosis of American civilization , and like all successes it is in no mood to be very critical of itself or very examinatory as to the anatomy and physiology of its social being . No Easterner with Meredith Nicholson 's human and literary experience would write so complacentlyand cheerfully about his part of the country as Mr. Nicholson writes about The Valley of Democracy . ' His self-confidence is the very voice of the Middle West , tellingus what it thinks of itself . This , we say as we read , must be the inner candor which goes with the West that we see with our eyes . So we like Mr. Nicholson 's articles not so much for the information they give us as for the attitudes they let slip , the un/conscious revelations of what the people he is talking for think important . It is not a book of justification , although he would rather anxiouslyhave us take not too seriously the political vagaries like Bryanism and Progressivism . And he wishes us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that evidently now begin to grow like grasshoppers on the prairies . He treats himselfrather as an expositor , and he is explicitly informational , almost as if for a foreign country . He sometimes has an amusing air of having hastily read up and investigated Western wonders and significances that have been not only common material in the Eastern magazines , but matter of despairing admiration on the part of those of us who are general improvers of mankind . He is naive about the greatness of Chicago , the vastness of agriculturalproduction , the ravages of culture among the middle classes . He is almost the professional Westerner showing off his prize human stock . Mr. Nicholson does well to begin with the folksiness of the West . No one who has experienced that fine open friendliness of the prosperous Middle Westerner , that pleasant awareness of the alert and beneficent world we live in , can deny that the MiddleWest is quite justified in thinking of itself as the real heart of the nation . That belief in the ultimate good sense , breadth of vision , and devotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home , " is in itself a guaranty of social stability and of a prosperitywhich implies that things will never be any different except as they slowly improve . Who can say that we have no Gemutlichkeit in America , when he runs up against this warm social mixability which goes so far to compensate for the lack of intellectual nuances and spontaneous artistic sensibilities ? Of course the Middle West has to pay for its social responsivenessin a failure to create , at least in this day and generation , very vigorous and diverse spiritual types . An excessive amiability , a genius for adaptability will , in the end , put a premiumon conformity . The Westerner sincerely believes that he is more averse to conventionality than the Easterner , but the latter does not find him so . The heretic seems to have a much harder time of it in the West . Classes and attitudes that have offended against the " folks ' " codes may be actually outlawed . When there are acute differences of opinion , as in the war , society splits into bitter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been allowed to shade off towards limbo in gradual degrees . When hatred and malice , too long starved by too much " niceness , " do break out from the natural man , they may producethose waves of persecution and vindictiveness which , coming from a so recently pacific West , astonished an East that was no less densely saturated with aliens but was more conversant with the feeling that it takes all kinds of people to make a world . Folksiness evidently has its dark underlining in a tendency to be stampeded by herd-emotion . " Social conscience " may become the duty to follow what the mob demands , and democracy may come to mean that the individual feels himself somehow expressed ? his private tastes and intelligence ? in whatever the crowd chooses to do . I have followed Mr. Nicholson in his speaking of the Middle West as if he thought of the region as a unit . He does speak as if he did , but he does not really mean it . Much as he would like to believe in the substantial equality of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help letting us see that it is but one class that he has in mind ? his own , the prosperous people of the towns . He protests against their being scornfully waved aside as bourgeoisie . " They constitute the most interesting and admirable of our social strata . " And he is quite right . Certainly this stratum is by far the most admirable of all the middle classesof the world . It is true that " nowhere else have comfort , opportunity , and aspiration produced the same combination . " He marvels at the numbers of homes in the cities that can not imaginablybe supported on less than five thousand a year . And it is these homes , and their slightly more impoverished neighbors , who are for him the " folks , " the incarnate Middle West . The proletariandoes not exist for him . The working-classes are merely so much cement , filling in the bricks of the temple ? or , better , folks in embryo , potential owners of bungalows on pleasant suburban streets . Mr. Nicholson 's enthusiasm is for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs , and is not afraid to dispense with the unattainable servant . It is for the good-natured and public-spirited business man , who goes into politics because politics in the Middle West has always been concerned with the prosperity of the business community . But about the economic foundation of this class Mr. Nicholson sounds as innocent as a babe . Take his attitude towards the farmer . You gather from thesep268pages that in the Middle West the farmer is a somewhat unfortunateanomaly , a shadow on the bright scene . Farming is scarcely even a respectable profession ; " the great grandchildrenof the Middle Western pioneers are not easily persuaded that farming is an honorable calling " ! He hints darkly at a decay in fiber . Only one chapter out of six is given to the farmer , and that is largely occupied with the exertions of state agencies , universities , to lift him out of his ignorance and selfishness . The averagefarmer has few of the admirable qualities of the Valley of Democracy . He is not " folksy " ; he is suspicious , conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even needed prodding with his Liberty bonds . In Mr. Nicholson 's pages the farmer becomes a huge problem which lies on the brain and conscience of a Middle West that can only act towardshim in its best moments like a sort of benevolent Charity Organization Society . " To the average urban citizen , " says Mr. Nicholson , " farming is something remote and uninteresting , carried on by men he never meets in regions that he only observes hastily from a speeding automobile or the window of a limited train . " It would take whole volumes to develop the implications of that sentence . Remember that that urban citizen is Mr. Nicholson'sMiddle West , and that the farmer comprises the huge bulk of the population . Is this not interesting , the attitude of the prosperousminority of an urban minority ? a small but significant class which has in its hands all the non-productive business and political power ? towards the great productive mass of the people ? Could class division be revealed in plainer terms ? This Middle West of Mr. Nicholson 's class sees itself as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal and social virtuesbesides . But does the farmer see this class in this light ? He does not . And Mr. Veblen has given us in one of his books an analysis of this society which may explain why : " The American country town and small city , " he says , " is a business community , that is to say it lives for and by business traffic , primarily of a merchandising sort . . . . Municipal politics is conducted as in some sort a public or overt extension of that private or covert organisation of local interests that watches over the joint pecuniary benefit of the local businessmen . It is a means .. , of safe-guarding the local business community against interlopers and against any evasive tactics on the part of the country popu/lation that serves as a host .... The country town is a product and exponent of the American land system . In its beginning it is located and ' developed ' as an enterprise of speculation in land values ; that is to say it is a businesslike endeavor to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incrementof land values due to the increase of population and the settlement and cultivation of the adjacent agricultural area . It never ( hitherto ) loses this character of real-estate speculation . This affords a common bond and a common ground of pecuniary interest , which commonly masquerades under the name of public patriotism , public spirit , civic pride , and the like . " In other words , Town , in the traditional American scheme of things , is shown charging Country all the traffic will bear . It would be hard to find a member of Mr. Nicholson 's Middle West ? that minority urban class ? who was not owing his prosperityto some form of industrial or real-estate speculation , of brokerage business enterprise , or landlordism . This class likes to say sometimes that it is " carrying the farmer . " It would be more like the truth to say that the farmer is carrying this class . Country ultimately has to support Town ; and Town , by holding control of the channels of credit and market , can make the farmer pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his product . And does . When the farmers , getting a sense of the true workings of the society they live in , combine in a Non-Partisan League to control the organism of market and credit , they find They have a bitter class war on their hands . And the authentic voice of Mr. Nicholson here scolds them roundly for their restlessnessand sedition . In this ferocious reaction of Town against Country 's Socialistic efforts to give itself economic autonomy , we get the betrayal of the social malaise of the Middle West , a confessionof the cleavage of latent class conflict in a society as exploitative , as steeply tilted , as tragically extreme in its poles of well-being , as any other modern society based on the economic absolutism of property . A large part of the hopefulness , the spiritual comfort of the Middle West , of its sturdy belief in itself , must be based on the inflexible reluctance of its intelligentsia to any such set of ideas . However thoroughly Marxian ideas may have saturated the thought of Europe and become the intellectual explosive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book , persists in its robust resistance to any such analysis or self-knowledge.  |p270Whenever  there is a menace of such an intellectual invasion , as in the recent war , we get typical protests , like the letter of VachelLindsay ( in The Dial of September 5 ) , that troubadour of the bourgeoisie , who would spew out of his mouth all Marxian , even all foreign ideas , and return to the sacred principles of the Tory republicanism of Samuel Adams . It is not that Mr. Nicholson 's attitudesare not true . It is that they are so very much less than the whole truth . They need to be supplemented by analyses set in the terms in which the progressive minds of the rest of the world are thinking . The intelligent Middle West needs to sacrifice a certain amount of complacency in exchange for an understandingof the structure of its own society . It would then realize that to read The Valley of Democracy in conjunction with pages 315-323 of Veblen 's Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolutionis to experience one of the most piquant intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether , as a manner of living , Emerald Lake is worse than those Calabrian villages from which so many of its inhabitants come , but as an architectural litter it is almost as desperateas anything our landscape offers . Once the bed of a broad shallow lake , the region is as low as land can be , and its fields are almost perpetually damp . Streets have been cut in long straight lines and left to wallow in their mud . A gaudy sign-board announces the shifty " real-estate development company " which is responsible for the little foreign settlement . Lookingdown these vapid streets , one sees a broken line of square , flat-roofed houses of brick and stone , like a caricature of the squat earthquake buildings of Caserta , with here and there a balcony and a.touch of color . But in spite of the sprawling space all about , these houses bulge with dark people . A little squalid shop usually darkens the ground floor , and from the apartments above float streamers of bright-colored clothes . Alreadythese streets suggest the time when the combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have built Emerald Lake solidly up to the great city which it brushes . But now the little settlement overflows its streets . The scene is dotted with tiny homesteads , dilapidated shacks of weatherbeatenboards thrown together out of old lumber and tar-paper , with a window or two and a stove-pipe chimney . Each little hut is set in its patch of garden and surrounded by its stockade of palings , a brave gesture of an ownership that looks so pitifully clingingand uncertain . On the gaunt and rocky places is tethered the ubiquitous goat against whose marauding these proprietors waste their precious lumber . Black-haired babies and bristly dogs roll in the gutter and on the sidewalks where some bold entrepreneur has already laid his line of " concrete . " There are few trees , and the settlement lies in a hot September glare that seems only too grateful to the swarthy , heavy , incorrigibly healthy women who drag themselves to the corner grocery or stand fiercely talking at the doorways . They are all smoothly blackhaired , and they all look middle-aged and they all look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain piratical vigor and intensityabout them . In my childhood , whenever I rode through Emerald Lake in the car , this was what was most the very essenceof " foreign " to me . And as I heard tales of these Italianp272neighbors going in so whole-heartedly for the anger or lasciviousnessor murder which life elementally seemed to demand of them , I wondered at our complacent way of hearing them and of pitying their weak servitude to emotion . These Italians always looked very determined to me , and illiterate and primitive as I knew them to be , they insisted , against the gray background of our town life , upon seeming important as people . Even the babies have a certain intensity and determination as they totter on the sidewalks , giving evidence that these broad women are not middle-aged but the authentic mothers of them and in the full tide of their prolific career . The young girls you do not see until six o'clock calls them pouring out of the mills , running and chattering in a confused babble . The fact that the eternallookingmothers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more mysterious perhaps than the fact that the cheerfully guttural men who are repairing the electric road were once like those definite little babies who are . bruising themselves on the pavement . For such integrated and elemental people youth can not be a protective period of prolonged infancy . It is rather something quick , unpleasant , irrelevant , to explode quickly into the real business of working and fighting and breeding . Such , people do not fool and fritter away their passions , but get them somehow conserved for life . Emerald Lake represents the injection of sudden vitality into our Puritan town . The question of what we are going to do with this vitality is so important that it vaguely stirs our community conscience . And they with us ! What will America do to these babies in their growingup ? Will they lose something of that intensity and become like the painfully collared Domenicoes who stand around the saloonof an evening ? If they surrender ditch-digging to some even more needy race , will there be provided for them or will they create for themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the girls stay soft and foolish and fail to jump suddenlyinto eternal-looking mothers ? Will they make us gayer , intenser , more primitive , or will our streets merely sophisticate and corrode their vigor ? If they become more like us , what obscure things will happen to their souls , and if they do not , what things will happen to ours ? Our town shows its sense of the significance of all these mat/ters by sending Emerald Lake a school , a raw red brick hulk with hideous green shades and a proud and strutting flag-pole . Indeed with characteristic American other-worldliness the school has preceded the sewer . The school is the gift of democracy , while the sewer waits on the demand of property-owners . The town trusts the school to Americanize Emerald Lake , as it pulls the little children from the gutters to the kindergarten and sends around the truant officer to catch those under fourteen . The childrensing patriotic songs , and salute the American flag every morning , and learn the varied information which the millions of other American children are learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As yet Emerald Lake has no church and probably will not have a church . For its people seem to have all the robust atheism of those Latin peoples who at once so much enjoy the voluptuousness of religious devotion and get along so easily without it . But it is our custom to contrast rather unfavorably this churchlessness of Emerald Lake with the Polish settlement at the other end of the town , where the church under a nationalistic priest has made a patriotic Poland out of the invigorated neighborhood . It is surprising how little we know about the inhabitants of Emerald Lake . We do not know whether they come from the same Italian villages , or whether they have drifted in as isolated families . We do not know what old customs and associations they keep up , how they feel themselves related to each other , what they think of us , their neighbors . Politically , Emerald Lake does not count . Even if there were many more naturalized citizens , its voting would still be a mere ratification of the policy of one or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as retainers of our tight little Puritan aristocracy . Emerald Lake 's political activity is likely to be limited for some time to such matters as pulling wires for a new saloon license , getting its thirteen-year-old children out of the clutch of the truant officer , coaxing off some youthful brigand from the Recorder'scourt . Emerald Lake is not yet aware that its true interestslie in securing well paved streets , well drained land , lights , city water and sewers , sanitary tenements , garden space , protectionagainst exploiting builders and landlords , a modern school . It knows that it is not interested in just which popular fel/low of the ward shall be councilman . But our town is as innocent as any other of any machinery for getting the newcomer to feel his interest in these needs of his , and to express it effectively . All we can think of to do is to let him say who shall be councilman , and , if he owns a piece of land , pay a few dollars of taxes . We do n't work him into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on unoccupied territory which is geographically within our borders , but it is only geographically that Emerald Lake is a part of us . The Italian of Emerald Lake forces himself upon our attention , works himself in , through acquiring property . There have been times when he unwittingly did it by crime and disease . Our aesthetic stomach has seemed strong enough to stand almost anything he may give us in the manner of living . But his soundestinstinct is property . Italian names dot the tax-rolls of the township . Insusceptible to ugliness , mildly susceptible to pestilence , our Puritan community is impressed by property . The Italianfirst makes his impression as a propertied man . And this is the road along which Emerald Lake advances . To see it for the first time is to feel a chill of despair . Such squalor , such filth , such gaunt forsaken rubbish of lane and hut . Yet I can rememberwhen Emerald Lake was only hovels , and there were not even palings to protect the garden-patch . These queer little buildings , these gardens , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was true pioneer territory , without any free homestead land : Even the foothold had to be struggled for . There is something unconquerably robust about Emerald Lake . Its dilapidation is the squalor of hope . It is not the squalor of recession and defeat.  |p275The  city club of a great Western town held recently a competitiveexhibition of plans for a city neighborhood center . Around the walls of the beautiful corridors and rooms , designed with the last touches of thoughtful taste , were the bold conceptions of the architects of the city . Upon this problem of civic art they had lavished all their imaginative skill . These scores of radiant sketches seemed eloquent of a professional belief that for the building-up of the modern American city nothing too fine could be conceived . Yet to see this exhibition I had had to travel from a suburban town thirty miles across a flat sandy waste strewn with the surplusage of the monster city 's industry and life . We had come in the merciful dusk through an endless chaos of straggling towns , which seemed not so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses , gaunt factories , frowzy open spaces and outbuildings , isolated tenementsin all stages of decrepitude , were interspersed with trim rows of cottages , shady streets , bright apartment-houses , and here and there an imposing church or school . From the lines of the streets one did get a certain sense of design . Otherwise the mass-effect was as if the heavens had opened and dumped out upon the desolate prairie the architectural garbage of some celestialcity . To pass from this chaotic savagery into the delightful club with its brave designs and its kindly and intelligent professional people , was to get a distinct ironic shock , a sudden sense of how little the repellent form in which the ordinary American city has got itself clothed expresses the individual intelligence and good-will of the citizens whose care should be to attend to that very civic clothing . The quality of these people , and the quality of the city as expressed in brick and wood and stone , bore not the slightest discoverable relation . One of the chief charms of . a European country is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to express the characteristic attitudes and spirit of the people . To say that the American city in its designand styles represented our spiritual capacity would be almost to say that we were a nation of madmen . We could convincea stranger that our churches and country houses werep276built by architects , but we could not convince him that our cities were so built . About these confident designs there was something almost pathetic as one came into them fresh from the pervading architecturalcrassness . These publicists and town-planners , socialworkers and architects , seemed scarcely out of the magical stage . They had not yet sensed the legal and economic barriers to be surmounted for the realization of their ideals . They scarcely felt even the full incongruity of the American urban scene , which makes one perpetually wonder at the pleasantness and gentleness of the people whom one meets upon such dishevelledand barbaric streets . I should have been more inclined to ascribe the peculiar horrorof this city to its unmanageable size if I had not just come from the small capital of a neighboring state , a state which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states have it . Yet from a comparisonof the two cities I could only conclude that the smaller had been preserved from chaos by its smallness rather than by its intelligence . On its hills by its lakes it has a famous and incomparablesite , a site for artists to mould and develop . From the train one alights into an uncertain station-square , which trails off on one side to a cluster of hovels and boat-houses that obscure the lake , and on the other past an ugly line of shopbuildingstowards the town . For the tree-lined lake-promenade that a Swiss town would possess , for the stately avenue to the capitol , the eye roams in vain . American towns do n't have such things . I thought of the picture of this same town-approach in the report of one of those experts whom American cities sufferingfrom twinges of town-planning conscience are calling in with increasing frequency to chide them for their sins . On the oppositepage he had printed a picture of the magnificent plaza and station at San Paolo , Brazil . He had remarked that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitals . It was a striking contrast of what Americans and Braziliansconsider of civic importance . Now this stodgy approach to our small Western city was no mere accident . It was more or less a clue to the town . The shabby surroundings of the capitol emphasized its showy wastefulnessrather than its white grandeur . The beautiful university building on the opposite hill made one mourn the characterless streets that lay between . The lakes were almost as if they werep277not . The town blindly turned its back upon them all . For the lake promenades and vistas , for the stately avenues between the hills , for the harmonious city that might be there , one had to rely on one 's imagination . The town straggled out feebly towards the marshes and farms . No ray of civic design or art had shone down from that great university on the hill . No effort would invest these prosaic streets with charm and significance . The people and institutions , yes ! But not the civic house in which they reside . My first city had been a vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The second was the small and self-conscious capital of a self-conscious state , with a natural situation such as few towns possess . Yet apparently the same spirit had gone to the upbuilding of both . Youth and newness will scarcely explain this American idiom . The large German cities have notoriously grown faster in the last fifty years than our own . Yet they are the models of civic art and design . ' Many of them look in their mass-effect even newer than our American towns . Nor can it be a question of our absorption in selfish commercialism . The German people have not acquired a reputation for altruism , nor has it been the fashion to accuse their governments of Utopian idealism . That German cities are beautiful and nobly planned , and our own more hideous than anybody cares or dares to say , means that the directing and professional classes in Europe have inherited or reacquired a tradition , a town-planning sense , which we have somehow missed . Our eager pioneer development and our immigrant inundationhave thrown the attention to individualistic effort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have curiously followed . We have remained obsessed with the individual building , while the European has built towns and streets and squares rather than houses and churches and shops . The careless uglinessof the business streets and the outskirts of the American city suggests a veritable blind-spot to civic beauty . If we admittedthis blindness we might wonder less frequently why we do not produce more or greater art . Youth growing up in such streets as ours would be the least likely in the world to acquire delicate discriminations , the sense of charm and atmosphere that makes for artistic sense and power . We often excuse ourselves on the ground that our civic sense is prophetic . Where the visitor sees only the cheap prairie vil- ! age , the resident sees the vision of the city which is one day to arise . When the city does arise , however , with its gridiron streets and staring blocks , one looks wistfully back to the prairie village . In too many towns this forward vision seems to have become hallucinatory . We are still a pioneer country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there is danger of becoming so accustomed to the pioneer stage that we forget there is no more frontier and that most of us are living in the midst of relatively old and dense communities . We have no excuse for preserving , as we do , even throughout the East , the pioneer look as of some temporary encampment . There is little inducement , it is true , to think of our cities as communal homes . Our industrial and even professional population is in constant flux . The city has become a lodging-place . We are all in this sense pioneers , scrapping our cabins , deserting our farms , and moving on to better land and fortune . But the city remains behind us , with a life and integrityof its own , regardless of the individuals who flit through it . Until architects and engineers , school-children and the averagecitizen , begin to think of the town or village not merely as a geographical expression or a business enterprise , but as a communal house to be made as well-ordered and beautiful as the citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus , and civic good-will and enterprise be shadowy and unreal . To preach town-planning in these days of threatened municipal bankruptcy may seem like Utopianism . To emphasize this order and beauty in the face of destitution and unemployment may seem like a case of hyperaesthesia . But let us not be too sure . In Europe town-planning has gone hand in hand with the alleviationof social ills . From the chaos and ugliness of American cities flows too palpably our economic and human waste . The well-planned city pays immensely from the social point of view . In Europe it has paid immensely from the financial point of view . Perhaps the road out of bankruptcy for the American city is exactly this Utopia.  |p279It  is not so much that he is a member of the architectural professionas that he represents to us , in a sense , architecture itself . In his square head and body , in his broad scholarly face , is something architectonic . He does not suggest , it is true , those Gothic churches with which he and his disciples have strewn our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our alien corn . His own construction has a more pleasant solidity , a high good-humor of form , a confidence , both polished and bluff , in the eternal rightness of being mediaeval in this modern age . Or perhaps his appearance does suggest what he is emphatically is , the Gothic strained through the New Hampshiretemperament . Something a little rocky and uncouth there is about his great cathedrals which grow into monstrous globes , bloating out their chapels one by one . The democratic indifference to his Gothic does not in the least disturb him . " Beauty , " he has repeatedly said , " is a manifestationof the Absolute , " and the Absolute would scarcely be itself were it not derided of the people . Our architect has always lived on the high surfaces of thought . He has never asked himself whether the true secret of the Gothic might not be lost , whether mere imitation could ever bring that delicate balance of thrusts and proportion ' of varied design which suddenly sets the whole organism in a beautiful equilibrium as one enters a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care if our American streets jangle and jar us . Give him a Gothic church on a corner and he is happy . I hate this Teutonic critical spirit , he would say . My churches look like Gothic , anyway , and besides , churchbuildingis the noblest work of man . The function of art is the development of character and perhaps one can not develop one 's moral sense if one is too subtly aesthetic . It seems a little hard to connect the building of Chartres with the building of character , but it is easy when your artistic pedigreeis by Rheims out of Boston , if you happen to be born in New Hampshire you can transmute almost anything into granite morality . Gothic cathedrals and Puritan correctness can be merged into a satisfying system of defence against democracy , industrialism , vocational training , and inductive science . Art for art 's sake , and life for the glory of God merge perfectly . The one crime of education becomes the learning to make a living . Andp280so our architect achieves an invigorating blindness which tilts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world . Young men are drawn after him in droves , fascinated by his masterly idealism . Europe is ransacked with gusto in order that a flamboyant tower may look down on the tawdry brick of Main street . Thus is the pure spirituality of the great Christian ages preserved in the midst of a blighting materialism . Character and art remain very much in the world , but as little as possible of the world . The architect is the devoutest of Catholics , though strangely disloyal to the Vicar of God and the successor of St. Peter . He keeps all the festivals of the church , lights candles before the altars of the saints , writes with fervid eloquence of the beauty of ceremonial . Authority in church and state he worships , and wears black on the anniversary of the execution of St. Charles the First . Nothing thrills him like the early mass chanted in the dim light of dawn by a proper priest in a Gothic chasuble of splendid brocade wrought with holy figures and symbols in exquisiteneedlework , while the tall candles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many artificers . He loves a Bishop who knows beauty and the significance of it , and grasps the full moment of tradition , memory , and association . He loves to watch him enter in solemn procession , enveloped in a splendid cope , on his head the mitre of spiritual authority , in his hand the great carved crozier of his pastoral office , before him the professional crucifix with its flanking candles , the sweet incense , the solemn radiance . This is the wine of life , and to what nobler service could one consecrete one 's self than to building Gothic chalices for such a wine ? Thus summing up in himself the richness of the great tradition , our architect speaks with full-blooded authority , almost , as I have said , as the voice of architecture itself . He is most notable at conventions of his professional colleagues whom he holds spellbound by his uncompromising idealism . At such occasions he is constantly on his feet , protesting with biting sarcasm against some misrepresentation of himself , or bringing the wanderingconvention back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the architect professor in a technological college , and he feels bitterly the degradation of being controlled by faculties of engineers and physicists . The great question of the absolute autonomy of architectural schools within the college or universityp281he fights over at every convention . He thrills his friends with his demands that very sharp notes be written to the presidents demandingthat architecture be liberated from this humiliating control of the utilitarian . Architecture must be linked forever with the fine arts and not with mechanics , he says . In his own school he has no means of preventing his students from learning biology and psychology and sociology and all the other Teutonic fads which are the cause of the present war , of the debacle of character , righteousness , and honor , and of all those things which make for the creation and endurance of decent society . The robust confidence of his thought , the fine flavor of personalsuccess , the note of social resonance which he sounds ? all these keep the architect at the very forefront of his profession . One gets from him a comforting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old because it is right and because it is spiritual , which is still interested in the antithesis of spirit and matter , which is still feebly charmed by the wrappings and the clothes after the body that wore them is dead , which still shudders at the encroachments of materialism and the extirpation of culture . Art , says the architect , is the symbolical expression of otherwise inexpressible ideas . In a sense therefore the architect himself is a work of art . He is the symbolical expression of this torpid old vague culture of ours . He is a symbol of our rootlessness , of that cultural colonialism which has so little left but smug comfort and polite aspiration . This idea is very hard to express . We owe gratitude to the architectfor symbolizing so perfectly , in his phobias for democracyand vocational training and the new knowledge about ourselves , these passing ideals . Footnotep282The audience , ranged on the stiff long wooden benches , flowed solidly up to the line of lawyers and plain-clothes at the bar . Horrifiedstudents , out for a glance at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharply out of the attentive lines of spectators , but as a whole the audience seemed not so much idly curious gazers as a part of the drama which went on under the desk of the judge . At first it seemed horrible that we should be sitting there , staring at these captive animals of the law , but as the monotonous round dragged along towards midnight , one felt caught into a great wheel . Free and safe , we seemed to be witnessing some grotesque parody of our own desires and escapes , and to be vicariously living the sordid experience upon which the law had set its hand . Type for type the faces of the audience became like those behind the bar . Vulgar curiosity left our fascinated gaze . Only the judge remained high , aloof from this slimy network of disorder . But there were moments of detachment , and then one told one 's self that in this human hopper through which passed the endless nightly chain of men and women , justice was being done , the bad being punished , vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes was being enacted the most austere and majestic function of the State . I looked with breathless attention on these offenders who had put society in jeopardy , and for protection against whom we had all this costly system of policemen and jails . There were some classic types ? the old blowze with crooked hat , scarcely sobered , a little expostulatoryagainst her periodic ten days in the workhouse ; the pink young street-walker , fat and brazen ; the seedy vagrant . These were the people that the city 's life seems to manufacture only as meal for the judicial mills to grind , and who enjoy a regularpublicity and institutional attention denied to the less flagrantlyconventional . There were many types , however , that were not at all familiar , types that one passes every day in city streets with no other thought than a slight depression at their vacuous faces . There was a stolid and respectable German janitress against whom vast conspiracies were charged , involving three dollars and disorderlyconduct , and who raised up a host of incredible people to testify to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dickens , ancient and corpulent bookkeeperswho sent the imagination back to the Irish New York of the draft-riots , old bonneted women with rich and racy accent , who suggested an unknown world of lifelong skating on the edge of respectability . One realized how much life must be to some people a tissue of complaisances and blinkings . There was a tastefully dressed girl of twenty-two , with the face of a child , who wept for a long time and then answered impossiblequestions as to her virtue with an intelligence and courtesy that left you no relief of pity for the subnormal . For her was won a speedy release through the excessive zeal of her plain-clothes captor , and she slipt out with one wondered what damage or rectification . Then the janitress appeared again , the coils of the law inexorably about her head . There were bare-headed , tragic-faced Italian girls , who might have led strikes and revolutions , and who told stories of brutality in low poignant tories that could scarcely be heard . And there were many stolid-faced simple creatures , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dumb animals . What struck one most was the helplessness of the prisoners . There were none of the correct moral and immoral attitudes . There was neither bravado nor terror , violence nor cringing . It was mostly a merely " I am caught . What are you going to do with me ? " There was only apathy , as of human lumps being shuffled along through a routine process which elicited neither retrospect , present emotion , or foreboding . One could feel neither pity nor repulsion , only that curious affinity . One rubbed one 's eyes . Society must be very fragile indeed if it could be placed in jeopardy by anything these half-formed people could do . Morality must be a very frail web if it could be assailed by any of these petty immoralities unveiled to our listening ears . There was the laughable assumption through it all that this gowned judge and this swarm of policemen and bailiffs and plain-clothes men and the jails and Island behind them really availed to control or reform the vices they pursued . One had to decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the detectionand punishment of one shameless culprit , justice was served and into that case , as into a part of infinity , went the full essence of the majesty of the State . No peculiar stigma or guilt seemed to fasten on the culprits from their appearance in court . Most of them faced the spec/tators with a dull calm , and listened unmoved to the glib tales of their shamelessness which rolled from the lips of their accusers . How these helpless and mediocre people could get into such complications was revealed as the plain-clothes men went on the stand , and told tale after tale of organized temptation and betrayal . They gave the whole proceeding a touch of even higher mysticism . For the State to play this ignoble game of deceitwith weak or miserable women must be in the interests of a higher justice than is apparent to the layman 's mind . Perhaps on the principle of setting a thief to catch a thief the pander is set to catch the prostitute . But the revolting unctuousness with which these young men told their tales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gave a background against which none of the culprits ' guilt could be taken with the proper seriousness and horror . The whole thing took the form of a contest of wits , a peculiarly depraved and urban form of the chase , the last degenerate manifestation of the hunting psychosis . Most amazing of all was the clumsy chivalry with which each man escorted his victim in and out of the courtroom . His manner was that of one who , having achieved a pious consciousness of the rectitude of his position as a servant of the State , yet wished to show himself sensible to the wrong that he had officially done her . The scene was not all black however . There were alleviations . Matrons and probation officers and institution agents hovered around . Many of these who passed through the court doubtless suffered no harm , and were perhaps scared into a little wisdom . The judge was kindly and dispassionate and indefatigable . At times there was a curious air of moral surgery about , as of hurtingyou only for your own good . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times as of entrapping the girls only for a higher moral end . Perhaps this was not all hypocrisy . Sordid as it all was , and motivated by a kind of grotesque unintelligence , it was not inhumane . We seemed all too much a part of a system of things to make revolted indignation really possible . One felt the first faint murmur of days that should take a robuster view of the jeopardies of society , decide more intelligently what really offendsus , and work out new ways of attacking the factors of offenceat their root.  |p285My  western friend who runs a prosperous stove-factory has been finding fault with my insistent use of the word " exploitation . " My outlook on life is not sufficiently cheerful , and I am inclined to see malevolence where everything is , as they say at college , healthy , hearty , and happy . Our quarrel rose over the Mesaba strike , and my acceptance of an I. W. W. pamphlet as a plausible account of what was going on there . The accounts of the insecurity of pay , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to labor organization , seemed to me to smell of truth , because I had read the maddening tales of Coloradoand West Virginia , and seen with my own eyes in Scrantonand Gary and Pittsburgh the way workers live , not in crises of industrial war but in brimming times of peace . My friend , however , is more robust . He would make no such hasty impassioned judgments . He would judge nothing without " going to the mines , working in them for a year or two , being one of the men , getting their free confidence , then working for a couple of years as confidential auditor for the company . " Such Olympian judiciality fills me with envy and dismay . I feel that his serenity is the normal mood of healthy activity , facing the modernworld . Could he find anything but scorn for those of us who go around with the vestiges of what it is now priggish to call a " social conscience " ? To him an industrial strike is like an excitingpolitical contest or the recriminations between " two kid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " squawk a good deal about the raw stuff the other side is trying to pull off , " but deep down , his experience convinces him , " they are very uniformly a pretty human bunch . " He has n't been to Mesaba , but his friend the Duluth bread-dealer assures him that agitators were the cause of all the trouble . They always are . Trouble , to my friend , is a personal matter . He sees individuals , laboring as happily as they can expect to labor on this far from perfumed earth . He sees their contentment disturbed by " outsiders , " individuals , bitterenvious mischievous men who make a business of setting workmen against their employers . He sees the " outsiders " deluding , persuading , intimidating honest workers into stopping work and engaging in careers of lawlessness . He sees the individualemployer in natural self-defense fighting for his rights , defendinghis property , ousting the agitators , carrying the war intop286his laborers ' camp . From the busy office of his stove-factory , it all looks like a personal quarrel between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its militia and its injunctions , it is not flouting individuality , but merely doing its business of maintaining order and defending private property . Our argument really hinges on whether to the workman all this excitement and deprivation and delusion is not part of the daily business of living . I am too tender-minded . What is at the back of my confused hints that there is " something shameful , somethingconsciously brutal " about industrial relations ? My friend admits that he has in his shop men who work in places that are noisy and dusty , in hot places , in rooms where paint is being sprayed . He has workmen who do their work at night the year round . He is sorry . He wishes these things did not have to be , and he is remedying them as fast as he can . What he will not admit is that any one is " specifically to blame . " He does not imprisonhis men . They come freely to him and ask for employment . He " gives them such compensation as makes the jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and country . " He is fair and scrupulous . His company is in business to produce goods at such cost that people can afford to buy them . He can not make his plant a sanatorium ? and when he says this the faintest note of irony steals into his robust voice ? for his wage-earners . The stockholders have built a factory and not a philanthropic institution . If the workers did not like his factory , would they send for their brothers and cousins from the old country across the sea ? If these " hunkies " in stove-factory and iron mine were being " exploited , " would they not drift speedily away to jobs where they were content ? My friend can not imaginea man being willingly exploited . There are , no doubt , heartless employers ; workmen here and there are perhaps subject to oppression . But systematic , prevalent industrial exploitation ? and he has worked in all parts of the country and at every level of skill ? my stove-factory friend has never seen . And he turns aside from my abstract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What then do I mean by exploitation ? And I have to remind my friend that my very first industrial experience was one of those rudimentary patterns of life which , if they are imprinted on your mind early enough , remain to fix the terms in which you interpret the world . The experience was leaving school to workp287for a musician who had an ingenious little machine on which he cut perforated music-rolls for the players which were just then becoming popular . His control of the means of production consistedin having the machine in his house , to which I went every morning at eight and stayed till five . He provided the paper and the music and the electric power ; I worked as a wage-earner , serving his skill and enterprise . I was on piece-work , and everythingsuggested to my youthful self that it depended only upon my skill and industry how prosperous I should become . But what startled me was my employer 's lack of care to conceal from me the fact that for every foot of paper which I made he received fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He paid me five , and while I worked , spent his time composingsymphonies in the next room . As long as I was learning the craft , I had no more feeling about our relation than that there was a vague injustice in the air . But when I began to be dangerously clever and my weekly earnings mounted beyond the sum proper for a young person of eighteen who was living at home , I felt the hand of economic power . My piece-rate was reduced to four and a half cents . My innocence blazed forth in rebellion . If I was worth five cents a foot while I was learning , I was worth more , not less , after I had learned . My master folded his arms . I did not have to work for him . There were neighbors who would . I could stay or go . I was perfectly free . And then fear smote me . This was my only skill , and my timorous inexperiencefilled the outside world with horrors . I returned cravenly to my bench , and when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine and looked about for a young musician to work it , I weakly suggested to an old playmate of mine that he apply for the position . Enlarge my musician into the employing class of owners and managers and shareholders of factory and mine and railroad , and myself into the class of wage-earners in all these enterprises , and you have the picture of the industrial system which the I. W. W. agitator has in his mind when he writes the Mesaba pamphlet to which my friend took such exception . With my five cents making that huge differential of profit for my employer , and with my four and a half cents giving his enterprise a productivenesswhich , if he had incorporated himself , he could have turned into additional capitalization , I was a crude symbol of the industrial system as my mind gradually took in the factp288that there was an industrial system . This was my first experience in " exploitation . " If there had been fewer musicians available I should have gotten more pay , and if there had been more availableI should probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a surplus , and I should have always felt the power of my employer to skim it , to pull it towards himself . As long as I continued at work , nothing could have removed my sense of helplessness . Any struggle I might have made would have been only towards weakening his pull , and lessening the amount he was able to skim . He was not robbing me , and no person of sense would have said he was , but our very relation was an exploitation . There was no medium way between exploitationand philanthropy . My stove-factory friend , however , will have none of this theory . if it is a question of power , he says , then Mike Solomon exploits the stove company when he is able to get three dollars a day , on account of the present demand for labor , when two dollars was wealth to him a year ago . Then I admit that local groups of workers are able ? either through lack of competition or clever politics or display of force ? to exercise temporarily a decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . It is all a question of power . But as long , I tell him , as the employer is entrenchedin property rights with the armed state behind him , the power will be his , and the class that does the diverting will not be labor . My friend , however , does not like these Nietzschean terms . He is sure that his workmen have just as much power to exploit him as he has of exploiting them . This is where we differ , and this is why thought will buzz in an angry murky haze over eight-hour bills and individual contracts and collective bargainingas long as millions agree with him . He trusts rights , I trust power . He recognizes only individuals , I recognize classes . That is why I can never make him understand what I mean by " exploitation . " He thinks of it as something personally brutal . He does not see it inherent in a system , for which no one is " specificallyto blame " only because all are equally guilty of short visionand flimsy analysis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I wonder if he is not the realist and I the mystic . He punctures my phrases of power and class with a coarse satisfiedhunky to whom work and disease and riot are all in the day 's work and who would despise the philosophy which I am so anxiously weaving for him . It seems a long way from myp289dainty music-bench to the iron range , or the stove-factory . One has to feel exploitation perhaps before one understands it . I console myself with the thought that power is itself mystic , and that my friend will have to get hit with some invisible threat of class-force , as some of his frightened friends are now getting hit , before he will analyze any deeper that industrial system of which he is so efficient and loyal an officer . Footnotep290The scientific manager whom I know is very fond of distinguishinghimself from the horde of mere " efficiency " men who are everywhereimposing themselves upon the credulous industrialist of today . My friend is , in fact , one of the seven picked men , he tells us ? mystic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the work . This authority gives my scientific managera certain bland impressiveness , and makes his tall , black , and uncouth form tower among us in a way that perhaps neither his speech nor his personality would tend to make him tower . He has a fine quality of prevalence . He is not merely in a room , he pervades it . That little group of serious thinkers which he frequentswhen he is in town he manages to straddle and absorb . Scientific management oozes from his lips and gradually the occasionis full of it . It jumps into every discussion . Our friend is a walking evangel , an insistent , reiterate note of a new thing that is to dominate mankind . I often try to get the scientific manager to tell me what ScientificManagement really is . But whenever I try , I get a new sense of the inadequacy of words to express ideas . I get a sense of living in a different intellectual world from that in which business and industry operate . The scientific manager seems to come up out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counters of life . He is used to impressing people . His object in life is to make men efficient but to make them purr while doing it . His manner is large and broad . It says to you , " Please rub away all the little sharp points of criticism which may tend to protrude from you , and submit to the pervasive geniality of my influence . " The scientific manager makes you feel that his thought is not devoted chiefly to clear formulation or clear technicalexposition , and certainly not to the interpretation of industrialprocesses and the handling of labor , but to the personal lubrication of institutional wheels . He is the oil-can of the industrialestablishment , rather than the real scientist of the industrial laboratory . You do not expect him to thresh out problems with employers and employees , but you know that he will be very kind in showing them exactly how things ought to be done . You feel that he is not so much interested in pouring general comprehensionaround him as he is in greasing the human machineryof management in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short , an industrial charmer . As he talks to us in his loud , full way , I conceive his intellectual technique to consist in the breaking down of resistance , so that scientific absolutism may come into its own . He has an impartial and healthy contempt for both the stubborn and archaic employer and the uppishand suspicious employe . Both must yield to the man of science . Now these are often difficult to manage . I get very vividly from his words how childish and silly their opposition is to the new gospel . But they amuse rather than annoy him . The scientificmanager does not intrude history upon you , but these resistivemanufacturers and bigoted labor-unions seem to him as foolish as the obscurantists who opposed Galileo . But if my friend is grieved at the benightedness of the interestedclasses with whom he directly deals , what does he not think of the general ignorant public ? Whenever I see him talking with a friend I know that his very next sentence is likely to be ? " But my dear man , you do n't seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! " And when you ask him , he tends to dismiss you with a wave of his hand , humorously . You are struck at once with the enormous difficulty of getting over to your untrained mind the complexity of the new science . The analytic burden under which the scientific manager staggers is too heavy to transfer in a short conversation to your puny shoulders . If you follow his talk , however ? and he is always talking about peace and war and education in an easy authoritative roll ? you somehow suspect that science to him does not mean so much a method of tested and checked hypotheses as a more specialized and more exact way of getting results . Being scientificseems to mean taking a long time to find out about a thing . Scientific management , he tells us , is only in its infancy . It will take years and years of analyzing processes before there will be discovered the one right and quick way of doing each little separatetask . If it took Mr. Taylor twenty years to find the best way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries which may be necessary to complete the analysis of our thousands of industries ? He suggests a vision of thousands of professional descendants from the scientific loins of himself and his six so authorized and documented colleagues . I once pointed out to him the fact that scientists could afford to discoverthings slowly because they had a reasonable reliance onp292the stability of natural phenomena . The Universe would wait for them and be just as dependable as if they had discovered it immediately . But I questioned whether industry was in this respectlike the Universe . Did n't processes change constantly , and might n't it be that after the scientific manager had spent ten years analyzing his process , he would find there was n't any process left to operate ? But he seemed to think there was a quibble hidden somewhere , and gave me little satisfaction . I wanted to know also whether science did n't depend on reliablefactors as well as upon a generally reliable Universe . I asked him how reliable his human labor factor was . He seemed to have no doubts about it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? perhaps he does not put it in just this way , but one can not be long with him in the same room without feelinghis tactful pervasiveness , which one knows , even when one evades the glamor one 's self , is working cheerfully and daily in a realer world . If this did not propitiate and melt together the wills of employer and employe into cooperation , there was then the motive of scientific passion that would come to the worker himself . If there is only one right way of doing a task , the worker will feel ennobled in performing it that one right way . Even though his task is analyzed and delimited until he becomes a mere part of the machine or a mere handle to his tool , yet he will feel a responsible glow from his participation in so vast and perfect an enterprise . His very humility will lend him awe . He will become a kind of industrial Marcus Aurelius , surveying the matchless and uncontrollable system with Stoic calm . My friend , however , does not rely entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . It is the bonuses given for the completion of the task that are to maintain the equilibrium . Bonuses applied with scientific precision to the workers will not only reward them justly in proportion to their output , but will automatically adjust any little temperamental frictionor discontent of theirs . The worker , then , his egoistic and altruisticimpulses played upon like an instrument , will give forth the musical sounds of perfect efficiency and perfect contentment . Scientific disinterestedness and personal ambition will fertilizeeach other . Scientific management will become , for the worker , a course in character-building . I have no way at all of testing my friend 's scientific attainment . I only know that he is both official and sure . In fact , his broadp293and beaming face expresses nothing but assurance . I know that such ideas as those of the class-struggle , of labor and capital contending for the power of distributing the product , of the wild hopes of labor and the grim hardness of capital , of collective bargaining , and the different potentials of labor classes , are simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , and industrial democratic organization means nothing . Democracy , it is true , flows freely from his lips . What could be more democratic than a system which brings both employer and employedocilely before the bar of stern and immutable fact and measurement ? In his vision they are subjugated to himself , the expert . Of vast social and economic forces he cares little . He has much of Mr. Carnegie 's perfectly happy quality . One recalls those stories which the ironmaster tells with such glee how he settled great strikes with a pun or a nickname opportunely applied . My friend radiates the same optimisms . Like the Laird of Skibo , there are no storms for him . This unpublished manuscript represents Bourne 's clearest position on the Footnotep294New Ideals in Business , by Ida M. Tarbell . ( Macmillan Co. ; $1.75 . ) An Approach to Business Problems , by A. W. Shaw . ( Harvard Universitypress ; $2 . ) America and the New Epoch , by Charles P. Steinmetz . ( Harper &; Bros. ; $1 . ) Mild English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become the American religion , with its own creed and its distinct evangelistic flavor of utterance . There is always a tendency for the successful to expand into a cult . And American business , more than any other activity , has had the glamour of success . Daring , swift , clean strokes of organizing and inventive genius brought their quick and exceeding great reward . The colossal booms , the mushroom growths of industrial plants , the expansion of trade , the sudden cataclysms , have touched American business with a sense of the miraculous . And now the original ruthless struggle for growth and survival has given place , with the integration of the big industries , to a milder era . The improvement of technique has been accompanied by a new idealism . Disdain for the public , when the hand of every businessman was against every man , has changed into concern for the public 's good will . A number of prophets have arisen to fortifyand justify that sense of ubiquitous goodness which the business man of today seems to need around him as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of the most industrious and comforting . She does not ask how far the new idealism has been forced by the pressure of government , by the fear of social unrest , by the desire for sweeter and subtler forms of control over the lives of the industrially subject classes . She accepts at its face value this new and anxious solicitude for the welfare of employees , for the conservation of their health and intelligence . She makes a wide sweep of industry , and strains out all the good intentions from the chaotic , elemental , pig-headed Amencanindustrial life that we see out of our car windows . These she presents to us with so evangelistic an ardor that our perspectivesare quite destroyed . Her observation , she tells us , has been exhaustive , but one is skeptical about so unanimous a demonstration that American industry is finding the Golden Rule synonymous with business profits . An idealism must surely bep295false when it is most impressive for what it glaringly ignores . One of the unhappiest days of Miss Tarbell 's life was the occasionwhen she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had her easy optimism remorselessly probed about the things she had n't seen in those industrial communities that she had visited . Her method was " to see at their work all the men and women in a plant from those with the shovel or scrubbing brush to those in the head offices ; to look at their conditions , to see them in their homes , to learn from their lips what they thought and felt about it all . " But she brought away none of the impressions that disturb other idealists among us ? the subtle corrosion of the workers ' power of self-defence through corporation philanthropy , the destruction of collective effortthrough scientific management . Anyone who heard Miss Tarbell 's revealing testimony understood that she had gone out , not as a scientific investigator or even as an understanding idealist , but as a detective to find the Golden Rule . The matter of her personal sincerity is irrelevant . The fact is that the model workshops and houses , the safety and anti-alcohol crusades , the health insurance and pension schemes , the profit-sharing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the glory of business and not to the glory of growing democracyand social responsibility . I do not mean to sneer at ideals in business . But I do insist that the value in reporting them must lie in a scrutiny whether such ideals are not inhibiting broader and more crucial visions . Is not this autocratic regimentation of the workers a handicap to democracy ? Should not the workers ' welfarebe the concern of the community at large rather than of the individual corporation , to which it means only a more powerful instrument for control of the habits , ideals , attitudes of the worker , and for his ultimate feudalization ? Miss Tarbell , as a prophet of enlightened capitalism , does not even pose this question . She therefore befuddles her idealism and is an intellectualdarkener of counsel rather than a bringer of light . One turns to the more appealing Mr. Shaw , editor of " System , " lecturer on Business Policy in Harvard University , whose scheme of business idealism is scientific rather than evangelistic . For if American business has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaches his problems of production , distribution , and management in the same spirit of analysis and experimentation as the chemist in his laboratory.  |p296Such  an idealism is one of efficiency and integration . To the layman Mr. Shaw 's analysis will seem very obvious , business science the most elementary of all techniques . If success in business is not the lot of all of the even moderately intelligent , it must be because there are external factors over which one has no control . The particular approach which Mr. Shaw outlines seems lined only with the most truistic common sense . His sciencesuggests the disquieting thought that American energy in its flood of enthusiasm and conviction has gone into a professionwhich makes little strain upon the intellect or imagination . It is not that ideals of efficiency and wastelessness are " low , " it is that they are so easy . The effect of many more such books on " business science " would be to destroy all our sense of the peculiar mystery , genius , and arduousness of the enterprise . Our current American imagination might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intricate problems of personal and class relations . Welfare work , harmonious organization of labor force , Mr. Shaw sees rightly as part of the technique of efficiency . In our present industrial system it is far more fruitful to idealize the " betterment " forces in this way than in Miss Tarbell 's prophetic strain . As long as we have our present class rule in industry , it will be healthier for the worker to be treated as an implement of production than as a laboratory for the working out of the Golden Rule . If class rule passes in a socialist reorganization of industry , then these ideals of welfare and efficiency might both find their proper meaning . Welfare would become a series of minimum standards maintained by the industrial state impersonally for the benefit of all . Efficiency would become a spontaneously lived technique . Such a scheme Dr. Steinmetz presents . His vision of American social reconstruction is so magnificent and far-flung in its implications that it should challenge the attention of prophets , experts , and laymen alike . The discussion and appreciation which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual vitality which American socialism has left in its bones . For Dr. Steinmetz has that rare and suggestive vision of the socialist who is at the same time a great inventive engineer and an active officer in one of our most advanced and successful industrial corporations . He is personally engaged in fashioning the corporationout of which he hopes the industrial state will be built . His socialism might be called a " corporation syndicalism , " for whatp297he outlines is a union of huge corporations into whose hands will be entrusted the productive work of the nation . The corporation type of organization has demonstrated its permanent **25;3846;TOOLONG over any form of political machinery . The state of the future must be built out of the corporation rather than out of the present political organization . Politically organized , the nation would have only veto and referendum power over general policy . The dual state , with parallel industrial and political organization ( which we already virtually have , though the relations are disguised and infinitely disordered ) , will be publicly recognized . A national organism , stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and democracy will at last strike their proper balance and undertake the functions they can best perform . It is a grandiose conception , and quite the most plausible of all the Utopias . America drives straight to such an ideal , and into it can be fitted all other business and political idealisms . Dr. Steinmetz turns prophet , too , and fears our slow decadence , in competition with the State socialism of Europe , unless we develop our policy toward this dual government . The new epoch will drive us hard . Our slow democracy , striving to throw chains of control over the embryo industrial state , must fail . The new epoch forces this corporation socialism upon us . Business ideals which are to be fruitful must point toward this goal.  |p298The  Pillar of Fire , by Seymour Deming . Boston : Small , Maynard and Co. $1.00 net . Mr. Seymour Deming follows his eloquent " Message to the MiddleClass " with an assault upon the colleges . His book he calls " a profane baccalaureate , " and it rips along as from one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a style quite like this , with its mixture of Greek classicism and Broadway slang , with its cheap sardonic kicks and its sudden flashes of insight . Mr. Demingmoves you , but he leaves you in the end more entertained than persuaded . His prophetic fire is so much fire and so little light . The first part of the book is devoted to picturesque denunciationof the colleges for not training a man to make a living . The second glorified the radical as the man who scorns success , and has turned from everything which the world thinks of value . Such logic dims the force of his blast . I quite agree with Mr. Deming that the object of an education is to know a revolution when you see one . Colorado , Calumet , and West Virginia should make the college sky much more lurid than they do . But something more is needed for this " class unconsciousof class-consciousness " than clarion calls summoning it to be radical . Mr. Deming has too much of the martyrcomplex . He talks as if the radical of today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupied . To be radical , he says , is to be thrust out of the society of cultivatedmen , and to seek one 's companionship among the meek and lowly . He speaks too always as if this little group of early Christians living in catacombs were all of the saintliest breed , the foolish who have confounded the sayings of the wise . Most of us used to believe both of these things . But most of us have given up looking on ourselves as heroes and martyrs because we blaspheme the " property-god of Things-As-They-Are . " We have climbed out of the catacombs , and we find many radicals disillusioning . We have either grown up or the world has moved on , The real trouble with middle-class radicalism in this country today is that it is too easy . It is becoming too popular . It is not the heroic abnegation which Mr. Deming pictures , but something which almost anybody can encompass . The ranks are full of the unfocused and the unthinking . Let the college man or girl whop299listens to Mr. Deming 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and discover how **25;3873;TOOLONG they are . The only way by which middle-class radicalism can serve is by being fiercely and concentratedly intellectual . This is something which these organizations have so far failed to do . The labor movement in this country needs a philosophy , a literature , a constructive socialist analysis and criticismof industrial relations . How very far even the most intelligentaccredited representatives of labor are still from such a goal is shown by the Manly report . Labor will scarcely do this thinking for itself . Unless middle-class radicalism threshes out its categories and interpretations and undertakes this constructive thought it will not be done . Mr. Deming must add to his messageof fire the clear cold determination to be intolerantly intellectual . Given the prophetic fire , the young middle-class radical to whom Mr. Deming appeals should be able to find himself in an intellectual movement which is struggling to clarify its ideas and use them as tools for turning up the layers and interpreting the changes in the social world about them . Intellectual radicalism should not mean repeating stale dogmas of Marxism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It had better mean a restless , controversial criticism of current ideas , and a hammering out of some clear-sighted philosophy that shall be this pillar of fire . The young radical today is not asked to be a martyr , but he is asked to be a thinker , an intellectual leader . So far as the official radicalsdeprecate such an enterprise they make their movement sterile . Yet how often when attempts are made to group radicals on an intellectual basis does not some orthodox elder of the socialist church arise and solemnly denounce such intellectual snobbishness . Let these young men and women , he will say , go down into the labor unions and the socialist locals and learn of the workingman . Let them touch the great heart of the people . Let them put aside their university knowledge and hear that which is revealed unto babes . Only by humbly working up through the actual labor movement will the young radical learn his job . His intellectualism he must disguise . The epithet " intellectual " must make him turn pale and run . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intellectual light . The pugnacious thinkers who want to thresh things out find themselves labelled heterodox and esoteric.  |p300There  is little controversy because nobody will quarrel about ideas . The workers must not be offended and the movement must not be split . The young radical soon learns to be ashamed of his intellectual bias , and after an ineffectual effort to squeeze himself into the mind of the workingman drifts away disillusioned from his timid collegiate radicals . His energy evaporates , becauseintellectual radicalism was afraid to be itself . Mr. Deming ignores this practical postlude to his challenges . The pillar of fire was not an exciting alarm but a guide which led the way towards the Promised Land . A cloud by day , its mission by night was to give forth not heat but light . Just so far as such messages as Mr. Deming 's are real pillars of fire they are the needfullest we could have.  |p301To  the modern young person who tries to live well there is no type so devastating and harassing as the puritan . We can not get away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finish with justifying our new paganism against him , but we never quite lose consciousness of his presence . Even Theodore Dreiser , who always revolted from the puritan clutch , finds it necessary now and then to tilt a lance against him . If there were no puritanswe should have to invent them . And if the pagan Mr. Dreiser has to keep on through life fighting puritans , how much more intrigued must we be who are only reformed puritans , and feel old dangers stirring at every aggressive gesture of righteousness ? For the puritan is the most stable and persistent of types . It is scarcely a question of a puritanical age and a pagan age . It is only a question of more puritans or less puritans . Even the most emancipated generation will find that it has only broken its puritanism up into compartments , and balances sexual freedom ? or better perhaps a pious belief in sexual freedom ? with a cult of efficiency and personal integrity which is far more coercive than the most sumptuary of laws . Young people who have given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cult of " making good . " And a superstition like eugenics threatens to terrorize the new intelligentsia . Every new generation , in fact , contrives to find some new way of being puritanical . Every new generation finds some new way of sacrifice . Every new triumphant assertion of life is counterbalancedby some new denial . In Europe this most proud and lusty young generation goes to its million-headed slaughter , and in America the social consciousness arises to bewilder and deflect the essor towards life . Just when convention seemed to be on the run , and youth seemed to be facing a sane and candid attitudetowards sex , we find idealistic girls and men coming out of the colleges to tell us of our social responsibility towards the race . This means not only that our daily living is to be dampenedby the haunting thought of misery that we can not personallyprevent , but that our thirst towards love-experience is to be discouraged and turned aside into a concern for racial perfection . That is , we are subtly persuaded against merely growing widely and loving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unreal ends . This new puritanismp302will not let us be ends in ourselves , or let personality be the chief value in life . It will almost let us sometimes . But it always pulls us up somewhere . There is always a devil of inhibition to interpose before our clean and naive grasping of life . ( You see , my puritanism takes the form of a suspicion that there may be a personal devil lurking in the universe . ) This is why the puritan always needs to be thoroughly explainedand exposed . We must keep him before our eyes , recognizehim as the real enemy , no matter in what ideal disguise he lurks . We must learn how he works , and what peculiar satisfactionshe gets from his activity . For he must get satisfaction or he would not be so prevalent . I accept the dogma that to explainanybody we have to do little more than discover just what contentment people are getting from what they do , or from what they are permitting to have happen to them , or even from what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them . For , if life is anything positive , it is the sense of control . In the puritan , of course , we have the paradox how he can get satisfaction from ruggedly and sternly subjecting himself and renouncingthe world , the flesh and the devil . There is a popular superstition that the puritan has an extra endowment of moral force , that he reverses the natural current of life , that he resists the drag of carnality down toward hell , that his energy is thrown contra-satisfaction , that his control is a real straddling of the nefarious way . But , of course , it is just this superstition that gives the puritan his terrific prestige . In the light of the will-to-power dogma , however , this superstition fades . The puritan becomes just as much of a naturalistic phenomenon as the most carnal sinner . Instincts and impulses , in the puritan , are not miraculouslycancelled , but have their full play . The primitive currents of life are not blocked and burned back on their sources , but turned into powerful and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " natural " man as you or I.But we still have to explain how this lustful , headstrong creaturecalled man , spilling with greed , could so unabatedly throughout the ages give up the primitive satisfactions of sex and food and drink and gregariousness and act the ascetic and the glumly censorious . How could an animal whose business was to feel powerful get power from being in subjection and deprivation ? Well , the puritan gets his sense of power from a very cunningly organized satisfaction of two of his strongestp303impulses ? the self-conscious personal impulses of being regardedand being neglected . The puritan is no thwarted and depleted person . On the contrary , he is rather a complete person , getting almost the maximum of satisfaction out of these two apparently contradictory sentiments ? the self-regarding and self-abasing . The pure autocrat would feed himself wholly on the first , the pure slave would be only a human embodiment of the second . But the pure puritan manages to make the most powerfulamalgam of both . What we may call the puritan process starts with the satisfaction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as any , for in the long struggle for survival , it was often just as necessary for life to cower as it was to fight ) . It is only the puritan'sprestige that has attached moral values to self-sacrifice , for there is nothing intrinsic in it that makes it any more praiseworthythan lust . But its pragmatic value is immense . When the puritanannounces himself as the least worthy of men , he not only predisposes in his favor the naturally slavish people around him , but he neutralizes the aggressive and self-regarding who would otherwise be moved to suppress him . He renounces , he puts on meekness , he sternly regiments himself , he makes himself unhappyin ways that are just not quite severe enough to excite pity and yet run no risk of arousing any envy . If the puritan does all this unconsciously , the effect is yet the same as if he were deliberately plotting . To give his impulses of self-abasement full play , he must , of course , exercise a certain degree of control . This control , however , gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happiness . Puritan moralists have always tried to make us believe in this virtue of self-control . They forget to point out , however , that it does not become a virtue until it has becomeidealized . Control over self gives us little sense of control . It is the dreariest of all satisfactions of the will-to-power . Not until we become proud of our self-control do we get satisfaction . The puritan only begins to reap his satisfaction when the selfregardingimpulse comes into play . Having given his self-abasing impulse free rein , he is now in a position to exploit his self-regard . He has made himself right with the weak and slavish . He has fortified himself with their alliance . He now satisfies his self-regard by becoming proud of his humility and enjoining it on others . If it were self-control alone that made the puritan , he would not be as powerful as he is . In/deed he would be no more than the mild ascetic , who is all abnegation because his self-regarding mechanism is weak . But in the puritan , both impulses are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his satisfactions of power . He may stamp out his sex-desire , but his impulse to shatter ideas that he does not like will flourish wild and wanton . To the true puritan the beauty of unselfishness lies in his being able to enforce it on others . He loves virtue not so much for its own sake as for ? its being an instrument of his terrorism . The true puritan is at once the most unselfish and the most self-righteous of men . There is nothing he will not do for you , give up for you , suffer for you . But at the same time there is no cranny of your world that he will not illuminate with the virtue of this doing of his . His real satisfaction comes not from his action of benevolence but from the moral of the tale . He need not boast about his renunciation or his altruism . But in any true puritanatmosphere , that pride will be prevalent . Indeed , it is the oxygen of that atmosphere . Wherever you come across that combination of selfless devotion with self-righteousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you come across the one without the other you wo.uld find not the puritan but the saint . The puritan then gets the satisfaction of his will-to-power through the turning of his self-abasement into purposes of selfregard . Renunciation is the raw material for his positive sense of power . The puritan gets his satisfaction exactly where the most carnal of natural men gets his , out of the stimulation of his pride . And in a world where renunciation ha- to happen to us whether we want it or not , the puritan is in the most impressive strategic position . In economy of energy he has it all over the head that is bloody but unbowed . For the puritan is so efficient morally that he can bow his head and yet extract control both out of the bowing and out of the prestige which his bowing gives him , as well as out of the bowing which he can enforce on others . The true puritan must become an evangelist . It is not enough to renouncethe stimulus to satisfaction which is technically known as a " temptation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the ideal must be codified , promulgated , and , in the last analysis , enforced . In the compelling of others to abstain , you have the final glut of puritanical power . For in getting other people to renouncea thing , you thereby get renewed justification for yourp305own renouncing . And so the puritan may go on inexhaustibly rollingup his satisfaction , one impulse reinforcing the other . The simultaneous play of these two apparently inconsistent personal impulses makes the puritan type one of the stables in society . While the rest of us are longing for power , the puritan is enjoying his . And because the puritan is so well integrated , he almost alwaysrules . The person whose satisfactions of control are more various and more refined is on the defensive against him . The puritan gets his sense of power not in the harmless way of the artist or the philosopher or the lover or the scientist , but in a crude assault on that most vulnerable part of other people 's souls , their moral sense . He is far more dangerous to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he first scares them into abandoning the rich and sensuous and expressive impulses in life , and then teaches them to be proud of having done so . We all have the potentiality of the puritan within us . I remember suffering agonies at the age of ten because my aunt used to bring me candy that had been wickedly purchased on the Sabbathday . I forget whether I ate it or not , but that fact is irrelevant . What counted was the guilt with which the whole universe seemed to be stained . I need no other evidence for the irrational nature of morality than this fact that children can be such doggedlittle puritans , can be at the age of ten so sternly and intuitivelyrighteous . The puritan is a case of arrested development . Most of us do grow beyond him and find subtler ways of satisfying our desire for power . And we do it because we never can quite take that step from self-abasement to self-regard : We never can quite becomeproud of our humility . Renunciation remains an actual going without , sacrifice a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , we are too naive to pretend that there are compensations . There is a loss . We are left with a vacuum . There is only depression and loss of control . Our selfregardis not quite elemental enough to get stimulation from wielding virtue over others . I never feel so degraded as when I have renounced . I had rather beat my head rhythmically and endlessly against an unyielding wall . For the pagan often breaks miraculously through the wall . But the puritan at his best can only strut outside . Most of us , therefore , after we have had our puritan fling , sown our puritan wild oats as it were , grow up into devout andp306progressing pagans , cultivating the warmth of the sun , the deliciousnessof love-experience , the high moods of art . The puritansremain around us , a danger and a threat . But they have value to us in keeping us acutely self-conscious of our faith . They whet our ardor . Perhaps no one can be really a good appreciatingpagan who has not once been a bad puritan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against war , it has been a bitter experience to see the unanimity with which the American intellectuals have thrown their support to the use of war-technique in the crisis in which America found herself . Socialists , college professors , publicists , new-republicans , practitioners of literature , have vied with each other in confirming with their intellectual faith the collapse of neutrality and the rivetingof the war-mind on a hundred million more of the world 's people . And the intellectuals are not content with confirming our belligerent gesture . They are now complacently asserting that it was they who effectively willed it , against the hesitation and dim perceptions of the American democratic masses . A war made deliberately by the intellectuals ! A calm moral verdict , arrived at after a penetrating study of inexorable facts ! Sluggish masses , too remote from the world-conflict to be stirred , too lacking in intellectto perceive their danger ! An alert intellectual class , saving the people in spite of themselves , biding their time with Fabian strategy until the nation could be moved into war without serious resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheer force of ideas into what the other nations entered only through predatory craft or popular hysteria or militarist madness ! ' A war free from any taint of self-seeking , a war that will secure the triumph of democracy and internationalize the world ! This is the picture which the more self-conscious intellectuals have formed of themselves , and which they are slowly impressingupon a population which is being led no man knows whither by an indubitably intellectualized President . And they are right , in that the war certainly did not spring from either the ideals or the prejudices , from the national ambitions or hysterias , of the American people , however acquiescent the masses prove to be , and however clearly the intellectuals prove their putative intuition . Those intellectuals who have felt themselves totally out of sympathy with this drag toward war will seek some explanation for this joyful leadership . They will want to understand this willingnessof the American intellect to open the sluices and flood us with the sewage of the war spirit . We can not forget the virtuoushorror and stupefaction which filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ninety-three Gerp308man colleagues in defence of their war . To the American academic mind of 1914 defence of war was inconceivable . From Bernhardi it recoiled as from a blasphemy , little dreaming that two years later would find it creating its own cleanly reasons for imposing military service on the country and for talking of the rough rude currents of health and regeneration that war would send through the American body politic . They would have thought anyone mad who talked of shipping American men by the hundreds of thousands ? conscripts  --  to die on the fields of France . Such a spiritual change seems catastrophic when we shoot our minds back to those days when neutrality was a proud thing . But the intellectual progress has been so gradual that the country retains little sense of the irony . The war sentiment , begun so gradually but so perseveringly by the preparedness advocates who came from the ranks of big business , caught hold of one after another of the intellectual groups . With the aid of Roosevelt , the murmurs became a monotonous chant , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at first to be disreputable and finally almost obscene . And slowly a strident rant was worked up against Germany which compared very creditably with the German fulminations against the greedy power of England . The nerve of the war-feeling centred , of course , in the richer and older classes of the Atlantic seaboard , and was keenest where there were French or English business and particularly social connections . The sentiment then spread over the country as a class-phenomenon , touching everywhere those upper-class elements in each section who identified themselves with this Eastern ruling group . It must never be forgotten that in every community it was the least liberal and least democraticelements among whom the preparedness and later the war sentiment was found . The farmers were apathetic , the small business men and workingmen are still apathetic towards the war . The election was a vote of confidence of these latter classesin a President who would keep the faith of neutrality . The intellectuals , in other words , have identified themselves with the least democratic forces in American life . They have assumed the leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been immemorially fighting . Only in a world where irony was dead could an intellectual class enter war at the head of such illiberal cohorts in the avowed cause of worldliberalismand world-democracy . No one is left to point out thep309undemocratic nature of this war-liberalism . In a time of faith , skepticism is the most intolerable of all insults . Our intellectual class might have been occupied , during the last two years of war , in studying and clarifying the ideals and aspirations of the American democracy , in discovering a true Americanism which would not have been merely nebulous but might have federated the different ethnic groups and traditions . They might have spent the time in endeavoring to clear the publicmind of the cant of war , to get rid of old mystical notions that clog our thinking . We might have used the time for a great wave of education , for setting our house in spiritual order . We could at least have set the problem before ourselves . If our intellectuals were going to lead the administration , they might conceivably have tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They might have turned their intellectual energy not to the problem of jockeying the nation into war , but to the problem of using our vast neutral power to attain democratic ends for the rest of the world and ourselves without the use of the malevolent technique of war . They might have failed . The point is that they scarcely tried . The time was spent not in clarification and education , but in a mulling over of nebulous ideals of democracy and liberalism and civilization which had never meant anything fruitful to those ruling classes who now so glibly used them , and in giving free rein to the elementary instinctof self-defence . The whole era has been spiritually wasted . The outstanding feature has been not its Americanism but its intensecolonialism . The offence of our intellectuals was not so much that they were colonial ? for what could we expect of a nationcomposed of so many national elements ? ? but that it was so one-sidedly and partisanly colonial . The official , reputable expression of the intellectual class has been that of the English colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the King , more British even than Australia . Other colonial attitudeshave been vulgar . The colonialism of the other American stocks was denied a hearing from the start . America might have been made a meeting-ground for the different national attitudes . An intellectual class , cultural colonists of the different European nations , might have threshed out the issues here as they could not be threshed out in Europe . Instead of this , the English colonialsin university and press took command at the start , and we became an intellectual Hungary where thought was subject top310an effective process of Magyarization . The reputable opinion of the American intellectuals became more and more either what could be read pleasantly in London , or what was written in an earnest effort to put Englishmen straight on their war-aims and war-technique . This Magyarization of thought produced as a counter-reaction a peculiarly offensive and inept German apologetic , and the two partisans divided the field between them . The great masses , the other ethnic groups , were inarticulate . American public opinion was almost as little prepared for war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of such an intellectual policy are inevitable . During the war the American intellectual class has produced almostnothing in the way of original and illuminating interpretation . Veblen 's Imperial Germany ; Patten 's Culture and War , and addresses ; Dewey 's German Philosophy and Politics ; a chapter or two in Weyl 's American Foreign Policies ; ? is there much else of creative , value in the intellectual repercussion of the war ? It is true that the shock of war put the American intellectual to an unusualstrain . He had to sit idle and think as spectator not as actor . There was no government to which he could docilely and loyally tender his mind as did the Oxford professors to justify England in her own eyes . The American 's training was such as to make the fact of war almost incredible . Both in his reading of history and in his lack of economic perspective he was badly prepared for it . He had to explain to himself something which was too colossal for the modern mind , which outran any languageor terms which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expandhis sympathies to the breaking-point , while pulling the past and present into some sort of interpretative order . The intellectualsin the fighting countries had only to rationalize and justify what their country was already doing . Their task was easy . A neutral , however , had really to search out the truth . Perhaps perspective was too much to ask of any mind . Certainly the older colonials among our college professors let their prejudices at once dictate their thought . They have been comfortable ever since . The war has taught them nothing and will teach them nothing . And they have had the satisfaction , under the rigor of events , of seeing prejudice submerge the intellects of their younger colleagues . And they have lived to see almost their entireclass , pacifists and democrats too , join them as apologists for the " gigantic irrelevance " of war . We have had to watch , therefore , in this country the samep311process which so shocked us abroad ? the coalescence of the intellectual classes in support of the military programme . In this country , indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their German brothers and wait for the declaration of war before they broke for cover . And when they declared for war they showed how thin was the intellectual veneer of their socialism . For they called us in terms that might have emanated from any bourgeois journal to defend democracy and civilization , just as if it was not exactly against those very bourgeois democracies and capitalist civilizations that socialists had been fighting for decades . But so subtle is the spiritual chemistry of the " inside " that all this intellectual cohesion ? herd-instinct becomeherd-intellect ? which seemed abroad so hysterical and so servile , comes to us here in highly rational terms . We go to war to save the world from subjugation ! But the German intellectuals went to war to save their culture from barbarization ! And the French went to war to save their culture from barbarization ! And the French went to war to save their beautiful France ! And the English to save international honor ! And Russia , most altruistic and self-sacrificing of all , to save a small State from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spotlessness ? Whence our confidence that history will not unravel huge economic and imperialist forces upon which our rationalizations float like bubbles ? The Jew often marvels that his race alone should have been chosen as the true people of the cosmic God . Are not our intellectuals equally fatuous when they tell us that our war of all wars is stainless and thrillingly achieving for good ? An intellectual class that was wholly rational would have called insistently for peace and not for war . For months the crying need has been for a negotiated peace , in order to avoid the ruin of a deadlock . Would not the same amount of resolute statesmanship thrown into intervention have secured a peace that would have been a subjugation for neither side ? Was the terrific bargaining power of a great neutral ever really used ? Our war followed , as all wars follow , a monstrous failure of diplomacy . Shamefacednessshould now be our intellectuals ' attitude , because the American play for peace was made so little more than a polite play . The intellectuals have still to explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to continue the war to absolute exhaustion , they were not willing to use force to coerce the world to a speedy peace . Their forward vision is no more convincing than their past ra/tionality . We go to war now to internationalize the world ! But surely their League to Enforce Peace is only a palpable apocalyptic myth , like the syndicalists ' myth of the " general strike . " It is not a rational programme so much as a glowing symbol for the purpose of focusing belief , of setting enthusiasm on fire for international order . As far as it does this it has pragmaticvalue , but as far as it provides a certain radiant mirage of idealism for this war and for a world-order founded on mutual fear , it is dangerous and obnoxious . Idealism should be kept for what is ideal . It is depressing to think that the prospect of a world so strong that none dare challenge it should be the immediateideal of the American intellectual . If the League is only a makeshift , a coalition into which we enter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing fact , and the idea should be treated as such . But if it is an actually prospective outcome of the settlement , the keystone of American policy , it is neither realizable nor desirable . For the programme of such a League contains no provision for dynamic national growth or for internationaleconomic justice . In a world which requires recognition of economic internationalism far more than of political internationalism , an idea is reactionary which proposes to petrify and federate the nations as political and economic units . Such a scheme for international order is a dubious justification for American policy . And if American policy had been sincere in its belief that our participation would achieve international beatitude , would we not have made our entrance into the war conditional upon a solemn general agreement to respect in the final settlement these principles of international order ? Could we have afforded , if our war was to end war by the establishment of a league of honor , to risk the defeat of our vision and our betrayalin the settlement ? Yet we are in the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even been suggested . The case of the intellectuals seems , therefore , only very speciously rational . They could have used their energy to force a just peace or at least to devise other means than war for carryingthrough American policy . They could have used their intellectualenergy to ensure that our participation in the war meant the international order which they wish . Intellect was not so used . It was used to lead an apathetic nation into an irresponsiblewar , without guarantees from those belligerents whose cause we were saving . The American intellectual , therefore , hasp313been rational neither in his hindsight nor his foresight . To explain him we must look beneath the intellectual reasons to the emotionaldisposition . It is not so much what they thought as how they felt that explains our intellectual class . Allowing for colonial sympathy , there was still the personal shock in a world-war which outraged all our preconceived notions of the way the world was tending . It reduced to rubbish most of the **28;3900;TOOLONG and democratic nationalism which had been the emotional thread of our intellectuals ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There were mental conflicts . Our latent colonialism strove with our longing for American unity . Our desire for peace strove with our desire for national responsibilityin the world . That first lofty and remote and not altogetherunsound feeling of our spiritual isolation from the conflictcould not last . There was the itch to be in the great experiencewhich the rest of the world was having . Numbers of intelligentpeople who had never been stirred by the horrors of capitalistic peace at home were shaken out of their slumber by the horrors of war in Belgium . Never having felt responsibility for labor wars and oppressed masses and excluded races at home , they had a large fund of idle emotional capital to invest in the oppressed nationalities and ravaged villages of Europe . Hearts that had felt only ugly contempt for democratic strivings at home beat in tune with the struggle for freedom abroad . All this was natural , but it tended to over-emphasize our responsibility . And it threw our thinking out of gear . The task of making our own countrydetailedly fit for peace was abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war , advice to the fighting governments on all matters , military , social , and political , and a gradual working up of the conviction that we were ordained as a nation to lead all erring brothers towards the light of liberty and democracy . The failure of the American intellectual class to erect a creative attitude toward the war can be explained by these sterile mental conflicts which the shock to our ideals sent raging through us . Mental conflicts end either in a new and higher synthesis or adjustment , or else in a reversion to more primitive ideas which have been outgrown but to which we drop when jolted out of our attained position . The war caused in America a recrudescence of nebulous ideals which a younger generation was fast outgrowingbecause it had passed the wistful stage and was dis/covering concrete ways of getting them incarnated in actual institutions . The shock of the war threw us back from this pragmaticwork into an emotional bath of these old ideals . There was even a somewhat rarefied revival of our primitive Yankee boastfulness , the reversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole world to copy our republican institutions . We amusingly ignored the fact that it was just that ImperialGerman regime , to whom we are to teach the art of selfgovernment , which our own Federal structure , with its executive irresponsible in foreign policy and with its absence of parliamentarycontrol , most resembles . And we are missing the exquisite irony of the unaffected homage paid by the American democraticintellectuals to the last and most detested of Britain 's tory premiers as the representative of a " liberal " ally , as well as the irony of the selection of the best hated of America 's bourbon " old guard " as the missionary of American democracy to Russia . The intellectual state that could produce such things is one where reversion has taken place to more primitive ways of thinking . Simple syllogisms are substituted for analysis , things are known by their labels , our heart 's desire dictates what we shall see . The American intellectual class , having failed to make the higher syntheses , regresses to ideas that can issue in quick , simplified action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going on or what is to happen inevitably tomorrow . It is true that certain groups did rationalize their colonialism and attach the doctrine of the inviolability of British seapower to the doctrine of a League of Peace . But this agile resolution of the mental conflict did not become a higher synthesis , to be creatively developed . It gradually merged into a justification for our going to war . It petrified into a dogma to be propagated . Criticism flagged and emotional propaganda began . Most of the socialists , the college professors and the practitioners of literature , however , have not even reached this high-water mark of synthesis . Their mental conflicts have been resolved much more simply . War in the interests of democracy ! This was almost thesum of their philosophy . The primitive idea to which they regressedbecame almost insensibly translated into a craving for action . War was seen as the crowning relief of their indecision . At last action , irresponsibility , the end of anxious and torturing attempts to reconcile peace-ideals with the drag of the world to/wards Hell . An end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they ought to be ! Let us consecrate the facts as ideal ! Let us join the greased slide towards war ! The momentum increased . Hesitations , ironies , consciences , considerations ? all were drowned in the elemental blare of doing something aggressive , colossal . The new-found Sabbath " peacefulness of being at war " ! The thankfulness with which so many intellectuals lay down and floated with the current betrays the hesitation and suspense through which they had been . The American university is a brisk and happy place these days . Simple , unquestioning action has superseded the knots of thought . The thinker dances with reality . With how many of the acceptors of war has it been mostly a dread of intellectual suspense ? It is a mistake to suppose that intellectuality necessarily makes for suspended judgments . The intellect craves certitude . It takes effort to keep it supple and pliable . In a time of danger and disaster we jump desperately for some dogma to cling to . The time comes , if we try to hold out , when our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great healing wave of release some doctrine that can be immediatelytranslated into action . Neutrality meant suspense , and so it became the object of loathing to frayed nerves . The vital myth of the League of Peace provides a dogma to jump to . With war the world becomes motor again and speculation is brushed aside like cobwebs . The blessed emotion of self-defense intervenestoo , which focused millions in Europe . A few keep up a critical pose after war is begun , but since they usually advise action which is in one-to-one correspondence with what the mass is already doing , their criticism is little more than a rationalization of the common emotional drive . The results of war on the intellectual class are already apparent . Their thought becomes little more than a description and justification of what is going on . They turn upon any rash one who continues idly to speculate . Once the war is on , the convictionspreads that individual thought is helpless , that the only way one can count is as a cog in the great wheel . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our unnoticed and ineffective tears and plunge into the great work . Not only is everyone forced into line , but the new certitude becomes idealized . It is a noble realism which opposes itself to futile obstruction and the cowardly refusal to face facts . This realistic boast is so loud and@@1362.txtp50readers are Irish Catholics " ? he later admitted that meant the Buckleys are Irish Catholic . He would have to kill all that section of the review . Later , harsh comments about Reid Buckley were excised from a public exchange I had with him . Killing entire reviews was not uncommon at NR ? as I say , Bill even offered to suppress Evelyn Waugh for having the temerity to dislike my first book . Since Bill knew I admired Chambers ' Witness in the seminary , he asked Frank to give me Whittaker 's Cold Friday when it appeared . The review praised the Witness but not his writings : " In this collection of works-not-in-progress , all the man 's failings are unredeemed . . . the faltering attempts at poetry , the retailing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something new , the crushing insights into evil that come to every precocious adolescent . " The superficiality of Chambers ' " mature " reflections made me go back and read Witness for the third time ? where I now saw the same faults I had described in reviewing Cold Friday . How different were these pretentious musingsfrom the wit and constant laughter of the Chambers I met in NR 's office and had lunch with . Bill was ( with Mrs. Chambers ) a keeper of the flame for " Whit . " He apologized , but said he could not run my review . ( I sent it to Russell Kirk 's Modern Age , which ran it . ) Bill justified his review policy by saying the magazine played frankly the advocate 's role . ( I thought of that in later years when " advocacy journalism " became a target of Richard Nixon 's defenders , including National Review . ) Frank sometimes chafed at Bill 's rules in these matters , and did his best to circumvent them ? reducing books by Bill 's friends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so he could cut the copy down if not entirelyout . Once he called me and said , " Can you think of anythingnice to say of Taylor Caldwell ? " I said no . " I have n't been able to find anybody who can . But Bill wants it . " Bill 's sister Priscillafinally bit that bullet . Bill 's service to others gave him freedomto treat his own books in the same handsome way . Each as it came out was given a long lead review in the magazine , invariably written by a personal friend . Frank 's ideological distrust of me , born of the Schuman review , had no warrant so far as the Soviet Union was concerned . I hadp51grown up a Catholic cold warrior , praying after Mass every day for the conversion of Russia , rallying to anticommunism around that cold-war icon , the statue of " Our Lady of Fatima . " I went to high school in Wisconsin , where two of my best friends were sons of Congressman Charles Kersten , one of Joe McCarthy 's closest Wisconsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MacArthur when he rode through his hero 's welcome in Milwaukee . I did not have much chance ( which I surely would have taken ) to cheer McCarthy , since I went into the newspaperless seminary just six months after he made his opening charges at Wheeling . I would not begin to question my own cold-war mentality till the sixties , when the Indochina engagement looked not so much " imperial " to me as dumb . In 1959 , on my honeymoon in England , I wrote the most politicalof my NR pieces . Bill had planned an " under thirty " issue of NR to show off the magazine 's young writers . John Leonard did Bill 's column of that period ( " The Ivory Tower " ) . I wrote in Frank Meyer 's place ( " Principles and Heresies " ) , and sounded much like Frank . He and Brent had planned protests and demonstrationsagainst the Khrushchev visit to Camp David , and I cheered along their effort , calling the Camp David meeting " Nero in our Camp . " Eighteen years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We Must March , My Darlings ) that I wrote even sillier anticommunist stuff than she had . Which is true , with this minor difference : I quit . Glib anticommunist editorials about " foreign policy " were all I could contribute to the Richmond News Leader when I went there in February of 1961 . Local news , soothing or abrading to the publisher 's friends , had to be left to more practiced hands , those of Jack Kilpatrick . I came early into the office , damned Russia and/or China in heightened rhetoric ( read , alas , by News Leader regulars as if they had never heard such things ) , and was home by lunch to start typing on my dissertation . I saw little of Richmond in the process , though I liked what I saw . But when I finished the dissertation in May , I had to plunge into another kind of study . My graduate work had left me no time to read the political classics , and a try or two at Aristotle 's Politics had not encouraged me to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , prejudices ? hadp52been picked up from literary sources , and never questioned much : I swore by Dr. Johnson and John Ruskin , Cardinal Newman and Gilbert Chesterton . All I could answer , when Bill first asked after my politics , was " distributist " ( that is , Chestertonian ) . Bill rightly took Philip Burnham 's word that distributism is not " conservative " in the Buckley sense , since Chesterton was a scathing critic of capitalism . But I also fit into another characterization of the distributist ? as merely sentimental medievalizer . I had made no serious effort to connect the stray political opinions picked up in my reading . I found this embarrassing when I came to write editorialsdaily , and determined to remedy the situation as soon as I crossed the hurdle of my dissertation . I had only read two of the political classics , and not read them well , by 1961 . Plato 's Republic , at both the graduate and undergraduatelevels , was required reading , but more for its language and imagery than its politics ( or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite when it shone out from the severely restricted list of things we could read in the novitiate ? though again I had read it more as an allegory of the soul 's pilgrimagethan as a political book . That left me with a long reading list for the summer of 1961 ? Aristotle , Hooker , Locke , Burke , Rousseau , Jefferson , Adams , Mill , Tocqueville , Calhoun . I went at them with the energy of starting something fresh ; and Frank Meyer gave me a deadline to meet in reporting my results . Frank had some grant money to publish an anthology called What Is Conservatism ? Behind scheduleas usual ( along with most of his contributors ) , he needed anotheressay after several writers did not produce what they promised . Frank was following the course of my political self-schooling with interest , doubt , and suggestions . ( He brought up Bagehot and Shaw , but I had no time left ; they would have to come later . ) Frank wanted a quick job ? done by September ; and that suited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hellenic Studies that month ( as a Fellow in its first year of existence ) , when Greek studieswould reclaim my attention . I finished on time , though Frank still had to wrestle with the book for another year or two . My essay " The Convenient State " has been anthologized three times ? four if you count as twop53books Bill 's trade volume Did You Ever See a Dream Walking ? and his school text American Conservative Thought in the TwentiethCentury . It was my first serious effort at reflection on politics , and despite its errors of historical judgment it contains the germ of everything else I have had to say or explore in the area . I would not regret it much , despite its mistakes , if it were written less turgidly . I still agree with its main points , inchoate as they are and showing still my half-digested reading in so many sources . But NR , in its many ads for Buckley 's anthology , later removed all mention of my essay , which comes first in the volume . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then or now ) in how we understood that 1961 essay . Or both were . The latter , I guess . My starting point , in 1961 , was influenced by Frank 's and Brent 's endless arguments over the relative importance of freedom and order in the history of Western culture ? Frank standing for the individual 's autonomy , Brent for a state-supported " virtue . " I thought the argument needed recasting . Willmoore asked the right question : What kind of order is there to be , not how much ? And based on what authority ? But I thought he gave the wrong answers . I was lucky to witness the squabbling of these doctrinaire friends . They put the challenge of my study in a vivid and personalform . So I began my essay with the emphasis on individualismthat marks Europe 's culture and seems to run wild in America 's nineteenth-century cult of " frontier " self-reliance . What order would Faustian , would Promethean man submit to ? Nothing , said one form of liberalism , except rational persuasion . But I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the claims of man 's intellect makes the state the center of truth ? in Plato , truth as moral enlightenment ; in Aristotle , truth as a set of logical imperatives ? andnothing is more absolute than the claim of truth upon man " ( Did You Ever See a Dream Walking ? p. 14 ) . Having escaped the religious authority of the East ( this was Eric Voegelin talk ) , Western man tried to erect a secular absolutism . Here I cited Acton : " In the Jewish as in the Gentile world , political and theological obligations were made to coincide ; in both , therefore ? in the theocracy of the Jews as in the politeia of the Greeks ? the State was absolute " ( ibid. , p. 35 ) . Free pursuit of the truth is a noble ideal ; but what if one should have the badp54luck ( bad in terms of liberal ideals ) to catch it ? What then ? " Man can refuse to think , or think confusedly ; but once the evidences of reality are received within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleases " ( ibid. , p. 14 ) . Despite my classicist 's bent and training , I could not see how a free society could be based on reason . ( This was not the same thing as saying the state must be irrational , though Frank 's young libertarian friends said that about my essay . ) Even when I thought I should submit to Plato and Aristotle , I kept resisting them ? and found , as I tackled the City of God again , that Augustine had rebelled against their authority . As early as Book Two ( Chap . 21 ) , Augustine said he felt he must argue with the classical assumption that the state is founded on justice . This was an astonishing assertion for a man whose background was Neoplatonic . Only years later , when he reached Book Nineteen ( Chap . 24 ) , would he face the challenge he had set himself at the outset of his long work . I have come to think that insight the great breakthrough in Western political thought , though I could not give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already realized that the Lincolnian ideal of a state " dedicated to a proposition " was a kind of masked theocracy . Augustine was not , as so many had assumed , a theocrat . He was the greatest critic of theocracy . Indeed , he was accused of taking such a gloomy view of the state that he made it almost impossible for God to have anything to do with his creation on its political side . Yet the man who made love the basis of the state can not be called merely negative or pessimistic about man 's political capacities . Those who recognize that Augustine refused to ground the state on justice accused him of condoning injustice . The same thing has happened to Newman and to Johnson , both antitheocrats in their own day . I quoted Newman in my essay : " Satisfaction , peace , liberty , conservative interests are the supreme end of the law , not mere raw justice as such " ( ibid. , p. 20 ) . That quote came from a tract Who 's to Blame ? made up of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newman in 1855 . He argued that the genius of the British Constitution was compromise , which sat ill with the crusading attitude of war . One or the other must " give " ? thep55Constitution or the Crimean War effort ; Newman hoped it would be the latter . Newman placed such emphasis on the government as pragmatic accommodation that he defended even England 's " paragovernment " ( as Bernard Bailyn calls it ) of " bribes " involving placemen and titles . After I had finished my essay , but before it was delivered , I was invited to give a paper at a right-wing academic gathingin California 's Pepperdine College . The group was made up of young college teachers and graduate students ? for example , an anticommunistassistant professor who later went to Congress , Philip Crane . But most of the participants were " libertarians " of the semi-anarchist kind . They thought my paper an attack on the very ideal of justice , and focused especially on the defense of bribes . Even today I run across people , students of those professors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I had already taken sides in the little intramural dispute betweenlibertarians and authoritarians ? not that , given the sides , I had much choice in the matter . There was an almost religious test involved . Libertarians , purists of the free market , hated to see any market of ideas closed up by doctrine . The authoritarians , the only obvious alternative , were largely Catholic in the broad sense . Frank 's principles were libertarian , but his sentiments were AngloCatholic ; so he presented himself as a " fusion " of the two sides , walking proof that it could be done . Bill , with his inherited devotionto both capitalism and Catholicism , made a similar claim . But the fact that men can live with contradiction does not remove the contradiction ? it just makes the contradiction go philosophically " underground " and play funny games there . Individualistand Catholic are night and day , since kath-holou means permeating ( literally , " through the entirety " ) . The isolated and the integrated , the singular and the communal , are opposed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a laissez-faire businessmanand a communal believer only by the same train of historicalaccidents that brought different types together at that PepperdineCollege conference . The right wing in America is an alliance caused by a common bugaboo : " statism " ( whether communist , socialist , or welfare-supplying ) . Insofar as the welfare state was the current expression of American liberalism , and lib/eralism was the American tradition , these " conservatives " could not even claim a living tradition . They were rebels against the present order ? which is not a bad thing in itself , though it is an odd position for those calling themselves conservatives . In the early sixties , Goldwaterism attracted authoritarians callingfor state censorship of pornography , for state-instilled morality on matters like abortion , and for local power to enforce Jim Crow laws . It also attracted libertarians who thought all those things infringementson the free choice of the individual . Strom Thurmond and Milton Friedman marched together , odd Mutt and Jeff , behind the senator 's unfocused ramble . Neither side could be happy with the alliance . The libertarians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of calling themselves " conservatives . " Polls show that , in defiance of logic , Americans think of conservatives and liberals as , respectively , calling for less or more government spending on social needs ? as opposed to defense spending , where the terms reverse themselves . Authoritarians , on the other hand , professing a love for tradition , were unhappy at the " rootless " rationalismand laissez-faire morals of libertarians . ( Even authoritarianslike Russell Kirk , another Goldwater speechwriter , adopted one part of nineteenth-century liberalism ? laissez-faire economics ? while denying its rationale and original matrix . ) I , of course , was unhappy along with the rest . I did not like to be lumped with Brent as a theocrat or with Kirk as a sap ; yet Chestertonhad made me anti-individualist . He put the absurdity of free-market thought in a single sentence : " It is as if ten mine workers ran a foot race , and the winner got to be Lord Northumberland . " Catholic social thought began not with the individual but with the family as the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later find in Francis Hutcheson and all his **27;3930;TOOLONG , including Hume and Jefferson ) . So I ended my essay with a rejection of libertarianism as in any sense conservative . Since Frank was arguing for " fusion " in this and all his books , he asked me to delete or dilute that ending , but said he would run it if I insisted . I diluted it . But I gave the original endingat Pepperdine , where the libertarians confirmed my instinctive resistance to them . Though I differed from authoritarians on manyp57points , we at least had some common ground . I felt sure , now , that I had nothing to learn from the libertarians at all . I was wrong . Certain of them , from their suspicion of the state in general , thought creation of America 's own warfare state to opposecommunism had gone too far ? had , in fact , just given us two statist superpowers . Though not pacifists , they were not crusaders either . They could criticize communism without feeling an instant duty to destroy it . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the libertarians . It was , in fact , one that should have flowed from my own first " solution " to the right-wing dilemma ; but I was too dense to see that . My attempted solution was to avoid the patriarchal conclusion from society-as-family by arguing , in effect , for brotherhood withoutfatherhood : for political society above the family level as a matter of mutual deference rather than submission to one patriarchalsource of authority . This was what Willmoore seemed to be aiming at in his majoritarianism . I thought I could see a better way of putting it in terms of a commonalty of interests ( Johnson ) , " property " in the large sense ( Newman ) , or overlapping loves ( Augustine ) . I was approximating , though I did not know it then , Hutcheson 's concept of benevolence as the basis of the social contract . The point was not , as Willmoore thought , to find and assert the binding authority , Locke 's " power to conclude , " to which all must defer , but to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of common good things held . I took a word used in passing by both Hooker and Newman ? convenience ( " coming together " ) ? to express the goals of this political society . This does not acquit men of their accountability to justice ? though it admits that men , if pushed , will have very different ideas about what justice is . It simply says that finding justiceand enacting it are not the first reasons for the state 's existence : " The state , like the family , like the corporation , like the labor union , is bound by laws of morality that are incumbent on all human endeavor , corporate as well as individual . In carrying out its function , the state must act with justice . But its specific aim is not to enforce justice as such " ( ibid. , p. 21 ) . Basketball teams should not cheat . They must be just in that sense . But they exist to play and win ball games , not to bring down justice upon earth . Inp58the same way , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to enunciate " raw justice . " I chose the term " convenience " for its inviting etymology , and to escape the moral disfavor belonging to other appropriate terms like " expediency " or " compromise . " The nation should be a human " convention . " In a 1971 essay on Jefferson , I appealed to eighteenth-century usage : To speak of " convention " in our day ? to speak of it conventionally ? isto risk misunderstanding . The word suggests to us formality , a matter of empty forms ? yet the " forms " of societywere ceremonies then . " Convention " was a lively matter , as lively as the constitutional convention in Philadelphia . It is not mere punning to link such uses of a word . The active note of con-vening still animated words that seem placid to us ? as when John Adams called a good wine and his constitution " convenient . " . . . By reactivating the root sense of words , men were led to think in etymological clusters ? like convening , convenience , convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscious agreement on its observationand significance . It was a great time of congress and convenings ; of public business , carried on in public by conferringsand consent . " Convention " was just consent put in more lasting form ? the word still meant certain kinds of writtenlaws , as well as unwritten usage . Insofar as my first guesses and hints in this matter are defensible , they must be given a grounding I understood better ( and will talk of ) later . But even then I should have seen how at odds with the essentially compromising ideal of " convenience " was any absolutecrusade for " liberation " of the world from communism . Our very fear of the Soviet Union arose from a certitude that , in war , Russians would fight us ? and do it very well . How could that be true if they were only slaves or helots yearning to escape their masters ? How , for that matter , did a nation ravaged by war , **26;3959;TOOLONG even before the war , reach so quickly a level to challenge America at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market " should have been the first to see that such efforts were not made by the use of grudging labor , by the compulsion of " inefficient " slaves . Admittedly , there were injus/tices in Russia and China , massive and terrible ? as there had been slavery , the genocide of Indians , the seizure of territories , in America 's rise to power . One does not have to condone communismin order to condemn the kind of crusade America mounted against communism in the 1940s and 1950s . Yet I still applauded that crusade , even while advancing " convenience " as a means of escape from ideological constraints I could see in others . I used to tease Frank about the way he opposed the state while becoming obsessed with it . He thought of nothing else , day or night . It had even greater power over him than he thought it was trying to get . Once one defines oneself primarily by opposition to one other thing , the essential surrender is made . One resembles those Christians who defined themselves in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ god , the thing that filled their thoughts and limited their actions . The obsessed person longs for some Ahab showdown with his own white whale . He grows to resemble the cruel thing he opposes , becomes its antitype or photographic negative ? as America 's secret police and internal surveillance began to resemble the Soviet Union 's in the time of our obsession with Russia . The only way to fulfill that obsession is " fusion " indeed , the nuclear fusion of an ultimate showdown , Ahab flinging himself on the whale . Fear as the operative element in self-definition reached a pitch in 1961 that forms a kind of parable . An offshoot of the Kennedy administration 's early civil-defense program was heated public debate over the morality of shooting one 's own neighbors if they tried to overcrowd one 's bomb shelter . Obsession with an enemy almost always makes one 's neighbors become the enemy ? hence our vast " internal-security system . " Frank , a friend of Herman Kahn who admired his effort to make nuclear war " thinkable , " argued stoutly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his argument . It was hard to hold an ideal of " convening " in such an atmosphereof excluding , of segregating in the largest sense ? the ultimate " isolationism " and individualism of solipsism . I only held to the convenient ideal by failing to see how little I acted in accord with it.  |p60If  my reviews for Frank were mainly literary , what NR writing I did directly for Bill dealt with Catholicism . When I entered Yale 's graduate program in 1958 , I was just up the road from Bill 's Stamford home . I saw him often , and sailed with him ? one of life 's great experiences , which can be vicariously enjoyed now by readers of his book Airborne . Bill was then engaged in an odd war with his coreligionists , and anxious to recruit allies . He had been forced , by the debate , to form a kind of informal Catholic " brain trust . " The principal figures in this group were a teacher in the New York seminary system and three of his old pupils . The teacher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( later the press officer of the New York Archdiocese ) , Monsignor Roger Pryor ( later director of schools in the New York Archdiocese ) , and Neil McCaffrey . Neil had left the seminary years before , and was working for Doubleday ? it was he who arranged for me to do children 's pamphlets on thep61Bible . Something of a genius at direct-mail selling , he later founded the Conservative Book Club and began publishing his own line of books under the Arlington House imprint . Because of my seminary background , Bill included me in this group ; and because of my greater availability , I soon found myself answering his questions about papal authority , encyclicals , Catholicsocial teaching , etc . He assumed I knew more about such questionsthan I did in fact ? a flattering assumption that made me do some of the homework I should have done earlier . When Bill engaged in a much-publicized series of debates with Commonweal editor William Clancy , he tried to make it a four-way exchange , with me questioning Clancy while some ally of Clancy 's choosing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drove up to New Haven to go over likely subjects of debate before the series began . In the wake of the flap over " Mater , si ; Magistra , no , " Neil McCaffrey had one of his constantly fizzing ideas for a book . Neil keeps files on everything , and had all the Catholic attacks on Bill , along with the answers Bill had made to them . He planned to publishthat record , with a supplement of essays commenting on the exchange . Half a dozen or so people were asked to contribute essays ? asone of them , I was to write on the binding force of papal encyclicals . As often happens with such projects , some of the essaysNeil most wanted were not produced , and some of those that came in were unsatisfactory . About the only things usable , by the project 's deadline , were Neil 's Introduction and my essay ? which , even with the " documents " included , made for a very short book . It threatened to get shorter when Neil ran into trouble about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At that point , Bill suggested I summarize the controversy and comment on it ; so Neil turned the whole thing over to me . That involved me in a much more ambitious statement than my original essay had contained . My " homework " done for Bill over the past four years had made me realize that , despite constant Catholic babbling on the subject of encyclicals , no book in Englishhad dealt with their doctrinal force . I set out to write a short book in the summer of 1962 , and wrote a long one instead . ( I was developing a pattern of summer productivity , in reaction top62the scattered labors of the school year : in 1959 I wrote my Chestertonbook in England , in 1960 I did most of the work for my Aeschylus dissertation , in 1961 " The Convenient State . " After Politics and Catholic Freedom in 1962 , I did Roman Culture in 1963 . ) Will Herberg , who had become NR 's religion editor and another of my teachers at the magazine , wrote an Introduction for my book . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first few pages said it was surprising to find a long book on papal statements written by a Jew . ) Since the book appeared while the Second Vatican Council was still in session , it became an instant anachronism . It was not simply a matter of everybody changing sides ? " liberals " now denouncing encyclicals rather than using encyclicals to denounce others , " conservatives " stickingwith the Pope even when he issued his disastrous encyclical on contraceptives . Rather , the " sides " faded or were effaced . The old arguments , good or bad , no longer had any audience . When later I wrote another book on the Catholic Church ( Bare Ruined Choirs ) , Bill said on his TV show that he found the two books inconsistent . Yet I still think the basic argument of Politics and Catholic Freedom was sound ; it had just become irrelevant . I argued , back then , that Catholic encyclical letters on social problems did not impose , by papal authority , a specifically Catholicpolitics on all Catholics around the world . Now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having no one who opposes it . One would think the only people claiming there is a mandated papal politics , back in the 1950s , would be critics of the Church like Paul Blanshard , predicting a return to the Inquisition . Blanshard had more of a point than he knew , since the silencing of Father John Courtney Murray was kept a secret when it occurred in the 1950s ? and Rome silenced him precisely for saying that there should be no Church-established politics . But Rome was aberrant , not Murray , as Vatican II would make clear . The astonishing thing is that Catholic liberals , for shortsighted gains , called for a specifically Catholic politics all through the fortiesand fifties of this century . The allies of Father Murray were themselves claiming that the " social encyclicals " boiled down , in effect , to the Democratic platform of the last election year , andp63that Catholics who did not adhere to it had departed from . their faith and defied the Pope . People who deplored the Pope 's condemnationsin his more proper realm of theology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an odd one , though understandable . Some Catholics wanted to prove they not only could be democratic with a small " d , " but had to be Democrats in the party sense . Older liberals remembered the Al Smith campaign , and charges that a Catholic could not be a true American . In the generalsuperpatriotism of the cold-war years , they started saying only " true Americans " could be Catholic ! And that left out Buckley . When Bill said he intended to oppose the welfare state in America despite the social welfarism of Pope John 's Mater et Magistra , he was accused by assorted priests and lay theologians of schism , heresy , defection from the faith . One priest trotted out the European tag of the old temporal-power days , Qui Mange du Pape , en meurt ( biters of the Pope die of bellyache ) . For a heady moment , the victims of heresy hunts like that directed against FatherMurray became heresy hunters themselves ? as , they say , beaten children grow up to be child-beaters . This was such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on it . Gore Vidal , who would write the Introduction to a 1977 book calling Christ a fraud , professed shock on " The TonightShow " that Buckley would defy the Vicar of that Fraud . Murray Kempton , in a very kind review of my book , did comic penance for his fellow liberals : Now I can find every reason except a personal one to quarrel with Mr. Buckley , but my own soul is hardly so permeated by grace as to entitle me to question the state of his . So , being an American , I automatically whistle up a priest . That is a polite form of that special sort of Americanism which leads Mrs. Madalyn Murray 's enemies to write her notes like " Jesus Christ will fix you . " The wrath which fell upon Mr. Buckley after his comments on Mater et Magistra came quite often from men in orders , and the possession of orders gave them an authority which should have been the more carefully rationed , not just for the disproportionate weight it has upon the saved , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many of those who are in the field againstp64Mr . Buckley would never think to bow our heads to the Cross except when it is withdrawn from him . Murray went on to make the point I should have , but did n't , becausewhat I condemned in the libertarians I still condoned in Bill : There is something about laissez-faire individualism that is historically at odds with Catholic tradition ? but this is a matter not reachable by papal fiat or by those who challenge the sincerity of their fellow believer 's religion . It is one thing to challenge another'shistorical interpretations ; it is another to deny that person'sfaith or good intentions . I wrote to show there were severe limits to the Pope 's teaching authority even under the old " legalistic " view of that power . This was something Newman had demonstrated in Victorian England ( when he was accused of being a papal " minimalist " ) and somethingthat twentieth-century conditions made more explicit . But to engage in that kind of analysis is a waste of time when Catholic subservience to papal statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where Catholics have supported Bishop Lefebvre 's defiance of the papal ban on " Tridentine " Masses ) . What made the book worth doing for me was the amount of reading it entailed in the works of Cardinal Newman . His emphasis on the need for continuity within development helped me escapethe sterile definition of conservatism as somehow opposed to change . Opposition to change is like denying gravity ? you can try it ; but the first cliff you walk off will be your last . Change is inevitable . The question is how one changes ? as a tree does in growing , or as a corpse does in decomposing . One does no terminologicalservice , either , in trying to contrast " true " conservatism with mere " reactionary " tendencies . The tree reacts as a unit to wind and nurture ; the corpse no longer reacts as a whole , though it is chemically very active and " innovative . " In his lifelong reflectionon the development of Christian doctrine ? which , more and more , meant to him the life experience of the Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changelessness as of identity within change . To have an identity is not to be fixed at one stage of learning ; it is , rather , to have a capacity to integrate new experiencewithin a self-correcting continuum . One is never more one/self than in the extension of the self . To cease extending is to begin decomposing , losing identity as a living unit . Newman made the test of life a power to assimilate , to be fed by multiple experience , not baffled or isolated by it : The development then of an idea is not like an investigation worked out on paper , in which each successive advance is a pure evolution from a foregoing , but it is carried on through and by means of communities of men and their leaders and guides ; and it employs their minds as its instruments , and depends upon them while it uses them . And so , as regards existing opinions , principles , measures , and institutions of the community which it has invaded ; it develops by establishing relations between itself and them ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction , in creating what may be called a jurisdiction over them , in throwing off whatever in them it can not assimilate . It grows when it incorporates , and its identity is found not in isolation , but in continuity and sovereignty . . . . It changes with them in order to remain the same . In a higher world it is otherwise , but here below to live is to change , and to be perfect is to have changed often ( Development , 1 i 2 ) . Furthermore , Newman made the seat of social identity for the Church the whole body of the faithful , not just the hierarchy or the priesthood . He got into his trouble with Roman authorities by writing that , during the Arian period , the Church at large preservedthe faith when bishops and priests strayed into heresy . Of course , in more normal times , Newman admits a governing task to the bishops ; but his extreme case shows that experienced continuitywith the Gospel rests in the Christian community at large , not in a private revelation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Church . That argument remains important for me in two ways ? one narrowly theological , one generally political . It seemed to me , as I read Newman , that the contraception controversy among Catholicswas another example of the phenomenon Newman connected with the Arian period ? a case where the body of the faithful lived truer to the Gospel tradition than did its formal teachers . Thep66sensus fidelium saw no Gospel warrant for that " natural law " condemnationof contraceptives the Pope continued to uphold . When I made this point on Bill 's TV show , " Firing Line , " in 1973 , he thought I had gone too far : BUCKLEY : There is a sense in which the Catholic Church 's brightest moments have been when standing athwart the spirit of the age . WILLS : Ah , but see , you have made a jump which is terribly significant . All of a sudden the Pope , standing against his own people , his own priests and nuns and laity and theologians , has become the Catholic Church standing athwart the age . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them ; he 's a spokesman against them . That 's the situation he has put himself in . Newman 's treatment of the Arian experience had another meaning for me ? it approached , in political terms , that " brotherhoodwithout a father " I was trying to perceive in the " convenient " origins of the state . Some leaders must be chosen at intervals , by election or other means ; but their power is delegated , and is a symbol of the community 's own sense of itself as a corporate body . It is said , in derogation of democracy , that the followers lead and the leaders follow . Just so . Both should do that . " Compromise " is not a fault but the characteristic virtue of a democraticstatesman , who must try to represent the community as a whole . Newman 's treatment of the development of doctrine in the body of the Church explained the way he reached the politics of Who 's to Blame ? The discussion of papal encyclicals might cease to be a Catholic parlor game , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? me . Though the book disappeared as soon as it was published , it was the occasion for large changes in my life . A young Catholic editor in Iowa , John Leo , gave it a favorable review in Bob Hoyt 's Kansas City paper The Catholic Reporter . Shortly after that , Hoyt started his National Catholic Reporter , and asked John and me to be , respectively , his liberal and conservative columnists . We becamesparring partners and good friends ? some readers were disappointedor felt cheated when they learned that we were friends . As Pegler said , a grudge match always increases the gate.  |p67Hoyt  , who was second in a line of great editors I have worked for , wanted more fight than he got ; he asked me to choose more clearly identifiable " conservative " positions to write on , because my book 's argument put me on the " free speech " side of things in the Church . Some officious priests and editors were trying to silenceJohn Leo with the weapons they had used on Bill . The monsignorwho edited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowing his newspaper to become a platform " for John Leo . So I had to go to the defense of my sparring partner . ( If they silenced him , whom would I have to fight with ? ) The occasionof that outburst was Leo 's denunciation of Cardinal Spellmanfor exiling Daniel Berrigan to Mexico . John had sent me the letter of protest to be published in the New York Times , and I signed it for the same reason that I had opposed the attempt to impose a Catholic ban on Bill 's politics . Yet Bill criticized my signing the letter , and we had our first serious argument on this matter . Another matter on which Leo and I agreed was the contraceptivedebate that filled much of the Catholic press in those days ? had done so since Dr. John Rock , a Catholic , not only helped develop " the pill " but advocated its use . Hoyt 's paper was the first to get and publish the majority report of the Pope 's own commissionadvocating the acceptance of contraceptive methods by Catholics . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for NR ? much to Brent Bozell 's horror . Bill was on my side in this matter ; my homework in the encyclicals had borne some fruit . When the Pope 's new encyclical reaffirming the ban on contraceptives appeared , Bill asked me to write NR 's editorials disputing its claims . Later , when some NR person drew up a collection of Bill 's aphorisms ( Quotations from Chairman Bill ) , I found some phrases from those editorials attributed to him . The strange thing about my time as an NCR columnist is that I earned my conservative reputation mainly by taking a liberal position on civil disobedience in the antiwar and civil-rights movements : I said one should " work within the system " of elections and electoral pressures ? a stand I would soon regret , and one that was inconsistent with my own " convenient state " arguments on the limits of the electoral system . Though I criticized the first antiwarprotests in California , I never wrote directly on the growingp68Vietnam War ( my column appeared in the years 1964-66 ) , because I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purely as an anticommunist venture ( the only justification that would have occurredto me then ) , it seemed to me rather dumb , the wrong kind of war waged the wrong way in the wrong place . Besides , my wife was and is a pacifist , and her arguments had already helped change my mind on capital punishment . But like too many other Americans , I assumed the experts knew something I did not about Indochina 's importance in the struggle against communism ; so I neither criticized nor supported the war in my columns . I ducked . I evaded . The NCR column was also the occasion for my being fired by Johns Hopkins . In order to pay us a little more , Bob Hoyt syndicatedLeo 's and my columns out to Catholic papers ? ten picked up mine , including Baltimore 's arch-diocesan paper . ( It was there I had the misfortune to advocate Spiro Agnew 's election for governorin 1966 , over George Mahoney , who ran a racist campaign on the slogan " Your Home Is Your Castle . " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote occasional reviews for NR ( he was an " Old Blue " Yalie who despised Bill ) , but he could not do much about that . My " regular journalism " in the Baltimore Catholic Review was another matter , he said . He demanded that I stop it , or he would oppose my getting tenure . I resented the implication that I was neglecting my teaching or study of the classics to write about seven hundred words once a week . I refused , and said I had published as many articles in learned journals as others at my level . He also knew I had a book on Sophocles ' Antigone half finished , and had seen praise for the completed portions from Bernard Knox of the Center for Hellenic Studies . He answered that I could have done even more learned articles if I stuck to my field . Our parting was unpleasant in a comic way . He said anyone who wrote for National Review would doubtless be more comfortable not working for an institution that had an open hiring policy ? a ludicrous comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that point , not something to take pride in . The man , now dead , was a fine scholar , and had always been gentlemanly to that point . But I clearly bothered him . He ran hisp69department in a mode he had picked up from the military , and had for years refused to hire anyone new . I was hired while he was away one year . The youngest man in the department at that point was twenty years my senior ; the other three members were entering their sixties . Later , the campus prediction that the departmentwould fall apart when everyone retired at once came true . A new chairman brought in asked me back , but by that time I was teaching as much time as I could spare in the Hopkins Humanities Center . Back in 1966 , I had a year of teaching to complete , during which I could look for a job . Some academic friends made offers , but I thought I would see if I could make a living with my pen . I had been tempted to stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing articles and books for money ? my predecessor there had been Richard Whalen , who went to Fortune and was working on his life of President Kennedy 's father . But wiser heads told me " free-lance writer " was another name for the unemployed . I thought now I might defy the wiser heads , at least for a year or so . Neil McCaffrey came to my rescue , as he had when I needed money in graduate school . Then I wrote children 's Bible pamphletsfor him . Now he gave me seven thousand dollars as an advanceon a biography of Bill , to be put out by Arlington House . Bill , like most famous people , was glad to have an acknowledged biographer , as his excuse for turning away time-consuming interviewswith aspiring biographers whose work would never see print . When Neil later demanded his advance back , Bill gave the biographer 's role to Larry Dubois , who had done research on him for a Time cover ; and later the designation went to an NR staffer . My rules when working with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere , and only things I got first from him with any restrictions . The restrictions , so far as I had time to test them , were in effect nonexistent . He is , if he will excuse the term , " liberal " in such matters . I wrote the first chapter of that Buckley book ? picking him up at a Yale debate with William Sloane Coffin ? and Bill suggested I send it to his friend Harold Hayes , the editor of Esquire . Harold ran it and offered me a contract writer 's job as " Contributing Edi/tor " at the magazine . The pay beat my academic salary , and the work looked easier ( four articles a year ) ? but I was wrong about that . Harold has all kinds of editorial skills , including the ability to get lots of work from his writers . I did no more on the Bill book . Almost immediately after giving me the advance , Neil McCaffrey was angered by my attacks on George Wallace in the NCR . That paper 's " conservative columnist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had been corrupted by John Leo , and asked for his advance back . Just as well , since I had no time for other projects in my first months at Esquire . Since I had been fired for being a journalist , I thought I might as well learn how to be one . I was in the right place for it , at Harold 's Esquire . And that was the right time for it , the late sixties.  |p73My  first assignment for Harold was in December of 1966 . Jack Ruby was dying of cancer . Harold wanted me to interview him , but it would be hard ( perhaps impossible ) to get to him . Harold had just found an investigative reporter with some of a private eye 's skills , Ovid Demaris . Ovid got to U-2 pilot Gary Powers when no one else could . Harold would later give him the hopeless task of getting to Howard Hughes . Besides , Ovid knew Dallas well , and had been in the police garage when Ruby shot Oswald . ( I 'm surprised no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skein of plots . ) Harold wanted Ovid to open doors so I could do the interviewing . No doubt he also wanted me to pick up some of Ovid 's skills , which I tried ( not very successfully ) to do . Ovid , with a kind of nagging naivete , wears people down , makes them talk longer than they meant to and say more than they realize . We literally laid siege to Oswald 's boardinghouse and George Kennan 's farm ( while Svetlana Alilluyeva was hiding there ) to/gether . Ovid was also good at getting information from police , something I tried to imitate when writing on riot plans in the major cities for Harold . There is a touch of the con man in Ovid , redeemed by his vain candor . He tells you how good he is , before he proves it . I like him immensely . Ovid demanded that he be listed as co-author of the Ruby piece , though I was to do all the writing . Fair enough . I was still teaching my final year at Hopkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break . Ovid went there ten days earlier to open doors and get Ruby 's family or lawyer to let us in . But the Dallas police , stung by the loss of Oswald , were letting no one near their other " Kennedy prisoner . " Ovid was still trying when I got to Dallas ? he never gives up . But I saw it was hopeless . I had just caught the flu from my children , and was ready to turn around and go home . Ovid told me to take aspirin , go to bed , and listen to a batch of tapes he had made with Dallas policemen and officials , with Ruby 's friends and nightclub employees . I heard Ovid 's questioning technique used on the most astonishing collection of vivid characters . I listened to the tapes over and over , dozingand waking again , and decided I wanted to meet these people ? especially Bill Willis , the drummer in Ruby 's club and a close friend of Jack 's . I called Harold to tell him I thought there was a story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The call went through to Harold 's empty office , where Noel Parmentel ( a sometime contributor to NR ) picked up the phone and accepted the charges : " What the hell are you doing in Dallas , Garry ? " I asked what the hell he was doing in Harold 's office ? he went and got Harold . I spent three weeks in Dallas , and wrote an article on Ruby 's motive for killing Oswald . We had turned up so much material that I convinced Harold I should do a second article , on Ruby 's trial . Bob Gutwillig , an editor at New American Library , liked the articlesand said they could be published as a book if I added just a bit on Ruby 's death , which had occurred by then . I had become fascinated with Ruby , and read all the parts devoted to him in the Warren volumes ; so I had Ovid make more tapes with lawyers and people interviewed by the Warren investigators ( I would play the tapes going to and from class that last spring of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original articles themselves . The book was little noticed , because it came out quickly in the spate of New American Library books flooding the market those years , and was lumped with other late riders on the stream of assassination books . But I retain a special fondness for the book , in which I was learning as much as I could of the reporter'sand the investigator 's craft . And I still think it shows that Ruby was involved in no conspiracy . Harold teamed me with Ovid once more ? this time to get to Stalin 's daughter in her first months of hiding in America . Again we failed to get the interview , but I wrote an article anyway about the whole Svetlana operation ; it was my first look at the way the CIA works . After that Harold came up with one of those schemes that drove his contract writers to near breakdown . In the wake of the Watts and Detroit riots , police forces were gearing up for urban war . Some ambitious riot plans had been reported ; others were presumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major cities and see if I could turn up more of those plans . The project deepened and broadened , and took two months of intense travel and interviewing , with Harold on the phone encouraging , making suggestions , authorizing more expense money . When it ran , it was the longest article Esquire had ever published . ( But the only riot plan I ever got hold of , after stealing it when a National Guard officer left the room , was such an omelette of acronyms as to be of no journalistic interest . ) Bob Gutwillig snatched this up for anotherNew American Library book , under the title The Second Civil War . The book attracted little notice , that little of a recondite sort . Chemical MACE was just being put to use by police , and I had a long interview with its inventor just before he stopped talking to newsmen ; so law reviews discussing various suits involving MACE had no other source to cite on the inventor 's claims for his product . I tried MACE on myself , and praised it as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who sang its praises to me was Joseph Woods , sheriff of Cook County . When next I met him , he was picking up his sister Rose Mary and her boss , RichardNixon , during the 1968 presidential campaign . I met others I would run into after doing the article , like thep76officers of the Chicago police force who rioted themselves during the Democratic convention in 1968 , or " Red Squad " men who observed later demonstrations . I found great stupidity in the military , as one would expect . One of the greatest fools I talked with , General Carl C. Turner , was the liaison man for all military assistanceto cities threatened with riots . I was not surprised , later , to find him in trouble with authority for taking confiscated weapons home to his private collection . The article ( and book ) made Frank Meyer furious , since I took seriously the grievances of black militants . I sent the book to Neil McCaffrey , whom I still considered a friend despite our disagreements . He wrote back that he would hang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to burn him out ; maybe it would deter them . Even Bill told Larry Dubois , when he took over as designated biographer , that I had " gone over to the militants " when writing The Second Civil War . NR would later run a long attack on me , and put on the cover Huey Newton 's famous picture in a fan chair , with my head on Newton 's body . The magazine 's gift for spotting " black militants " was about on a par with its identification of " communists " in the fifties . Yet I was conscious of no change on the matter of race . At the Richmond News Leader , when Jack Kilpatrick was away in the Soviet Union and I took over as editor , I wrote a long attack on Carlton Putnam 's Race and Reason , which the publisher refused to print because the editor of our sister paper , the supposedly more liberal Times Dispatch , had written a favorable Introduction to that racist tract . I wrote for NR a long and favorable review of James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in his book on the magazine 's history , would cite to show that NR had an " enlightened " position on black problems ( though Willmoore Kendall wrote me at the time that the review showed I had " gone liberal " ) . In 1964 I wrote for NR that blacks should be recompensedfor historic grievances by a policy of preferential hiring ( and when Bill repeated that in a column he was attacked in one of Neil McCaffrey 's books for selling out to liberalism ) . Both in NR and in the NCR I argued that conservatives are bound to the concept of " historic guilt " for racial wrongs , since those who glory in inherited values and traditions must admit accountability forp77historic wrongs . Guilt for the past is the other side of gratitude for the past . " The new Negro ' . . . would rather be feared than patronized ; and he is getting his way . And he should . " In the seminary I had taught catechism at black schools and hospitals with my black friend Ted Cunningham , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the order I shared . I was often reminded of him when talking to black **27;3987;TOOLONG on police forces , who had to suppress resentment at their white brother-officers ' stupidity and tactlessness in dealing with the black community . It is certainly true that the misery of black ghettos was struck in on me with new force by my interviewsand travels for The Second Civil War . But my basic attitude had not shifted . I had not even changed my opposition to civil disobedienceas a tactic in the struggle for black rights ( I now wish I had ) . I had some later dealings with black militants , but not of the sort to disturb even the most nervous NR reader . In covering Martin Luther King 's funeral , I heard the Reverend James Bevel give , in Memphis , the most searing and effective sermon I have ever experienced . I tried to talk with him afterward , but he refused to be bothered . After my article describing his sermon appeared in Esquire , he started calling me , trying to set up an appointment . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come visit . He came into the house , hugged me as his " brother , " stunned my wife with his eloquence and cordiality , then gave me The Pitch . He would march from Washington to the UN demandingdeliverance for the " captive nation " of American blacks ; I would travel along recording his triumphs ; and we would split the proceeds from the resulting book . I was n't interested . He grew more eloquent , and also said I could have three quarters of the profits . When he finally turned over 100 per cent of the profits to me and I still said no , he got up without a word of good-bye to his " brother " or that brother 's wife , and stalked out . Now , there was the Jim Bevel I had met in Memphis . Another militant I met through Duke Hunter , one of the black police officers I had dedicated my book to . Duke , later fired by Joe Woods as too militant for the Cook County police force , went to the District of Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deliver the black vote to Republicans for a price . A secretmeeting was set up for me ; the con man checked the hotel room for bugs , put his back to a corner , and pulled out his gun . He said I must never tell a soul of his great scheme ? but if I told the world in a book , he wanted half the profits . I later wrote this incident up for Harold , to show the crazy side of the sixties . Another time I saw a gun drawn , but in anger ? at John Lewis ' apartment . Ivanhoe Donaldson got into an argument over South Africa , and I was happy to escape along with Donaldson , whose house guest I was . As a militant I made a very devout coward . I am still not an absolute pacifist ( like my wife ) ; but what militancy I saw made me a great deal more pacific . As I say , I had not changed my view on civil disobedience when I wrote The Second Civil War . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still thought civil disobedience a tactic that would not work in practice . In the same way , I blamed riots on police " toughness " simply from a tactical viewpoint , and thought containment of riots ( as opposed to mass arrests or instant retaliation ) the only policy that would make the policemen themselves safe . To my surprise , one of the advocates of a containment policy , Ray Girardin of the Detroit police force , denied he had said what I reported , or even that he had talked to me for more than a couple of minutes . I had a half-hour tape of my conversation with him , containing all the quotes I used in the article , which I producedon the same TV show where he had denied his quotes . He was feeling the political pressure to be " tough , " against his own best judgment about his men 's safety ; so he had to deny that he said anything as " soft " as my article indicated . When Mayor Daley came out with his " shoot to kill " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toughness " was a prescription for riot ? which effectively broke off my relations with Frank Meyer . When Frank learned that Bill was going to let me cover the Democratic National Convention in Chicago for NR , he tried to block the assignment . When I turned in that article , so critical of Daley , there was a great silence around it in the office until one young staffer smirked to me , " So at last Wills has struck out . " Bill ran the piece , to other people 's displeasure : but he rejected the next article I sent him , criticizing the Vietnam War on what Ip79thought ( and still think ) very conservative grounds . The piece appeared as a chapter called " Our Country " in my Nixon book . I argued from Stephen Decatur 's famous maxim , from the example of Robert E. Lee and George Washington , that self-defense is the only justification for war , that Vietnam did not involve our defense , that pre-emptive strikes were not normally justifiable . Bill said he would run the piece only if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from my former position to my present one ? the first of many such requests , which I am finally heeding . I thought the article itself showed how a conservative could concludeto the Vietnam War 's immorality . I had earlier told Bill I thought the war dumb as an anticommunist matter . If I now thought it immoral , I could give no better explanation than the one I wrote . Bill was right , of course , to see that I was no longer an anticommunistcrusader . The article I sent him condemned wars for the truth and killing men for their own good : " Most discussion of our policy is a debate between rival Causes , not an attempt to move away from the concept of holy war . " But in the terms I proposed in the piece itself , that was not a defection from conservatism but the elimination of a stand inconsistent with my own " convenient state " rationale for politics . I had argued that politics should not be based on a universalist claim for justice imposing " the good society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than I can say of some young NR staffers , who had apparently been nursing a resentmentat my retention in the magazine 's pages for so long . One of these people , who went to work in Richard Nixon 's victorious 1968 campaign , told me on that campaign 's travels that he was happy to see I was " expelled " by the right before it came to power , so I could not share in the spoils . On the other hand , the FBI called me after Nixon 's election , spurred by knowledge that I had once started a biography of Bill . Did I know anything that would disqualify him for appointment to federal office ? ( Nixon had put him up for the USIA . ) I vouched for his Americanism ; but he was approved anyway.  |p80I  wrote at a feverish pace for Harold Hayes ? just as I had , ten years earlier , when entering a " new world " after the seminary . Harold complained about the length of my articles . Noting that it took me two long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even reached his death , he told me on the Svetlana assignment , " At least get her out of India , if not actually to America . " But he liked the thoroughness of the articles he was midwiving , too . When he put together his own Esquire anthologies , mine were the longest pieces in Smiling Through the Apocalypse , and I did the only original article for the Fortieth Anniversary Celebration . While nodding to a certain prior claim by Bill , Harold justly wrote that I began to be a journalist under his tutelage . Two books grew out of my early work for Esquire , almost by accident . And then I was launched on a third one , entirely by accident . Murray Kempton had agreed to do a piece on Richard Nixon 's newest try to be President , but found he could not get thep81time for it . Harold called me in Michigan , where I was visiting my parents , and asked if I could get straight to New Hampshire and pick up this assignment . I went without enthusiasm ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice-presidential years by being in the seminary , but I tended to believe people who assured me I had not missed a thing . I found what any national reporter could have told me ? that the best time for getting to know a politician is early in a presidentialrace , when his staff is open , his first moves ill covered , his crowds small and well worked-over . Richard Nixon could never be really accessible ; I think he is inaccessible to himself . But he was a lot closer to accessibility in January and February of 1968 than ever before or after . The same was true of his family , friends , and supporters . Because of Esquire 's lead time ( a perpetual problem in the fast-moving sixties ) my article had to be written before the Wisconsin primary , though it would appear after it , so I had to take the broadest possible view of the man and his career . I checked back with early friends of Nixon , interviewing Ralph de Toledano , an acquaintance from NR days . I called the father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been Nixon 's colleague in the House . Both Kersten and de Toledano told me to see Father John Cronin , who had been a secret speechwriter for Nixon in both his Senate and vice-presidential days , a good friend of Rose Woods , and an honest man . Cronin gave me lots of solid gossip about the Nixons ( most of which I could not use ) and one " hard news " item of the sort Harold loved : Nixon , despite what he wrote in Six Crises , had heard about Hiss from the FBI before Chambers ever named him , and was given information leaked by the FBI all during the Hiss investigation . I went back over the Hiss-Chambers affair and , despitemy diminished regard for Chambers ' mind and style , concluded ( what I still believe ) that Hiss did lie under oath . I wrote my piece and hoped it would stand up even if Nixon lost in Wisconsin . The article was out in mid-April , and Dorothy de Santillana of Houghton Mifflin ? another in my pantheon of editors ? asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I asked her , What if he loses ? " No matter . What you saw in that article is worth explain/ing , even if we never hear about Nixon again . " I had alternative ideas to suggest ? a book on Dr. Johnson , or on Shakespeare , pet projects long put off for want of any publisher 's interest . She kept up the record of noninterest in those ideas , and said she could promise a decent advance only for the Nixon . She has a wonderful gift for getting her way , and every writer who worked for her loved her . I talked to Harold . I could only cover the rest of the campaign if he would let me do at least two of my four annual articles on some aspect of it . He thought that was possible ? and took my chapters on the Checkers speech and on Spiro Agnew . He also let me out of my exclusivity arrangement , saying I could peddle Nixon material elsewhere ( one chapter went to The Saturday Evening Post , and the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Vietnam War could no longer be evaded . It split the Democrats as Gene McCarthy and Bobby Kennedy challenged Johnson while Humphrey waffled . The level of protest picked up at election gatherings , and George Wallace was leading a countercharge . The advice that protesters should work within the system ? soeasily given in my NCR columns ? began to sound hollowas I observed the system for the first time close up , trying to describe it . " The system " was an important part of the political vocabulary in 1968 . People were trying to change , oppose , uphold , wreck or work within " the system . " The term 's use arose in reaction to Dr. King 's ideal of " direct action . " Indirect action ? through the courts ( the old NAACP strategy ) and by changing elected officials ? was praised or blamed as the system . For the " kids " ( another political term that came into general use in 1968 ) , working within the system meant going " clean for Gene " ? shaving off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the kids was to end the war . But what has electoral politics ever had to do with war decisions ? The iron rule of **25;4016;TOOLONG politics is this : To get the nation into war , first get elected by promising not to get it into war . That happened with Wilson in 1916 , with Roosevelt in 1940 , with Johnson in 1964 . When the Vietnam War ended , it would not be because of any election . The " mandate " of Nixon 's landslide re-election inp831972 ( against the " peacenik " McGovern campaign ) would have given Nixon freedom to prolong the war even further if Watergate revelations had not weakened his standing . Only then did Congress refuse Kissinger 's request for more aid to the Thieu regime . Elections actually prolonged hostilities . In 1964 Johnson said that our aid to allies would not lead us into war . In 1966 , he was still pretending that the engagement was limited and would not spread . In 1968 he went through elaborate peace negotiations in Paris , while candidate Nixon said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1970 , casualties went down and missions were infrequent . In 1972 , peace was around the corner . A rhythm emerges . Every even-numbered year , around September , the war was heavily sedated . Things looked better as we did less , and a bright face was put on things . Then , to make up for " lost time , " to regain our posture of bargaining from strength , the bombing built up again in late November toward an even-year climax in December . The 1972 Christmas bombing was just the last and worst of what had become a biennial destructive feast at the winter equinox . The off-year elections of 1970 were the supreme test of the electoral system 's ability to come to grips with an ongoing dubious war . The issue seemed inescapable . In the spring of 1970 , when Nixon invaded Cambodia , campuses erupted , classes were suspended . Some colleges closed early , neglecting final examinations and grades . The mood hardened after students were killed at Kent State . That summer the Calley trial led to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that violence would attend the fall campaigns , that some schools might not be able to reopen or maintain a regular schedule . Never was the cry to " work within the system " stronger . As a kind of bribe to encourage this , schools adopted the Princeton Plan ? students would be let out of class to work for peace candidates . But when students went to the training center for this plan , the first thing they were told was , " Do n't argue about the war ; it just turns people off . " Then what could they do ? Canvass to find favorable areas and turn out the vote ? that is , conventional politics . But candidates did not want peacenik kids wandering aroundp84their district asking questions to test each area 's " liberalism . " Paul Sarbanes , running in Baltimore , complained to me : " They asked questions like , Do you support open housing ? ' I had constituentscalling up , worried , to ask what bill I had in mind . We 've got an open-housing bill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues . " Or on any issues . Candidate after candidate said there was not much he could do about the war , but he would try to cut taxes . The kids went back to school and ignored the Princeton Plan . The war went on . There was nothing anomalous about this . Our electoral system is simply not an instrument for making decisions . Americans are always discovering that truth , then letting it slip through their fingers . At every election we are told this is the time to discuss " the issues . " And in every election we are told that the issues are being evaded . Of course they are . That is what elections are meant to accomplish . Issues divide people , and getting elected depends on an ability to unite voters in a broad coalition . Hard decisions on prickly matters get made between elections ? preferablywell before the next one . It is a commonplace that not much serious decision-making is done in the fourth year of a President'sterm , since he is trying to coast through the re-election time riling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senators that the growing Vietnam problem would have to be coped withafter his re-election . Some might argue that war is a bad sample to use when talking about the decisive quality of elections , since Americans feel less informed and concerned about foreign affairs than about domestic ones . The time-honored maxim is that domestic issues , and especiallythe economy , decide elections . That is probably true in one sense . The economy affects elections . But do elections decide anything about the economy ? The 1932 election is considered a great turning point in our politics . It ended the long party dominance of Republicans ( essentially uninterrupted since the Civil War ) and made possible the New Deal . But what rational debate or choice was involved in that election ? The people could not choose the New Deal , since it was not a program formulated yet , even in Roosevelt 's mind ; and certainly not one offered to public inspectionand debate . Far from it . Roosevelt ran on a promise to bal/ance the budget and end Hoover 's wasteful spending . Only when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford to make any decisions to cope with the reality of the Depression . Even then , his first moves were to strengthen the economy by bailing out big corporations and the larger farms with the NRA and the AAA . Only as re-election time came near did he spread around some of the money thus pumped into businessmen'scoffers with the WPA , NLRA , and Social Security Act of 1935 . By 1936 Roosevelt had balanced his hard and popular decisions in such a way that the electorate did choose the New Deal ? after it was a fait accompli . This retrospective sanctioning occurs in elections . But decision-making , to be a real act of selfgovernance , should be prospective . We call our nation selfgoverningbecause we decide on our course , and the decision takes place at election time . Approving a completed journey is not deciding on a course . I should have been in a position to know these simple facts about our elections ? I should not have talked nonsense about making decisions " through the system " ? because I was not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free intellectual market that makes us think of elections as times of great debate and decisions , times when all issues get discussed and we choose the best policies , just as we choose the best men . So dear is this theory that most Americans manage to maintain it against the evidence of every election they take part in . That is why the pattern ? evasion of issues ? is always greeted with surprise and called an aberration . The permanent reality is considered a permanent departure from reality . What actually happens in an American presidential election ? ( I deal mainly with presidential elections , as those attracting most attentionand turnout , greatest prior discussion and subsequent analysis . If the " debate model " of elections is not vindicated here , where could it be ? ) Each party puts up a candidate , by a process of prior compromise , who can speak for that party 's natural constituency ( or for most of it ? why , otherwise , put him up in the first place ? ) . This natural constituency must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , scheduling , etc. ? after which it can be taken largely for granted . Therep86were no more votes ? or very few more ? for a Democrat to get in the South when it was " Solid , " so the party made its ritual appointmentof a Southerner as vice-presidential candidate , and then went hunting " where the ducks are " ( as Senator Goldwater put it with his customary risky candor ) . The strictly partisan vote is assured from the outset ? Democrats who always vote Democratic , Republicans who always vote Republican . The trick is to woo the independents or undecided , those who would not otherwise turn up at the polls , those not clearly affiliated with either party , new arrivals on the voting scene , or even the shakably loose-hanging members of the other party . The task of going after these voters is made easier by the rational model of debate that most voters wish to see in a campaign . After all , if one is to judge each issue and each candidate " on the merits , " one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be prejudiced , but open to all evidence , from whicheverside . That is why , even when party enrollment was high , voters approached by pollsters represented themselves as still deliberating , open-minded , waiting to see what the arguments are on either side ( which candidate is the " better man " ) . No one likes to be considered blindly partisan . Though this debate imagery is still popular , voter analysis long ago established that the truly issue-oriented people are the frankestpartisans . Since our parties are not ideological , but constellationsof interests , the more educated and active people look to the long-term impact of these constellated groups on the values they cherish , not to frothy campaign rhetoric . This , of course , helps the candidate focus his campaign efforts " outside the fold . " The blind partisans will vote for their mama 's and papa 's party , no matter what ; shrewder partisans , because they are not blind , will look past the exigencies of vote-getting season to the long trends of party support and obligation . The candidate is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home " will count him basicallyfaithful . In order to woo those not permanently fixed in one cluster of interests , one tradition of party , the candidate takes soundings to find out what " independents " most want to hear . The aim is to identify concerns , trends , fears , and hopes that can be played on without any great specificity of program . Even the few specificsp87that may have emerged in a primary , or in the party 's platform , are notoriously neglected as the candidate takes his national stance for the final weeks of campaign . It is easy to see why . Even if it were certain that 55 per cent of the people favor all the specifics of Plan Alpha , it would not be clear that the swayable part of the electorate , that still up for grabs , conformed to such a division . Yet , having pledged himself to the specifics of Plan Alpha , the candidate could be expected to support , as well , Plan Beta , since it too is popular with 55 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not have an identical constitution . Perhaps 20 per cent of those supporting Plan Alpha are violently opposed to Plan Beta . The urge to vote against is , in most cases , stronger than that to vote for . So the net effect of supportingtwo majority proposals would be the achievement of a minoritysupporting the candidate in both matters ? 35 per cent . And that may understate the problem . The intensity factor is higher on negative votes ? the opponents of Plan Beta may go out and bring in new voters not originally figured in . Also , in partisan politics , there is a special animus reserved for " traitors " on one 's own side ? for example , the feeling Taft supporters always reserved for Nelson Rockefeller . Thus the opponent of Plan Beta may be specially mobilized against the candidate because he supportedPlan Alpha . There is angry disappointment that one who was on the right side should now desert to the other side . If these possibilities arise in the case of two clear positions , where we have assumed full knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complications when a whole range of vaguer yet interlocking issues comes into view . The size and makeup of the support for many of these will be unclear ; the impactof such new programs on a candidate 's natural constituency is unforeseeable . To take concrete stands on a large number of issueswould suicidally entangle the loyalties of people who do not agree with all of the candidate 's stands . Even if a voter agrees with most of a candidate 's stands , the position on just one matter closer to that voter 's heart may cancel the accumulated support on matters considered more apathetically . Taking too detailed positionswill not only make it harder to woo the available undecideds ; it can even dislodge parts of the candidate 's first constituency . That loyal " hard core " was formed by the convergence ofp88interests and traditions in the party ? a general and overall support . But a key segment of such loyalists can be offended by just one issue too vividly put forward . The more detailed a candidate 's stance , the harder it becomes for voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must deal with a twofold problem . He must tailor his approach to the moods and hopes and fears of the specific election , the sentiments that move and tell and count at the moment ; yet he must keep his appeals to this populace suitablyvague . This is made easier for him by the fact that voters who will respond to one vivid advertisement , or well-staged rally , or shrewdly crafted slogan , are by definition rather impressionable . A campaign , as it comes down to the last stroke or two of publicity , oratory , and shows of confidence , must seek the broadest common denominator in voter manipulability . Those still undecided at the last minute tend to be unconvincible or unconcerned . There is no sense trying to affect the former ; and the latter , short of flipping a coin , can be won simply by catching their attention before the other man does . It would not do to offend them by imposing unaccustomedagonies of thought . Thus the dynamics of an election compel a candidate , as he nears the end , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or as needing efforts of discussion , debate , and reflection , that no harried candidate has time for ) and to court the fickle . Who , after all , is going to be won in the last days ' flurry of instant rallies ( repeating all the best slogans developed in the race ) , expensive TV shows , telephone calls ? Not the philosophers among us . We must remember , too , that all candidates , after targeting the swayable undecided , are sending out roughly the same signals . They have employed pollsters of comparable technique . These have polled comparable segments of the population . Their findings are not going to be very far apart . They have found out what the people want to hear , and told their respective candidates . What candidate will , at that point , go out and tell them what they do not want to hear ? So the campaign becomes an interesting exercise , one that might best be called : Tell me what to tell you . In the course of his campaign , each candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support . Party faithfuls tell each other that the candidate " has " to say whatever he is say/ing while he runs . Once in office , he will revert to form . And , after all , the vague formulae of the campaign 's later stages are hardly challenging to the party 's orthodoxy , or to any clear position . Thus there is no reason for the candidate to deprive himself of the fruits of the polls that he has paid for . He will try to say what peoplewant to hear , just hoping that he says it a shade better than the other candidate can manage to . The importance of these pressures is reflected in the growth of the pollster 's role in most elections . Joe McGinnis would have come much closer to the " selling " of Presidents if he had followed a Pat Caddell around , instead of a Harry Treleaven . Name recognition , public " image , " the tags and loaded terms that show what impresses a voter in the candidates ? all these things are measured , now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And his " pitch , " once the race is begun , must be calibrated to any perceived shift in response to his " image . " Scheduling , targeting , associating , dissociating , repetition , omission ? all must be judged by the response they elicit from the public ; and if the electionitself is the final poll , the candidate is always taking the temperatureof crowds ? his campaign is a walking poll . What lines go over ? Which ones flop ? Things are added , tried , rejected , based on the popular response . He is a walking gauge of what will " sell , " a litmus test of crowds , himself responding to each group 's responses . It is often noticed that candidates say almost exactly the same things in the last stages of their race . They have " middled in " towardthat central group of waverers each still hopes to win . But I noticed something even more surprising as I followed Nixon ? what I described in my book on him as " compensatory counterstress . " The candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pass each other and fall , rhetorically , into the opposite camp . They fear that the indeterminate middle may see them as bound by the extreme form of their naturalparty 's stance , so they overemphasize ancillary considerations . In the 1960 debates , Kennedy was more anticommunist in his rhetoric , Nixon more civil-libertarian . Each leaned against a presumed caricature , and leaned so far that he fell across the middlepoint , away from his " home " position . One might think these rhetorical antics are bound to cease afterp90the election , each candidate snapping back to his true form . But a funny thing happens to officeholders . Even after the election they find their greatest freedom of movement is out from their constituency . They can presume on people the other candidate , had he won , would still have to woo . Thus , since every politician wants to leave his mark ? to achieve something , at least ? the most spectacularlyachievable things stand some way off from his own origin . Nixon could go to China ; Humphrey would not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson could lead us gradually into largescalewar over Indochina , but Congress would have balked at Goldwater 's first move in that direction . The one thing Kennedy could not support was aid to Catholic schools ? since too much favor to " one 's own " stirs resentment in the larger community . In the same way , Johnson had to be fervid for civil-rights bills because he was a Southerner . Every President who is active at all will be accused at times of " betrayal " by his first supporters . It was predictable that Southerners would soon be grumbling that Carter " sold them out " after the 1976 election . Of course , this is only part of the picture , and one can not predictjust where an officeholder will be tempted to move off from his constituency ? otherwise cynics could rightly advise us to vote against our preferred candidate and let the dialectic of events force his opponent to do his work for him . What I am stressing is precisely the unpredictability of electoral outcome . Even those who complain of " broken campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign statements . The candidate has labored to be imprecise , and only loses when he gets pinned to specifics . It would be hard to make rationalpredictions on the basis of campaign rhetoric , even if that rhetoric could be made binding on the candidate after the election . The officeholder will betray many false expectations , but also many reasonable ones . Franklin Roosevelt was " a traitor to his class , " but also to those voters who believed him when he said he would cut spending . The fact that most people were happy to be betrayed later on is comforting . But it makes working " within the system " look more like playing the lottery than like rational debate and decision " on the issues . "  |p91The  previous chapter roughly summarizes what I had to say about elections , about decision-making through " the system , " in Nixon Agonistes . Once that book was used in political-science courses , both teachers and students criticized my chapter " A Good Election " in ways that made me reconsider and develop my first impressions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some endorsed V. O. Key 's efforts to prove elections meaningfulin the choice of policy . In The Responsible Electorate ( 1966 ) , Key used polls to show that apparently " stable " majorities are reallyin flux . People do move , change , die , switch . That seems to be true , but not very important . A stable neighborhood is not one where no one moves in or out , dies or grows up ; but where values and ethos are sustained at the same level despite comings and goings . If a majority holds the same lead over decades , it does not matter that the majority is not repeated , at each election , in each of its integers.  |p92Key  also claimed that voters are not responsive to shallow electionshowmanship ; many have made up their minds before the campaign begins . He used polls to show that there was solid and growing approval of the New Deal even before Republicans chose an inept candidate in 1936 , and that there was solid and growing disapproval of Truman even before Republicans chose a glamoroushero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal trauma after voters were so benighted , in liberal terms , as to choose an Ike over an Adlai . ) I think Key undermines his position with his own argument . He makes it sound as if there is a rolling approval ( for example , of Roosevelt ) or disapproval ( for example , of Truman ) that will decidethe election no matter what the other side does . If so , then the election is not a debate between equals presenting alternatives to an impartial judge ( the electorate ) . It is a contest between incumbentsand their public , with challengers reduced to the role of feckless speculators or accidental beneficiaries . In other words , Key supports the view that voters sanction or approve change retrospectively . In 1936 they ratify , as it were , the choice not put before them in 1932 . New choices were not signaled to them in 1936 ? Roosevelt would spring the court-packing plan after reelection , as he sprang the New Deal after election . His popularity declined , but he recovered by 1940 , when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once again , in retrospect . The voters seem to get their elections after the fact , which means ( among other things ) that the remnant of any term must run its course even if they disapprove of what has been sprung on them . Then their only means of punishment is to take the alternative candidate , no matter how little they can surmise about his future performance . There is great inertia in the American political system . Evidencesof this are the advantage incumbents have , the long periodsof one-party dominance , the difficulty of dislodging even controversial programs once they are funded . The incumbent is a known quantity , with experience . Even those who voted against war when there was peace tend to rally patriotically behind war when there is war ; and acquiescing in a war , once under way , is obviously quite different from choosing to go to war in the firstp93place . Wars are not easily stopped in any case ; and neither are giant government programs . ( Eisenhower could not have " repealedthe New Deal " after 1952 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefer what they have , once they have it , to risky political change ; they choose the safe over the flashy . There must be widespreadand sharp discontent to reject the incumbent of a theretoforemajority party ( for example , Herbert Hoover ) . There is much to recommend this cautious approach . But it makes liberal shibboleths ring hollow ? those that talk of rational debate , and setting new courses , and deciding issues on their merits , and letting the best man win . Is the incumbent certifiably the best man in most cases ? He must be , since he wins . These facts make it especially hard to tell the disaffected that they should bring about change only within the system . The system is geared to prevent change , to mute issues , to defuse trouble , to sedate wars rather than debate them ; to glide through an election , not battle it out with logical rigor . In a sense Key admitted that elections were meaningless on the way to defending them as meaningful . He began the search for " critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifties and early sixties . It was granted that your run-of-the-mill election did not matter much ; but when events called for vigorous response , a critical election could change events . Most elections are not critical , but any election might be ; and that potential for meaning redeems the process . " Critical elections " ? normally defined as the transfer of power from one clearly defined party to another party with a policy alternative ? understandably fascinatedpeople in the 1950s . Sociologists were describing Americansas gray-flannel conformists , students as a silent generation , and business as Madison Avenue drill . Eisenhower was , for academics , a synonym for apathy . Politics seemed all a matter of drift ; election analysis , just getting on a solid mathematical footing , seemed to confirm the power of political inertia . With the force almost of nostalgia , students of politics harked back to the one ( or two , or three ) elections they had always thought of as having made a difference . Woodrow Wilson said that he would teach South America to hold good elections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time when Americans held good elec/tions ? good in terms of liberal theory ? elections that presented clear matters of choice which the people then judged . To their great relief they came up with five or so such good elections . Key first suggested the critical-election theory in 1955 , and offered a sample , just to get things started . He proposed 1928 as a year that realigned party bases , though it did not make for immediatechange in the White House . He was trying to avoid the anomaly of 1932 as a critical election when the New Deal was not offered to the people for their judgment . Later , in The ResponsibleVoter , he would avoid the problem in the opposite direction , as it were , by stressing 1936 as the time when a real decision was made in favor of the New Deal . Others soon joined in the hunt for our good elections ; different candidates were offered , different categoriesused to qualify them . Angus Campbell thought it safe to count three elections critical ? though James Sundquist preferred to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Harry Jaffa counted four such elections . Gerald Pomper came up with five ? but only two of his five were on most other people 's lists . The variations in the lists might hint at illusory qualities in the concept . But there seemed a psychic need for it , a need to " save " the reality of our politics by preserving the phenomenathat reflect our political Idea . So a consensus formed around the five favorite contenders , those still listed at the outset of Walter Dean Burnham 's Critical Elections ( 1970 ) : 1 . 1800 . Jefferson 's Republicans overthrew and ? as events were to prove ? destroyed the Federalist Party. 2. 1828 . Jackson 's Republican-Democrats ended the reign of the Jeffersonians and the Era of Good Feelings. 3. 1860 . Lincoln brought the new Republican Party into power , reducing the Democrats to minority-party status and the Whigs to nonexistence. 4. 1896 . The Republicans beat the combined forces of the Democrats and the populists ( People 's Party ) to establish a large margin of superiority for the next 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reign that lasted at least until 1952 , and perhaps to this day ? so that Democrats continue to hold majority-party status in voter registration and in legislative elections to this day.  |p95It  is an interesting list , on several counts . Though the aim of most theorists in creating the list was to vindicate elections in general , they could only come up with five cases that command any wide assent . More to the point , the list included only one example of a critical election in our century ? indeed , on the face of it , the space between critical elections seems to have been widening : There were three in the first seventy years of the republic , and only two in the last one hundred and fifteen years . It has , on this showing , been almost half a century since our last critical election . Is there something in the process that has made elections less and less critical ? that is , on the theorists ' own assumptions , less and less meaningful ? as the nation grew ? A finding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , in the course of these developments , the franchise has been extended , popular educationraised to new levels , the means of communication improved . People are presumably better equipped to make intelligent choices as a whole ? yet they seem to be given fewer and fewer opportunities for choosing . The last critical election took place almosthalf a century ago . This does not encourage respect for votingas a general exercise . If one is lucky , one might get a chance to participate in one critical election during his or her lifetime . I repeat , these are reflections on the list as given ? yet even these five are open to objection , and different scholars reduce the number to four or three ; or they admit some examples only with strict provisos . Each case labors under its special difficulty . And the closer one looks at each , the less does it resemble any other in the list . Take them one by one : 1 . 1800 . This is the one most frequently dropped from the list . Robert Dahl says it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " realigning " election . For him , it marks the beginning of a formed two-party system , rather than overthrow within such a system ( the only thing that would give us a parallel to later " revolutions " ) . I would go further and say that the 1800 election just supplied us with one precondition for the party system as we understand that term today . The 1800 contest was barely an election in our sense of the word . The electoral college was still functioning as more than ap96vestige of its original self ? though this time there were pledged electors ( the precondition for popular voting ) . The method of drawing up tickets was still rudimentary ; which is what threw the election into the House . The basis of party structure was still the congressional caucus , which was unofficial verging on conspiratorial . The partisan press was secretly hired , and traces of " faction " were covered over . Where public discipline could not be imposed , bribes and deals were swift to breed in the dark ( for example , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this barely respectable network of party scheming , men were identified as Federalist or Republican because of shared sentiment and volatilealliances . Even Paul Goodman , the defender of this situation as " a first party system , " admits : " It is often difficult to fix clearly a politician 's partisan identity in the 1790s and early 1800s , and shifts from one party to another occurred frequently . " The pledged electors and inchoate coalitions of 1800 were not the result of party competition ; rather , they established one precondition for such competition . Yet even that precondition was not sufficient . Most men were still trying to avoid party . Jefferson , in his famous statement " We are all Republicans , we are all Federalists , " was saying that Washington 's partyless system had degenerated into an unrepresentative faction . Jefferson was restoringthe true partyless system . And , sure enough , the Federalists rapidly declined , then more gradually disappeared , after the 1800 election . The party died away to long but low New England mutterings . Even in the two decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up three quarters of the presidential electors and four fifths of the Senate . Thus the 1800 election was not the overthrow of one party by another , but of one attempt at a partyless system by another such attempt . The Jeffersonians supplied a transition from the " national " administration of Washington to that of Monroe . Jefferson 's election brought about no deep change in policy ? as Henry Adams demonstrated in his great study of that Administration . How could it ? The new President had already held the nation'shigh offices ? minister , Secretary of State , Vice President ? in the " Federalist " years . A critic of Washington 's neutrality policy , Jefferson affirmed it in stronger terms than ever at hisp97inauguration . A critic of Hamilton 's federal finance policy , he took more highhanded steps in gathering funds to purchase Louisianathan Hamilton had ever done . A critic of Adams ' Alien and Sedition Acts , he committed more autocratic acts in enforcing the embargo than Adams ever got away with . The bank was not dissolved . The federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Modern scholars generally grant the lack of a policy turnabout in 1800 , but hail the event because ( as Richard Hofstadter put it ) , 1800 " gave the world its first example of the peaceful transit of a government from the control of one popular party to another . " One must stretch pretty energetically the definition of " popular party " to validate that claim . Jefferson 's struggle with the Hamiltonians was a squabble of factions within a ruling order , adjudicated by an ad hoc council ( the electoral college ) . It is true that Washington presided , by his awesome authority , over an unusually ( perhaps uniquely ) peaceful aftermath to revolution . That was the achievement that made minor conflicts possible ? clashes more of personality than of doctrine ; certainly not , yet , the formed contest of two " popular parties . " The late Morton Grodzinsmade a good case that it was the moderation of John Adams , ? exercised against party pressure , that made for the peaceful transit in 1800 ? Adams distrusted the Hamiltonians more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation , the analogue of later party splits , so that Hamiltonians threw their weight to " Republican " Aaron Burr . This loose analogy is not enough to make 1800 a true parallel to later displacements of a majority party. 2. 1828 : How , in a comparatively " partyless " system , were candidatesnominated ? Through the first quarter of the nineteenth century , legislative caucuses held that power . When , in 1825 , the House added the electing power itself to its repertoire , there was popular revulsion against this clubbish autonomy . Martin Van Buren organized what Walter Dean Burnham called " an extremely heterogeneous opposition to insider ' politics , " and put up Andrew Jackson , the loser in 1825 , as an anticaucus candidate . This was a first step toward the convention system for nominating candidates , a stage that was reached in 1832 . Thus the 1828 election suppliedp98us with a second precondition for party competition at the popular level . But a precondition can not be a result of the thing it prepares . The 1828 election , even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect on party formation . " The words are those of the principal student of this " second-party system , " Richard P. McCormick , who contends : " It is common , in describing American politics in this era , to assert that by 1828 or by 1832 a functioning party system existed ; but it would be my contention that in many states the crucial stage of party formation had not yet been reached " ( italics added ) . Only after the Whig Party was founded in 1834 were two truly national parties in the field ? and they did not meet in entirely competitive form until 1840 . The second party system , according to McCormick , had a sixteen-year gestation period ( 1824-40 ) , a developed period of twelve years ( 1840-52 ) , and a decline of eight years ( 1852-60 ) . The year 1828 is not the critical one , even in this cycle of growing and dissolving party alignments ? much less in the whole course of American politics . Gerald Pomper 's computer study shows that the major aligning movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making the competitive system possible . So 1828 does not furnish us with an example of a minority party 's growth within a two-party system . It marked another stage in the development of such a system. 3. 1860 : I have argued that political parties in America tend to mute differences , making them manageable . But the " second-party system " of Jacksonians vs . Whigs took this tendency to a ridiculousextreme ? it ignored differences , leaving them unmanaged . This was the only period in our history when the two parties had no distinct regional bases at all ; yet it was just the time when the worst sectional differences were developing . " The Senate 's role during this period , " Walter Dean Burnham says , " was that of a congress of ambassadors concerned with working out the terms of intersectional compromise . " Yet presidential races were never emptier of content , never more focused on mere entertainment , than during this time . It was the age of electoral log cabins and canoes , of Whig generals and Democratic inoffensives , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only period in our history when incumbency proved no advantage to a Presi/dent . The itch for novelty put men into office and took them out with equal levity . As this game grew emptier , " causes " formed and made raids upon the electoral charade . Minor parties multiplied , for those who cared about other things than torchlight parades . As early as 1840 , the Liberty Party was in the field , and it played a part in Clay 's 1844 defeat . In 1848 , both major parties lost principled minorities to a walkout at their conventions ? " Conscience " men leaving the Whigs , and " Barnburners " the Democrats . That was the election in which the Free Soil Party adopted and spread the doctrines of the Liberty Party . By 1850 the Free Soilers embarked on a series of artful mergers with winnable elements of either party ? with middle-western Whigs and New England Democrats . In 1854 , the American Party ( Know Nothings ) played the same game , and a rash of new parties sprang up in protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1855 the CongressionalGlobe ( predecessor to the Congressional Record ) had to give up its practice of identifying speakers by party ? the varietywas too confusing . In 1856 , the nascent Republican Party , picking up support from some Free Soilers and Know Nothings , reflected the growing sectional split in the nation by winning eleven of the sixteen northern states . In the next year , Republicansin some areas fused with Know Nothings to form the Union Party . By 1858 , the Republicans had a congressional majority in the North . The chaos of 1860 can be measured from the fact that eight nationalconventions were held . First the Democrats , assembled in Charleston , fought a ruinous platform battle pitting North against South ; they had to adjourn without choosing a candidate after fifty-seven ballots produced no winner . Southerners who withdrew from this meeting held their own convention as Constitutional Democrats . The remnant of the Whigs tried a new coalition as the Constitutional Union Party and nominated John Bell . The Democratsreassembled in Baltimore , nominated Stephen Douglas , and drove out the remaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out earlier and , in the fourth and fifth Democraticconventions of the year , chose John Breckinridge . While Democrats tore themselves apart , Republicans resistedp100raids on their members by other minor parties , making party unity their highest norm . The man backed by most delegates , William Seward , was rejected because of his uncompromising stand on slavery . In the 1970s right-wing elements in the modern RepublicanParty , speaking for Ronald Reagan , accused Gerald Ford 's people of making the party " go the way of Whigs , defeated becausewe do n't stand for anything . " In 1860 , the Whig candidates , John Bell and Edward Everett , took a much more forthright stand than the Republicans did . While Bell was addressing the danger of secession , Lincoln made the most astonishing campaign pledge in the history of our politics . He said he would not discuss divisive issues until after the election ? and he stuck to that pledge . He did not give a single campaign speech , or answer a single substantive question , from the people or from the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model of our liberal theory ! The Democratic and Whig parties broke down because the country was breaking down . Lincoln 's election said , in effect , that the nation was now two countries . He did not get a single electoral vote in the South . Our elections are meant to compromise differences . When they run up against a difference that can not be compromised , they lose their function . This " critical election " did not decide the whole nation 's course ; it merely showed that conventionalpolitical decisions could no longer bind the whole nation . One can hardly redeem the electoral system by pointing to the single time when the whole system broke down . It was because the election could resolve nothing that resolution went to the arbitramentof arms . Even so , it is interesting to see how electoral politics in the North returned to its ameliorative role once the secessionists were removed from the picture . The Republicans were moderate in their first war aims , expressly excluding emancipation as one of them . In 1864 Lincoln 's party changed its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ran with a southern Democrat to distinguish himself from the radical Republicans . The Democrats , for their part , ran a general and a colonel as their candidates in 1864 and 1868 , stressing their loyalty in wartime . ( McClellan actuallyrepudiated the 1864 platform for showing too " copperhead " an influence . ) Despite the fact that five conventionsp101were held in 1868 , the parties showed a return to ticket balancing and compromise. 4. 1896 : Harry Jaffa , who calls his four deciding races electoral " revolutions " and says they have all brought in change " from the left , " has to exclude 1896 . It was , rather , a counterrevolutionary effort that meant there would be no revolution . It beat off the Populist challenge in a reaffirmation of the hard-money and hightariffprinciples that had been upheld by the presidential Republicansand the Cleveland Democrats . The 1896 campaign , far from bringing in change , signaled that no major change was going to take place , despite premonitory rumblings from the West . The Cleveland irruption into the Republican period of hegemony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vs . Stalwarts ) and the " corruption issue , " it divided the Democratson a longer-term basis and assured their loss of the West . Even Sundquist , who puts this election at the center of his first " critical period , " admits : " Those who did change their party loyaltywere for the most part voters whose shift in attachment was in the direction of conformity with the regional party system establishedbefore and during the Cvil War . " In 1896 normal ties were restored after being abnormally stretched under Cleveland. 5. 1932 : So we return to the starting point of it all , to the fondly remembered election of Franklin Roosevelt . Most critical election theorists seem to have begun with an emotional certitude about 1932 , then looked for other examples of electoral " overturn " to show that this was not just a splendid exception . ( No one has yet found a generally acceptable post-1932 critical election . ) Yet , since they found all their other critical elections in the nineteenthcentury , the theorists went back to conditions very different from those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our sense did not exist ( 1800 , 1828 ) , or when the system entirelybroke down ( 1860 ) , or when sectionalism failed to overturn the major party ( 1896 ) . Besides , those were periods of a comparativelysmall electorate ( no women , blacks , transients ) , with restrictivepoll tests and poll taxes . It seems a bit desperate to " save " 1932 as a critical election by going back to such different conditions . And there is the troublesome fact , implicitly recognized in Pro/fessor Key 's veer off to either 1928 or 1936 , that 1932 offered no choice between debated alternatives but simply a revulsion against the inactivity of Hoover . Roosevelt did not promise to do anythingdifferent , just to be different , which was enough . Indeed , a good deal of New Deal mythology overstressed the kind and qualityof change between Hoover 's and Roosevelt 's administrations . Hoover had initiated the RFC , but with no time for it to show results . He wanted to close the banks , and asked Roosevelt to back his move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? but Roosevelt would not bail out his predecessor . Roosevelt'sown first moves , admittedly done with greater vigor , were on lines already traced out by Hoover . The same electoral pressuresthat would prolong the Vietnam War had prolonged response to the Depression in 1932 : Hoover felt the normal instinct toward caution moving toward a re-election fight . He tried ( like all candidates ) to give his own term a flattering interpretation ? a thing that made him sound silly by November of ' 32 . Roosevelt , on the other hand , benefited from the freedom to move out from one 's constituents once he came into office . He bailed out the corporations , using the RFC with greater freedom than could any Republican considered an apologist for " big business . " Nor did the Depression finally abate , despite all the activism of the New Deal , until World War II sent our economy skyrocketing . Admittedly , a great change took place in 1932 , one that made the minority party become the majority party . But that brings up the real limits on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book of American history , professors try to read the margin as if it were the text . The striking thing about our politics is not scattered turning points ( if that is what they were ) , but long periods of party dominance . Inertia rather than energy marks the large picture ; continuity , not reversal ; contentment , not rejection . When something invades that contentment , the minority party gets a shot at the election . Otherwise , not . As late as 1964 , V. O. Key wrote : " In about only a third of the states do the two major parties compete on a fairly even basis . The remainder of the states diverge in varying degrees from the two-party system " ( in favor of one-party dominance ) . The netp103effect of the overwhelming attachment of many states to one or the other of the national parties means that , in reality , no " party system " exists within such states for state purposes . And even in states not dominated by one party , there are districts , municipal fiefs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the citizenry that lives , in effect , under one-party rule . In states dominated by one party , the minority party manages to survive . But it does so , not as a chemical diffused through liquid ; more like marbling in a cake ? in enclaves where it dominates . It is not surprising that Americans should vote so heavily from one-party bastions of varied sizes and sorts . Surveys by Paul Lazarsfeld and others long ago established that the main source of political information is word of mouth from peers . Social environmentshapes voting practice . Family , status , profession , job , and residence are the key factors . If a " lifelong " Republican is sent into a heavily Democratic environment , the odds favor that person'sbecoming , eventually , a Democrat or ceasing to vote ? and the odds are even higher for his or her children acting that way . This is not a matter of accommodation , simply , or weakness of individualview . It soon becomes obvious to the " immigrant " into a heavily Democratic district that his or her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losers . One can have more effect on the kind of rulers one gets by voting for the least undesirable Democrat in a primary . And activists find a majority party opening the way to actual office-holding , where one can have an effect . These single-party pressures are not merely geographical . Within certain professions , career and advancement depend in some measure on shared sympathies with one 's peers . An Ivy League academician will experience as many subtle pressures towardDemocratic candidates as country-club businessmen have felt toward Republicans . Despite the decline in actual party registration , these pressures still form coherent interest blocs with inertialstability . The southern " conservative " vote has stayed fairly stable in the white community whether it went to the Democrats , Dixiecrats , George Wallace 's American Party , Republicans , or ( partly ) back to Democrats . When the group " shifted , " it did so corporately , to prevent change rather than initiate or symbolize it . One of the strongest correlations throughout our history hasp104been of Church membership and party allegiance ? see , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . These pressures have given us the long Republican dominance from 1860 to 1932 and the long Democratic dominance from 1932 on . During the Republicans ' time of power , the only Democrats elected were Cleveland and Wilson . During the Democrats ' period , the only Republicans elected have been Eisenhower and Nixon ( with Ford filling out the latter 's term ) . In two cases , those of Wilson and Nixon , the majority party split into two competingfactions and let the minority in by a mere plurality . Some kind of breakdown seems necessary for the minority to have a chance . In the protoparty situations of 1800 and 1828 , the partylesssystem itself broke down . In 1860 the entire national life was split apart . In 1932 the economy broke down . In 1952 the coldwarsystem ( symbolized by the Korean War abroad and McCarthyismat home ) broke down , and Eisenhower restored a spirit of compromise , infuriating those ( on both sides ) who wanted decision . The dominant party has suffered shocks when whole new electorateshave been added at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1828 and the 1880s , women in 1928 ( the first year they turned out in large numbers , accounting for some of the shift noticed that year by Key ) , blacks and young voters in 1968 ( precipitating the Democratic split that gave the South to Wallace ) . These shocks are to be expected precisely in nonideological parties that represent group identity and sectional interests in a stable way . They have little to do with rational debate on policy alternatives . Emphasis on change rather than continuity in our politics reflects political scientists ' own values rather than response to evidence . Even when the " outside " party comes into office , the changes in policy are less than people expected . Eisenhower did not repeal the New Deal . The welfare state continued at much the same rate under him and under Nixon . Even a radical budget-cutterin principle , Ronald Reagan , did not make a significant break in California 's fiscal policies . The cold war did not return with Nixon ? he broadened peaceful coexistence to detente . The continuityof policy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kennedy , Johnson , and Nixon ? as well as by the interchangeability of senior advisers to the foreign-policy and economic establishments . In the circumstances , evidence ( even misread evidence ) of change becomes a novelty and a relief ? as if , by shifting one 's focus , one made the small letters of a book 's text blur into neutral gray and the margins stand out with great visual simplicity . But the messy everyday business of our electoral politics has more to do with preservation than with departures . The trouble with reading a margin is that it leaves the mind with nothing much else to do after the eye takes its visual bath in the clarity of white space.  |p106I  was surprised to find that , after Nixon Agonistes came out , I was no longer considered ( by those who noticed me at all ) a conservative . Richard Nixon was thought of as conservative , and I wound up on his White House " enemies list . " But I could hardly be considered a liberal , either . My book was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " free market " of ideas as it was of the economic free market . Covering the 1972 and 1976 campaigns as a columnist ( and for various magazines , principally The New York Review of Books ) convinced me , all over again , that elections just do not do what people have assumed they do . I tried out my analysis in several seminars at Johns Hopkins and found great resistance in the students . They kept saying that electionsmust offer rational choice , or how are we self-governing ? What , otherwise , makes those nations that follow our system " the free world " and those nations that lack elections " captive " ones ? But when I could not convince my students , Kenneth Arrowp107could . That is both odd and natural . Odd , because I merely argued from observation that elections do not normally decide policy matters by a process of conscious reflection and choice , while Arrow proves that they can not do any such thing . It is natural , however , that students should be impressed by Arrow 's thesis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were studying things like statistics , which has become part of the political scientist'srepertoire . ( Willmoore hated this development , and insisted on calling his discipline political philosophy rather than political science ? not reflecting that Plato was a mathematical theorist and Aristotle based much of his method on the laboratory analysis of animals . ) I welcomed analytic support for my **25;4043;TOOLONG conclusions . Arrow rediscovered " the paradox of voting " that **25;4070;TOOLONG of probability had first detected . The Marquis de Condorcet noticed it in studying the efforts of juries to reach a conclusion , and Jean-Charles de Borda in trying to create rules for election to learned societies . It occurred to " Lewis Carroll " in the nineteenth century , when he tried to correct the inadequacy of voting methods at Oxford 's faculty meetings . In the 1940s Duncan Black turned it up again . But by an accident an economist 's work ( Arrow 's Social Choice and Individual Values , 1963 ) first brought the matter to wide notice in political-science circles . The independent rediscovery of the problem attests to its reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Arrow 's statement of the paradox of voting ( or the Condorcet effect ) : Let A , B , and C be the three alternatives , and 1 , 2 , and 3 the three individuals choosing . Suppose individual 1 prefers A to B and B to C ( and therefore A to C ) , individual 2 prefers B to C and C to A ( and therefore B to A ) , and individual 3 prefers C to A and A to B ( and therefore C to B ) . Then a majority prefer A to B , and a majority prefer B to C. We may therefore say that the community prefers A to B and B to C. If the community is to be regarded as behaving rationally , we are forced to say that A is preferred to C. But in fact a majorityof the community prefer C to A.p108Put concretely : If two voters out of three prefer , say , Reagan to Ford and Ford to Carter , then the majority should prefer Reagan to Carter ; but in Arrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another way : The winner will depend on the order in which one individual is matched against another . Put another way : Any winner will be at the bottom of one person 's scale , in the middle of another 's , and only at the top of one voter 's range of choices . Thus the paradox ? a " majority " for everyone and for no one . The model does not falsify what happens in our elections , exceptin one way : It understates the problem . The more alternativesthere are , and the more choosers , the more anomalous the results become . And remember that Arrow is not considering here the " intensity factor " of people 's real preferences . That is : If a winner in the model is only mildly preferred by one voter , leaves another voter indifferent , and is heatedly resented by the third , socialdissatisfaction will be increased by his winning , even though it was legitimately arrived at by majority vote . Ingenious people have tried to disprove Arrow 's analysis by challenging its conditions or inventing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have shown that these evasions do more to disguise the problem than to solve it ? see , for instance , Niemi and Riker in American Political Science Review(1961) . The paradox is insoluble because the reduction of triadic choice to dyadic decision-making is of necessity circular ? " voting mechanisms allowing one unweighted vote per person can not take into account all the relations among three or more alternatives . " As Riker put it , " One feels the same sort of retrospectivepity for the arithmeticians of proportional representation as for the geometers who tried to square the circle until it was discoveredthat was a transcendental number . " Borda tried to evade the paradox by a weighed point system for expressing preference . But any usable point system misrepresentsthe scale and intensity of preference by reduction , suggestingequal intervals between the points and a point spread along the same parts of a scale . It tends , that is , to approximate the vote of a man who likes all the choices but mildly prefers one to others , and the vote of a man who despises all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winners with a plurality leader tend to be unmanageable . Besides , as Black and Riker both point out , even Borda 's scheme does not preclude the paradox . Black points out that the paradox is precluded if the choice is restricted to " single peak " preferences on a graph ? for example , in " single issue " elections , where there are only two clear alternatives . But that can rarely express the range of opinion on any one complex problem , and certainly not the range of issues involved in most political elections . In fact , the appearance of singleissue elections is usually given , when it occurs , because of arbitraryexclusions in a primary process that limits the matters for choice . We are told , for instance , that only two candidates are viable ? takeyour pick between them , though your real preference lies elsewhere . The attempt to have runoff elections just extends this problem after the " real " election and brings us back to the fact that , in pairwise voting , the outcome will depend on the sequenceof votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the later a motion is introduced the better are its chances of adoption . It is not tested against all the other motions , only against the remaining one or two . Borda expressed the principlethis way : " One may compare the outcome exactly to two athletes who , after having exhausted themselves against each other , are subsequently vanquished by a third who is weaker than either of them . " Black , following Lewis Carroll , saw the possibility of evading the paradox by " sophisticated " or strategic voting ? that is , one can look down the cycle of pairwise matches and make one 's real choice win by signaling a different choice in some earlier matchup ? which means that the only way to gain real preference is to expressfalse preference . Riker phrases it this way : In a society of two people , if person 1 orders the alternatives a b c , while person 2 orders them b a c , the best person 2 can do if he tells the truth is a tie between a and b . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrelevant alternativec and reports his ordering as b c a . . . the society adopts the order b a c . . . . In fact , a and b tie if both persons lie or both tell the truth ; but if only one lies , the liar wins ...  |p110There  may be nothing wrong with lying as a political strategy , but one would not , I assume , wish to give a systematic advantageto liars . Some people , like Gordon Tullock , think congressional " logrolling " is a sophistication that , through a sequence of trade-offs , leads to a " calculus of consent " expressing real preference in correctgradations . But Riker has shown , in concrete instances , that this bargaining process lends itself disproportionately to obstructionists . Besides , in order to play the game intelligently , one must know all the alternatives beforehand and know how other players are going to act . This leads , in practice , to the kind of " second guessing " and imputed motive that Keynes saw in the " voting " on stocks ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper competitions in which the competitors have to pick out the six prettiest faces from a hundred photographs , the prize being awarded to the competitor whose choice most nearly corresponds to the average preferences of the competitors as a whole ; so that each competitor has to pick , not those faces which he himself finds prettiest , but those which he thinks likeliest to catch the fancy of the other competitors , all of whom are looking at the problem from the same point of view . It is not a case of choosing those which , to the best of one 's judgment , are really the prettiest , nor even those which average opinion genuinely thinks the prettiest . We have reached the third degree , where we devote our intelligences to anticipating what average opinion expects the average opinionto be . And there are some , I believe , who practise the fourth , fifth , and higher degrees General Theory of Unemployment , p. 156 . Sophistication just leads deeper into paradox . I experienced the difficulty of expressing preference by vote in a situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mass elections . A group of putatively knowledgeable people , on friendly terms and with some shared values , was asked to judge the finalists in a film festival . The winnowing out of the finalists had arbitrary aspects ; but one could at least hope for fair treat/ment of those finalists once they were chosen . Any amount of discussionwas allowed , and any procedure or rule change that was generally agreed on . The results , as I remember , went something like this : There were eight judges and just over twenty films . In a straight vote for first , only one film was liked by more than one judge ; so it only got two votes ( one fourth of those cast ) . They tried a onetwo-threerating : The favored film picked up a second and a third , increasing its claim to win , but still leaving a majority of judges dissatisfied . ( One asked : " Can you cast a negative vote if you give up your positive one ? " Blocking the leader had become important . ) They tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribute at will . This only gave the leader fourteen out of forty points ( ten from those who voted it first and gave it all their points , and four points from two other judges ) . The panel was still not satisfied , and those resisting the lead film asked that the money be split up and each judge give his share as he wished . That was an unpopular move with some , who wanted the cash to go in one block ( fifteen hundred dollars ) or as a graded first , second , third ( one thousand dollars , three hundred dollars , two hundred dollars ) . But the opponents of the lead film had a majority to get recognition for other films . The lead film received seven hundred dollars , and ten other films were given varying amounts . The result was anomalous in many ways ( besides being hard to explain to the newspapers ) . The film that came in second by ranking vote ( first , second , third ) came in fifth for the money . Enthusiasm and ingenuity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignation . Some intelligence and much goodwill , given not only free reign but enlightened encouragement , could not come up with a result very rational . Election theorists , for all their skills and effort , have not been more successful in coming up with a " fail-proof " system for avoiding the paradox ( or the other inequities of rating systems in general ) . They can not do this even when , for the sake of the intellectualgame , they try out processes complex , lengthy , and expensive ? andtherefore unlikely to be used in the real political arena . Most , indeed , admit that their " reforms " would backfire in actual practice , would introduce new elements of doubt , new awareness of inequities , in the voters ' minds . Better let voters think that elec/tions are doing what they fail to do than disillusion them . The immediatepractical test of the rules is , after all , a willingness to abide by them . Should we leave it at that ? say the process concludes because we want it to conclude ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our system " works " for no other reason than that it is our system . Falling back to that last rather thin defense is not necessarily ignoble . After midnight , the film board I described would accept any of several arrangements just to get home , away from the endless bargains and bickering . Professional negotiators insist on nonstop bargaining because willingness to accept less than satisfactory contracts grows toward the end of any fatiguing process . Perhaps , with a kind of blind luck , we do escape the paradox after all . The rational effort described by theorists from Condorcet to Arrow involves clear alternatives clearly presented , then ranked in clear order by rational choosers . Obviously , these are factors missing from our elections . " Reforms " of the system are meant to extend and clarify the options , equalize opportunities for their exposure , increase participation by the voter , remove distractions and extraneous factors ( for example , unequal use of money by different candidates ) . Yet even if all these reforms succeeded ? even if every American voted and voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in great detail about their real view ? even then we could not avoid the paradox . Then , indeed , the force of the paradox would strike home at us most clearly . Remember that people first became aware of the paradox in situations of high-level involvement and awareness ? in juries , learned-society votes , and faculty meetings . The genius of our system is to make the paradox irrelevant because we are so clearly not making choices among clear-cut alternatives , not expressing clear gradations of preference , not approvingplans prospectively . The politicians labor long and well , and successfully , to make all this impossible , to sound much the same as each other , to mute or hide or fuzz divisive matters , to tell as many voters as possible what they want to hear . We put up with the system because it does say what we will put up with , what we agree to agree on . That boils down , clearly , to a decision to keep putting up with what we have ? the incumbentp113party and programs and spokesmen ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are willing to settle for , at the end of the process , is partly arbitrary and partly meaningless ; but our willingness to settle is the minimal goal we had to propose for ourselves . A refusal to settle would deadlock or sour the process . Suppose I favor A , will settle for B , and can not abide C. You , by contrast , love C , hate A , and know nothing about B. If I rate the alternatives three points for A , two for B , and one for C , and you rank them three for C , two for B , and one for A , the result is a three-way tie , with each option getting four points each . That would better express one aspect of our choice , since neither of us is satisfied with or reallywants B ? who is , nonetheless , the only candidate absolutely revolting to no one . We will settle for B , but only to prevent the worst from happening ( the worst being in my eyes C , and in your eyes A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an election . The probability that any one of us will get our very favorite person is small ; that we could all get our very favorite is impossible . But we can eliminate the generally unacceptable . The choice of political candidates and issues is subject to an elaborate if informal system of vetoes implied or expressed , of maneuvers to make sure " the other side " does not get its most objectionableviews approved . This kind of veto can only be exercisedif people agree , in effect , not to get their own most distinctiveviews accepted , either . The result is not a positive expression of anybody 's will , but an agreement by most people not to impose their will . That is why divisive things get tacitly excluded from the discussion ? religious differences , an ongoing war , slavery in the first half of the nineteenth century . That is why there is such emphasis on the procedure of voting as opposed to the substance of things being voted on . Richard Nixon did many things illegal and immoral ? the secret bombing of Cambodia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention in the Calley and Manson trials , the mass arrests of May Day . But none of these things could be made to matter when the House drew up its impeachmentcounts . The minor burglary of a rival party 's headquarterswas seen as an attempt to interfere with the electoral process ; and to violate the system is to poison the springs of our democratic confidence that we are governing ourselves . We would rather talk about that than about wartime criminality Proce/dural matters are less personal and moral , and therefore less divisive . A kind of delayed Victorianism once claimed that " polite " societydoes not discuss anything so ruffling to the sensibilities as religion or politics . One might say that elections , too , are not the time to talk religion or politics . Senator McGovern claimed , after his 1972 race , that he could have convinced people that the VietnamWar was immoral if there had not been an election going on at the time . The voting process succeeds ? it expresses a consensus ; but only by stripping away the debatable , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to the safe few things they agree on . The electionreturns people to the obvious , even when the obvious has becomethe threadbare ? for example , Roosevelt 's pledge of devotionto a balanced budget . It has been the custom for Americans to claim that , through competition of the fittest men in our politics , the " best man " prevails ? so much so that we hear " the systemhas failed " when it can only present us with " the lesser of two evils " for our vote . But " best " and " evil " miss the point . We are muddled by our mutual vetoes and blocking maneuvers in toward the less questionable of two platitudes ? the less questionable one being the more platitudinous platitude , which deserves to win . If the game is walking backward , the quickest walker backward is the best at the game . Elections sift men in order to find the safest , least abrasive , least original man ? the man minimally objectionableto a maximum number of groups . This returns us to a point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not policy . They tell us who will govern , not how they will govern . They settle the rotation order among our rulers . And they do this with extraordinary success . In theory , the transition from one regime to another might be thought the most unstable and precarious time for a political system . Wide and heated debate should divide . Yet our nation is never more united than at the close of an election . The campaigns have celebratedour togetherness , the things we agree on . The candidates ' middling in toward each others ' positions is structurally very important to the success of an election ? not only to victory for one or other candidate , but also to satisfaction and acquiescence in the voters . The losing side does not feel total rebuff . The victors havep115not " eliminated " the opposition . Since differences were finally seen as marginal , almost everyone can live with the result . That thought transforms overnight the candidate who gets , say , 43 per cent of the people 's vote ( Nixon 's plurality ) or 42 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the people . " Not everyonewill agree with what he does ; but everyone agrees that he is the President , and should be ? his inauguration is a matter of national ( not merely party ) celebration , and traditionally ushers in a " honeymoon " period the President tries to extend . One reason so many people favor retention of the electoral-vote count for Presidentsis that , even though it may overturn the popular vote , it normallyexaggerates the victor 's margin , making a plurality look like a majority , making a narrow majority look like a wide one . This increases the appearance of legitimacy . It makes it easier for us to want what we get ? and we want to want that . We 'll settle for less ; but we 'll call it more . After an election , the losing candidates ' advocates feel disappointed , as anyone must at losing after great effort . But they can look forward to a rematch precisely because the game is a stable and recurring one , with agreement to abide by the settlement as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not be the case if life-and-death issues had been clearly defined and debated toward a decision . People who insist on the purity of the debate process can not understand the amicable nature of politicians towardtheir rivals . Noticing the long periods of one-party dominance , Walter Karp argued ( in Indispensable Enemies ) that minorityparties could not lose so consistently unless they agreed to lose . He felt the show of competition just covered up conspiracy . Party bosses set up the minority candidates as evil boxing promotersmight , for a price , set up endless patsies to make the champ look good . His argument had been made earlier , and more elegantly , in an English context . Hilaire Belloc and Cecil Chesterton , in The Party System ( 1911 ) , described elections as fake battlesstaged to distract the populace while their pockets were being picked : Now , if we were soldiers in an army subjected to a system of military law of unusual severity , we should perhaps submit cheerfully to our lot so long as we believed in the vital realityp116and value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we found that all the time that we were being flogged and/or shot for the smallest infraction of discipline , our chief officers were continually conferring with the officers of the enemy , were on the best of terms with them , concocted their plan of campaign in concert with them , always carefully avoided every occasion of decisive engagement between the two armies , and generally treated the whole war as a friendly game of mixed chance and skill between themselves and their friends and relations on the other side ? then I think our floggingsand shootings would justly become a matter for complaintand even for mutiny . The misleading note struck in that passage ? typically , for the two men ? is the trumpeting note of war . Politics is , like sports , a substitute for war . It tames and controls animosity . It does not fight to destroy , to eliminate the opposition . That is why the Darwinianparallel so often used ? that campaigns give us the best leaders by putting them through a " survival of the fittest " test ? is mistaken . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selection must do , to re-engage the survival issue with new rivals . We just give the loser a rematch . " Wait till next time " is the perennialcry of the losing candidate as well as the losing baseball team . In fact , in sports there have been long periods of dominance by certain teams simply because the best players all want to get onto the best teams . This would insure almost permanent supremacy to certain teams if elaborate recruiting and drafting rules were not set up by sports commissions to make for more competitiveness . There is no commissioner of politics to reassign candidates in the parties ; but fans root for minority parties through long periods out of office , much as fans stuck by the losing New York Mets for years . Parties build up interest in their cause by presenting each election as an apocalyptic showdown ; but then they settle for calling it Apocalypse No . **27;4097;TOOLONG , and look forward to dozens of apocalypses down the road . This should come as no surprise to people who can work up frenzies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depending on whether the man at bat wore a blue uniform or a buff one . And if it is said that this reduces electoral politics to the level of baseball , well , what 's the matter with baseball ?  |p119Well  , one thing that 's wrong with political " baseball " is that it is played with bombs and young boys , not bats and balls . Decisions get made in politics that have life-or-death effect . It is not like being called out by an umpire . Does that mean Chesterton and Belloc were right in saying that others bleed because politicians play games ? Decisions , admittedly , get made in politics ; but what has that to do with elections ? The decision to make war having been made , some protesters in the late sixties were looking for ways to unmakethat decision through an election . They could find no way . More important , they could find no election that decided we should go to war in the first place . No wonder they felt a certain disappointment in the electoral process . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from elections . That is why war comes more easily in the first year of a President 's term ? in 1917 , 1941 , 1965 . I am not accepting the Charles Beard thesis that Roosevelt created the occasion forp120World War H. But there is a general tendency for Presidents to be more " activist , " more risk-taking , when they realize they do not have to face the electorate for a while . The Bay of Pigs invasion came during Kennedy 's first year in office . I think President Nixon would have responded more combatively when North Korea shot down an American plane , just after his inauguration , if he did not have his hands already full in Vietnam . He inherited his war ? and prosecuted it actively from the outset . President Ford was new in office when he experienced the euphoria of command over the Mayaguez affair . Running for office and ruling are quite different disciplines . Once Roosevelt is elected , he does not have to keep repeating campaign slogans . He can try to address the real challenge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electorate . He calls in the experts ? in his case , the " Brain Trust . " He asks economists how to deal with the economy . He asks the elite to help him lead . We can see a general rhythm in presidential terms , action occurringto the extent that it is buffered from any chance of electoralrebuff ? a first year of initiative , followed by relative placationduring the off-year elections ; a third year of " chores , " getting hard things out of the way so that the fourth year can be spent loosening up the economy , ameliorating problems or hiding them . But when the President does feel free to take serious thought and action on problems , he turns to those who have the time and requisiteskills to give the matter serious thought , or those who have the influence to help turn thoughts into action . We are , in that sense , governed by an elite . The electorate can , retrospectively , " grade " the elite by passing or failing the politicians who employedit . But voters take little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say they learn what to do from their constituents ; but the more serious the politicians , the less is that true . The people did not tell Roosevelt how to cope with the Depression , any more than they told Lyndon Johnson to step up the war in Indochina . The future response may inhibit a President in doing what he would like to do . But he would like to do , normally , what he takes on the best advice of the best students dealing with any subject . Experts err . The " best and brightest " can mislead us , and oftenp121have . But they are going to lead us , nonetheless . They represent political " intelligence agents " in the broad sense ? not as spies or CIA spooks , but as informed people passing on the best information they can ferret out for government use . If they err , we must try to get better experts . But we can not do without experts , any more than we can do without brains in order to avoid erroneous thinking . The risks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not avoided by looking , for guidance , to the worst and the dumbest . We have not progressed much if we trade in the misinformedfor the uninformed . At least the misinformed know what the subject is . In baseball , bad players are traded , if possible , for good ones . Bad players are not traded for nonplayers . Everyone in our society seems to resent elites ? but only certain elites . We are all elitists ; we are all anti-elitists . The right wing resents pointy-head professors and smart-aleck commentators ; but it likes corporation heads . Businessmen resent academic economistsand labor union hierarchs , but they tend to like generals and admirals . The left resents " the power elite , " but likes academic socialists . Goo-goo types resent the lobbies , but like civic-minded philanthropists . Everybody resents one or other aspect of the managerial bureaucracy . I started covering politics just when the New Left was determined to remain absolutely pure of elites . There was to be no " cult of personality " in the Movement . Media freaks were disownedby the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sin of leadership ( Robert Moses of the Mississippi FreedomDemocratic Party was the most famous and admired example ) . SNCC types mocked Dr. King as " De Lawd " because he would not " let the movement speak for itself . " " Spokesman " ? even " spokesperson " ? became a bad word . Communes fell apart ( even faster than they might have ) because the only way to becomea leader was to forfeit respect . Everyone had to perform every function , highest and lowest , turn and turn again . When the right wing decided I was no longer one of them , some NR writers started calling me a liberal , despite my sustained criticism of the liberal system , as best symbolized in our electoral politics . But Bill Buckley introduced me on his TV show as a radical . That is as misleading as most of our political labels , since Billp122sometimes calls himself " a conservative radical " ( as does Norman Mailer ) . Yet I was certainly not at one with the radicals in their anti-elitism . One of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there was such a thing ) , and one of its links to the old left , was C. Wright Mills ' Power Elite . He thought America 's power structure had to be dismantled because it did not act the way its defenders claimed . I think it should be retained for the same reason . I was more set against the ideal of businessmen than against their practice . The myth of the free market , the cult of the self-made man , socialDarwinism ? all these deadened the spirit , even to the extent that businessmen pretended to believe in them . But , luckily , they had little to do with what businessmen actually did in the real world . The last thing they want is competition or a truly free market ( if such a miracle could be momentarily contrived for them ) . In Nixon Agonistes , I attacked the splintered legacy of nineteenth-century liberalism as it had been enunciated by men like William Graham Sumner , who believed in the free market of ideas and dollars . Since Nixon , with that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system in its entirety , I referred to him ( too hopefully ) as the last of the true liberals , a displaced and dimmer-witted mini-Sumner . It is interesting that some people criticized my book because they felt I had to be praising Nixon when I called him a liberal . " Liberal " and " virtuous " were interchangeableterms in our centers of education . The liberal is in theory opposed to elitism because a good systemshould work , as it were , by itself . We are not to trust to good rulers , but to a system that keeps all rulers in check . If we can not have literal equality , every person can have an equal wariness for his or her own interests , and trust the machinery to turn out a balancedproduct . Stephen Spender put it this way in Forward from Liberalism : Socially , liberal thinkers such as Godwin or Mill regard democracy as a kind of laboratory in which everyone by expressinghimself freely is submitting his life to a process of experiment . Godwin believed that from the more successful experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . As Godwin pointed out , " The true object to be kept in view is to extirpate all ideas of condescension and superiority , to oblige every man to feel that the kindness he exertsis what he is bound to perform , and the assistance he asks is what he has a right to claim . " To get rid of all ideas of superiority is to get rid of elites . I can understandpeople wanting that in some of their wilder moments . But I do n't see how they can believe in its accomplishment . I define an elite simply as any group having privilege it can turn to influence . Privilege I define as exemption from the expenditure of energy to gain the bare necessities of life . Insofar as we are , any of us , exempted from that form of necessity we have a certain privilege , or free space . The signally exempted , able to turn that privilege into power , are " elect , " the chosen , out or elite , who exerciseactual power . Only they have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others . A man or woman whose bread-winning job leaves no time ( or who thinks it leaves no time ) for study , argument , observation , speaking , writing , volunteering , lobbying , organizing , dunning , protesting , or whatever , is obviously limited in the impact he or she can have on the political system in the large sense . ( Liberal theory would like to restrict politics to elections , since everyone can in theory vote ) . Martin Luther King , given the means to travel , acquire a doctorate , study the Gospel , perfect his sermon style , write , correspond , make influential acquaintances , was part of an elite . He had exemptions he could and did turn into instruments of powerfulinfluence for the service of others . Privilege is not good or bad of itself , in Dr. King or in Nelson Rockefeller . It can be used well or ill . It is the sword given not for ornament but use . All those with privilege should turn it not merely to influence but also to service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a condition to be cured by removing privilege and influence themselves , even if that were possible . The only way to remove privilege would be keep us all nonexempt , all lacking in freedom from the harsh necessities . Humanity in general would then not work to live , but live to work . Some people find exemptions for themselves despite adverse cir/cumstances ? I knew a merchant seaman who used his idle hours on ship to read himself into the clergy , an elite group in our society . Others have exemptions they do not use ? such nonelites , without influence , can be lazy Rockefellers as well as unaspiring black preachers . Although certain people spend the bulk of their lives " on the job , " their job itself creates exemptions . Teachers , for instance , have inbuilt " leisure " to learn : They must keep learning , to teach others well . Teachers have had special kinds of influence on and through their students , the parents , the communityorganizations that support or work out of the schools . Even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect reserved for professional status . America 's huge education system , unparalleled in the history of the world for its scope and expenditure and ambition , grew in large part because the teaching profession was an elite recruiting an elite , lobbying the community in many indirect ways , upholding the value of its product . But no matter how one classifies the interacting elites that guide and direct our society , there can be no question that the elite in America has always been its " business community . " The business of America is business . No other group has had comparable politicalinfluence ; certainly not the legal profession , which serves as a manpower pool for the filling of public office . The community businessman is the community leader in many areas , including the social ( in clubs , charities , civic programs ) . He is consulted more often and more assiduously by local and national politicians than are other professionals . Even when other elites ? doctors , lawyers , teachers , clergy ? partake in community leadership , it is often through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a university president fawning on corporate executivessees at once the true pecking order among elites in this country . In a study of the one hundred presidents of top corporations , compared with the hundred senators then sitting , Andrew Hacker found the former more metropolitan in origin , more WASP , more Ivy League in education , more mobile , more technologically sophisticated ( American Political Science Review , 1961 ) . The executiveshad seized the good things in our national life and were using them energetically . Businessmen claim , of course , that their influence is used for thep125community . They are needed for the United Fund drive , the ballet society , the Christmas show for kids . More important , they employthose who , however lacking in privilege now , would be worse off without the jobs provided by " the private sector . " But privilege gives power over the public sector even for those who do not work in it full time ( as politicians or appointees ) ? indeed , more power over the public sector is wielded by the privatesector than by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ludicrous than the big-businessman who laments the power of big government . He gave it that power , and he uses it daily . Business and government grew big together , with business leading the way . They expanded by collusion , not by competition . Their growth came especially in two explosive periods ? the latter half of the nineteenth century , and the middle of the twentieth . Looking back from the threshold of the twentieth century , Henry Adams said it was unrealistic for Americans after the Civil War to set themselves the goal of crossing and making habitable the entire continent of America . The nation did not have the capitalfor such a venture : " Merely to make the continent habitable for civilized people would require an immediate outlay that would have bankrupted the world . " Yet the nation created liquid capital in private hands by giving up great quantities of its most basic and stable capital , the public lands . By its system of land grants , the government underwrote business on a scale that , as Adams put it , mortgaged a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its stake in this huge gamble , the government had to throw in other forms of subsidy ? military protection , the mail , land-grant school systems , protection of gold vs. silver investors ( which meant , mainly , big vs. little , railway vs. mining ) , creation and enforcementof harsh labor laws , which broke railway strikes , seizureof Indian and Mexican land , and use of the Navy to make progress toward the Pacific more inviting . The trains running into California would call , ultimately , for an open-door policy in the Pacific , for seized Philippines , for gunboat diplomacy . The flag followed the dollar , not the dollar the flag . Fortunes were made and lost , and the winners absorbed the losers ' stakes . The number of American millionaires climbed from four to four thousand between1860 and 1900.  |p126It  is often said that business took government captive in the late nineteenth century . If so , it was a welcomed capture . Bribes and corruption gave business control over politicians . But the trafficker in bribes is exercising a power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lessen their own importance . Of course , the personnel crossed lines more often then than now . That was the period when the Senate became known as the Millionaires ' Club , and any suggestion of conflict of interest would have been laughed at . The nation 's interest and the businessman 's were one and the same . We had all gambled together . But most did not win as well as the few who called the tune . The businessman may not have been the best and brightest specimen of the Gilded Age , but he was the hustlingest . To quote Henry Adams again : " The men who commanded high pay were as a rule not ornamental . Even Commodore Vanderbilt and Jay Gould lacked social charm . Doubtless the country needed ornament ? neededit very badly indeed ? but it needed energy still more , and capital most of all , for its supply was ridiculously out of proportion to its wants . " The great gamble paid off ; and by and large that was what the nation wanted . It wanted the job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dark about some of the vicious things accepted as necessary to the job 's completion . It was a time of " masculine " impatience with the niceties . That tone so prevailed that what Ann Douglas calls the " feminizationof culture " made most other elites look prissy and irrelevant ? preachers , teachers , writers , artists , all that " woman 's world " of Church and school , books and lectures , tea and travel and good manners . To have bad manners was a sign of serious hurry and efficiency ? no time to stop and bow , just grab and move on . A lingering nostalgia for that code was still expressed by Spiro Agnew and George Wallace when they attacked " effete " and " nattering " intellectuals , the donnish high-tea types who can not park bicycles straight . Efficiency was the test ? getting things done , no matter how ? and government had a part in it all . If business grew , so did government ? both in the size of the territory ( and the ocean ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exercise control . If we needed a navy , the government needed to own the oil for it ,  |p127and  acquiring that would lead to later cycles of scandal , when those reserves were disposed of to acquire more territory . Admiral Perry made Albert Fall possible . The second great explosion of business and government , of business-cum-government , occurred during and following World War II . The New Deal did not create the size of modern government . Federal personnel doubled in the eight years of Roosevelt 's first two terms ( after a period that artificially inhibited the administrativemachinery for a nation our size ) . But that larger federal machinery was itself doubled in half the time by World War II , and it has never shrunk back . There are still right-wing diabolists who think Roosevelt tried to " do in " the business community rather than rescue it ? a good corrective for those still capable of coherent thought is , for example , Hofstadter 's essay on Roosevelt in The American Political Tradition . But there can be no question that business moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very well , and angrily , after serving in Washingtonduring these years ( The War Lords of Washington 1948 ) . No labor representatives were put on the major " war effort " committees . Business was allowed to say what could or could not be done on the production line , with no criticism allowed and little supervision demanded . If " the customer is always right , " then the government ? which is the customer when buying bombers and tanks ? should have been allowed to call the tune . It did n't , because  it did n't want to ? any more than it wanted to check the excesses of the Gilded Age . The patriotism of businessmen was presumed ; efficiency called for co-operation , not criticism . It was seduction of the willing . Once again , a miraculous economic spurt occurred . A nation still enfeebled by the Depression in 1941 emerged from the war prosperous and powerful as never before , without a rival in the world . All the other major industrial nations had been ravaged , but our shores were untouched . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dwarf even the great giveaways of the Gilded Age . Nuclear bombs , rockets , subs , and delivery planes , along with " the space age , " continued that merger of research and defense that profited corporations of all sorts , academicas well as manufacturing . Certain professors who would later be war critics had been urgently begging government forp128funds to conduct defense-related research ( by which they meant any kind of research ? even , to my knowledge , the study of ancientGreek ) . The collusion of government and business has to be sifted through dense riddles of ideology to come out as a clash between the public and the private sectors , with great corporations incongruouslyvoicing what Chesterton called " the rather dirty individualismthat talks about private enterprise . " Calling the modern corporation private enterprise is , he added , like calling the Spanish Inquisition private judgment . What we have had in America is , rather , a form of state capitalism , with government underwriting and protecting the larger investors . It is not far from the state capitalism ( rather than socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State , but without the worst consequences he foresaw . For the system with those consequences , we have only to look to the Soviet Union ; for that nation no more qualifies as communist or socialist in the theoretical sense than our society corresponds to " free market " theory . Apologists for capitalism like to point to the recovery of West Germany as a proof that the free market " works best . " But Germanywas the most totally industrialized nation in the world beforeWorld War II , and our heavy economic aid brought restorationof the razed superstructure on that base . The people did not have to change ; they just needed new capital . The Soviet Union , by contrast , was incompletely industrialized before the war ; it was heavily damaged by the war ; it still had to transform an agrarian society while picking up the pieces of its damage . It did this by state seizure and deployment of the national capital ? lands and goods devoted single-mindedly to a rearming as a refashioning process . It also absorbed adjacent territories . Land policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . Hacker points out that some of the same tensions that exist in America between businessmen and politicians show up between the economic managers and political bosses of the Soviet Union . Russia 's recent progress is not as different as we would like to imagine from what happened in our " economic miracle " of the nineteenth century . We , too , seized lands ? Indian , Mexican , Philippine . We mortgaged the nation to a rail system , to be pro/tected and made profitable with the help of naval and cavalry power . Our own blacks , Indians , Chicanos , Orientals , and white laborers were treated shamefully . Yet the nation in general supportedthe effort despite risk and inequities . The esprit of the Russianpeople indicates similar backing for its great economic recoveryand industrial breakthrough . If there are dissidents , we had our critics of the Gilded Age ? Twain , the Adams brothers , and Henry James . Yet ours remained a largely free society , at least for whites , in the nineteenth century ? despite heavy anti-immigrant prejudices . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The presence of elections in one place and not in the other ? Well , the Soviet Union has elections . Ah , but these are rigged , not " real " elections ? Ours are better managed , not to say stagemanaged . There is less restraint on political initiative in America . But elections reflect an ethos rather than create it ? as we have found in trying to impose elections on various countries . Russia 's quick transformation from agrarian to industrial society did not change the ethos of the people at the same rate . The Soviet Union tried to cram our three hundred years of change into fifty years ? and even our starting point , in the early colonies , was " enlightened " by seventeenth-century standards of British constitutional law . In Russia , traces of czar and boyar , of the great estate owners and the peasants , perdure in commissar and communard , undispellableovernight . Even a dissident like Solzhenitsyn yearns back to the established Church and religious authoritarianism of the old regime rather than to modern democracy . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? things I shall be considering in the next few chapters . I do n't mean , here , to say our experience is the same as the Soviet Union 's in terms of national freedom . I bring up the comparison to stress just one similarity : Both we and the Soviets adopted state seizure and mobilization of capital because we both wanted to get a huge job done fast ? that is , we did it for efficiency . So much for the idea that the free market , even if there were such a thing , is the most efficient economic organization . In war we adopt controls , rationing , central planning , and similar measures , because they allow concentration of resources in thep130most efficient way . Even Herbert Hoover made that argument while administering World War I controls . No , the argument for democracy can not successfully be made in terms of efficiency . Freedom is messy . Complex . It lets people work at cross purposes if they want to ? lets us all be our potty little selves , a dangerous luxury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes forwardby restricting freedoms . And even in nonwarring societies we need some planning , some regimen for efficient feeding of the citizens . Our businessmen are the managers of our economic affairs , our materialist elite . They would like to say that a system takes care of things and needs no management ? the old liberal idea of a well-oiled machine **26;4126;TOOLONG people 's actions for the best result . That is nonsense . Things are well managed or ill managed according to the skills of the managers . We can not escape that . We have to use them even if they sometimes abuse us . And what is there to check such abuse ? The political system ? The politician ? The electorate ? Politicians , it is true , can not as easily say " the public be damned " as some businessmen do . But neither do politicians say , or want to say , " business be damned . " Politicians are elected ? and , especially , re-elected ? in great measureaccording to " the state of the economy . " That means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , businessmen are experts at what they do . When politiciansneed certain kinds of expertise , they have to go to those who possess it . They have to go to an elite ? in this case , to the elite . Can the electorate check business abuse ? How ? Through the clumsy electoral system , meant to prevent hard decision-making and clear choices ? At one remove , through politicians ? Yet the general electorate can not bring the daily pressure on politicians that the business community does . The ordinary voter does not have the time , money , organization , knowledge , or friends for the tasks that business lobbyists perform . Elites are not checked by the masses . They can be checked only by other elites ? like the ones I am about to consider.  |p131In  technologically advanced societies , one form of expertise demandedis obviously technological . In the business elite Hacker studied , the second most desirable education after Ivy League schools was training as an engineer . The fear of " faceless technocrats " wielding unseen power has some basis in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are never described to the general public . Take , as one of many instances , the people in the Department of Labor who make up unemployment figures . There are several ways of computing those statistics , each with certain flaws , each with scholarly defenders . The impact of those statistics ? on investment , on politics , on judgment of other affairs ? is immense . A decimal point or two off in either direction can have grave consequences at certain periods in our politics . If the statisticianserr , use the wrong method , are sloppy within the method , we all may have to pay for it . Yet we can not , with George Wallace , just kick the pointyheadsp132out and muddle along in the dark . We must try to get the best expertise , even when the best is admittedly fallible . The only basis for reasonable action in a complex and interdependent society must be a grasp of the complexities , however imperfect and challengeable . Yet the statistician is not himself a manager . He supplies the managerial elite with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor , timing of changes ? all these things , in and out of government , are also largely out of the public 's hands , though it will suffer or enjoy the consequences . So much is this true in our kind of society that some authors have considered the managerial power to be the distinctiveone , the real elite for our foreseeable future ? for example , James Burnham in The Managerial Revolution and John Kenneth Galbraith in The New Industrial State . One does not have to agree with them to see how important these decision-makers are , and how relatively free of control ( whether electoral or other ) . Even corporate stockholders find it notoriously hard to affect a large corporation 's day-to-day management decisions . Yet , compared with the electorate 's limited " retrospective sanctioning " role in our politics , the stockholders are a small and active body with resourcesfor involvement . Fear of managerial power over our lives tends to merge , as George Wallace proved , with resentment of " big government " and the bureaucracy . Bureaucrats have and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economists , professional counselors . The labor statistician is a bureaucrat ? so , for that matter , are men like James Schlesinger and Stansfield Turner . But the popular picture of the bureaucrat is of an obscure civil-service careerman whose paper-pushing affects lives invisibly . His power is hard to check or criticize because it is hard to find , even though much of the criticismgoes to the comparatively visible " servicing " bureaucracy . This latter is condemned both by the recipients of the services ( for being inefficient ) and by the rest of the community ( for being expensive and " unearned " ) . The welfare services are damned both for not helping the poor and for helping them . Bureaucracy in this narrower sense might be compared to **26;4154;TOOLONG in business . The citizen is a consumer of government . He or she expects certain services , and complains ifp133they are not forthcoming . People grumble " you ca n't fight city hall , " but they keep trying to do it anyway ; and they expect someone to answer the phone when they call to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principal reason they must expand their staff  --  even though what this staff does is spend hours talking to people who complain about the size of government . The bureaucracy grows in order to handle complaints against the bureaucracy . Congressmen commiserate with their constituents , and use the bureaucracy to cut through the bureaucracy . Citizens want fast action from people who know how to thread their way through the labyrinth ; but having such people on call increases the density of the labyrinth . Government becomes " inefficient , " then , by its very effort to be responsive . Businessmen executives have a narrow producer 's view of efficiency ? get the job done ; for the public 's eventual good , of course , but not at the public 's direction . " If I listened to you all day I could not build you the generator you need " is the prevailingattitude . That is why production executives are so often at odds with their own sales departments , which are customeroriented . Politicians , of necessity , resemble salesmen more than production managers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and personal resources , goes into " stroking " the public ? a performance the public expects and even demands . It is not very logical for people , having issued that demand for personalservicing , to resent the fact that it is time-consuming and expensivenot only for the individual politician but also for the governmenthe shapes according to his own sense of priorities . In point of fact , many of the direr predictions about " the managerial society " have not come true because a sales-oriented politics supplementsa production-oriented business elite , and does so preciselyin the bureaucracies . Many opponents of " big government " assert or imply that bigness is of itself inefficient . That is an odd complaint to hear from executives of General Motors ? who , when they advert to the anomaly , tend to say that bigness is efficient in business and only inefficient in government . They are right , in a way , about our government ; but not because government can not be both big and efficient . We have all experienced the efficiency of the IRS in trac/ing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real inefficiency imposed on the IRS comes from politicians draftinglegislation in response to a public wish that the IRS should be less thorough . Insofar as the FBI has been inefficient , wasting manpower on silly tasks , it was because of its director 's ideological whimsies . The purely " bureaucratic " side of the Bureau can be very efficient indeed ? for example , in its computerized fingerprint service . This is the side of government that frightens people when it becomes too efficient . Some of the very same people who claim big government is inefficient turn around and cry that it is becoming an OrwellianBig Brother , knowing too much and doing too much to control our lives . One day we are taught to despise the bureaucracyas a feckless idiot , and the next day to tremble before it as a kind of mad genius . The Manhattan Project shows us that government can accomplisha task of great scope , complexity , and delicacy . The atom bomb was built and delivered with speed , precision , and secrecy . The thing could not have been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , screen and compel and hush up . And there 's the rub . We do not want a government that can take what it wants and do what it wants without letting the public know what is going on . Only the excuse of war seemed to justify such secret control . Government efficiency is at its peak in times of war when the excuse of safety for the citizenry is allowed to override , in importance , the freedom of the citizens . Regrettable as all such war measures are , they obviously destroy the idea that governments can not act with great ? with ruthless ? efficiency . Generals are bureaucrats too , and Gilbert Chesterton wrote : " I have never understood , by the way , why Tory debaters are so very anxious to prove against socialism that state servants must be incompetentand inert . Surely it might be left to others to point out the lethargy of Nelson or the dull routine of Gordon . " Government is inefficient not in the degree of its bigness but of its accountability . It can not " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop and explain itself . Pure police work of the technical sort is often improved by size and organization ; the better-run police departments are often the biggest ones , where impersonalp135rules must be enforced and individuals have less chance to color the overall response to criminal problems . In the same way , the FBI 's fingerprint operation is superior to " decentralized " local fingerprint banks . But we do not want a government that fronts us mainly as policeman to putative criminal . We think it should take time to explain and justify . The post office , that byword for inefficiency , does not prove that the government could not run a cost-accounted and profitmakingdelivery system if that were the sole aim in view . It is inefficient because it is expected to service the public , by universal and uniform delivery , by subsidizing the spread of information at below-cost rates ( for books , newspapers , magazines , and other printed materials ) . Readers of National Review receive their denunciationsof the post office because the government underwrites delivery of magazines at a cheap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things continued , much as it laments the consequence . Businessmen attack the post office though it subsidizestheir advertising and ordering processes , both in direct mail and indirectly ( through the delivery of magazines and newspapersthat carry their ads ) . Voters complain about the mail , yet ask their congressman to get them a new post office building and put their second cousin to work in the mailroom . If binding Big Brother down to these menial chores is inefficient , then we owe some of our freedom to that accountability . It is true that centralization of power can be dangerous . But the servicing side of government is " inefficient " precisely because it disperses power , because the government can be tied up with individualcases . This is one reason Belloc 's fears of state capitalism have not been warranted in America ( as opposed , say , to the SovietUnion ) . Distributism ? the English movement represented , from 1910 to 1940 , by Belloc , the Chesterton brothers , Arthur Penty , Eric Gill , and Vincent McNabb ? was named for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power in state capitalism . The favored property to be distributed was land , though guild unions would also bestow a kind of propertyin one 's job . Part of the program was simply vigorous antitrustlegislation , more laws to favor small shops and businesses . But another proposal was to give citizens a certain acreage top136work or lease , so long as it was not sold to a larger combine . Much in distributism resembles the agrarian values and the decentralized " ward system " of government expounded by Jefferson . So it is not surprising that distributism had great impact within three American movements ? the " Fugitives ' " defense of southern agrarianism , the midwestern Green Revolution of German Catholics , and the Catholic Worker Movement ( one of whose cofounders , Peter Maurin , was a distributist ) . The distributist critique of modern capitalism was sound and incisive . But the distributists ' proposed alternatives relied too much on mere nostalgia for earlier and simpler days , for medieval guilds and pre-industrial peasants . The radical wing of distributists becameLuddite ; Father McNabb had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his work as the typewriter . Yet there is an element of vital common sense in Chesterton 's dictum " Oppositionand rebellion depend on property and liberty . " Jefferson also argued that property gives the citizen a place to stand on when making his shove for attention from the government . The difficulty with Jefferson 's scheme to give every voting citizen of Virginia fifty acres of land was that the decentralization would only be temporary , even in his pre-industrial days of farming . One had to have a large enough stock of slaves to make early **26;4182;TOOLONG . Minor plots would be hard to maintain , and therefore easily absorbed into larger holdings . Some distributists tried to prevent this by saying government grants should stipulate that the land could not be sold to a larger holder . But how is a thing one 's property if one can not dispose of it ? Suppose only a larger owner would buy , and the small owner wants or needs something else far more than the land ? medicine for his children , travel for his health , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always been a problem with antitrust laws : How does one limit the power of large firms to absorb small ones without denying the freedom of small-businessmen to sell out if they want to ? ) Our society is working out a solution to some of these problems ambulando . One way is to give a property right to services . The unions give property rights to a job . One of the things I could not understand about the right wing was its violent opposition to the labor unions . Chesterton 's defense of guilds made it clear to mep137that unions are conservative in the large sense . The original objection to their formation in America came from liberals of the Sumner sort : What right have you to bind a man down to being one thing all his life , a plumber or carpenter , when he can become anything on the free market , even President ? Is this not a retrogressionto feudalism , back from contract to status , to a guaranteedlife so long as one stays on the fief ? Yes , that is just what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and drift of industriallife . It gives people a stake in society ; it makes for social cohesionand stability ? conservative values . Chesterton supported the major labor strikes of his time when they were still bitterly opposed . But the unions affect only a small part of our society . The government has , in its servicing role , been guaranteeing a different kind of property right . Complaints about such services concentrate on comparatively small remedial services like food stamps and unemploymentpay . The great expenditures are not widely attacked because everyone so clearly feels their benefit . The greatest of them all is this : Every American citizen , simply by being a citizen , has a right to at least twelve years of education equally bestowed . In an advanced society this is a vital bequest . Early immigrants to America were willing to trade all other property , after providing for the bare necessities , to give their children an education . That shows the property value of the thing . The education can be well used or ill ? as Jefferson 's fifty acres could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference : The right to education can not be bartered away to others or sold for something else . It belongs to the individual child and to no one else . This extraordinary social commitment has created a vast bureaucracy , the biggest one in our nation . And it is inefficient because it must service each child individually , addressing the child 's particular problems or needs . It is also inefficient because it supplies the community with ancillary services ? meeting places , cultural events , policed property in blighted areas ; just as the post offices supplied polling places , courtroom space , and **26;4210;TOOLONG points ( for tax forms , wanted notices , recruiting offices , etc . ) . The government ? local , state , and ( as supporting partner )  |p138federal  ? owns the public-school plants . But no one cries " socialism " over this fact , because the true property involved is the child 's ownership of the education system 's product . The governmentmust own the means of servicing if the child is to own the service . This differs from classical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality " or physical means of production . The problem of common ownership in real property ( in the legal sense of real estate ) does not arise , since the government owns only what real property it needs ? the buildings and facilities ? to meet the demands of those owning the service . The fact that the service is owned as individual property is now asserted by those who call for a voucher system ? a money equivalent to the right , to be cashed in as part payment toward a private education . This scheme has been stalled by side considerations ? theusefulness of vouchers in preventing court-ordered school integration , and a tradition of Church-state separation . Neither consideration affects the principle at stake ? that there is a property in the right to education . Using that property at a different school is not like selling the fifty acres for something else , since even private schools must meet all the **28;4238;TOOLONG of public ones , whatever they add to that of their own . The establishment of this property right to a service should in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have already established a principle of retirement support in the Social Security system . The principle is better than the practice , since Social Security does not cover all the citizenry , and it covers even those included by means of a regressive tax as compelled insurance . But it is hard to construct the equivalent of the right to education in this field because we are dealing with real property as well as a service . We could give retirement pay to everyone falling under a basic income level , if income were the only thing to be considered . But what if the retired person has real property that could produce income , but he or she refuses to sell it ? should that disqualify the owner for retirement pay ? A more sophisticated approach is needed to make sense of retirement rights . Another right to service that is being expanded is the right top139safety . We all have the right to hold our legal possessions in peace , and police try to guard our homes just as the military guards our shores . I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the patrolman guards that right . But I also have a right not to be poisoned by unknown substances or rotten meat , and the FDA guards that right . This brings us to another part of the bureaucracy that has come under fire of late , the regulatory agencies ? the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) , the surgeon general 's office , and others . Once again , the business elite mounts general resistance to these agencies , even though most of them indirectly subsidize the businesses , just as the post office does . A glimpse of the truth was given us in 1977 when President Carter 's administration deregulated some aspects of air travel . The airlines themselves at first protested that policy . To see why , we should look at ground travel , where the hazards and rewardsare more visible and understandable than in the trackless air . Stated in the abstract , there is something frightening about the government 's control over manufacture , sale , and use of automobiles . What could be more arbitrary , after all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the left-hand side of a road ? Speed laws tell truckers and bus companies how to conduct their business . Even the individual citizen must either heed or make all kinds of arbitrarysignals before turning , stopping , proceeding . No one can drive without government permission ? granted only after a certainage , by license . No one can drive a car the government does not license . The licensing involves inspection of both the car and the driver ( who must correct personal defects like bad eyesight under force of law ) . Mandatory insurance and periodic testing are the law in some states and becoming law in others . Car manufacturers must heed a whole list of specifications ? as to maximum width , placement of wheels and steering wheels , number and arrangement of lights and mirrors and windows . Peoplewho complain about government " interference " in the requiringof seat belts can quibble at the gnat , but they should take time to reflect that they have already swallowed the camel . And loud as the manufacturers are against some new proposals ( like air bags @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing public confidence in cars and in the conditions for their use . Who would want cars around if children could not be trusted out on the streets , provided there were any streets , and not just a jumble of tracks on which anyone could drive any old vehicleany old way he or she wanted ? In providing safety services , the government has even more directly subsidized car manufacturers ( and truckers and bus companies and gasoline companies ) . The government owns the means for providing the service : It owns the roads , and it uses that ownership not only to provide for citizen safety but also for communication and mutual access . Once again , we do not think of this ownership as a form of socialism , even though it was built by the exercise of one of government 's most awesome powers , that of eminent domain ? the evicting of people from homes or forcing of their sale . Everyone profits by the service ? butcertain kinds of businessmen profit most . Even the courts profit , since they would be tied up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quilt of privately owned roads led to endless litigation . When the government took over much of the private rail system , there was some loose talk of socialism , but more repetition of the charge that the railroad would be even worse managed now , since the government is so inefficient . The railroads were built with heavy government capitalization ? and they only declined becausegovernment began to subsidize the airlines , by taking its mail off the trains ; and to subsidize trucks , by providing the interstatehighways . Trucks , after all , do not have to lay and maintain their own roads , as trains must keep up their tracks . The government is maintaining the trains as a service , not running them as a business . So it is easy to see why airlines like some measure of federal regulation . Federal standards promote air travel by promoting confidence . If , after a major crash , each private line investigated and reported on the causes , how many people would believe the hired hands of the line itself ? How many would trust the airlines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason to trust Line A or B , that line would be held hostage to the small maverick firm whose noncompliance endangers every other plane in the air . The lines themselves like to see standards imposed onp141other craft around theirs . Government monitoring procedures are an extra system of safety in the air , just as the traffic-light system is on the ground . The Pure Food and Drug Act promotes consumer confidence ; so it helps sell meat . As life in the complex world grows more complex , and knowledge tries to keep up with it , safety and health do not involve only crude things visible to every eye , like rotten meat or speeding cars . The conditions of a mine , the effect of smoking , the effect of thalidomide on children , are things about which we must consult the doctors and chemists . They may err ? as the labor statistician may . Their findings may be contested by interested businessmen ? as the harmfulness of smoking was for so long a time . But the answer is not to expel the expert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or disproved in the long run by another expert . Only a better chemist can refute the erring chemist . Thus the managerial elite , even in its most despised form , the bureaucracy , performs a great service to the nation . For one thing , it helps to check abuses in the practice of the business elite . The mine owner indifferent to the health of his miners , the airline not careful enough of its passengers ' safety , the too-hasty pharmaceuticalcompany , the unhygienic butcher ? all these can be punished or frightened into compliance . And the principal beneficiary of this is the ethical businessman who can conduct his affairs with a public less distrustful of his product . This managerial elite has also given us a concept of property in service that does much to disperse governmental power and to spread the individual tools for modern living . The education systemis the best model of this , and it shows how an elite can bring about its goals without going through the electoral system . Though funds are voted for schools , the basic decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , primarily , made through electoral debate . An elite persuaded its customers that they needed what only the elite could offer . In doing so , the elite expandedits power as a group by vastly enlarging its own number . Here we come to the last popular charge brought against the bureaucracy ? that it aims to increase the number of bureaucrats as a kind of fief-building ; that the principal beneficiaries of social/welfare enactments are the social workers , not the poor themselves . If one takes the principal sin of elites to be exclusion and narrow hugging of their privileges , then an expanding bureaucracy is a healthy one , one that wants to share its privileges . This shows that bureaucrats really want to produce more service rather than retain narrow privilege . That is surely why the school system grew so fast so far . Teachers by and large believe in teaching , its benefits and necessity ? just as producers believe in production and salesmen in selling . George Wallace complains that nobody elected these faceless bureaucrats , or showed by an election that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bounds of exaggeration . The service elite has always responded best to elite arguments , from the muckracking of Upton Sinclair against polluted meat to the charges of Ralph Nader that cars are not as safe as they should be . The servicer believes in servicing , and when that brings him or her up against members of the business elite , the people are not necessarily on the side of the servicers , or on anyone 's side . The question will normally be decided before it can come to the attention of voters . Neopopulists are right to see elitism in the bureaucracy ; but they do not oppose it out of consistent opposition to all elites . They do not want it interfering with their side 's elite , the business community , which could make decisions affecting life or death with relative impunity were it not for the determination of the regulators to regulate.  |p143One  of the stranger developments of modern politics is the growth of neopopulism on the right . It is not confined to yesterday 's " nonornaments , " as Henry Adams might put it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theorists are Tom Wolfe ( whose Radical Chic made a great hit at National Review ) and Kevin Phillips ( who was at least consistent enough in his populism to resent Buckley 's yacht ) . The anti-elitism enunciated by these men is repeated and distributed by journalists like Pat Buchanan , William Rusher , and Jeffrey Hart ; and professed by political activists like Richard Viguery and Philip Crane . I call the development strange , since Phillips more precisely defines Wolfe 's " radical chic " crowd as a nonproductive " knowledgeindustry . " This knowledge elite does not deal in real propertyor the production of new wealth , but in services ? and especiallyservices involving the word . It is made up of writers , advertisers , advisers , bureaucrats , and foundation personnel ?  |p144including  much of that elite I considered in the previous chapter . In a sense , Phillips is just voicing the age-old opposition of productionexecutives to sales staff . But there are some aspects of his book ( Mediacracy ) that make it refreshingly quirky : 1 . The first of these is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lawyer , he became a campaign analyst for Nixon in 1968 , served briefly in John Mitchell 's Justice Department , and became a journalist . He advises the right wing in his newsletter and lectures . The same role is filled by Richard Viguerie , Pat Buchanan , et al . They are all nonproducers in their own terms . I suppose they justify this by saying that the enemy must be met on his own ground to be vanquished . But the result of fighting fire with fire is usually just a larger conflagration , with the fire and the fire fighters indistinguishable ( the story of our aping communist methods to defeat Communists ) . 2 . In the turn of time we often hear from the right what the left was saying just yesterday , and vice versa . In the 1950s it was the liberal establishment that feared " Madison Avenue , " the manipulativesalesmen with their planned obsolescence and recycled junk . Galbraith and others said we were becoming a nation of packagers with less and less to package . This sounds like some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even older complaint is echoed here ? the **29;4268;TOOLONG assault on banks and investors that merely shuffle papers of ownership rather than produce things themselves. 4 . But we have to go even farther back to get the full force of this movement 's feelings on production . The medieval condemnationof usury was based on the concept that money does not " breed " or reproduce itself ; so a charge should not be made for the temporary use of money ( " usage " ) . That was an idea Chestertonand Belloc tried to rescue from its more obvious disadvantages ; but their attempt excessively narrowed the idea of the property to be distributed by " distributism . " They could not see that the right to use property is a form of property ( proprietorship ) , just as the right to services can be a property right . The right-wing populist 's cry against intellectual usury says that words can not breed , any more than coins can ? an odd plaint from thep145right wing , whose own foundations are placed on the overthrow of medieval bans on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leisure for planning , inventing , tinkering , teaching new workmen , etc . In that sense , capital has always flowed in to a " knowledge industry . " Furthermore , the production of wealth is incomplete without its distribution and protection . It does no good to produce thousands of shoes if you can not find people who want them , or if the people who want them just come and grab them for free . By considering problems of distribution and protection , the knowledge industry completes the production process. 5 . But the truly basic question raised by Phillips is one often overlooked by both the right and the left . Do we live to work , or work to live ? Assuming everyone could be fed adequately tomorrow , and sheltered , what would be left for mankind to do ? Would it have completed its overriding and only task ? The work ethic of the right makes work its own end ? satisfying , character-forming , virtuous , productive of good to others . To achieve success is to do one 's work better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the radical left just turns that attitude around and repeats it from a new angle . Politics has no higher goal than to keep the poor from suffering . Equality of possession would complete the human task . But Bernard Shaw realized there are different kinds of comfort . A clergyman is not any more nonproductive than a baker if his flock feels an acute need for consolation of the spirit as well as for the body 's sustenance . Shaw had to recognize the productivity of knowledge because his own sharpest craving was for music . Baffled of that , he would have starved . You could not call musiciansnonproductive in his house . Even in the old medieval sense , knowledge " breeds , " produces more knowledge in oneself and others , as surely as more grain produces more bread . And the aim of any human production is not simply to turn out more of anything for its own sake . Production is meaningless until it can bring about or increase human satisfaction . Surely religion , the arts , entertainment , and " mere words " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it turns out , is just another phrasingp146of the Gilded Age 's assurance that culture is sissy stuff , that a man 's work is to work , and that work blesses the human race with railroads . This anachronistic snort of Industrial Age masculinity is made to seem timely by the resentment felt for do-gooders in Wolfe 's Radical Chic . The privileged advocates of welfare for the poor are dismissed as condescending meddlers , people who will not trust the poor to decide what they want . Daniel Patrick Moynihan voiced this complaint in Maximum Feasible Misunderstanding , which charged that an elite of the upper middle class had allied itselfwith the poor to do in the decent working class : Social scientists love poor people . They also get along fine with rich people . ( Not a few are wealthy themselves , or married to heiresses . In any event , in the 1960s , persons of great wealth have been a major source of support not only for social-science research , but for radical political activity . ) But , alas , they do not have much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would appear to have but little sympathy with the desire for order , and anxiety about change , that are commonly enough encountered among working-class and lower middle-class persons . The privileged children of the upper middle classes more and more devoted themselves , in the name of helping the oppressed , to outraging the people in between . This analysis neatly shifts one 's concern from the plight of the poor to the plight of the not-so-poor . It also asserts that the protestof the poor , to be authentic , must rise from the unaided voices of the poor . If professors and philanthropists tell them what they should be demanding , we shall never find out what the poor really demand . Moynihan said it : The war on poverty was not declared at the behest of the poor ; it was declared in their interest by persons confident of their own judgment in such matters . How , one might ask , were the poor to launch their own war on poverty , at their own " behest " ? Presumably by voting . That re/turns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a means of effecting change . No , it does not return us even that far . Even if the vote were an effective instrument of change , the poor would not wield that instrument proportionately , because of historical inhibitionson their forming the voting habit . ( In the case of blacks , of course , the vote was effectively denied them , , by law and by socialpressure . Even after the do-gooders changed the law , they had to go South and escort frightened Mississippians past lowering sheriffs to get them registered . ) The authors who think the lower middle class needs protection oddly think the poor need none at all ? or at least none from the privileged , the elite , the " silk-stocking liberals , " or the radical-chic set . All of them treat this alliance of privilege with poverty as anomalous , as something new and monstrous . Did Roosevelt breed a whole line of traitors to their class ? Underlying the argument runs an assumption that shows up elsewhere , too . It is , in fact , one of Plato @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the immutable , the ideal Forms . Because it changed , the shifting world of phenomena verged off toward unreality . In politics , his rulers were to represent and mediate the Forms to those unable to grasp them on their own . This made the rulers represent order and stability to shadowy masses unstable in themselves . Even when Aristotle altered the metaphysical background of Plato 's politics , he kept this part of his outlook ? change for him , too , came from " below " in social terms . The classicalmodel of politics pits a relatively unchanging ( " conservative " ) privileged set against fluctuant lower classes yearning for change ( for " liberation " ) . It takes little observation to see that this theory , so neat and plausible a priori , is cockeyed . Man is a creature of habit , taught and reassured by repetition . Insofar as he must struggle for his daily bread , he accepts the social and religious myths taught him as a child . He never has the time to question them . He fears change because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like an eclipse , " destroying " dependable movements of the sun . The deeply poor have little awareness of alternatives to their world , little ability to explore them . They have not had the leisure and teachers to discover the reasons forp148eclipses . It is hard to turn astronomer after a long day 's work in the fields . And even if the poor have the leisure and tools to consideralternate world views , the means to accomplish any change based on that knowledge would be out of their hands ? beginning with the intellectual means , the familiarity with those who hold power , the understanding of how they might be affected . Change comes , socially , " from the top . " That is why all radicals are of necessity elitists , though most of them will not admit this . The secure can ( and should ) take risks ? it is a luxury , like most others , denied the poor . Intellectual risk comes first . The learned feel confident enough to question the social and religious myths . The technologically sophisticated invent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Museum what will happenlater at the barricades . These truths have often been remarked in their remoter consequences , that it is not the most abject and downtrodden who tend to rebel , but those with rising expectations ? that is , room to maneuver . The great eighteenth-century revolutions , of which ours was the more successful , came from a prospering " bourgeois " level of society , impatient with an aristocracy that impeded its already rapid progress . Reform in the nineteenth century was basically middle-class ; it came from educated dissentersoutside Church and academic establishments . The spirit of rebellion has reached the poor in the twentieth century precisely because they have made strides toward literacy and the envisioningof alternatives . The elite class that spread the doctrine of universaleducation had more to do with this than did Lenny Bernsteinlistening to Black Panthers state their case . So did the elite class of inventors and the business class of manufacturers and distributorswho put TV sets in the households of the poor , where the business elite can tell them every day what products they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Having started that process , the sorcerer 's apprentices can not call it off overnight or blame the whole thing on cocktail parties for Cesar Chavez . But if most revolutions , even the nonviolent and evolutionary kind , need a mass with rising hopes and envisioned alternatives , they also need in most cases allies among the privileged who will take risks to help them . Tom Wolfe treats the appearance of suchp149allies as a weird creation of the 1960s , some perversion of good American tastes for which the aptest model he could find was Marie Antoinette playing shepherdess in her Deer Park . Privileged reformers are prompted by no nobler motives , Wolfe tells us , than a nostalgie de la boue . Yet Mr. Wolfe took his doctorate at Yale in American studies and should know better . Reform in America has traditionally been prompted and guided by elites . Take , for instance , abolitionism . Most of the charges made against radical-chic lovers of " the black demi-monde " ( the contemptuousterm is Moynihan 's ) were brought against William Lloyd Garrison and his like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially interested in pretty young black girls . It was said that Garrison supported radicals who would wreck the whole system ? John Brown was the " guy " to scare people back then , as Black Panthers were when Moynihan coined his phrase . Slaves , people argued , were actually better off than white workers in the North ; slaves were happy with their lot , and the burden of freedom would just make them miserable ; Southerners understood the blacks better than " outside agitators " from the North who , in trying to help , would just hurt them . Slave owners were also slave protectors ; they had a feeling for " their " Negroes . The litany did not change from one century to the next . So : Are we to call the freeing of the slaves an exercise in elitist arrogance because the slaves did not free themselves , did not declare a war on slavery " at their own behest " ? Why was Garrison certain he could express the real wants of the slaves ? Why did Americans not listen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is the kind of question asked by people who would not listen to slaves even if they could . One reason abolitionism could be voiced in the North is that runaway slaves and reformers could talk in safety there . Did they expect the slaves ' true feelings to be expressed in the slaves ' own pamphlets , which they had not been educated to read or write ? Printed on their own presses , which they could not possiblybuy or work ? Nor is abolitionism an isolated case of reforms brought about by elites . The spread of universal education on the American scale was a silent and most invisible reform in the way most societiesp150have thought of educational privilege ? and that was effected , as I have already argued , by a self-expanding elite of teachers and their teachers . We are told now that only the cultured set has the time to worry about the environment , as if they cared only for the spoiling of their own playgrounds . The same thing was said about the muckrakers who attacked rotten meat ? they were just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poor man 's fare . The labor movement was led and defended by educated and welltraveledmen ? men like Eugene Debs and Walter Reuther . They , too , were called " outside agitators " not in touch with what workers really wanted . They created dissatisfaction rather than expressed it , hurt people they were trying to help ? all the charges brought against Cesar Chavez and his supporters now . It takes a very dull or skewed acquaintance with our history to think that elite interest in reform arose at last ( and only then as an aberration ) when a composer-conductor got interested in restive blacks awash in the streets of his own town . ( He did , after all , compose the song " New York , New York " ? why should interest in the " colored " part of the city 's population arise from nothing but nostalgiade la boue ? Is Mr. Wolfe saying that blacks and Puerto Ricans and Chicanos are boue ? ) Freud asked , " What do women really want ? " It is the kind of question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What do slaves really want ? What do segregated blacks in the 1950s really want ? What do migrant workers really want ? Those who ask the question do not have an answer ? but they use that fact to say that neither do reformers have an answer . Now we are told that feminists do not understand what normal housewives want . The elite reformer speaks only for spoiled Radcliffe girls . The same charge was made against the suffragists . They were told women did not want to vote , and would not vote even if they were given the chance . " Then why not give them the vote , " some of them answered their male opponents , " since it will make no difference ? " As a matter of fact , women did not vote heavily for eight years after suffrage was granted ? until an issue came along that broke their habit of nonparticipation . But they have shown us , since , what they really want : They vote more heavily than men do , In the same way , one can argue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed up in small numbers even where their concentration would make for heavy voting impact . But votingis a matter of habit , and habits are as hard to form as to break . In time blacks will no doubt follow the pattern of women voters in the twenties . ( It is interesting that young voters , just admitted to the polls at earlier ages , have not turned out in great numbers , either . The habit is hard to develop at all social and educational levels ) . The suffragist movement is important for anyone considering the uses of elites because it was not only started by an elite , but was intended to express elitist values . Women voters were supposedto tell others " what is good for you . " Alan P. Grimes ( in The Puritan Ethic and Suffrage 1967 ) made a convincing case that suffrage first grew up in the West , though its ideology had been formed in the East , as part of an effort to make the frontier more genteel . The territories of Utah and Wyoming gave women the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The schoolmarms and goodwives were called in to help overrule cowboys . Women voters deliberately spoke for the " feminine " world of Church and lectures that masculine bustle opposed . It was in the supposedly more cultured East that women 's suffrage made slow and hard progress . Not only the bigmoneymenwho despised culture , but the immigrant machines run by city bosses , resented ladylike reformers upsetting their world of deals . In fact , by getting trapped into an assertion of refinement , the later suffragists discovered they had put on a political hobbleskirt . Aileen Kraditor traces the paradox : Before the turn of the century eastern suffragists claimed the vote principally on the basis of their contention that men and women were identical in their humanness , whereas the antis emphasized the " divinely ordained " differences . On this one point , however , the antis claimed that enfranchised women would melt into the party-ruled electorate , whereas the suffragists insisted that the differences between men and women were so profound that having the vote would not affect women 's nonpartisanship . The antis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffragists maintained that it would enable their unchangeable womanliness to undo the evil that men had wrought through their sordid parties . Many suffragists felt that success depended on their taking only the most lofty and disinterested stand at every turn . The chairwomanof the New York suffrage assembly told the Albany legislature , " I do not want him the chairman of the committee or any of his fellow members to vote for reporting the suffrage measure until they are convinced that woman suffrage is a good and worthy cause . " The absurdity of her position is revealed if we reflect that the chairman of that committee had been buttoning up the measure so politicians would not have to say what they thought of the matter , pro or con . The chairwoman expected men to vote only as conscience dictated with regard to this measure ? while on all other matters they were responding to pressure , legislativedebts to their fellows , maneuvers for assignments , future campaign possibilities , etc . When Harriot Stanton Blatch used this case to prove that " There did not seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the ladies answered that they were proud to be unstained by such dark knowledge . There would be no mucking about with boue for those ladies . It is typical that escape from sterile poses to real reform should come from the very top , from a privileged and " liberated " woman like Mrs. Blatch . Strong enough to boss around Bernard Shaw , she had learned her tactics in England , where suffragists were on hunger strikes in jail ( a horrid thought to the women who met her when she returned to New York in 1906 ) . In England , where educated reformers remembered that voting was done with stones in antiquity , women used to throw pebbles at antisuffrage politicianson the stump , silently " voting . " Mrs. Blatch saw that what the American movement needed was a little imaginative troublemaking . She invited Mrs. Cobden-Sanderson , fresh from jail in England , to come speak at Cooper Union ; then she contrived a tour of Ellis Island with the immigration commissioner , and dropped word that the visiting lecturer was a convict ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the daughter of England'sp153leading free-trade politician , Richard Cobden , and the close personalfriend of Lord Bryce , then in America as ambassador ( and writing his classic work on this country ) . The commissioner reacted as U.S. immigration authorities have so often done : He banned the troublemaker from our shores . AmbassadorBryce got the ban lifted , but thought it would be more tactful for his friend to circle into America from Canada , rather than through Ellis Island . Mrs. Blatch made sure this became the more dramatic route , and publicly thanked the commissioner for bringing such a large crowd to the Cooper Union address . The " responsibles " tried to tame Mrs. Blatch . They gave her money to organize , on the condition that she not open a vulgar headquarters at street level , like any ward boss . When she called for a joint parade of all women 's groups , the respectables refused to march ? they motored along in coiffed and parasoled dignity . Harriot fixed that , next year , when she organized the march again but banned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " classes in the art of walking " to any who might have forgotten it . Classes would be conducted by " Josephine Beiderbasse , director of physical training of the Wadley High School . " She had corrupted even the schoolmarms . Mrs. Blatch organized , demonstrated , picketed , was arrested . She was mocked as just a society lady off on a spree . She was considered a freak . In other words , she was a reformer . And she won . All the things she fought for are now taken for granted ; most people would think a person crazy now if he advocated repealing women 's right to vote . Her abnormality has become our noun . That is how change normally comes about . A price has to be paid . And those can pay the most who have the most , unless they make their very possessions an imprisonment , claiming they can not support the poor because they are not poor themselves . Neat , is n't it , this argument used against " elitists " who try to do anything except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and authentic . Using privilege to spread privilegeis nonproductive and arrogant . For those exempt from harsh necessity to help those still laboring under harsh necessity is somehow to abuse one 's own exemptions ! How did people back themselves into such a dark little mental cul-de-sac ? I suppose ? giving them more credit than they do the reformers ? we should not putp154it down to mere selfishness or callousness toward suffering . The horrible thing about bad ideals is their ideality . The American cult of self-sufficiency , of the self-made man , of moral fiber gained only by struggling on one 's own , makes spiritual ascetics of some people ? even though their chosen rigors are nothing to the unwilledsufferings of the poor . These people truly feel that helping others is a way of showing contempt for them ? proclaiming that they need help when we should pay them the respect to think they are above such needs . When Chesterton ran across the British argument that only " gentlemen " should be elected to political office , because the rich do not need to be bribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich were already bribed ? most had been bribed before they were born . In the same way , we all need help ? but the prosperous class got its help before it was born . Mrs. Blatch was , unfortunately , considered a " maverick " among the rich because she thought one of the advantages of being advantagedis having the means to help the disadvantaged . Admittedly some reformers are condescending , as some experts are mistaken ; and they may justly be warned , " Physician , heal thyself . " But even their attitude is preferable to that of people who look at the poor and say " Patient , heal thyself . " For , in the Kevin Phillips school of self-help , to be a doctor is to express contempt for the ill . To be a teacher is to be arrogant enough to think you can help a pupil . The very profession of lawyer is a smirk at those who cannotestablish their own innocence . We all need help . The poor need help , and can not pay for it ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Let slaves go out and earn the money to hire William Lloyd Garrison ; then he would no longer be a " nonproductive " dabbler in radical causes , but a productive man doing his work the way all good people should , for cash on the barrelhead . Mrs. Blatch noticed that the suffragists were supposed to make their way by pure argument , apart from any baser appeals ; while their opponents were free to use all kinds of " lower " arguments , from mutual benefit , log-rolling , and cronyism . In the same way , Messrs . Moynihan and Wolfe tell blacks to make their own way " within the system " ? the electoral and court systems , mainly ?  |p155while  others exercise many kinds of pressure outside the textbook system . Mr. Phillips is not anti-elitist , as he thinks . He just does not want anyone checking the business elite , which happens to be his favorite one . The wealthy can lobby , but the poor can not demonstrate . The rich can deal with politicians as friends , dinner companions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor , like the suffragists , must exert influence only by sheer logic and persuasion . The disadvantaged must observe a delicacy beyond that of the privileged . Faiblesse oblige . Here all handicapping systems get reversed : The weaker and smaller must have one hand tied behind his back before he enters the ring . The odds would be stacked against " outsiders " even if the insidersagreed to abide by nothing but the pure electoral system of liberal theory ? since the poor have been inhibited by many pressures from partaking fully in the system . They do not have their own parties and candidates , their established polling and vote-getting systems ; and the means of forming them are hard to come by . Yet this just begins to touch the problem . Even if the poor worked well and efficiently in the electoral process , that process gives only a muted and fuzzy indication of what all the voters are saying . And here we come to the final rather sick joke on the poor . The very law that reveals to us the limitations on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections , but in the attempt to find a way of determining what social benefits are wanted most by those lacking them . Kenneth Arrow expounded the " paradox of voting " while laboring to come up with a way to find out " what the poor really want . " Neater and neater this anti-elitist gambit becomes , as we gaze on it . The poor are supposed to make their own way , voicing their grievances through the system ? though ( 1 ) they do not participatemuch in the system , and ( 2 ) others are free to work outside the system in all kinds of ways , and ( 3 ) even if they had full participation in the system their voice could not be clearly heard , because(4) a man taught us to despair of such clarity in the very act of trying to discover what the poor really prefer ! William Lloyd Garrison did not begin by asking what the slaves really want . He began by saying slavery is wrong . It was wrong even if slaves did not think it wrong . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slaves , if he had to . It seemed to him quaint that others , having crushed the spirit of liberty in the slaves , should say it would be wrong to give them liberty now because they were not asking for it . He answered , in effect , " Give it to them and see if they ever try to give it back to you . " If the slave owners did not feel , against their own professions , that the slaves wanted freedom , they would not have been so resistant to giving it . If women will not vote anyway , why care whether they are able to ? Defenders of the system as it is supposed to work are right in feeling threatened by elitists . Garrison does not take a poll among the slaves , before denouncing slavery , to see if slaves dislike it . Mrs. Blatch did not survey housewives before saying women should have the right to vote if men do . Yet why should the best be less useful to us than the brightest ? Pasteur did not ask milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not wait to start work on the light bulb till a consumer questionnaire showed a majority in favor of developing light bulbs . If people do n't want bulbs , they wo n't use them ? as women would not use the vote if they did not want to . It is not the elite 's job to go with the majority . Let politicians do that , to the extent they can get things muddled down for a majority to choose them . The elite 's job is to be as good and bright as it can , and give as much help as it can in the way of moral teaching and expertise . Opposition to that simple fact of life leads to the weird but popular defeatism of the anti-elitists : Anyone is free to help mankind except those who are most able to.  |p157I  can understand the impatience of radicals who say they can not wait for ladies bountiful to come along and bring reform . This is where radical impatience joins with liberal hope and says , " If the elite does not ride to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electoral system as something that , at least , is always there , and that might bring about some change ? " It would be nice if that were so . But is it so ? Of course , elections ratify ( retrospectively ) change that has already taken place through elite decision ( the New Deal ) or established consensus ( support for the school system ) . But what resisted change for the good ever made its way principally through elections , or got more help from them than hindrance ? Look at the suffragist case brought up in the previous chapter . To the extent that women 's suffrage became a hot issue , politiciansavoided it at campaign time . Theodore Roosevelt persuaded a delegation of the ladies that he could help them more if they didp158not bother him during his 1904 campaign . Woodrow Wilson was still evading the issue in 1912 , and Mrs. Blatch led a demonstrationoutside his White House on the day preceding his inauguration . Mrs. Blatch and others asked him to express some kind of support for their movement , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state to decide , not a federal issue ? the tactic later used to deny civil rights to blacks in the fifties . Mrs. Blatch then asked Wilson as a citizen of New Jersey to expressan opinion on this state matter , but he refused . When his party 's platform opposed suffrage , he said his hands as a candidatewere hound ; but the women knew he had influenced the platformcommittee to avoid a dangerous prosuffrage stand ; and when they showed that they knew it , Wilson stalked out of the meeting . Mrs. Blatch recalled one meeting with Wilson , when he expressed sympathy but refused support : Amazed , we asked what the obstacle was and were told it was the Negro question . " But of course , " I urged , " you know the enfranchisement of women in the South would not decrease the proportion of white to black voters . " " Yes , I know it , " he replied , " but congressmen do n't . " " Ca n't congressmen be persuaded , " I retorted , " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and study out the figures for themselves ? " He smiled , and in a low voice answered , " In two states the blacks would still preponderate . " President Wilson was willing to deny the ratio of men to women , to defy mathematics itself , rather than introduce a difficult issue into an election . Look at another issue : The major social change in the last two decades has been the growth of the civil-rights movement . Through the first part of this century , the rights of blacks and Chicanos and Indians were treated as regional matters , insulated from national debate . The largest body of the aggrieved lay in the South , which the Democratic Party could not afford to alienate ? Franklin Roosevelt blocked consideration of antilynch laws and the Klan in Democratic conventions . The matter slept , untouchedp159by elections , until World War II made the issue national , in two ways . It introduced friction into the armed services , where the South 's Jim Crow customs were at first imposed on people from all the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Korea ) that Truman desegregated the services ? when a disproportionatenumber of blacks staying on in the service were officers . Second , the mass migration of blacks to northern jobs during the war made the issue no longer regional . Clark Clifford , in his famous campaign-strategy memorandum to Truman , said that some civil-rights gestures would be needed to head off Henry Wallace 's threat ? the South could be counted on to swallow this . So Truman proposed a fair employment law early in 1948 . The South did not swallow it after all , but threatened retaliation . Truman 's people worked at the convention to stop Hubert Humphrey from raising the subject ; they failed ; Strom Thurmond'sDixiecrats left the convention . But Truman muted the issue from then on and held onto the South . He had demonstrated that civil rights was still an unmanageable topic in election years , and the lesson stuck . In 1954 the Supreme Court took up the issue politicians had been avoiding and desegregated public schools . President Eisenhoweragreed to enforce the Court 's decree , but took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an issue in the 1956 campaign . The growth of the civil-rights movement , created by activists , not politicians , made it harder for the Democrats to excludethe bitter issue of 1948 from their postfifties conventions . But they did what they could , delaying southern-credentials decisionsfrom one convention to another ( 1960 , 1964 , 1968 ) . The reforms and chaos of the 1972 convention marked the point where all these delays caught up with the party and destroyed its chance of picking a strong candidate . President Kennedy was slow to come up with a civil-rights program , and tried to keep it out of electoral politics by making it something the Republican minority leader in the Senate could cosponsor . The President asked Dr. King to call off the 1963 march on Washington , and sent his brother Robert to beg George Wallace 's compliance with the Supreme Court decree on integration . ( The transcript of Robert Kennedy 's embarrassing conver/sation is included in Marshall Frady 's book on Wallace . ) In the mood of national contrition after President Kennedy 's death , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to plead electoral pressure in backing off from the 1965 bill . Elite lobbyists of Church and labor groups held his feet to the fire , using his southern origin as a stick to beat him with ? that story is told in The Growing Church Lobby in Washington by James Adams ( 1970 ) . I have dealt earlier with the way elections delayed action on the Vietnam War : slowing things for crucial months while negotiationsstalled , along with hostilities ; then starting from scratch when the " low profile " time of election had passed . On issue after issue , then , forces for change were baffled by the inhibition elections impose on debate and consideration of new paths . Yet in all these cases change did , finally , come about . How ? Wilson successfully resisted the pressures to support suffrage in the 1916 election . But the movement , though it could not win electoral support , was taking up a good deal of the nation 's attention and energy . Mrs. Blatch had been told her disruptive tactics would set back the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical phase : Alice Paul , also trained in England , had come back to play Stokeley Carmichael to Mrs. Blatch 's Dr. King . In 1917 she led a group that chained itself to the White House fence . Some of the picketers were roughed up ? including a small pretty girl , unknown at the time , named Dorothy Day . Those arrested were sent to the Occoquan Work House , known for its cruel warden named Whittaker , who boasted he could make anyonework . He failed with these women , who promptly adopted the English tactic of a hunger strike . After fruitless efforts to forcefeedthem , officials had to free the emaciated women after ten days of the strike . It was during this fast that Dorothy Day , giddy with hunger , picked up a Bible and recognized her own voice in the psalmist 's cries to God . Our history turns on such moments , so little known to us . Wilson is often treated as an idealist too candid and noble to have been a good politician . In this case , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on suffrage in election time ; but used the trouble caused by the women , along with his postelection freedom of ma/neuver , to come out for suffrage . He even had the genius to treat it as a war measure ! Tranquillity on the home front would help the nation devote all its attention to winning the war . Contrary to what Mrs. Blatch had been told , the victory went to those working outside the system . The change did not come about by full discussionin the campaign ? that was successfully blocked . It came to get rid of a nuisance . In civil rights , the patience of blacks with court challenges to the Jim Crow laws ran out just as the NAACP won its great case on the public schools . The response of the white community to that decision made the end of the challenge look like another beginningtoward the same equidistant goal . So all the Jim Crow laws were suddenly assailed ? separate bus seats , separate hamburgercounters , separate drinking fountains , separate church sections . There were sit-ins , boycotts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boycott supporting her act was led by a well-read doctor of divinity ? and his fellow clergy from the North came to stand with him , along with white students who ended all " silent generation " talk by getting on buses headed South . They did not get off the bus for a decade ? by which time the buses ringed Nixon 's White House . In writing about Nixon 's election I concluded that , whatever other claims it might make , the electoral system did not bring about rational debate . It changed things , of course , and was changed , but only as all human things must change ? families , clubs , schools , whatever . Elections , however , did not stimulate , encourage , or direct reform . They put brakes on that . When Dr. King was killed , I covered his funeral for Esquire , then covered the war protests . I saw changes effected in society . I began to understand that Dr. King 's " direct action " was as clearly justifiable as other direct influences . Economic and academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electoral pressure is removed . They are not accused of " wrecking the system . " Business and other special interests lobby and advertise , as well as vote , for what they want . Dr. King led a lobby in the streets . He did not mute debate , or remove it from the electoral process . He opened up debate , initiatedit after electioneering had stifled it . Roosevelt could dampp162down the urge toward new economic measures during his 1932 campaign . But afterward he asked his advisers what the real problemswere . There was no one to raise with the President the problems of blacks in 1932 ? or in 1952 ; just as there had been no one in President Wilson 's entourage to raise the problems of women in 1917 . Alice Paul solved that difficulty by raising the issue in chains at the White House fence . She spoke not through a candidate , darkly , not with one silent vote , but as voicing a large " specialinterest , " to be given a hearing along with all the other interestsgoing in the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House . The difference between this lobbying and that of " advisers " is that the public at large , resent it or approve , at least has the means to know all about the public lobbying . If the public refused to listen , then Alice Paul would lose . No one who demands an audience is assured of applause . But at least she got her audience , and the public was informed . The public does not know what goes on when lobbyists meet officials for dinner . I admitted earlier that , even while writing The Second Civil War , I did not approve of civil disobedience . The death of Dr. King brushed away my last sophistical arguments against it . I saw in his career something I would find repeated in our history , now that I looked back at it without my blinders : Change is initiated by the principled few , not the compromising many ; by the " crazies " in the streets , not by politicians on the hustings ; by Mrs. Blatch and Alice Paul , not by Woodrow Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a surprise . Change is not an easy thing for most human beings . They do not want to make it if they do not have to . Only when faced with some other discomfortdo they consider seriously the difficult steps involved in makingchange . I had observed this with fascination in the instructive ( if cruel ) old TV show called " Candid Camera . " People were photographed watching contrived little " miracles " ? trees walking off , cars talking , etc . The astonishing thing was the refusal to be astounded , or even to notice the oddity . The incredible was counteredwith an equal and effective incredulity . It would upset a person'sworld view to admit that the inexplicable had happened ; so most people just pretended it had not happened , and dismissed it from their mind.  |p163The  direct action of Dr. King was meant to overcome people 's refusal to see how blacks were treated . Only , unlike the mule driver who cracked his animal with a two-by-four " to get his attention , " Dr. King let himself get hit with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going on in different back rooms from the ones frequented by lobbyists . Only now could I solve one problem in my own view of elections . If they did not initiate difficult changes , what did ? Somethingmust , for important and resisted change had taken place . I do not mean popular change , or that introduced because unopposed , or that brought about by technical advisers and inventors . I was interested in the resisted change that politicians find too hot to handle at election time , or even after . How might a change-resisting creature like the average human being be led to make a change ? By listening to all the arguments on all sides , and following logic no matter what it cost ? in short , by the liberals ' rational-debate model of change ? Fat chance . If that were the case , then everything would narrow down to the 50 per cent plus one man or woman unconvinced by the arguments so far , and any distraction from the arguments being offered would be resented as " falsifying the outcome . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wide scale . Dr. King did not just say blacks were being beaten , or introduce affidavits to that effect . He dramatized what he said by what he suffered . This may make for questionable tactics in a courtroom , where theatrical lawyers are criticized ( even when they win , or because they win ) . But ordinarylife is not a courtroom , with a jury sworn to pay attention and to judge dispassionately . Resisted changes of a deep sort begin with a few uncompromisingfools who just know that slavery is wrong , or that votingis a woman 's right ; that Jim Crow laws are a disgrace , or that the Vietnam War is immoral . They are not running for office , so they do not have to soothe and placate . They are not politicians , so they do not have to say the Emperor is , perhaps , " inadequately " clothed . They are dismissed with a laugh ? ridicule may prevent them from becoming a nuisance . They prove their folly by being undeterred . They are scared ; but so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listening to the fools . Repression draws at/tention to their case . The " unthinkable " is thought about . Sanguis martyrum . . . . Still , there is no widespread debate . The cranks can still be dismissed for not being realistic . What does it matter that they have attracted more cranks ? There is always some audiencefor the unusual . If such crazies win , it is not by convincing 51 per cent of the electorate that their cause is right . Perhaps they need only 10 per cent or 20 per cent of the people behind them , but that 10 per cent or 20 per cent is intense . When a majority gives way to them , it is not at first joining them . It is trying to shut them up . It uses a rationalization like Wilson 's : It is not worth the trouble carting these women off to jail all the time ; we have other more important things to concentrate on ; give them what they want , to shut them up ; women probably wo n't even use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , once it is decided to give way as a means of bringing peace : " Give them an open-housing law ; we can always circumvent it with zoning restrictions . " Or : " Give them an open housing law ; they ca n't afford the good homes anyway . " Or : " The Vietnam War is not immoral ; but it is questionablyuseful on sheer strategic grounds ; and it is certainly not worth all this ruckus in the streets . " The person whose approval of the challenged situation is marginal will give up that small marginof approval for social peace . As I said earlier , our politics does not go forward as a rational debate but as a series of mutual vetoes . We try to remove from debate anything a significant segmentof the population disapproves of strongly ? A , whom you can not abide ; or C , whom I abominate . Sometimes , most often , we remove a problem from debate by not discussing it ? for example , forgetting the war at election time . But sometimes the only way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , to stop the war . It is paradoxical but true that women got the vote " to shut them up . " They were allowed to " speak " in electoral terms so we would not have to listen . Change after change ? the minimum-wage law , the voting-rights act ? has been admitted into our politics in order to be " tamed , " not enshrined . But at this point the conservative tendency of our politics begins to work for the reformers . The new measure becomespart of the established order . Little girls are taught thatp165they should vote . Blacks are taught they have certain rights . In time , they begin to believe those teachings and act accordingly . The sop that was to placate them becomes a platform from which new urges can develop . Giving women the vote does not shut them up but makes them develop new demands , new kinds of feminism . Yesterday 's radicalism becomes today 's common sense , from which radicalisms take their point of departure . But the first proponents of that " common sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since they ask for change , and people find change hard . They are put off as long as they can be , dismissed , treated at first as invisible and then as affronts . Such " fanatics " are mocked , threatened , jailed , beat up , shot at ? think of William Lloyd Garrison , Frederick Douglass , Bill Haywood , Eugene Debs , Margaret Sanger , Mary Church Terrell , A. J. Muste , Dorothy Day , Cesar Chavez . Political change does not come easily , by way of campaign promises and congressional logrolling . It begins with individual risk and heroism . By the time passage of the 1964 and 1965 civil-rights bills became feasible , they were eased through with sounding oratory by the politicians . But a lot of people had to die to make that oratory possible ? James Chaney , Andrew Goodman , and Michael Schwerner ; HerbertLee , Louis Allen , Medgar Evers ; Jimmie Lee Jackson , James Reeb , Viola Liuzzo ; Addie Mae Collins , Denise McNair , Carol Robertson , Cynthia Wesley ? to name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are a scandal in democracies . They are not " representative . " They can not be controlled or called off by their " constituents , " because no constituency sent them . They create their audience , and compel it . They do not follow or submit to it . They make a claim because it is right , not because it is wanted , even by its putative beneficiaries ? normally it is not wanted . The women of Canterbury beg Thomas , their archbishop , to leave ( and leave them alone ) ; they do not want an awful freedom thrust upon them . Even the prophet is sometimes reluctant to make his or her claim upon friends . But if it is made , it must be made entire and demanding . Dr. King did not make Rosa Parks refuse to move farther back in the bus when the driver told her to . He did not even want to lead the boycott ? that was thrust on him by Ed@@1369.txt but they paled to insignificance before the fact that French fortunes were on the rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cogency to the plea of Monroe and Dickinson that the administration 's proBritishforeign policy should be jettisoned.41Yet during the autumn of 1797 the Federalists were by no means ready to give up . They believed events would be more favorable to them during the second session of the Fifth Congress , which reassembledon November 13 . For one thing , they expected news of the Pinckney , Marshall , and Gerry mission to France to remove the ambiguities which had helped paralyze administration sympathizers in the House during the emergency session when the opposition had suggested that Pinckney was rebuffed because his powers were inadequate.42 Now that three extraordinary ministers had been dispatched to France , a repetition of the incident would be clearly unjustifiable . On the other hand , if these men should succeed in negotiating with France , the crisis would be safely past . Even if France should make an equivocal response , as Cabot feared she would , 43 the Federalists hoped that Pinckney and Marshall would be able to force her to show her true colors while resisting any inclination of Gerry 's to connive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if they could present the people with a straight choice between independence and submission to a foreign nation , they and their representatives would choose independence no matter how strong and victorious France appeared . Public sentiment was already turning against her because of continued depredations on American commerce.44 And the Federalists hoped to take advantage of this by using the second session , while Congress was waiting for news of the negotiations , to put through some of the measures that had been rejected in May . Most promising among them was the proposal to arm merchant vessels , for if Congress continued unwilling to give them official protection , this seemed to be the only alternative to abandoning commerce altogether 45The administration was again to be disappointed in its bid for legislative action . Though there was rising support for such legislationin some of the northern mercantile centers , the opposition was easily able to obstruct it by postponing consideration until the beginning of February.45 Their argument that such a measure might abort negotiations now going on between the two republics was ap151good one . Many American vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only become American citizens so as to protect their property under the American neutral flag . In either case , if they were licensed to arm their vessels , they might provoke war by resisting the lawful attempts of French vessels to search or seize . The arming of merchant vessels , said the opposition , was only to be thought of as a last resort should negotiation fail . To do it prematurelywould be " placing the peace of the country in the hands of every man who owned a ship . " 47 Even such ardent Federalists as Robert Goodloe Harper and Nathaniel Smith were silenced by this argument.44 Harrison Gray Otis might taunt the opposition by asking " were gentlemen palsied , that such a measure should be thus procrastinated ? " 45 Thacher might sneer that a bill directed " against rovers and pirates " could be considered hostile to France only by those who believed that description applied to her , but most Federalistsknew that in case there was going to be trouble between France and America , they could not afford to give the opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchant vessels was not hard to accept . It was only temporary , and if it had seemed politically expedient the president could have withdrawn his restrictions on arming at any time , leaving the merchants free to choose how they would act . On both sides , the question of merchant armaments was disposed of with so little fuss that the ensuing session might well have been expected to be uneventful , at least until dispatches should arrive from the envoys . Instead , the tranquillity of the House was violently disrupted by the relatively minor matter of foreign intercourse appropriations . The issue had first arisen at the end of the emergency session . Nicholas had objected to an appropriation of $60,500 for ministers to Portugal , Prussia , and the Barbary powers , and on being informed that the salary of the minister to Berlin was $13,500 he promptly moved that this " be deducted from the $6o,5oo.00 as he knew no possible use that a Minister of Berlin could be of . " 51 The motion was a stinging slap in the face of President Adams , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was surely deliberately aimed , for the post was not as meaningless as Nicholas pretended , since the course of the European war had made Berlin a strategic vantage point for diplomatic observation . " There was a brief flare-up in the Housep152over Nicholas 's motion and its suggestion of constitutional limitation on the executive 's power to conduct foreign policy , but the appropriationwas passed and the matter dropped . " Perhaps the heat of Philadelphia in July and the possibility of another yellow fever epidemicmade no one inclined to prolong the session any further . When the question of appropriations for diplomatic staff reappearedin the next session of Congress , it was a different matter entirely . On January 18 , 1798 , Robert Goodloe Harper moved that in addition to the standard $40,000 a further appropriation of $28,650 be made to pay for ministers plenipotentiary at the courts of Spain , Prussia , and Portugal.54 Nicholas promptly countered with a proposal that the diplomatic establishment be reduced to what it had been before 1796 ; that is , there would be two ministers plenipotentiary , one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $9,000 each , while all other envoys would be limited to the lower grade of resident minister at $4,500 a year.J5 Nicholas remarked that he " did not intend . . . that the whole diplomatic establishment should be destroyed at this time , " but he added that " the United States would be benefited by having no Ministers at all , " that American commerce should be left " to seek its own markets totally disembarrassed , " and that any of the routine matters arising from commercial intercourse could be adequately handled by consuls . ' " If this had been all there was to Nicholas 's proposal , there would have been no uproar . But he had prefaced this motion with a diatribe on the dangers of encroaching executive power , declaring : " I do believethere is a tendency in all Governments like ours to produce a union and consolidation of all its parts into the Executive department ; and that the limitation and connexion of the parts with each other , as settled in the Constitution would be destroyed by the influenceI have mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Legislature to resist this overwhelming power . " J7 What restraint would there be upon a man once he was president , he asked , if " in consequence of a thirst for office majorities were formed by both branches of Congress devoted to the views of the Executive , by which the Executive could hold on with the Legislature a regular and concurrent course to affect any object however hostile to the public good that the President might think proper to pursue ? " 58Nicholas said he was not charging that this had alreadv happened ,  |p153but  he did go on to attack a new idea of patronage which he said the Adams administration had already adopted . It meant , according to Nicholas , that " no man was hereafter to be admitted into the Administration . . . unless he was willing to sacrifice all independentpolitical opinions and bend at the shrine of Executive wisdom . " 6 ? Striking obliquely at William L. Smith 's recent appointmentas Portuguese ambassador , Nicholas warned that " when we see the most lucrative offices , the most tempting and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by draughts from the Legislative body , and there , too , of one particular class , and that class the believers of the new doctrine , " a serious threat to American liberty was raised and " the Legislature should show itself attentive to limit a patronage which was to be exercised in this way . " 6 ? Nicholas 's speech set off a debate which lasted six weeks and made the controversy over implementing the Jay Treaty seem amiable by comparison . Tempers flared and passions rose , as both sides gave vent to all the suspicions and frustrations that had been building up since the spring of 1796 . With the international situation so shaky , the last thing the Federalists had wanted was a public display of the divisions that existed at the heart of the national government , 61 yet many were swept irresistibly into the controversy and swelled the flood of anger rather than helping to dam it.62 Then , in the midst of the debate on the foreign intercourse appropriations , the House was treated to an extraordinary spectacle which interrupted its deliberationsfor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words could have done the explosive antagonisms that existed in Congress . The trouble started one morning when Matthew Lyon of Vermontharangued the speaker about the conduct of the Connecticut representatives before the House was in session . Lyon alleged that " they acted in opposition to the interests and opinion of nine-tenths of their constituents . . . that they were seeking offices which they were willing to accept whether yielding $9,000 or $i , 000 . " He went on to boast that " if he should go into Connecticut , and manage a press there for six months . . . he could turn out the present Representatives . " Roger Griswold , one of the Connecticut representatives , retorted by jeering at Lyon for having been cashiered from the army during the Revolution , taunting him about his " woodenp154sword . " At this , Lyon spat in Griswold 's face . The incident was turned over to the Committee of Privileges , which subsequently recommended that Lyon be expelled from the House . But this required a vote of two-thirds of the members , and failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was called to order , Griswold went up to the desk where Lyon sat writing and set about him with a cane . Extricating himself from his seat with difficulty , and unable to close with his assailant , Lyon at last snatched up the fire tongs in self-defense . Both men collapsed in a struggling heap on the floor , and even after they had been separated by other members , they were with difficulty prevented from going to it again outside the bar of the House . The next day John Davis of Kentucky proposed to expel both men from the House , but again the motion failed to pass . " 4 Even these disgraceful scenes , which as one member said " tended to degrade the members of that House . . . to a level with the meanest reptile that crawled upon the earth , " did not shame them into toning down the verbal fury of the debate , though they did thereafter refrain from physical violence . " 5IIIWhy should so insignificant a matter raise so violent a storm ? The question becomes more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the struggle over the implementation of the Jay Treaty in 1796 . The strategic security of the nation , as well as the future of all former Federalist achievements , had been at issue in the treaty fight , but the appropriations questioned by the Nicholas amendment would have had no effect on domestic policy and very little on foreign relations . Admittedly the same constitutional issue was raised in both , that is , whether or not the House had discretion in making appropriations touching the conduct of foreign policy . By 1797-1798 , however , the Federalists might reasonably have been expected to recognize the counter-productivityof their claim that exclusive jurisdiction over foreign affairs belonged to the executive . " Certainly there was not the same need to urge it as there had been in 1796 , for they were no longer driven by circumstances to defy the House . Indeed , the growing importance of the House to their political strategy should have moderated their ideas . To have given way on the question of ambassadorial appropri/ations would have been no more than a temporary concession . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to France would be as futile as Pinckney 's , and they could be reasonablysure that the opposition would soon be denied any grounds for pleading that an honorable accommodation with France was possible. ? 7 Why then could they not bring to this issue the same wise patience as they had shown in the matter of arming merchant vessels ? Why , instead of making light of Nicholas 's amendment , did they magnify it out of all proportion by their intemperate response ? Their conduct in previous debates bears witness to a calculating selfpossessionwhich makes it hard to comprehend their entanglement in this shameful debacle over a minor modification of policy . Their response to the charge of executive usurpation was particularlyrevealing . When this had been raised during the Jay Treaty controversy they had succeeded in turning the tables on their adversariesby arguing that the Constitution , the supreme expression of the people 's will , had vested the treaty power in the president and Senate , and that both were as much the people 's representatives as the House.68 Washington 's great prestige and unanimous elections had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans to spend a good deal of time defending the popular branch of the legislature against counter-charges of encroachment and disorganization. ? But in 1798 it was no longer possible for the Federalists to use such a strategy . Adams was not nearly so prestigious a figure as Washington had been , and he owed his election to a three-vote margin . Indeed , his majority had been so slender that the opposition questioned whether he was truly the people 's choice , insinuating that two of the three ballots to which he owed his victory had been cast by electors whose own majorities had been slight enough to suggest fraud.70 So the Federalists were bound to be on the defensive when the subject of executive usurpation arose again in 1798 . Yet this alone should not have driven them to make statements in defense of the executive which seemed to assert extravagant notions of its power . For instance , William Craik had said that if " the House of Representativesshould be established in the right , which some . . . claimed of exercising , upon all occasions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the acts of the Executive ... it might take all the powers of the Government into its own hands , " which implied that there was no occasion on which this discretion might be properly exercised.71 Other Federalists unwiselycomplained that the power of the executive in America was ridiculously weak compared to that of its British counterpart . This together with their charge that anyone refusing to trust absolutely in Adams 's conduct of foreign affairs was a " disorganizer " 12 was enough to convince the Republicans that the Federalists wanted to strengthen the executive power . They were not reassured by the hysteria of the Federalist response to what seemed a reasonable motion , subject to none of the objections about breach of national faith that had accompanied the debate over implementing the Jay Treaty.73Nor was this the only cause for Republican concern . There were also attempts to surround the President with royal pomp and circumstancewhenever he appeared in public . For instance , as the French crisis had worsened , the Federalists had taken particular pains to provide him with elaborate military escorts whenever he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honor at which it was customary to present him with a congratulatory address . There had been as much if not more of this when Washington was president , but Republicans thought it more offensive since Adams had taken office . Washington had enjoyed an uncontrived popularity which made such occasions seem spontaneous , but as Adams himselfknew and the opposition press never ceased to observe , in his case they had an artificial air which made him look absurd.74 The lengths to which the Federalists would go in bolstering presidential prestige , and how seriously they took their efforts , were not fully revealed until the incident of Luther Baldwin . This insignificant drunk was prosecuted in 1799 for having greeted a sixteen gun salute to Adams as he passed through Newark with the remark , " There goes the President and they are firing at his arse . " 75Though the indictment and conviction of Luther Baldwin is low comedy to us , it is startling evidence that to the Federalists even a piece of trifling vulgarity could seem a serious threat to the president'sdignity and prestige . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly surprising that Nicholas 's assault on the executive power frightened them out of all good sense and restraint . They sawp157it as part of a larger design to make an already weak executive still weaker through legislative censure.7U This alone would have caused the Federalists to be touchy about assaults on the executive power , but what made them unbearably sensitive was the knowledge that French strategy was still what it had been in Genet 's time : to force Americans to choose between their government and their sympathy for France.77 And whereas they had then been able to set the prestigeof a Washington against an isolated diplomat , now they had to confront the most powerful government in the world with nothing better than John Adams , an unimpressive man who could not even command the support of his own government . It is no wonder that the Federalists behaved so uncharacteristically during the foreign intercourse debate . The opposition had them trapped so that no matter what they did , they would lose . As Oliver Wolcott , Jr. , remarked of the Federalist congressmen , " Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and doing nothing , in the present state of our country , is attended with almost as bad effects as would result from bad measures . " 78 To have tolerated Nicholas 's attack on the executive power would have encouraged the French in their schemes , yet to assault it dramatized the division in the government . Caught in this predicament , they were often driven to make matters worse by lashing out at the opposition and countering objections to their extravagant claims for the executive power with the assertion that , on the contrary , it was already too weak . They had momentarily lost control of their own and the nation'sdestinies . For men who had been accustomed since 1789 to be masters of events , it was hard to grow impotent gracefully.  |p158From  May 1797 until March 1798 it seemed to many Federalists that France held the American republic mesmerized . But although this was frustrating for them , they could look forward to release whenever there should be news from the commissioners in Paris . Continued attacks on American commercial vessels , the coup of Fructidor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all combined to strengthen their belief that the French meant mischief , and that this would soon be so clear as to make Republican opposition to defense measures untenable . ) The long-awaited dispatches from Paris arrived on March 4 . They were lengthy and in code , and it was some time before the governmentknew what they contained . But they were accompanied by a letter which required no deciphering , a letter Adams laid before Congress on March 5 because its contents were " of so much importancethat it should be immediately made known to Congress and to the public , especially the mercantile part of our fellow citizens . " It reported that the Directory had asked for a law , subsequentlynotorious as the decree of 29 Nivose , authorizing seizure of " all neutral ships having on board merchandises and commodities , the production of England , or of English possessions , " and another providing that " the ports of France , except in cases of distress , shall be shut against all neutral ships which , in the course of their voyage , shall have touched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was nothing but a rubber stamp for the Directory , these recommendations were to all intents and purposes already law . The letter concluded with the statement that " there exists no hope of our being officially received by the government , or that the objects of our mission will be in any way accomplished . " 2p159This was what the Federalists had been waiting for . They securedpassage of the foreign intercourse bill on the very day of the president 's message and soon afterwards succeeded in putting through a naval armaments appropriation which would allow three frigates to put to sea , a measure increasing the risk of an armed clash between United States and French warships.3 Unfortunately , this proved to be the limit of their advantage . When Adams subsequently urged Congress to implement his defense recommendations , at the same time revoking his standing instructions to customs officers " to restrainvessels of the United States from sailing in an armed condition , " 4 the opposition was no less prompt in protesting this as a " war message . " They also made a vigorous attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resolutions introduced by Richard Sprigg , Jr. , of Maryland : Resolved , That it is the opinion of this committee , that under existing circumstances it is not expedient for the United States to resort to war against the French Republic . Resolved , &c,; That provision ought to be made by law for restricting the arming of merchant vessels , except in cases in which the practice was heretofore permitted . Resolved , &c.,; That adequate provision shall be made by law for the protection of our sea coast , and for the internal defense of the country.5It was clear that despite the continued degeneration of FrancoAmericanrelations , the opposition was still determined to resist the president on the arming of merchantmen and to consider only those means of internal defense which could not possibly provoke war . Petitions received by Congress from late March to late April indicated that a sizeable body of the public supported these objectives The Federalists were understandably afraid that Republican intransigencemight bring a repetition of the foreign intercourse debacleunless they could gain more influence in the House . They had to end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they chose to do it by releasing the dispatches to Congress . This was a risk for several reasons . No one could know in advance whether they would " electrise the whole American people , or demonstrate such an utter prostration of national spirit &; honor as would shewp160all hopes of resistance to be vain . " No one could be sure that publicationmight not " excite indignation without bounds against the Commissioners , if they should be at Paris , " and their blood be upon Federalist hands . ' But something drastic had to be done if the administrationwere ever to be free of the constraints imposed by the opposition . Therefore they were at last reconciled to a motion by John Allen of Connecticut that the president " communicate to this House the despatches . " 8 Access to diplomatic information had been a major opposition objective ever since the Jay Treaty controversy , and they would be sure to rise to the bait . This meant , as Harrison Gray Otis put it , that most Federalists could vote against Allen 's motion in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few of the federal men who think well of the measure. ? The responsibility for any disadvantage resulting from the disclosure of the papers will fall on the right spot , and the advantage arising from the impression would be common to us all . " ? The dispatches revealed that the commissioners had been treated as badly as Pinckney the year before . Though they were not ordered to leave the country on arrival , Talleyrand would deal with them only by way of intermediaries designated in the published version of the dispatches as X , Y , and Z. These men told the commissioners that reconciliation with France would have to be bought . The price named was a written apology for certain parts of the president 's address to the emergency session of Congress ; a bribe of 1 , zoo , 000 livres to Talleyrand , allegedly for distribution to strategically placed personnel , and a United States loan to France.10 There was some ambiguityabout the first and last of these items . Agent X hinted that the " loan " would consist of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the agents of the French Government with the citizens of the United States . " 11 And Agent Y , who claimed to have greater authority than X , suggested that the apology could be waived if the United States would assume " thirtytwomillions of florins , of Dutch inscriptions , worth ten shillings in the pound . . . at twenty shillings in the pound , " this to be repaid by the Dutch government upon the coming of peace.12 But the principlethat the United States would have to pay for an accommodationwith France was established beyond doubt . Only when these humiliating conditions had been met wouldp161France agaee " to renew with the United States of America a treaty which shall place them reciprocally in the same state that they were in 1778 , " except that France would be bound by no stricter terms than were applied to England in the Jay Treaty.13 Even then , there would be one other difference in France 's favor . Though the " nomination of Commissioners will be consented to on the same footingas they have been named in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decisions of the commissioners , shall fall to the share of the French Government , are to be advanced by the American Government itself . " 14 Far from showing themselves willing to negotiate grievances , the Directory proposed to dictate terms and to make " demands upon us which had the appearance of our being the aggressing party " before they would receive the American envoys ? 15The commissioners had rejected these demands , pleading lack of power to comply . The most they would do was send one of their number back to America for consultation with the government , and then only on condition that " the Directory will suspend all further captures on American vessels , and will suspend proceedings on those already captured . " 16 Talleyrand would not hear of this offer , however , unless it was accompanied by money.17 As for disavowing the president 's speech , the commissioners said that it was not within their competence to do so , and thatsuch an attempt could produce no other effect than to make us ridiculous to the Government and to the citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the part of the President , an immediate disavowal and recall of us , as his agents ; that , independent of this , all America was acquainted with the facts stated by the President ; and our disavowing them would not change the public sentiment concerning them.18Indeed , the commissioners did not take this requirement seriously at all , correctly interpreting it as merely a bargaining ploy.19What the Directory really wanted was money . Agent Y had made it plain that money would be the sine qua non of any new FrancoAmericantreaty , and this the commissioners had resolutely refused to conccde.20If anything could have been worse than the terms proposed to the commissioners , it would have been the way they were treatedp162after they had rejected them . They were threatened with war , a threat made the more believable by the recent conclusion of a treaty between France and Austria which X and Y admitted allowed the Directory to take so uncompromising a line.2 ' When the American commissioners suggested that French belligerence would drive the United States into the arms of Britain , the agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to terms with France , and the United States would be left isolated . They said that France was gathering a great army to invade Britain , an army whose mere existence would frighten her into ruinous expedients , and " would infalliblydestroy her Bank and her whole paper system . " 22 The commissioners were told that if they did not comply with French demands , " the fate of Venice was one which might befall the United States , " that she too might " be erased from the list of nations , " or returned to the former mother country upon conclusion of a peace in the same way that Venice had been ceded to Austria by the Treaty of Campoformio.23 On one point there could be no doubt : France was threatening to humiliate if not to annihilate the last free republicon earth . The commissioners were careful to profess a desire for reconciliationwith France , but they firmly refused to compromise American neutrality in achieving it . They declared that " to lend a sum of money to a belligerent Power , abounding in everything requisite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and take part in the war ; to lend this money , under the lash and coercion of France , was to relinquish the Government of ourselves , and to submit to a foreign Government imposed on us by force . " They said that America had no interest in the recurring wars between France and Britain , which might continue into the next century . If the United States " now preserved her neutrality and her independence , it was most probably that she would not in future be afraid . . . but if she . . . surrendered her rights of self government to France , or permitted them to be torn from her , she could not expect to recover them , or to remain neutral in any future war . " If France was determined either to be paid off or to make war , then , said the commissioners , " even our money would not save us ; our independence would never cease to give offense , and would always furnish a pretext for fresh demands . " They added that " our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war could be ; that at present our commercewas plundered unprotected ; but that if war were declared we should seek the means of protection . " And they served notice on the French that their nation " would make at least one manly struggle before we thus surrendered our national independence . " 24The commissioners spared no pains to show that , unlike the smaller European powers on which France had worked her will , " America was a great , and , so far as concerned her self-defence , a powerful nation . " 25 The French , unconvinced , continued to assume that they could play upon what they took to be a division between the governmentand the people . After two months of fruitless effort , Pinckney had observed to a woman agent of Talleyrand that the commissionersmight as well give up and go home ; and she had promptly retortedthat this " could lead to a rupture , which you had better avoid , for we know we have a very considerable party in America who are strongly in our interest . " Y had also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the talks , saying : Perhaps you believe that , in returning and exposing to your countrymen the unreasonableness of the demands of this Government , you will unite them in their resistance to those demands ; you are mistaken ; you ought to know that the diplomatic skill of France , and the means she possesses in your country , are sufficient to enable her , with the French party in America , to throw the blame which will attend the rupture of negotiations on the Federalists , as you term yourselves , but on the British party , as France terms you ; and you may assure yourselves this will be done . The commissioners replied that " France miscalculated on the parties in America ; that the extreme injustice offered to our country would unite every man against her , " but they were not believed.26These documents confirmed every charge the Federalists had made . It was now much harder to deny that France was bent on humiliating the American republic , that opposition activities encouragedher in this , or that the influence of France was a danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was . Talleyrand and his agents could have done no more to underminethe Republican position if they had been in the Federalists ' pay . And as the Federalists had hoped , the dispatches did have some effect upon Congress . The opposition was obliged to stopp164criticizing the executive 's handling of Franco-American relations , and to abandon Sprigg 's first resolution against war with France . Jefferson admitted that to support such a resolution " after we have understood it has been proposed to us to buy peace , would imply an acquiescence under that proposition . " 27Much to the surprise of the Federalists , however , the Republicans would yield no further . Pickering expressed his disappointment in a letter to King , observing : There is still an evident opposition on one side of each House , to provide for anything beyond our internal defences ; and the exhibition of the dispatchesfrom the Envoys seems not to have produced the proper effect ; for while the most inveterate opposers of the Government now acknowledgeits sincerity and the propriety and even liberality of its measures to effect an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us abundant cause to declare war against her , they say it is not expedient , and therefore we must not attempt to protect our commerce , because its defense . . . will issue in open war.28Republicans were ready to admit that the dispatches showed Talleyrandas an unprincipled swindler , as might have been expected from the company he kept with Tories when in America , but they said there was no proof that he acted by the orders of his government . Despite the dispatches , the opposition refused to sink their differences with administration supporters in order to present a united front to the French.29 Their obstinacy boded ill for the future , and threatenedcontinuation of the paralysis which had already pushed the Federalists to extremes of frustration . It was then that the Federalist leadership decided to release the dispatches to the public , hoping by this means to break the congressionaldeadlock . They had clearly expected publication to follow Allen 's original motion for the papers as a matter of course , but once the Republicans had seen their contents they resolved to oppose any such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lives of the commissioners if they were still in France they were able to obstruct House action . Thus the Federalist Senate was obliged to take the initiative , though it was able to shrug off some of the responsibilitybecause the content of the dispatches had leaked out to the people beforehand . The tactic was the more appealing as the balance of power in the House was held by four fence-sitters , said by Theo/dore Sedgwick to be nominally proadministration but " whimsical , kinkish and unaccommodating " in character , so that any measure whose passage depended upon them was always uncertain . Once the dispatches were released , it was hoped that the " indignant voice of the people must irresistibly urge the adoption of efficient measures of defence by sea as well as by land . " 30 Republican opposition to publishing the documents had encouraged this hope , and Jefferson had admitted that " their effect on the minds of wavering characters " would be to bring them over to the other party so as " to wipe off the imputation of being French partisans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federalists had reason to congratulate themselves . William Hindman in a letter to King announced jubilantly that " the Antis in our House count upon 51 on their side , We 55 , so that if the Federal members would all attend &; be as firm &; united as the Opposition , the Power is with Us. " 32 And by April 19 , Jefferson was complaining to Monroe that " the departure of 4 Southern members , &; others going , have given a strong majority to the other party . " 33 This change alone did not , however , immediately confer upon the Federalists the advantage they sought . For one thing their new majority resulted from the shift of only a few votes , and as Jefferson pointed out , up to the Provisional Army Act most of the administration measures that had been opposed by the Republican party could have been defeated if all its members had been present.34 Then the hard core opposition in the House refused to be cowed by publication of the dispatches . These men retorted by repeating in public the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the propositions made by X , Y , and Z definitely authorized by the Directory , and was it not still possible that Federalist measures might cause an unnecessary war with France ? They found more devious ways of obstruction , too . Some Federalists even suspected that when the opposition supported lavish appropriations for internal defense measures , their long-term goal was to deplete the resources the administration had hoped to use for external defense.35Such intransigence served as a constant reminder to the Federalists of how precariously they were situated . If they failed to act at all , the public would not have confidence in them , but if they acted too forcefully public opinion might turn against them.  |p166This  is why during the spring of 1798 the Federalists watched public response to the dispatches so carefully , and why they were heartened by the avalanche of addresses which descended upon the president . These came from state legislatures , from town meetings , from college students , from societies and masonic lodges , from grand jurors , from military companies , and often from the young men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autumn.3 ? With few exceptions , they endorsed the administration 's policy toward France and offered " their property to support , and their lives to defend the dear-bought , sacred and inalienable rights " of " national interest , honor , and independence . " 37 The addresseswere not in themselves a surprise to the Federalist leadership , for its members had often had a hand in drafting and circulating them , 38 but the number and general spirit of them was unexpectedly gratifying . Almost all , but particularly those from young men , collegestudents , and military companies , breathed a martial ardor which the president tried to increase . An address by the Young Men of Boston drew from Adams the exhortation , " to arms . . . to arms especially by sea . " In his reply to a Duanesboro address he virtually declared that the nation was at war with France , and he responded to another from the Soldier Citizens of New Jersey by reiterating the opinion that only " the degraded and the deluded " opposed administration measures and that in case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemned to the severest punishment an American can suffer ? that of being conveyed in safety within the lines of an invading enemy . " 39 Adams was giving presidential sanction to the idea that the opposition was disloyal , if not traitorous . This was going further than some Federalists thought prudent . Several began to take exception to the temper of the replies . Hamiltoncommented that the New Jersey militia reply was " intemperate and revolutionary , " adding : " It is not . . . for the government to breathe an irregular or violent spirit . " 40 It was also inevitable that in the course of responding to a hundred addresses , all on the same topic , some of the controversial ideas and attitudes expressed in the Defense of the Constitutions of the United States and the Discoursesp167on Davila should again peep out.41 In the Aurora , " Nestor " objected strongly to the reply to the Young Men of Philadelphia . Adams had said in it that the American Revolution had proceeded " not from a desire of innovation , not from discontent with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to preserve the honor of our country , and vindicate the immemorial liberties of our ancestors , " and that independence was " not an object of predilection and choice , but of indispensable necessity . " " Nestor " denied this vehemently , and insisted that Americans had resisted Britain not just for independence , but for freedom . " To obtain an exchange of masters would not have transported them to hazard fortune and life , it would not have inducedthem to put at stake everything that was dear and valuable , " 42 he said . Another critic , " Senex , " remarked that Adams 's replies seemed designed to convince the people that democracy was impracticaland to reconcile them to monarchy and aristocracy . Certainlyhis chastisement of the Plymouth addressers for denouncing the British and his frequent references to the French Revolution as a military usurpation were not likely to please many Americans , regardless of the **25;4299;TOOLONG , any ground the Federalists had lost through Adams 's replies they more than regained by a new development which seemed to confirm that the dispatches were having the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day proclaimed by Adams for May 9 , it became evident that most of the more influential publishing clergy were ready to give active support to the administrationin its quarrel with the French Directory.44 Though only twenty-three such sermons were published , they came from all over the land and represented all the more conservative denominations including the Catholics and the Jews.45 The Federalists had known all along that the clergy had potential for helping mold public opinion because they were part of virtually every community , enjoyingspecial authority and prestige among their less literate , generallyapolitical parishioners . They had exercised their powers beforein rallying the people behind the move for independence , and more recently in quashing Shays 's Rebellion . And from this time on , the majority of the clergy in the older established sects of the northern and middle states became faithful allies of Federalism . Again and again , in countless sermons preached on local holidaysp168and also in the National Fast Day sermons of 1799 , they endorsed the Federalist cause against France . This active support was the more gratifying to the Federalists because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' one former attempt to mobilize them for political purposeshad not been a great success . The occasion had been the NationalThanksgiving proclaimed by Washington for February 19 , 1795 , when the Whiskey Rebellion and the agitation over Jay 's missionwere still fresh in everyone 's mind . The Federalists expected great things from it , and in some respects they were not disappointed . Fisher Ames observed with satisfaction that " the Thanksgiving has helped tone the public mind . " 46 A few of the sermons were all that the Federalists desired , roundly condemning the democratic societies and warning against French influence.47 Most ministers were content to extol the virtues of submission to lawful government , of using only electoral remedies in case of grievances , and of keeping the peace at home by remaining neutral during the European war . Even so tepid an endorsement of these eternal verities was welcome , however , for the sermons usually also eulogized the president , congratulatedthe administration on preserving the peace , and deplored the growing evidence of party spirit . But the general effect was spoiled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more partiality for France and her revolution than the Federalists cared to see . Federalism did not yet call for the vilification of all things French , but Federalists had come to believe that the principal threat to American neutrality was the people 's infatuation with France and they were not pleased with " Jacobinist " reminders of her help in the American Revolution or with assertions that future national security depended on the French republic triumphing over the coalition.49 They would have preferred that endorsements of the French Revolution be qualified by criticism of its dreadful excesses and reminders that America had done all she could to further the cause of liberty.50 Worse still was that some of the clergy harangued their congregations on the dangers of British influence.51 Ebenezer Bradford of Rowley , Massachusetts , had even gone so far as to defend the democratic societies , to damn the president 's Thanksgiving Day proclamation for failing to mention Christ or to endorse the French Revolution , and to suggest that thep169government 's policies had been the first cause of the Whiskey Rebellion.52David Tappan 's attempt to administer a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still more outrageous charge that Washington 's regard for the interests of Christianity was questionable.54And the clergy who had used their Thanksgiving sermons to assure the people that the Jay Treaty would make an honorable peace , were so cowed by the uproar that followed disclosure of its terms that ( with one notable exception ) they were not heard from on this subject again.55The trouble was that the people in general had an overwhelming sympathy for France and all things French , and their ministers shared their feelings . This was why the clergy had hailed the French Revolution with joy and continued to justify it long after its anticlericism , its terror , and its infidelity had become plain to all . Like most Americans , they were gratified to think that France had caught her spark of liberty from their flame , but they were especially delightedbecause they foresaw the destruction of Catholic idolatry . They did deplore the excesses of the revolution , but believed they were unavoidable and should whose only acquaintance with it was the irrational superstitution of Catholicism.5 " The clergy had also an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They had been left very poor by the inflation that accompanied the Revolution and their lot was not improved by the economic development of the 1790 's . Most parishes had made only minimal adjustments in ministerial salaries , if any at all . Consequently the clergy were anxious to stay on good terms with their parishioners in the hope that their lot might sometime be ameliorated.57This had made them so sensitive to objections raised against their interference in political matters that the Federalists had no reason to think they would ever be politically useful . Until the NationalFast of 1798 , they regarded the clergy with an indifferent condescensionepitomized in John Davis 's response to Tappan 's " semipoliticalsermon " just before the dispatches were published : " Dr. Tappan , with great learning and ability , is one of the meekest men in the world . " 68Tappan 's offense had been his failure to pronounce that the causesp170of religion and Federalism were one , an identity which seemed obvious to Federalist leaders who knew how afraid of infidelity the orthodox clergy had been since Part One of Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear was repeatedly expressed in their published sermons , and it had grown into something like panic by 1797 when they saw that all their exhortations had failed to halt the decline in their congregations and the increasing profanation of the Sabbath.5 " As matters went from bad to worse , some ministers tried to bolster their arguments against infidelity by identifying it with the excesses of the French Revolution . Tappan had been among the first to take this tack , and it seemed to the Federalists that if anyone were to be sensible of the unity of clerical and Federalist interests , it should be he . Since 1793 he had been urging his congregationto shun the French example , and as early as 1795 he had shown himself aware of the implications French political successes would have for the fight against infidelity . In words of censure addressed to Bradford , he had then asked whetherfaithful friendship to the cause of Christ and the best interests of man did not require the public teachers and defenders of the gospel explicitly to guard their flocks and their country against those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boastful and fascinatingcharms of reason and infidelity , and arrayed in all the splendor of a popular and triumphant Revolution ? U0And surely he was no less sensitive to the implications of having an " atheist " like Jefferson as president than his fellow clergy , who were attributing the decline of religion to prominent men who " should have been foremost in setting the opposite example " but instead had flaunted " practical contempt of the Sabbath , and neglect of public worship . " 61Tappan 's refusal to be more outspoken may have disappointed the Federalist leadership , but they were to find ample compensation in the published National Fast Day sermons . All were free of the critical note that had been present in 1795 , and better still , a significantnumber explicitly linked the cause of the clergy in their fight against infidelity to the cause of the politicians in their fight against French influence . Jedediah Morse even advanced a preposteroustheory that the French Revolution was part of an interna/tional conspiracy to do away with Christianity and all civil government , a conspiracy which could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the Bavarian Illuminati , and which was even now menacing America.62 Morse was portraying France not merely as an example to be shunned but as an irreligious threat to be resisted , hoping thereby to recruit for the political struggle against her any remaining popular loyalty to the ancient faith . His daring was appreciated by the politicians , as they proved by their eagerness to help disseminate his ideas . Morse wrote to Secretary of State Pickering in early 1799 that " an editn. of 450 of my Sermon and Appendix is nearly gone ? &; a second of 800 is in press . A number of gentlemen in Boston have thought it might be useful to send a copy to every clergyman in the commonwealth , &; have agreed with the printer to furnish them , &; they will be distributed when the members of the legislature return here . " 63 Some lay leaders even quoted Morse in their Fourth of July orations.64The idea of a conspiratorial Illuminati did not originate with Morse . He had been reading the anti-Jacobin propaganda of John Robison , a Scotsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments of Europe purported to be an eyewitness account of Illuminati activities . From this book , Morse had extracted his " evidence " that a secret organization of infidels had infiltrated Europeanmasonry , and through it were trying to " acquire the direction of education ? of church management ? of the professional chair and of the pulpit ? to bring their opinions into fashion by every art , and to spread them among young people by the help of young writers . " 65 Other Americans before Morse had noticed Robison 's work , 66 but he was the first to embrace and even go beyond it in arguing that this alleged conspiracy threatened America as well as Europe . He saw in the United States the same " proofs " of their machinations as Robison had seen abroad . Government and religion " from the most corrupt to the most pure , are reviled and abused , in a similar manner , in similar language . . . seemingly by common consent . . . . Have we not reason to suspect , " asked Morse , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to true liberty and religion , which requires to be aided by these vile slanders ? " 87This was , to say the least , tenuous evidence on which to rest a case . Yet the intellectual leaders of the New England churches werep172the men responsible for crediting this theory and undertaking to disseminate it as widely as possible . Morse himself was intellectually renowned , with an international reputation as an American geographerand an honorary degree from the University of Edinburgh . And he was joined by no lesser men than Timothy Dwight , President of Yale College , and later by David Tappan , Hollis Professor of Divinity at Harvard . Their chorus was soon swelled by the voices of Samuel McCorkle of North Carolina and Joseph Lathrop of western Massachusetts , two of the most prolific authors among the publishing clergy . " The authority of these five intellectual leaders was seconded by many of the lesser clergy until " Illuminati " became a household word in America.66 Because these men felt themselves to be singularlyresponsible for the preservation of the faith , they obviously found it comforting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond their control . But the danger to religionwas no greater in July that it had been in April , and the hostilityto clerical meddling in politics no less.70 What impelled men who had been so cautious for so long to display such sudden intellectual and political daring ? A clue may be found in the tone of Federalist polemics . They had begun to move in a direction which made Morse 's conspiracy theoriesseem , if not reasonable , at least within the mainstream of Federalist sentiment . For instance , William Cobbett 's scurrilous antiJacobinwritings , which had been appearing since 1794 , ceased to be an isolated extreme . His publication of The Cannibal 's Progress , or the dreadful horrors of French Invasion , purportedly an account of the French invasion of Germany in 1796 , gorged with lurid tales of looting , murder , and rape , began to filter into Federalist Fourth of July orations in 1798.71 More revealing still was the way the judiciary began to sound like the clergy in their charges to grand juries . The most extraordinary of these was delivered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Pennsylvania , on June 30 . Rush hailed the abrogation of Franco-American treaties which was to take place on July 13 , and said he hoped that day would thereafter be celebrated like the Fourth of July . He went on to say that , among other reasons , the alliance must be broken if Americans were to be kept free from that moral corruption which had led France to her fearful excesses . All the trouble Europe was currently suffering , hep173said , could be traced to the success of French reformers and philosophersin disseminating atheism and infidelity , a success linked to their strategy of attacking Christianity through " the sabbath and the laws of marriage " because " some of the strongest propensities of our falen sic nature countenance and favor the design . " 72It is tempting to see this partly as a self-conscious attempt by laymen to ratify the alliance with the clergy that had been projected in the National Fast Day sermons of May . Certainly Rush could have embraced the clerical cause no more warmly than when he observed of the Sabbath that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge and impressions ( particularly of afterlife ) disposed by means thereof , we are indebted for that good seed , which produces ... abundant crops of peace , order , and virtue , in society . " There was definitely an element of calculation in the strenuous efforts of political writers and orators to warn the public against the pitfalls of infidelity . William Heth , in An Infallible Cure for Political Blindness , June 1798 , went out of his way to suggest that impiety in America was one facet of French influence designed to delude the people . And Federalist Fourth of July orations drove home the point that the cause of Federalism and the cause of religion had become one and the same . Dr. Samuel Emerson , haranguing an audience in Kennebuck , Maine , cried : " Let us stand up as one man , rally round our head , and declare to France and all the world , that we will never barter our well-organized Government for their despotic confusion ? our trial by jury for their secret daggers or open guillotines ? our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hellish atheism ! " 73Yet there was more to the politicians ' endorsement of the clergy than crude calculation . To many Federalist leaders , developments in Europe after the Treaty of Campoformio in the autumn of 1797 appeared so unprecedented as to suggest that there was some truth in the anti-Jacobin propaganda then being manufactured by refugees like Abbe Barruel as well as by Robison.74 France was now threateningthe traditional European balance of power , a strategic asset on which many Americans had counted even before independence . As long as the great powers were rivals , neither could afford to let the other subdue the young republic . It is true that some Republican thinkers , like the author of A Caution ; or , Reflections on the Presentp174Contest , persisted in thinking that a French victory over Britain would mean liberation from the tyrant 's yoke.75 But all responsible national leaders understood that the European balance of power was still essential to American security , and in 1798 , when the balance seemed about to tip decisively in favor of France , those whose strategic thinking had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There was nothing to reassure them in the way France treated the smaller European powers . Even before 1797 she had been guilty of excesses , particularly in her conduct toward Holland and Flanders , yet these had seemed at least partially justified by the aggressive coalition formed against her . Beginning with the Treaty of Campoformiohowever , she embarked on what could only be seen as a series of gratuitous aggressions against her smaller neighbors , includingbetrayal of Venice , a revolution in Holland , subversion of the Helvetic Confederation , annexation of Geneva , and the capture of Rome , compared to which events the XYZ affair was a minor irritation.77 The Federalists had still another reason for fearing what would follow from the unprecedented circumstances . They believed their form of government made them as vulnerable to the French style of coercion as those European nations which had fallen under French sway . Small wonder , then , that in their eyes the future began to assume an apocalyptic aspect . In July 1798 even so level-headed a Federalist as John Quincy Adams could only see great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Vans Murray that the past seven years had shown that " there exists in France a power able and determined to overthrow all government in Europe , and the whole system , religious and political , which has for some centuries governedthat quarter of the earth " without desire or means of replacing them . By 1798 there were many who would agree with Samuel Emerson 's opinion that " such have been France 's amazing exertionsin the vile project of universal domination , that the only barrier now left , is the powerful English marine , which has hitherto confined her to the continent , and fire and devastation from over-spreading the world . " 78A mood of grim foreboding hung over the land making Cobbett 's hysteria , Rush 's accusations , and Morse 's Illuminati theory all seemp175within the bounds of plausibility . Members of Congress conjured up the specter of a " great sectary which has risen up in France " composedof " atheistical philosophers , fanatical politicians , political metaphysicians , and blood-thirsty jacobins " threatening the peace and order of society throughout the world.7 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exploiting this alarm to serve their own bad ends.80 To those who saw Britain as the only security in a world dissolving into chaos , this must indeed have seemed a calamitous time . The addresses and the clergy 's leap into politics during the spring of 1798 were signs of a decisive change in public opinion which the Federalists hastened to put to work for them . Well before the NationalFast , and before more than a few addresses had been received , the House undertook to consider a proposal ( defeated in the emergencysession ) authorizing the president to procure sixteen armed vessels for convoying American shipping.8 ' The opposition promptly denounced it as a war measure , and to drive home the point Albert Gallatin moved an amendment requiring that the vessels " shall not , in time of peace , be employed as convoys to any foreign port or place . " 82 This provoked an angry retort from Representative Allen of Connecticut , who accused the Republicans of Jacobinism in obstructingthe will of the majority : I have long considered it as the most prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which knows not to yield : that furious , clamorous spirit , which never acquiesces in measures nor principles , howeverwell settled ; which never yields to majorities , but which always seeks , by force or art , to convert minorities into majorities ; that spirit which drives men to overset , destroy , or render ineffectual , measures which it disapproves , though adopted by the general consent and approbation of the country.83The Republicans protested that the charge was preposterous , and accused the Federalists in turn of expecting " absolute and unlimited submission to opinions " for which no majority had yet declared.84 But Samuel Dana retorted with insinuations about the loyalty and patriotism of those who resisted " any measure which had the defencep176of the country for its object , " and the Federalists succeeded in defeatingGallatin 's motion while passing their own.85The influence of increasing public support for vigorous defensive measures was even more plain in the debate on the provisional army bill . The bill , which had passed the Senate without difficulty , authorizedthe president to raise an army of zo , 000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall judge the public safety shall require the measure . " 86 The opposition immediately challenged the necessity for this , arguing that there was no danger of invasion from Europe , and that even if there had been , a force of zo , 000 was not sufficient to defend so vast a coastline . The detachmentof 8o,000 militia authorized by a statute in the emergency session the preceding spring would serve this purpose better.87 Beyondits necessity , furthermore , the Republicans were suspicious of its tendency to strengthen the executive power . They were able to limit the president 's discretion to the " imminent danger of . . . invasiondiscovered , in his opinion , to exist , before the next session of Congress , " 88 but they were not able to defeat the conditional delegationof authority to raise a provisional army , which would give to the president rather than to the state governors the power to appoint officers . This together with the right to accept voluntary companies into the service would in effect allow the president " to arm one description of men exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which could be directed against the opposition.8 ? When Republicans in Congress raised these objections , their Federalist adversaries openly acknowledged that the measures could be used to repress French sympathizers , accusing opposition leaders like Gallatin of traitorous collaboration with France.90 The force of public opinion as expressed in the addresses was evidently their warrant for going to such extremes. ? ' By late May the people were so up in arms that the Federalist majority felt free to move from defensive measures to more positive forms of retaliation . The crisis of 1797 ? 1798 had convinced an increasingnumber of them that " an active defensive war " against France was desirable . First of all it would accustom the public to see France as an enemy rather than a friend , making it difficult for her ever again to influence American politics . At the same time it would politically discredit the opposition and justify its repression . For thep177Federalists believed that as long as there were Republicans to blame them for every French aggression , so long would the Directory be encouraged to continue its provocations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undermining Federalist ability to resist the French threat , there was a real danger that the people would abandon them for the Republicans and a French alliance.92 Not all Federalists saw war as desirable , nor were those who did converted all at the same time . The war sentiment grew as the public'sincreasing exasperation with France seemed to place the objectivewithin reach . The Federalists ' course was not made easier by the opposition 's perception that war would bring their adversaries certain advantages along with repeated charges of deliberate provocation. ? 3Nonetheless , by the end of May public opinion had reached such a pitch that they felt able to override Republican protests . First they authorized naval vessels to take the initiative in capturing French privateers hovering about the coast , " and then , on June 1 , they proposed a suspension of commercial intercourse with France and her dependencies . The measure resembled Clark 's nonintercourse proposal of 1794 , and the opposition charged that it would put an end to all negotiations with the Directory.95The boldest step openly taken toward war was the introduction on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspension of the Franco-American treaties , the issuance of letters of marque and reprisal against all French vessels , and the granting of a bounty on guns seized from French armed vessels.96 On June 8 , Foster moved that his resolution be referred to " the Committee for the Protectionof Commerce and the Defense of the Country , with power to report by bill . " 97 The opposition was quick to observe that referenceof the resolutions to the committee was entirely unnecessary as it ' already had the power to report such bills . There was also the further objection that as soon as the French heard about it they would very likely " seize all the property belonging to our citizens within their power . " Lastly , the opposition objected to " measures which must inevitably involve the country in a war " when the last official news indicated that " negotiations were still going on . " Certainlythis measure , which could not but widen the breach , was " very ill-timed . " These objections had a marked effect on the FederalistJoshua Colt , who admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resolutions " a sort of sanction . " Though he believed there would be war between the United States and France , " he did not wish to go faster to this state of things than the people of this country , and the opinion of the world , would justify , " and he joined a bare majority in defeating reference . For this he was roundly denounced by those who wanted more positive measures 98Coit was not the only Federalist unwilling to be responsible for provoking war , but he incurred special wrath because he made open mention of a constraint that deterred even the extremists . In a government as dependent on public opinion as that of the United States , most Federalists agreed that it would be hazardous in the extreme to assume responsibility for a war until " the mass of our people are convinced that war would be just , necessary and unavoidable . " Coit had implied that this was not the case.90Abraham Baldwin immediately hastened to underscore the point , observing that though the people " had endeavoured to fortify their public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence , and their determination not to appear a divided people , " it was still the duty of Congress to " conduct public affairs in such a manner as to merit and receive support so grateful on such occasions . " Baldwinthought " it would be wise for the Government not to go too fast for their expectations . Perhaps . . . as much had been done .. . as was expected . The people had not said expressly that they are desirous of going into war , as some seem to suppose ; we know to the contrary ? it is only the worst class of them that are desirous of war . " In any case , he added , " will not everyone say that it is desirable . . . adjournment should take place before the question of war is finally determined on ? It is the very life of all representative Governments that the representative should have opportunity to see his constituents , more especially on such great occasions ; it gives mutual confidence and very much fortifies the Government . " 100 Baldwin'swords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince a majority that if there were to be war it would be best if France took the odium on herself.101At the same time as the Federalists were being forced to recognize that they could not take the initiative in driving the nation to war , a sequence of events made it seem more desirable than ever . The first was reliable though confidential information that Gerry hadp179agreed to stay in France , at Talleyrand 's request , to work against a final rupture between the two countries . This news , received by the government on June 2 , diminished the chances that France would declare war and inspired the attempt to provoke her evident in the Foster resolutions of June 6 . It also raised the possibility that Gerry 's mission would be as damaging to the Federalists as Monroe 's had been in 1796 , and that he would " write , a la Monroe , a Book " justifying France and condemning the administration.102These fears were aggravated by the departure on June 13 of George Logan , a man who could be relied upon to tell the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands , on what was rightly suspected to be an unauthorized peace mission.103 The crowning touch was the June i6 publication of a letter Talleyrandhad written on the preceding March i8 , ostensibly addressed to the commissioners in Paris but actually , like Adet 's electioneering note of 1796 , an appeal to pro-French sentiments in America . ' O " This letter appeared in the Aurora before the president had been able to communicate it to Congress , and without the commissioners ' reply , which set it before the public in the most flattering possible light . It was a heavy blow , followed after two days by Marshall 's return and open confirmation of Gerry 's continuance in France , which lent substance to the opposition argument that reconciliation was still possible.105This concatenation of events alerted the Federalists to their vulnerabilityto that French " diplomatic skill " which Y had vaunted before the commissioners in Paris and which they had already come to know only too well during the first year of Adams 's administration . Indeed , the Federalists began to realize that this was more of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly destroyingFrance 's influence among the American people . King quickly perceived that the Directory , rather than pressing matters to extremes , would " appear to recede from some of her demands , and send you a soothing and insidious message by Mr. Gerry , who , in vindication of his own conduct , must appear to believe the sincerity of that of France . " 106 To prevent the resurgence of French influence in Americathus became as vital to the Federalists as demonstrating their ability to counter French aggression . The president did his part , announcing that by now Gerry shouldp180have received instructions to end negotiations , and adding that he would " never send another Minister to France without assurances that he will be received , respected and honored. " 107 Even before this , Federalists in the House had decided to seize the opportunity offered by public indignation to amend the Provisional Army Act , giving the president immediate authority to organize and arm volunteercompanies.108 They also passed a Naturalization Act requiring the registration of aliens and drastically restricting access to citizenship . Lastly , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Alien Act giving the president discretionary power to remove dangerous foreigners even in time of peace.109The Federalists insisted that such a power was necessary to protectthe nation against the " army of spies and incendiaries scattered through the Continent " through whom France intended to subvert national liberty , much as she had subverted the smaller European nations through her partisans . And William Cobbett 's exposure of the United Irishmen in May 1798 tried to make it clear that this danger was not confined to Frenchmen . In his Detection of a Conspiracyby the United Irishmen with the evident intention of aiding the tyrants of France , he argued that a fast-growing network of Irish lumpenproletariat in French pay was threatening American security , and that prudence demanded a legislative remedy in the form of an alien friends act . " ? These fantasies enjoyed a certain plausibility in Philadelphia , which had the largest alien population of any American city but no protective force , so that a mob of foreigners might physicallythreaten the federal government.111 But judging from the fact that the Alien Act was never enforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supporting opposition activity than to ensure physical protection for the government . Indeed , some suspected that the Federalists wished to give France still greater provocation than before by deporting from the United States some of her prominent citizens living there . " 2Yet for all the flurry of legislative activity , war remained the only sure way of making the turn which public opinion had taken against France an irreversible one , and this continued to elude the Federalists . A minority seem to have made another attempt to force the issue at the beginning of July , but with no more success than the Foster resolutions had enjoyed a month before . ' The closest theyp181came to achieving their goal was in passing a series of measures abrogating the Franco-American treaty and authorizing offensive measures against French armed ships , not only by the United States Navy , but in effect by merchant vessels too.114 Congress never moved to implement the second Foster resolution for issuing general letters of marque and reprisal against French shipping , which would have led to a full-scale naval war . The Federalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that release of the dispatcheshad won them in the battle for public opinion than the enactmentof a sedition law . And the provisions proposed for this made plain exactly what the Federalists wanted the people to continue thinking about France and the opposition . The most notorious of these provisions was in a bill James Lloyd put before the Senate declaring " that the government and people of France and its colonies and dependencies . . . are enemies to the United States and the people thereof ; " that any American who adheredto those enemies , " giving them aid and comfort , within the United States or elsewhere " would be subject to the death penalty ; and that any person " having knowledge of the commission of any of the treasons aforesaid " and who concealed it would be guilty of misprisionof treason.115 During a House debate the previous April , Dana had observed that " were a declaration of war to take place , a man who went from this country to join the French army , would be a traitor , and a man who corresponded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treason . " 116 Lloyd 's bill would secure this advantageto the Federalists without putting them to the trouble of a full-scale war , and would make George Logan liable for trial as a traitor . Other parts of the bill would have made it unlawful to questionthe constitutionality and policy of governmental measures or " to justify the hostile conduct of the French government to the . . . United States , " which would in effect have outlawed the opposition.117Robert Goodloc Harper proposed a slightly different sedition bill to the House which , like Lloyd 's , was after bigger game than oppositionnewspapers . Harper did not fear use of the press to libel the government because " a man 's propriety of conduct would always be sufficient to shield him against these slanders , " and because the people 's failure to rise against their government was proof enough that they were not upset by them.  |p182Whilst  this abuse was confined to certain newspapers in the United States , it excited in him , therefore , no alarm ; but when he heard a gentleman on the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him weight with the people , pronouncing an invective against the Government , and calling upon the people to rise against the law , the business put on a very serious appearance . . . because this speech may have a very different effect from the filthy streams of certain newspapers ; it may gain a credit with the community , and produce consequences which all former abuse has failed to do . Harper therefore proposed that it be made a crime to " utter or publish any false , scandalous , and malicious words or expressions against the Government of the United States , " and to assemble in public or in private for the purpose of conspiring against the peace or laws of the United States , " or with any intent to aid , encourage , or abet any hostile designs of any foreign nation against the United States , their people , or Government ; or with intent to establish , hold , or carry on any correspondence with any foreign nation , its agents or people , for any of the purposes aforesaid . " Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , broadly construed , would have made every activity of the opposition liable to prosecution and would have interdicted the Republican party as effectively as the proposals in the Lloyd bill . The Federalists were forced to settle for far less than either Lloyd or Harper desired . In the final version , the Sedition Act made it unlawful to attempt or promote a seditious conspiracy , or to " write , print , utter or publish " any lies or scandal designed to defame the government or make it the object of the people 's hatred . ' " Even so , the Federalists were not able to gain full legal sanction for suppressingtheir opponents , being obliged to propose a provision allowing truth as defense against the charge of libel and to accept one vesting the decision in a jury . These qualifications were in part a testimony to the continued strength of the opposition . Theodore Sedgwick complained that because the parties were so evenly divided in the House , successful measures had to be " graduated by the feelings and opinions of the most cool and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans in Congress stood a sizable portion of the public . Alexander Hamilton inadvertently acknowledged how much constraint by public opinion the Federalists still felt , de/spite their advantage in the government , when he said that Lloyd 's sedition bill contained provisions " such as more than anything else may endanger civil war . " He went on to declare : " LET US NOT ESTABLISH TYRANNY . Energy is a very different thing from violence . If we make no false step , we shall be essentially united ; but if we push things to an extreme , we shall then give to faction body and solidity . " 120p185Federalist gains made during the spring and summer of 1798 were the result not so much of their own initiatives as of a fortunate conjunctionof events they had not directed . They were the beneficiaries partly of the passing fear that the traditional European balance of power was going to be upset , but still more of France 's monumental diplomatic blunders . Consequently it remained an open question whether or not they could hold on to their newly won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or attempt to regain her influence in American politics by judicious conciliation . In the autumn of 1798 , as it became clear that conciliation would be her strategy , many Federalists felt a desperate need to forestall it . They feared France might be so successful in influencing public opinion as to produce the election of Jefferson in ' Soo , which they firmly believed would negate all their long and patient efforts to preserve neutrality against French power , and would entangle the young nation in a disastrous war with Britain . They did their utmost to counteract French influence through their control of the federal government , only to have President Adams undermine their work by naming new envoys to France . Rightly perceiving that the pursuit of warlike measures for the sake of manipulating opinion would expose the nation to all the dangers of civil war and Jacobin revolution , he determined to negotiate with France rather than adopt an uncompromisingpolicy that might force the United States into alliance with Britain . This courageous act eventually split the Federalist party and ensured a Republican victory in ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soo was no ordinary setback to be easily recouped . They knew better than anyone else how nmuci the leadership of the wise and good depended on an ae ( piiescent , indifferent populace , and they also knew that theirp186foreign policy was doing as much if not more than the opposition to create a popular politics in which they would be at a permanent disadvantage . This process reached a climax during the war crisis of 1798 when a congressional deadlock drove them to appeal to the people and attempt a Republican-style exposure with the release of the XYZ dispatches . Their success in this had obliged the Republicans , who found that for the first time they were themselves the targets of public opinion , to do as the Federalists had done before them and try to manipulate it . To this end they worked through the most prestigious organs of public authority available to them , the Virginia and Kentucky legislatures . Though they were not immediatelyas successful as their opponents had been , any unrestrained competition between the two parties was bound to favor the oppositionin the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely that public opinion rather than intrigue would decide elections . When it came to competing for public opinion in i800 , the Federalistswere at a decided disadvantage . Divisions in their ranks had rendered useless their greatest asset , control of the federal government , and their war measures were unpopular . These could have been passing disadvantages , but their lack of a popular ideology was a more serious and lasting one . Their efforts to compensate by harnessingProtestant piety to serve their ends were unsuccessful ; and though they had two other recourses against hostile public opinion , these too disappointed them . The ! firsj was to control it punitively through the Sedition Law , which proved self-defeating . The ; ' es conwas to circumventit through intrigue in the electoral college ; " which failed and left them in their last moment of power reduced to choosing between Jefferson and Burr in the House of Representatives.  |p187Though  some Federalists had misgivings about the actions of Congress during June and July 1798 , there was still much that they could be pleased with . They had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal government , and despite the trammels still set on them by public opinion , they had succeeded in meeting French aggression with a limited naval war . The doubts they had suffered throughout the first year of Adams 's presidency about the people 's willingness ever to resist France had now been lifted . Indeed , once over this hurdle , many Federalists felt more confident of public support while France continued to pressure the nation than they would have done if she had desisted . They realized that as long as hostilities continued , however limited , this would help purge the people of their Francophilia and discredit the opposition . And as long as France remained supreme in Europe , they felt reasonably certain she would persist in her aggression toward the United States . If she ever did give up what Gallatin called her " egregious folly , " 1 however ; if she stopped threatening national dignity and independence , and offered to deal with America on equal terms ; if she showed some respect for America 's neutral rights by repealing the decrees against her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the people 's old affection for France reassert itself ? It was impossible to know for sure , though one could confidently say that the longer hostilities lasted , the less vunerable the republic would be to any resurgence of French influence . One thing only was certain : if France could regain her former stature in American eyes , all would be lost . This is why many Federalists were disturbed by official and unofficialreports ( hiring the autumn of 1798 that the Directory wasp188interested in reconciliation . Most disquieting of all were the documentsarising from Gerry 's informal negotiation with Talleyrand after Pinckney and Marshall had gone . The public did not see them all until they were communicated to Congress on January 18 , 1799 , but Talleyrand had published his July 12 letter to Gerry in the French press , whence it had found its way first into the British papers , then at the beginning of October into the American papers along with Gerry 's answer.2 This letter was in some ways very much like that which had been written on March 18 at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pin all blame for the rupture between America and France on the Adams administration . He claimed that Pinckney had been dismissed the first time for lack of adequate powers , and that the mission of the three envoys had been prejudiced by the administration 's anti-French statements duringthe emergency session of 1797 . Gerry 's reply was a devastating exposureof the inconsistency between Talleyrand 's dismissal of Pinckneyfor inadequate powers and his badgering Gerry to solicit new ones . He pointed out that for him to have negotiated with the Directoryby himself would have amounted to transferring executive power from the American government to the French.3Yet Talleyrand 's letter of July 12 contained a postscript dated July 15 which was a clear indication that the Directory did not mean to let the United States provoke it into a declaration of war . Respondingto the United States laws authorizing the seizure of French warshipsand the suspension of commercial relations with France , Talleyranddeclared that despite these provocative acts , which appeared to leave the Directory " no honorable choice but war , " his government confirmed " the assurances which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reprisal to " a temporary embargo on American vessels . " He went on , " It is yet ready , it is as much disposed as ever , to terminate , by a candid negotiation the differences which subsist between the two countries . Such is its repugnance to consider the United States as enemies , that , notwithstanding their hostile demonstrations , it means to wait until it be irresistibly forced to it by real hostilities . " 4 What is more , Gerry 's suggestion that the Directory should show good will by recalling its privateers and restraining them " by severe penalties to the proper objects of capture " seemed to have been accepted when the Directory issued a series of decrees limiting theirp189activities in American waters . In a parting note dated July 22 , Talleyrandwaived " every preliminary respecting a loan , and explanations on the subject of the speeches delivered , " informing Gerry that negotiationscould be resumed in Paris with assurance that " every Envoy who shall unite your advantages can not fail to be well received . " 5 And in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , Gerry reported that the Executive Directory were eager for rapprochement if for no other reason than to avoid an alliance of Great Britain and the United States against France.6Besides the Gerry dispatches , the administration had unofficial evidence that the Directory wanted peace . At the end of July , Joel Barlow wrote to his friend James Watson that France was " unequivocalfor avoiding a war between the two republics , " having officially declared that1st . The Directory is ready to name a minister to treat with any that shall be named on the part of the United States . 2nd . All claims for loans of money , and all apologies for offensive speeches made by the Executive on either part , are laid aside . 3rd . All piracies and illegal depredations on American property are disavowed by the Directory , who have ordered all commissions given to privateers in the West Indies to be withdrawn , and new commissions to be issued , in which the proprietors and commanders of privateers , are to be restricted , under bonds , to the legal objects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here by all parties as a more pacific overture than was expected , after the irritations that have been offered on both sides . It is retreating to an open ground that is quite unsuspicious . " But he gave inadvertent support to Federalist doubts when he added , " A refusal on your part to meet on this ground , would be considered a declaration of war , and it would be a war of the most terrible kind . " He thought peace with Britain was inevitable once the negotiations at Rastatt had reached a successful conclusion , warning that " the ocean will then be left free for the transportation of French troops , and the two republics left to execute the projects of the British cabinet , and to disgrace the principles of both their revolutions . " In mid-August the Directory lifted the embargo on American v ( 'ssc+ls which Tallcyrand had announced to Gerry in his letter of J illy 15 and released the seamen detained by its authority . Therep190was an offensive preamble claiming that this act would compel the American government to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic " unless it were " abandoned to the passions of the British Cabinet " or lull faithful to the interests of the American nation , " and the objectionable decree of 29 Nivose , making all American vessels in effect lawful prizes , was still in force.8 Nevertheless , this was a sign that the Directory was mending its ways , and it was followed by others . Richard Codman , a Boston Federalist , wrote from Paris in August to his Harvard classmate , Harrison Gray Otis , urging that the administration should " once more risque sending a minister " because " the moment is extremely favorablefor an accommodation . " George Logan returned from his missionat the beginning of November bearing official notice of the French government 's release of American ships and men . And Joel Barlow wrote to Washington at the beginning of October reaffirming that " the French Directory is at present sincerely desirous of restoringharmony between this country and the United States , on terms honorable and advantageous to both parties . " 9 At the same time , French privateering in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the vigor of American armed vessels in prosecutingthe naval war , and letters from American diplomats in Europe , particularly from William Vans Murray at the Hague and John Quincy Adams at Berlin , made it plain that the Directory had abandoned her former policy if not her former intentions.loNo Federalist better expressed his misgivings about the Directory 's conciliatory posture than James Watson of New York in his reply to Barlow 's letter : " You know perfectly well the structure of our government , and that it is impossible that its executive should be long at variance with the wishes of the people . " Both the executive and the people wanted peace , he said , butit must be a fair and honourable peace , not one that invites French anarchists to intermeddle in our elections , to debauch our citizens , and to vilify our government , not one which exposes us to French insults and rapacity at home and abroad , and exhibits us to the world , in the persons of our envoys , as a spectacle for derision . Perceiving that we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practiced against us were not sufficiently refined ; the Directory condescendsto spread new snares for our entanglement. " 1 tp191Watson questioned that France 's expressed willingness to name a new minister who would treat with America , to drop all claims for loans and apologies , and to restrain her privateers , were true signs of an honest desire for reconciliation.12 He concluded with a ringing declaration that the United States would not be scared out of its independence by any threat of war from France . On the contrary , he wrote , " they fear her invasions less than her friendship . The examples of Holland , Switzerland , and the Italian states are before them , and they teach them to think of France as the beautiful female figure which pierced with darts , and crushed the bones of the victims it embraced . " 13France 's sudden change of face was made the more ominous by the simultaneous resurgence of the opposition at home , a coincidence suggesting collusion . From April when the dispatches were published until the autumn of 1798 the Federalists were kept in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replies , sermons , and Fourth of July orations . There was an occasional dissenting oration 14 and several addresses opposing war , 15 but these usually came from minorities within larger groups which had already endorsed Federalist policy , and they were drowned by the crescendo of approving voices . In September , the tide began to turn . The Virginia leadership struck back through county resolutions in their own state and in Kentucky culminating in the resolutions passed by the two state legislatures at the end of the year.13 This opposition move was not as visible as its proponents might have wished because the yellow fever epidemic of 1798 had crippled those newspapers which had national circulation . Still it began to blaze up just as the first enthusiasm fired by the dispatcheswas dying down . And the Federalists believed that as long as the opposition was conspicuous , so long would France continue to meddle in American affairs . ' 7The close connection between open opposition and French subversioncontinued to be a serious problem to the Federalists , and the powers they had arrogated during the war crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteer companies in the provisionalarmy to crush the opposition by force , they would run a grave risk of civil war . Even the Alien and Sedition Laws were only minor aids . The threat of an alien law had caused the departure of well-known Frenchmen like Victor Marie Dupont and the Comtep192de Volney , the latter an intimate friend of opposition leaders in Philadelphia , and it helped to silence John Daly Burke 's Time Piece . ' $ Nor was it any accident that the first prosecution under the Sedition Law was brought against Matthew Lyon during his campaign for re-election to the House . The Federalists succeeded in convicting and imprisoning Lyon , but this was not a technique they could use against the opposition as a whole . For one thing , the judicial apparatusof the United States was too underdeveloped to handle such a load at short notice . For another , in solidly Republican districts such proceedings would probably provoke some violent challenge to the court 's authority . Even a successful prosecution would have no more than a temporary effect , for a determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise . The real purpose aimed at in the early sedition prosecutions was intimidation . If this should fail to silence the Republicans , the only other recourse was for the Federalists to try eclipsing them by their own superior visibility . The Federalists set great store by their control of the government because it allowed them to keep their view of the quarrel uppermost in the public mind . To this end , when Congress assembled at the beginning of December the president 's address congratulated the nation on " that spirit which has arisen in our country against the menacesand aggression of a foreign nation . " Adams went on to put French peace overtures in Federalist perspective . He acknowledged that the Directory " appears solicitous to impress the opinion that it is averse to the rupture with this country " by seeming ready to receivea minister from the United States . But he added : It is unfortunate for professions of this kind that they should be expressed in terms which may countenance the inadmissible pretension of a right to proscribe the qualifications which a Minister of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the existence . . . of a conciliatory disposition , on the part of the United States , of which so many demonstrative proofs have been given , should even be indirectly questioned . Speaking of the Directory 's decree limiting her privateers to seizures authorized by French laws , Adams questioned that this would givep193much relief as " these laws are themselves the sources of the depredationsof which we have so long , so justly , and so fruitlessly complained . " He singled out the decree of 29 Nivose " which subjects to capture and condemnation neutral vessels and their cargoes , if any portion of the latter are of British fabric or produce , although the entireproperty belongs to neutrals , " and called it " an unequivocal act of war on the commerce of the nations it attacks . " 20 Though Adams 's speech concluded with a pledge that the United States would " give no room to infer that we abandon the desire of peace , " he said that " to send another Minister , without more determinate assurances that he would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States ought not to submit . " Both houses of Congress warmly reiterated these sentiments.21The Federalists did not mean to stop here . When the administrationat last released the official Gerry-Talleyrand correspondence , with it was a long letter by Pickering which aimed at accomplishingthree objectives . The first was to prove to the American public that Talleyrand 's attempt to disown X , Y , and Z was a pretense , so that the opposition would no longer be able to claim that these three men had acted without authorization . This was easily done provided it were allowed that Talleyrand had acted for the Directory . Secondly , he hoped to prove that despite its willingness " to inveigle Mr. Gerry into a separate negotiation , " the Directory had no serious intention of resolving Franco-American differences . No government truly desiring negotiation would have rejected the other party 's ambassadors , and that France had done so proved she meant rather to dictate treaty terms favorable to herself . Then she could not lose no matter what happened : if the treaty were ratified , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States would be divided and its defenses against French influence and power weakened . Pickering dismissed as a sham Talleyrand 's opening suggestion of May 24 that the United States should put France on an equal footing with Britain in her treaties . When pressed on this , Talleyrand had changed the subject to the Consular Convention , " of all the possible subjects in difference the most insignificant . " In any case , if he had ever really intended to make an accommodation he could have done so through the three original commissioners who had been instructed to accept such t ( rnis. ' - p194Lastly , Pickering dealt with the decrees Gerry and Logan had brought home . He pointed out that even if France repealed all her recent measures against American commerce , the greater part of her depredations would still be authorized under the decree of July 2 , 1796 . He dismissed the gestures made by France as " a bold imposture " and went on to say that France 's conduct with respect to Americancommerce had been so perfidious that until she agreed to negotiatedamages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dispatches had produced such anger in America that the Directory was now " cowering " before her ? As Pickering reminded his fellow countrymen , " the tiger crouches before he leaps upon his prey . " 23While Pickering labored over his lengthy aspersions of French sincerity , surely without much hope that they could equal the effect produced by the unofficial correspondence , Federalists in the House made their first order of business the outlawing of private diplomacy such as George Logan and Joel Barlow had engaged in . On December26 , Roger Griswold proposed a committee to frame an act that would make it a crime to " usurp the Executive authority of this Government , by commencing or carrying on any correspondence " with foreign governments concerning disputes between them and the United States.24 This was said to have been made necessary by France 's avowed policy of subversion through foreign influence and domestic faction . Edward Rutledge of South Carolina , arguing that many European nations had been subverted by these means , said : " The patriotic party in Holland , previous to their revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had everywhere been employed in the subversion of the old establishments . " The United Irishmen had employed agents in France " who instructed the French army where to land , where to find pikes , provisions , and other necessaries , for their work of devastation . " 25 And Robert Goodloe Harper asserted that recent events in Europe proved how " republican Governmentsare especially menaced with destruction " by " the introduction of foreign influence , " going on to describe the reasons for this : Monarchies , despotisms , aristocracies , which , for the most part , depend on the support of a few , may be subverted by foreign force , but popular Governments , unless quite contemptible , in point of extent , can not be subvertedwithout the aid of internal division . This division is effected byp195means of foreign influence , which supports , and is supported by , domestic faction ; therefore , everything that tends , however remotely , to facilitate the alliance between these two deadly foes , is most carefully to be guarded against.26The Federalists argued that the proposed legislation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not convinced . Gallatin could not deny " that there might be an interferencewith the executive authority . . . it would be proper to punish by law , " or that " men who should attempt to subvert the Constitution by foreign aid , ought to be liable to punishment . " He did object , though , to the provision which would make " any correspondence " liable to punishment instead of specifying criminal correspondencesuch as " an invitation of a foreign Power to invade a country . " He believed " the nature of the correspondence must constitutethe crime , and not the act of corresponding . " Nor did he think that such a law was needed . Criminal correspondence was alreadypunishable under existing laws , and it seemed doubtful that any individual could usurp the executive authority in this way.27 As for the dangers Harper spoke of , the opposition denied that there was any division in America when it came to repelling foreign aggression or changing the nation 's form of government . They admitteda division of opinion over government policy , but argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary one . Even if there were some men who would have liked to enlist the help of France , they questioned that it could ever be obtained . As Gallatin asked , " Did not our distance from Europe , and the want of naval resources of that nation whose interference was apprehended , secure us from that danger ? " 28The opposition had more positive reasons for objecting to the proposed law than the lack of necessity for it . They charged that it was part of a system the Federalists were using to crush the opposition , a system of creating alarm and despondency among the people . Nicholas accused the Federalists of perpetually declaiming that " nothing ought to be done , no sentiment offered in opposition to regularGovernment . . . because it produces divisions in a country . " 29 ( : allatin pointed out that the bill as drawn would punish expressions of opinion rather than assumptions of power . It seemed to him " ap196second edition of the sedition act , " extending the government 's punitivepowers from defamatory publications to speech and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a divided nation , not because of anything the opposition had done , but because of charges and measures instituted by the Federalists.31Nicholas too charged that the only real danger of division came from Federalist policy , for " so long as the people are not actuallyoppressed , and they can see in their Government the seeds of correction , no attempt at dividing or subjugating the people of this country could be successful . " 32 And Gallatin pointed out that French influence in Europe had subverted only those governments which were already unpopular.33The Republicans were also afraid that the Federalists intended this measure to " bring censure on all the acts which can flow from Logan 's mission , and prevent the people of this country from suspectingthe Government of doing wrong in acting so much on party principles with respect to France . " 34 Consequently , the opposition was as eager to show that Logan 's actions were both patriotic and desirable as they were to prove that a law so obviously drafted in response to them was unwarranted . Gallatin said thatif a man of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his country ? out of a sincere desire for peace , or out of hatred for war ? were to go over to France . . . and to exert his endeavors , however weak they might be , to prevailupon persons in power there to offer such terms of accommodation to our Government as he is persuaded would be accepted , he saw nothing either criminal or improper in such a conduct , but the contrary.35And Nicholas avowed that " if he had had any share in sending the gentleman alluded to to France , he should not be ashamed to confessit ? he should not be ashamed or afraid to promote the peace of his country . " At the same time , he agreed that if " any individual or set of men were bent upon involving the country in war , the case would be very different . " 36The Federalists replied that peace was not always preferable to war . France had shown a disposition to overthrow every governmentthat did not accede to her least demand , and the best safeguardfor national independence was to reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disunity.31 Logan 's mission had pro/claimed to the world that the nation was divided because he was the envoy of a party , and as Harper said , " The French government had told us plainly and in so many words , that such a party did exist among us ; that they relied on this party . . . and that , although this party could not direct the government , it could so embarrass and fetter it as to disable it from moving hand or foot against France . " He did not believe the authors of the mission were prompted by a sense of national injury , for the French had produced this in most Americans long before , while these men had not been moved to act until the whole country was so outraged that the government might be forced to make war on France . Nor did he think this was a genuine attempt to make an honorable peace , but suspected that Logan had been told to persuade France that she should " change her system of menace and blustering for an insidious system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance lulled to sleep . " 38'What most upset the Federalists about the Logan mission was the fear that despite their strenuous efforts to whip up public opinion , peace was still more popular than war . Dana of Connecticut was giving tacit acknowledgement to this when he countered the objectionthat no private individual could usurp executive power by observing that the danger was in the capacity of individuals to seduce that public opinion on which America 's republican government must rest.3 ? James Bayard suggested how a person might do this when he asked , " Can it be right that an individual go and offer terms of peace which could have no other effect than to excite . . . clamor at home . . . by making it appear that there is an unwillingness in the Government to make peace ? " Suppose " a Treaty of Peace was negotiated . . . and Government should not approve it , it would be thrown out to the people as a bone of contention " and the result might be " civil war . " 4 ? Harper betrayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Directory by Richard Codman as an illustration of the way in which individuals might usurp executive authority . The memorial urged France to refrain from uniting Americans against her and driving them into Britain 's arms when friendlier conduct would " draw back those wandering affections ... and leave the true American character to blaze forth in the approaching elections . " Harper put the worst possiblep198construction upon these words . " Thus , " he proclaimed triumphantly , " a foreign Government is instructed , by the envoy of a domestic faction . . . in the proper method of aiming a successful stab at the vitals of our Constitution , by influencing our elections . " 41Gallatin was quick to seize on these slips . " The gentleman from Delaware , " he said ( referring to Bayard ) , thought it " highly dangerous . . . that an individual might offer terms of peace to a foreign Government which it might be willing to accept ; which , when they came to be published in this country , would appear so reasonable to the people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , might have the effect to destroy the popularity of the Government . " This seemed to rest on the indefensible proposition that the government should refuse terms of peace which were popular throughout the Union.42 As for the Codman memorial which had upset Harper , Gallatin retorted that the Federalists thought nothing of inviting " further aggressions , nay , an invasion , by assuring France that they have a party here ready to receive them , " but they thought it criminal that Codman had spoken of the people 's unanimous determination to resist French aggression . Bayard 's and Harper 's words pointed to the conclusion that the Federalists were apprehensivethat France might be led to abandon the outrageous measureswhich had given the Federalists their justification for repression.43Gallatin 's blast silenced Harper , but Bayard returned to the fray six days later with a lengthy speech designed primarily to prove that Codman 's memorial was in fact written by Logan . This was an impossibletask to start with , and Bayard compounded his difficulties by drawing his proof " from circumstances connected with evidence of the same nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion . . . the internal evidence of the work itself . " 44 He followed this statement with an argument which inspired confidence in neither his religion nor his politics . No Federalist , he said , could have writtenwhat had been produced before the House ; Codman was a Federalist , therefore Codman had not written the letter . But he did concludeby restating the Federalist position much more forcefully than he had done before.45Bayard asserted that Logan and his Republican apologists knew that " French popularity was their popularity , " and that war withp199France would destroy both utterly and for ever.40 At the same time , they also knew that the people clung to peace . Therefore , if they could make it appear that they were the peace makers while the administration was guilty of warmongering they could " strip the Government of public favor and support , and confer it on a party . " If Logan were allowed to succeed , the principle would be established of " allowing a foreign Government to erect a minority in this country into a ruling power , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our independence . " 47This was a marked improvement on his previous argument , but it was still open to a serious objection . For as Nicholas pointed out , neither Logan nor the Codman memorial had ever suggested that the peace should be made by anyone but the executive of the United States.48 Bayard 's position was untenable . As Nicholas had said earlier on in the debate , because there could be no peace withoutthe administration 's consent , " the only possible evil which could arise to the Government from the interference of individuals for the purpose of procuring peace to the country would be that it might be forced to make peace against its will , on terms which it dare not refuse . " With heavy irony , he added , " It is not possible . . , that a majority of Congress may have interests distinct from our constituents ? an interest which they dare not avow ? which may induce them to wish for war . " 49 Because the Logan Act made sense only if it were allowed that to pursue peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did more than charges in the opposition press could ever do to dramatize before the public how great a stake the Federalists had acquired in preventing a Franco-American rapprochement . The large Federalist majority which endorsed the Logan Act , together with Pickering 's tedious report on the dispatches , to some extent concealed how badly the Federalists had been mauled in the House . And though this must have been brutally clear to the leadership , they were not as agitated as might have been expected . A development they had long desired was at last taking place , for between July and December 1798 , France lost her strategic advantage . As the second session of the Fifth Congress was closing inp200July , there came news that she had at last committed her army , apparently to a Mediterranean adventure . At first it was not clear where the large French fleet that left Toulon on May 19 was going : perhaps to Ireland , where revolutionary fervor had reached fever pitch ; perhaps even to the West Indies . But by September , Americansheard that Bonaparte had captured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was generally thought that Egypt was the French objective , and by the middle of October this was confirmed . Then , toward the end of November , news came that the French fleet had been destroyed at Alexandria.5 ' France had overreached herself ; her army had been marooned in Egypt by the English navy , and as the shadow of invasion was lifted from Britain it seemed likely that the continental alliance against France would be reborn . Even before Americans heard about the Second Coalition of Russia , Britain , Austria , Naples , Portugal , and the Porte , the newspapers were predictingthat the Congress of Rastatt would be abandoned and " those who thought of purchasing a degrading and precarious Peace from France at the risk of Revolution " would now renew the fight against her.52This sudden plunge of French fortunes from the height of triumph caused the Federalists some embarrassment because it removed their justification for war measures . Yet they preferred a beleaguered France to a victorious one , for they believed the potency of French influence bore some rough relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still argue that France had only ventured 35,000 men in Egypt , and even if she lost every one of them she might still be able to raise a new army for fresh foreign adventures . Not until France had suffered the disasters that marked the outset of her struggle with the Second Coalition was it certain that there was no longer any immediate danger , and this news had not yet arrived when the last session of the Fifth Congress adjourned on March 3 , 1799 . So when the House prepared a report justifying its defense measures at the end of the session it was still possible to cite Egypt as an example , not of American immunity to French aggression , but rather of the French republic 's power to reach across the seas . The report urged that " it be candidly considered , whether some of our fertile and flourishing states did not , six months since , presentp201as alluring objects for the gratification of ambition or cupidity , as the inhospitable climate of Egypt . " 53 Though it was impossible to claim that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had been before , the committee could still argue that the measures taken in the preceding session continued to be necessary , for " so eccentric are the movements of the French Government , we can form no opinion of their future designs towards our country . They may recede from the tone of menace and insolence , to employ the arts of seduction , before they astonish us with their ultimate designs . " 54Yet the decline of French power caused a dramatic change in the political prospects of the Federalists . For one thing , as Nicholas observed , it put an outright declaration of war entirely out of the question.55 For another , the restoration of the European balance of power reduced the hysteria which had so helped the Federalists in the summer of 1798 , and gave the Republicans a stronger hand in exploiting the potential unpopularity of unnecessary war measures.56 Most important of all , it impelled the president to appoint William Vans Murray , at that time the resident minister at the Hague , as a new commissioner to negotiate with France . Adams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his political career , and indeed it was the most controversial . It brought public vilification of him from men who had been his strongest supporters , and eventually caused a rupture within the Federalist party that helped to elevate Thomas Jefferson to the presidency . Why did Adams make this decision ? The question has been argued back and forth ever since . The high Federalists of New Englandvariously attributed it to unstable character , vanity , and the desire to dredge up votes from the ignorant populace in the coming election . It seemed to them a betrayal of everything they had ever done to stiffen the public mind against French power and influence.57 Some recent writers have generally agreed with the charge that Adams 's reasons were primarily political . They note that except within a small clique of frustrated leaders , the president 's action was genuinelypopular ; and except for the New York vote , influenced by Ilamilton 's shenanigans , Adams was politically stronger in i800 than he had been in 1796.58 But to say that a decision made in Febru/ary 1799 was aimed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a separation between cause and effect . As long as the United States remained a minor power , the final outcome of the act was still too uncertain . The negotiations might abort ( as indeed they almost did ) . Or there might be yet another French attempt to interfere in Americanpolitics , with France holding up negotiations until the election and then making a Republican administration the price of peace . Adams was thinking of more immediate concerns than the election . For one thing , he was afraid that if the limited war against France intensified the United States might be forced to ally with Britain and remain forever entangled in European quarrels . This made a rift between the president and the Hamiltonians , who were fascinated by the possibility of an Anglo-American coalition against the colonial empires of France and Spain in Latin America and the Caribbean . They thought this might hasten the day when the United States would be a world power impregnable to influence or interference from the outside . Indeed , Adams differed from these Federalists in believing that peace was still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 9He was also making a sensitive response to political reality . The general public may have been oblivious to the full implications of the debate on the Logan Act , but they could not have escaped the President . He knew that it was politically hazardous to ignore the Directory 's peace feelers on the grounds that they were meant to give Americans a false sense of security . An opposition which had continued to insist that Britain was the nation 's real enemy and that war with France was unnecessary and unjust , even at the height of the hysteria produced by the dispatches , would surely grow louder and perhaps violent if the Federalists maintained their hard line toward France despite more and more signs pointing toward peace . If he let the nation blunder into a full-scale war with France for which the Federalists were at all responsible , the result would probably be civil war and national dissolution. ? ? Much as Adams loathed Barlow , when Washington passed him Barlow 's letter asserting France 's willingness to make peace , adding a cautious endorsement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived , he could not now be outflanked by his own party ; and no matter how fiercely some members objected to his nomination of a new commission , theyp203could be forced to accept it by his threat of resigning in favor of Jefferson.61The new mission was an implicit acknowledgement of the power of public opinion in the United States and a repudiation of the fantasy that Federalist manipulative techniques could by themselves keep events abroad from impressing the public mind . This was not lost upon the new editor of the Gazette of the United States , John Ward Fenno . In a long article appearing on March 4 he effectively acknowledged that the Federalists had been defeated in their efforts to influence opinion , for the imminence of a general conflict had producednothing but indifference . Fenno went on to question the viability of the republic , pointing to four signs that the polity was diseased : " the imbecility of our frame of government , " the increase in moral depravity , the influence of newspapers with a correspondingdearth of real literature , and the absence of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government as a " system of shifts and expedients , " and lamented that although everyoneagreed " the reins of government were too lax ... the tendencyof every amendment " had been to emasculate it the more . He deplored the government 's apparentinability to declare war and punish traitors , the decentralization of the judiciary , and the absence of a national church which would give the people the moral instructionmissing from their newspapers : ? But most of all he deploredthe federal system , which he believed could bring only endless confusion , obstruction , and insurrection . It stood in relation to state governments , said Fenno , like " an old sow with a farrow of pigs , who have so strengthened and encreased on the nourishment she has afforded them , as to be able to insult her authority and resist her controul . " Yet all these defects could have been remedied had it not been for the lack of national pride . Fenno devoutly believed that the nation 's only hope had been a " long , bloody and obstinate " war with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might have had sufficient energy imparted to it for self-preservation , the protection of its friends and the punishment of its enemies ; the tide of depravity might then have been turned and the moral character we derived from our ancestors be retrieved . " Instead the nation had failed to unite against France , a failure which had let it split into tNvo factions " whose impending collision must produce bloodshed . "  |p204Declaring  that " the sun of federalism is fast retiring behind the clouds of turbulence and treason , " Fenno concluded by resigning his editorship.62Fenno 's anxieties were shared by many Federalists who gave them less indiscreet and irresponsible expression.63 George Cabot used a more measured tone in his letters to Secretary of State Pickering , but his general sentiments were the same . " It has been frequently remarked , " he wrote , that . . . our distance from Europe had saved us from a participation in its calamities , and had given us opportunity to learn wisdom at their expense ; and it has been observed , with some pride and great joy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such just ideas of the national policy as to approve and support it at every expence and hazard . If this was the case , the blessing is in great jeopardy , if not absolutely lost . Cabot thought that the president 's appointment of a new commission , proclaiming to the world that he believed rapprochement with France possible , was likely to revive in American hearts all the old love for the sister republic . But it was not just the subversion of nationalist spirit which disturbed Cabot ; there were also strategic risks : " A negotiation with France will necessarily excite the jealousy , if not the resentment , of the coalesced powers , " he wrote , and the United States might come " to dread their successes as much as we have dreaded those of France . " He was particularly pessimistic about the effect of a rapprochement on Anglo-American relations . " We have so many men who seek for a quarrel with Great Britain , that no ordinary skill can prevent it , " he declared . If the President were driven to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and seek new ones , the newly achieved amity between Britain and the United States might vanish into thin air . This he believed would adversely affect the work of the commissioners who were trying to settle claims under the Jay Treaty ( as did happen ) and so encourage the people in their latent hatred of Great Britain.6Although things looked bad , Federalists in general did not agree with Fenno that all was lost . The Federalist-dominated Senate did not dare to defy public opinion by opposing the peace mission , but did make the president agree to enlarge it by two members and procured a delay by extracting his promise that they would not leavep205America " until they receive assurances from the French government that they will be received . " 65 Having once been victimized by events , the Federalists were now playing for time in the hope that there would be news from abroad more favorable to their plans . And though the Republicans claimed Adams 's consent to the new commissionersas proof that the crisis had passed , thereby strengthening their case against certain anti-French measures so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vigorous show of resistance . They declared that if France had any sincere disposition to negotiate , it was thanks only to the strong measures taken against her ; that the president had said no negotiations could begin until France repealedher decree against British manufacturers ; and that there was too good reason to fear the French were only pretending to seek conciliation in order to put America off her guard.67 Indeed , Gallatinsuspected the Federalists of sponsoring the Retaliation Law ( which allowed capital punishment of French prisoners if France treated captured American seamen as pirates ) for the sole purpose of making Americans lose confidence in the negotiations.68In the event , fortune did not favor either the Federalists or the French . Throughout 1799 France 's prospects grew steadily worse . By the beginning of September , Cabot was lamenting that " if the disasters of the campaign are not mitigated by some successes to the arms of France , she will probably grant us everything in promises . " Her plight was so pitiable that the only reason Federalists could find for not going on with negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would make any treaty with the Directory a liability and also incur the enmity of the victoriouscoalition.63 Extreme Federalists received just one brief encouragementfrom events in Europe : the mission was temporarily held up by the coup d'etat within the Directory during June . All but one of its members had been replaced , and it looked as if the reshufflemight mark the beginning of the end for this particular form of government . This made Adams willing to take Pickering 's advice and delay the mission for a while.70 But before long he grew auspicious that some members of his cabinet were hoping to use this as a pretext for aborting the mission altogether . Warned by his two ! oval cabinet members , Charles Lee and Henry Stoddart , Adams hurried to Trenton in October where he was alarmed by **25;4326;TOOLONG presence at the temporary seat of government . After hearing Hamilton raise objections which had more to do with the risk of a rupture with Britain than with the momentary instability of the French government , and which would have constituted a permanentbar to any negotiations whatever , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremists had succeeded in preventing this departure for France , they would still have sustained irreparable damage from Adams 's February initiative . As Cabot observed to Pickering in October 1799 , " we can not recover the high ground on which we stood twelve months ago . " Still , when he learned that the commissionershad been ordered to leave for France at the end of October he confessed that it cost him a night 's sleep : " My gloomy imagination is too apt to persuade me that the worst which can happen ? Fill happen , or rather that measures of a tendency manifestly evil will produce the evil to which they tend . " 72 Along with other extreme Federalists , he saw a Jeffersonian triumph in i800 and a ruinous war with Britain made inevitable . Their only consolation was that the commissioners had been given much stronger instructions than Pinckney , Marshall , and Gerry before them , making the prospect of an early accommodation with France and a rupture with Britain unlikely . If the commission succeeded , unless its success coincided with a general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound to come . Meanwhile the rift that had first appeared in Federalist ranks when Adams announced the mission was growing ever wider and deeper , until on the eve of the presidential election the whole party was demoralized.74 This was already apparent to sensitive observers when the Sixth Congress met in December 1799 . The Congress , elected during the XYZ furor , was nominally Federalist . But in a letter to Christopher Gore , Cabot admitted : They are uncemented , and will do less than their precedessors to promote the common weal . You may see by their answer to the speech of the president how they are embarrassed . In order to satisfy Mr. Marshall and the Southern Federalists , it was necessary to appear satisfied with the mission ; and in order to please others , perhaps all true Federalists , it wasp207necessary to withhold all praise of the measure . Hence an awkward **25;4353;TOOLONG resulted , which , while it seemed to approve , does not really approve the step . i5The first session showed no will to influence public opinion by decisive action such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumed in warding off the attacks of a numerically weaker opposition on such unpopular Federalist measures as the army and the Alien and Sedition Laws , i0 or in defending the president for having complied with the Jay Treaty in surrendering to British authorities one Thomas Nash , wanted for mutiny , who claimed to be Jonathan Robbins , an American impressed into the British navy . ' ' The beleaguered Federalists at first showed a united front to their attackers , but signs of disunity emerged when they tried to take the initiative in two important measures . The first was their attempt to extend the judicial system . Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 , the scope of the federal courts was limitedby giving concurrent original jurisdiction to the state courts . Though the privilege of appealing cases having to do with federal rights was retained , most of the business coming before the federal courts was appellate , and Supreme Court justices were required to serve also as circuit court judges . Added to the diminutive role of the federal courts this had lowered the judiciary 's prestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jay 's refusal to be reappointed chief justice was to prove this in 1800. i8 The Federalist hope was to reorganize the federal judiciary so as to make it a more efficient instrument of the central government 's power . As Wolcott wrote to Ames , " It is impossible , in this country , to render an army an engineof government , and there is no way to combat the state opposition but by an efficient and extended organization of judges , magistrates , and other civil officers . " 79 As an opening move the Federalistsproposed a national bankruptcy act which the expanding economy seemed to make attractive and from which political yields were expected . They believed it would " lessen opposition to the Governmentby the most active &; clamorous description of persons , debtors finding an interest in its support " and render " an extension of the judiciary necessary . " 80Passage of the bankruptcy act was not a foregone conclusion.  |p208As  Sedgwick said in a long letter to King , except for Livingston " who has conflicting motives , " all members of the opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the central government . He added that there were " causes which detachseveral federalists from its support . In New England it will break in upon our system of attachment laws , which from habit &; education have more favor than their merit entitles them to ; and in Virginia , in one instance will render lands liable to the payment of debts and may form a precedent for the extension of that principle . " 81 To gain their end , Federalist sponsors were obliged to make substantial concessions in the scope of the bill . They particularly disliked having to allow " the trial of the question Bankrupt or not , by jury , " which Sedgwick feared would " be found inconvenient , embarrassing , &; dilatory . " Even then , passage came so late in the session that there was not enough time to follow it with the Judiciary Act , so that the Federalists were defeated in their hope that this would create judicial patronage in time for the election of i800 and provide a more efficient means for enforcing the Sedition Law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the influence of Marshall . Sedgwick complained that he " was looked up to as the man whose great and commanding genius was to enlighten &; direct the national councils , " but had a weakness for popularity which led him to defer to public opinion so much that his " indecision and an expression of doubt " immobilized the southern Federalists.82Marshall 's influence and Federalist disunity were nowhere more apparent than in the matter of a bill for settling disputed presidential elections . This bill , proposed by Senator James Ross of Pennsylvania , was specifically intended to resolve a deadlock in the Pennsylvanialegislature over selecting presidential electors . The RepublicanHouse supported a measure for popular choice of a general ticket of electors , while the Federalist Senate insisted on a plan of district elections designed to give them more than their fair share of electors . By any equitable division of the vote , the Republicanswould have come out ahead of the Federalists , so that the Federalists could do more damage than they would sustain by refusingall compromise and obstructing the casting of any votes by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " re/ject a bill for a district election , and if no law . . . passed , would authorize and regulate a general election by proclamation . " 83 Ross 's bill was aimed at circumventing McKean by giving a joint committee , composed of six senators and representatives with a chairman to be chosen by the Senate , the power to decide upon the validity of the electoral votes cast . Then if McKean tried to initiate an election by issuing a proclamation , or if the people chose Republican electors on their own initiative and the governor passed their votes on to Congress as valid , the committee could disqualify them . It seemed possible that a similar situation might develop in other states , 84 and if enough electoral votes could be disqualified , no candidatewould have a majority of the whole . The election would then pass to the House , which would be strongly Federalist when voting by states . The Republicans saw this as an attempt to snatch the election away from them . Charles Pinckney charged in the Senate that to give one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the president would tempt minorities in every state to dispute the election whenever they saw that their chosen candidate also had the support of a majority in Congress . This would create ceaseless disputesand make periodic appeals to the people useless , for a majorityin Congress would " always be intimately connected with the measuresof Administration . " 85 After the bill was defeated , even Cobbett allowed that it would have given the Senate complete power over the election of the president.S ? Well before this admission , however , the Republicans had seen their suspicions confirmed when the Senate attempted to proceed against William Duane , the editor of the Aurora , for breach of privilege because he had published the text of the proposed bill.87This was the first disaster the Federalists suffered in the Sixth Congress . When the Sedition Law was already inflaming the public , Senate Federalists should have had more sense than to try such a maneuver . In colonial times this kind of action had been commonplace , but it was so opposed to postrevolutionary ideas of judicial procedure and civil liberties that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federalist defense was that the Senate had a right to protect itself from untruths ( and that judicial remedies were not quick enough to save the Senate 's reputation ) , though the only " untruth "  |p210they  could show in the Aurora was an insinuation that the Senate was run by a sinister caucus.88 It was a feeble effort satisfying no one . Those who were not shocked by the act as a blatant violationof civil liberties were critical of its political implications . Cobbettquestioned its wisdom given that this branch of the legislature was already unpopular , and William Bingham blamed his Senate colleagues for letting themselves be dragged into a damaging debateon the Senate 's power to punish for breach of privilege . As he tartly observed , " After many tedious preparatory Steps , which seemed to argue a Doubt of the Competency of their Powers , they at length issued their Warrant , &; Duane absconded. " 89In the end all the uproar over the disputed elections bill and Duane 's alleged libel came to nothing . The Ross bill never became law , thanks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only from the Republican opposition , which predictablyprotested it as unconstitutional , ? 0 but also from the vacillationsof John Marshall which Sedgwick said " dissipated our majority . " Marshall had first doubted that the legislature was **25;4380;TOOLONG to delegate such authority to a committee . Convinced on this point , he then raised another objection , arguing that " altho ' the power was not indelegable , yet he thought , in its nature , it was too delicate to be delegated , untill experience had demonstrated that great inconveniences would attend its exercise by the legislature ; altho ' he had no doubt such would be the result of the attempt . " 91 Marshall would only support the bill if the decisions of the grand committee were not final . As a result , when the House did at last pass the bill it was in a form unacceptable to the Senate . The committee was given the power only to enquire and report , and contested votes could not be rejected without the consent of both houses . The outcome was that the bill died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on May io when he moved that the House adhere to its version . " The demise of the disputed elections bill was probably a blessing for the Federalists . If they had ever tried to use it as anything more than a counterthreat to McKean 's proposed line of action , they would in all likelihood have brought down civil war upon their heads . As it was , McKean permitted the legislature to disband without settling on any election law , and the issue was left for resolutionby the people in state elections to be held the following Oc/tober . Because the Federalists still kept control of the Senate despite a smashing Republican victory in the House , and because by that time the only way to name electors was through legislative action , the Federalist minority was able to force a compromise that gave them nearly half of Pennsylvania 's electoral vote . Thus they gained their ends as far as they could without exposing themselves any further to the public odium drawn upon them by the election bill.s3They paid a price , though . Not only had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party ends without scruple , but they had revealed to the public how deeply divided they were . The Aurora reported this as early as mid-February i800 , presumably on the basis of Charles Pinckney 's confidential information about the Senate caucus which had been appearing regularly in its columns and had led to disclosure of the Ross bill 's text.94 And the charge was to some extent supported by the critical response of some Federalists when the Senate tried to exercise its privilege . But the strongest confirmation came in early May when James McHenry and Pickering were summarily discarded from the cabinet.95 It had long been an open secret that they had joined Hamilton and Wolcott in opposing the new mission to France , but that this had caused any serious division within the administration was belied by their continuation in office . These dismissals were accompanied by the abandonment of most Federalist legislative proposals except the bankruptcy bill . The extent of the rout was shown when , after fending off Republican proposals to revoke statutory authorization for an increased army , Harper moved at the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it which everyone knew he would use out of hatred for Hamilton.96 Looking back on the debacle in January i8oi , McHenry attributed the adverse state of public opinion equally to " the half measures of Congress , and the false measures of the President . " 97Still , all was not necessarily lost . What the Federalists sacrificed in unity they had in part ruined by the popularity of peace . True , the election was now at the mercy of events in France , and after news of the Battle of Marengo many extreme Federalists were sure . he would try another electioneering maneuver like that of 1796. ' line too that public opinion was turning against them , but the electoralcollage had been designed to resist momentary popular impulses . So there was still a chance that Jefferson would be excluded from thep212presidency , if only the party could reunite . The Congressional caucus had agreed that Jefferson would only be beaten if Adams and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney were supported in equal degree , and both wings of the party saw an advantage in adhering to this . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave the merest hint of abandoning Pinckney , as some had in 1796 , the South might abandon Adams . On the other hand , Pinckney 's partisans , not only those in the South but also northern extremists who had lost faith in Adams , knew that the slightest sign of betraying Adams would lose them the benefits of the president 's popularity . Cabot saw the irony of the situation , observing : " It is one of the evils incident to popular systems that the best friends of government feel themselves obliged to conceal the defects , and magnify the good qualities of those who administer public offices . A reputation and degree of personal power is by this means acquired , which . . . can not be suddenly counteracted . " Adams 's prestige was " in some sort , interwovenwith the web of national government , " said Cabot , and " every attempt to separate them would be ill received . " 98 Their only chance , to which they clung until the eve of the election , was to back both candidates equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South or that in case of a tie the House could be prevailed upon to prefer him . If the extreme Federalists had unswervingly pursued this strategy they would at least have preserved their reputations . But the behaviorof Adams and his supporters during the election provoked them to a rash action . Ever since the inception of the French missionthey had suspected Adams of pandering to anti-British sentimentin a craven attempt to curry popular support for the coming election . As the prospect of Franco-American reconciliation led to a cooling of Anglo-American relations , they became acutely sensitive to any references Adams made to revolutionary resentments , particularlyhis mention in a reply to the address by the citizens of Alexandria of the " injustice and indignities " inflicted on America by Britain.39Then as the election approached , perhaps because they knew that Hamilton was busy intriguing to defeat the president , Adams 's supporters were more and more open in their attempts to smear his enemies within the party as a " British " faction . This was the last straw for some . As Hamilton observed , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will completely run us down in public opinion . " 1 ? 0 And his reluctant partisans were at last persuadedthat it was necessary to produce a defense of their actions and a critique of the president 's . This took the form of a pamphlet by Hamilton on The public conduct and character of John Adams , in which he argued the untenableproposition that although Adams was incompetent to administerthe Federal government , Federalists were still bound to give as much support to him as to Pinckney.101 If defense of reputation had been Hamilton 's only objective , the pamphlet would have containedno electoral advice and would not have been published until after the election . But he could not resist the temptation to influence the election , particularly as a Federalist victory was unlikely unless a deadlock in the electoral college left the Federalist House to make the final choice . He did not want to do this by outright publicationof the pamphlet , only by circulation to " men of influence . " Unfortunately , a copy fell into the hands of the Aurora , and extracts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not seem to have been planned , for Robert Troup said in a letter to King that Hamilton " was apparently confused " when publication of the letter was first announced to him . But he soon recovered , and in response to Troup 's fear that it would do him personal damage and hurt the Federalist cause , he said he had " no doubt it would be productive of good . " 102He was mistaken . It drew a series of unfavorable comments , not only from Republicans but also from Adams Federalists , calling him too egotistical to subordinate a private grudge to the common cause . And this did more than anything else to draw public attention to the deep divisions within the Federalist party . When these critics went on to blame Hamilton for what had been their greatest liabilities in the campaign of i800 , an expensive , unnecessary army and the Alien and Sedition Laws , their indiscretion was hailed by gleeful opposition writers as an open admission of culpability for illadvisedacts.103 It is hard to see how the Federalists could have done more to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inartistic blunders had these formerly deft manipulators of public opinion been reduced by events that escaped their control.  |p214The  Federalists were not just prey to external events beyond their control . They were also the victims of a competition between the two parties that grew ever more intense and culminated in the war crisis of 1798 ? 1799 , driving each to appropriate the other 's style . There had been haphazard attempts of the kind even before 1798 . The Federalists , in good Republican fashion , had exposed Genet as a foreigner claiming powers which were compatible neither with neutrality nor with Washington 's proper authority . The Republicans in turn had occasionally tried their hands at manipulation , as in December 1795 when the Virginia legislature submitted a series of far-reaching amendments to the other state legislatures . These amendments provided for qualifying the power of the president and Senate to ratify treaties affecting the enumerated powers of the House , prohibiting Supreme Court justices from accepting other federal offices , and modifying the Senate so that its membership would change every three years and it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly designed to reinforce public hostility to the Jay Treaty as well as to secure changes in the Constitution . Such forays were exceptional , however , and as a rule each party preferred its own distinctive style as being most appropriate to its resources and objectives . Only severe pressure ever produced sustained attempts at emulation , and until the war crisis in 1798 ? 1799 it was not clear which party would benefit most from these competitive incursions . Then the Federalists , rendered desperate by their inability to act , reluctantly took the step of exposing the XYZ ) dispatches to the public . Their success was so striking that the Republicanswere impelled to try a counterattack , using the Federalists ' own weapon of manipulation.  |p215The  strong impact made by the XYZ dispatches was brought home to Republican congressmen in their sadly diminished ability to obstruct Federalist measures by charging that they would provokea French war and force alliance with and commercial dependenceupon Britain.2 In their eyes , almost every Federalist proposalduring the spring of 1798 , from the arming of merchantmen and the fitting out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provocative . They found especiallyobjectionable the Federalist motion authorizing the presidentto direct that United States vessels should seize French armed vessels committing depredations on American shipping or hovering about the coast for that purpose . The Republicans believed that this measure , which went considerably further in giving official sanction to offensive acts against the French navy than the proposalfor arming merchantmen and authorizing convoys which had already passed the House , might tip the scale and provoke France to war . Indeed , it almost did . They protested that as Congress did not know how the Paris negotiations had ended , and as there was still a hope of peace , consideration of the measure should be postponed.3Samuel Sitgreaves replied for the Federalists , that according to international law , " when a nation has received aggressions from another nation , it is competent for the injured country to pursueits remedy by reprisal before a declaration of war takes place , and these reprisals shall be perfectly warrantable , whilst they are commensurate with the injuries received , and are not , under such circumstances , justifiable cause of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of North Carolina moved that the instructions be amended to apply to all nations committing depredations upon United States commerce , which would make them authorize attacks on British naval vessels also. ? The flabbergasted Federalists tried to argue that France was seizing American vessels within the jurisdiction of the United States , which made a difference , but Gallatin promptly retorted that the president already had all the power he needed to repel such an outrage , so that the new law was clearly unnecessary. ? Though the Federalistsclaimed that British seizures conformed to the law of na/tions , and that both Britain and Spain were observing treaties with the United States which provided a remedy short of war , 7 the oppositionhad forced them into an open admission that the proposal was belligerent in intent . Nevertheless , encouraged by the vocal supportthey were receiving in the addresses , the Federalists refused to back away from this measure . " It had not been enough to expose the Federalists as warmongers ; it was necessary also that the public be unambiguously opposed to war . And the first effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prudent . It was the same when the Republicans tried to invoke the ideas which had been so effective in defending the democratic and republicansocieties against congressional censure . The Republicans answered the criticism of their failure to support the president against France by accusing the Federalists of intending to encroach upon the freedom of opinion . " This strategy seemed to have momentary effect , for in April 1798 when certain Federalists wanted to reject the critical Magnien petition outright the opposition made them back down by pointing out that to assume the power of accepting one petition and rejecting another amounted to controlling opinion . ' " But when it came to the Sedition Law , the Federalists were impervious to Gallatin 's charge that this was their intent , and that " the true object of the law is to . . . have the power to punish printers who may publish against them , whilst their opponents will remain alone and without redress , exposed to the abuse of Ministerialprints . " " By the summer of 1798 it was clear that the Republicans could nolonger take public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundthemselves under great pressure to adopt Federalist . methods . Unfortunatelytheir options for influencing public opinion were severely limited . For instance , there was no way in which they could acquire such advantages as the Federalists had gained by the addresses to the president and his replies . If they sent critical messages to the president , as some did , this merely gave Adams or his subordinates a chance to censure them . " Petitions to the House against the Alien and Sedition Laws did not force the question of their constitutionalityto be debated as popular pressure against the Jay Treaty had helped to force the issue of the House 's power over treaty appropriations . ' ' Instead they were referred to a select committee dominated by Federalists , a tactic which effectively postponed thep217matter until the end of the session . ' ! When the committee did report , as might have been expected it justified the acts and censured the petitioners . Because this report came from a prestigious source and received wide circulation in the newspapers , it had a greater effect upon public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federalists had in their control of Congress , attempted to reply in kind through the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions . In promoting these resolutions , the opposition was using a respected organ of government which they controlled in an attempt to convince a people who had become unreceptive that the Federalists were indeed violating the Constitution . State legislatures acting in concert were the only instrumentsin their possession that might compare in prestige with the federal government backed by an almost unanimous judiciary . This was not the first time that a state legislature had resolved against the constitutionality of a congressional law , or that one state had called on the others to act . But it was the first time that two states clearly working together had questioned the constitutionality of the federal government 's actions , calling on other states to issue similar declarations and to resist encroachment on the rights of the states and people.16 Moreover , the Resolutions of 1798 ? 1799 did more than present a neutral statement of the opposition 's constitutionalcase . The Kentucky Resolutions were the most provocative , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , " and " altogether void and of no effect , " strong language which had been deleted from Virginia 's resolutions , but also because of the extreme implications they drew from the Alien and Sedition Laws . These were thatthe General Government may place any act they think proper on the list of crimes and punish it themselves , whether enumerated or not enumerated by the Constitution as cognizable by them ; that they may transfer its cognizance to the President or any other person who may himself be the accuser , counsel , judge , and jury , whose suspicions may be the evidence , his order the sentence , his officer the executioner , and his breast the sole record of the transaction.17And while the Virginia Resolutions settled for a warning that continuedfederal encroachments would eventually transform the re/public " into an absolute , or at best , a mixed monarchy , " the Kentucky Resolutions declared that " no rampart now remains against the passionsand the power of a majority of Congress , to protect . . . the minority . " isAll subsequent attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up against two complicating circumstances . The first and most obvious is that when between 1832 ? 1833 South Carolina attempted to " nullify " a federal tariff , they turned for a precedent to the events of 1798 ? 1799.19 Recent scholarship has establishedthat Jefferson coined the word " nullification , " and in his draft of the Kentucky Resolutions was ready to urge that the states should carry the power " to nullify of their own authority , all assumptionsof power by others within their limits . " Yet Madison subsequentlysaid that Jefferson meant this to be construed not as a " constitutionalright " but rather as a natural one in the event of extreme oppression.20 It is notable that neither Virginia nor Kentucky followedJefferson 's suggestion that they prevent the execution of obnoxiousfederal laws within their confines . In Richmond there was even a prosecution under the Sedition Act against James Callender , author of a campaign pamphlet The Prospect before Us , and it was conducted without incident or interruption.21 By contrast , South Carolinathirty-four years later passed a nullification ordinance in a conventionspecially convened for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties . . . within the limits of this state , " ordering the state legislature to pass " such acts as may be necessary to give full effect to this Ordinance , " and requiring all state officers elected after the ordinance either to uphold it or to resign their offices . Though the South Carolina legislature temporized over executingthis mandate , and avoided penal statutes against federal collectorsand collaborating merchants , they did pass a series of laws allowing the population voluntarily to resist the collection of the federalimpost . Those who wanted to avoid the duties could plead their unconstitutionality before a state jury and the outcome would not have been in doubt , for that jury together with the judge would have been required to swear to uphold the ordinance.22 There was a marked difference , then , between South Carolina 's response to the tariff of 1828 and the opposition 's response to the Alien and SeditionLaws.  |p219The  second factor which is apt to make the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions appear as revolutionary as the South Carolina measures of later times is the Federalist response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote to his wife that Virginia was " pursuing steps which directly lead to a civil war . " 23 Robert GoodloeHarper was more open in the expression of his feelings . He declaredin Congress that the Kentucky Resolutions would bring about " an armed opposition to these laws , and consequently to this Government . " 24 The Massachusetts legislature warned that should Virginia " persist in the assumption of right to declare the acts of the national government unconstitutional , and should she oppose successfully her force and will to those of the nation , the Constitution would be reduced to a cypher . " 25 Others too believed that if the federal government acquiesced in nullification , " the old republican maxim that the majority must govern " would be exploded , and the republic , lacking coherence , would sink into chaos . Conversely , if the states which valued the union were to join the government in armed opposition to Virginia , the ensuing civil strife would be nothing but a different path to the same destination . It is clear that many Federalists thought Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably a cousin of the Republican leader ) wrote an election letter asserting that the Virginia legislature was organizing her militia for a contest of arms with the federal government.27Since we know what did happen in the nineteenth century , the Federalists ' expressions of anxiety have a plausible ring . But they were closing their ears to protestations by proponents of the resolutionsthat these were appeals to opinion rather than to force , and that a legislature was " pursuing the only possible and ordinary mode of ascertaining the opinion of two-thirds of the states , by declaringits own , and asking theirs . " 78 They were also ignoring the fact that the force at Virginia 's disposal was hardly commensurate to that of the federal government . " Are the republicans . . . possessed of fleets and armies ? " asked John Taylor , sponsor of the resolutions in the House of Delegates . " If not , to what could they appeal for defenseand support ... except public opinion ? If that should be against them , they must yield . " The author of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nothing can break the union , but ap220force which can controul the will of the people . . . . To charge the design upon those who have no means to effect it , ought only to induce a suspicion against those who have . " " ' Virginia Republicans thought they had good reason to be suspicious . Some of their loudest accusers surely knew that the decision to establish and stock a state armory , which had attracted Federalist attention , had been made well before the current crisis.30 And if Virginia 's armaments made Federalists elsewhere nervous , Virginians in their turn were thoroughly alarmed by the steadily increasingmilitary power of the federal government . They had not failed to notice ominous remarks that a navy could be used to blockadethe Chesapeake and interdict all Virginia 's commerce , nor the menace in Pickering 's reply to the address from Prince Edward County , where he said that the state should be " humbled in the dust and ashes . " 31 This led Virginia Republicans like Taylor to warn that " War or insurrection ... could not happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the powers of government , resort to force for its defense against public opinion . " He added that in pursuing " a system which was only an appeal to public opinion . . . warranted by the Constitution , " the legislature of Virginia was giving " an opportunity to the general government to discover whether they would be faithful to the same principle , and thereby establish a precedent , which would both now and hereafter have a strong tendency against civil war . " 32The Federalists also questioned the constitutionality and propriety of the resolutions . The Massachusetts legislature stated that " the people in that solemn compact , which is declared to be the supreme law of the land , have not constituted the state legislatures , the judges of the acts or measures of the Federal Government . " It argued that the power of proposing amendments was vastly different from the power to pronounce on the constitutionality of Congressional Acts , which had been " exclusively vested by the people in the judicialcourts of the United States . " 33 Others added that the people had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes of legislation , " and had not conferred on them judicial authorityover the laws they themselves had passed , let alone those passed by Congress.31 Furthermore , the decisions of federal judges were more worthy to be respected than those of state legislatorsp221who were first of all not usually qualified to deal with such matters , and secondly more liable to be corrupted by the pressure of popular sentiment . " ' ' Lastly , the Federalists deplored that a part of the people should presume to condemn laws sanctioned by the representatives of the whole , especially as they thought the representativesin the legislature of a state like Virginia where " Two hundred freeholders have the same voice . . . as one thousand " were less pure than representatives in the federal government.3UIt was not hard for the Republicans to refute these objections . Madison 's " Report of the Committee to whom were referred the Communications of the various States " examined every aspect of the question whether the constitutionality of laws should be referred exclusively to the federal judiciary . He noted " first , that there may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constitution would never draw within the control of the judicial department , " and secondly " that dangerous powers , not delegated , may not only be usurped and executed by the other departments , but that the judicial department also may exercise or sanction dangerous powers beyond the grant of the Constitution . " 37 The danger that judicial authority would be abused was very real to the Republicans . As a member of the Virginia Assembly remarked in December 1798 , most of the federal judges " had already pronounced their opinion of the SeditionLaw , either in pamphlets , or political instead of legal charges to federal grand juries , thus prejudging a constitutional question , which they knew would be made if ever the law was attempted to be carried into effect . " 38 So although Madison would acknowledge the authority of the judiciary as a last resort " in relation to the authorities of the other departments of the Government , " he would not do so " in relation to the right of the parties to the constitutional compact . " Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ; and the concurrence of this department with the others in usurped powers might subvert forever , and beyond the possible reach of any rightful remedy , the very Constitution which all were instituted to preserve . " At best , it could not fail to deprive the people of their ultimate sovereignty.39Not all Federalists went so far as to claim that the federal judiciaryhad exclusive jurisdiction over matters concerned with the constitutionalityof federal acts . Some agreed that the people mightp222arbitrate between federal and state governments when their jurisdictionsclashed , but denied that the state legislatures had any part in this right . They could propose amendments to the Constitution , or recommend to Congress that a law be repealed , and that was all . Congress was not subject to the correction of the state legislatures , but the people only whose decision " was obtainable underthe rules of the Constitution in the revolving elections . " If it appeared that Congress had encroached upon their rights , they would have a chance at the next election to show their displeasure.4 ? George K. Taylor even argued that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed the objectionable laws proved that " the people of the United States had decided in favor of their constitutionality. " 41The Virginia Republicans replied that elections were not the best way to decide such issues because " the people often voted from personal and local attachments ; and ... were not always apprised of the opinions of the different candidates . " 42 They were not inferring from this that the people should be excluded from the exercise of their sovereignty , but rather that they should count on the state legislatures to sound the alarm and give them guidance . During the trial of the Boston printer who had accused the Massachusettslegislators of perjury when they disclaimed any right to decide whether or not federal laws were unconstitutional , Abijah Adams 's attorney said : Society is diffused , the feeble voice of an individual in any state is drowned , it is lost in air before it can reach the distant ear of a fellow citizen in another . How then is the public voice to be heard ? We answer , the departments of government have power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With respect to the state legislatures , they may be denominated political Telegraphs , so arranged and connected as to effect the will of the people from the northern to the southern extremitiesof the continent . They are reserved by the constitution itself , as vigils to the federal system , as the very life-guard to protect the freedom , the sovereignty , and independence of the states.43These ideas were not the invention of the moment . Their advocatespointed to the Federalist , which had argued that state legislatureshad the right to warn the people of federal encroachment , and might even " adopt a regular plan of opposition to unite theirp223common forces for the protection of their common liberty . " 44 Republicansin the Virginia House suggested that legislative resolutions were less likely to cause uproar and confusion than letting the people speak for themselves in " tumultuous meetings " where they might rashly decide on a " final and dreadful appeal " to first principles.46 What the Republicans hoped to achieve by the Resolutions was , in Madison 's words , " a change in the legislative expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the opinion of the judiciary . " 4 ? Speaking before the Virginia House , John Mercer said that " nothing seemed more likely to produce a temper in Congress for repeal , than a declaration similar to the one before the committee , made by a majority of states . " It was hoped that such a remedy would enable the opposition to halt an abuse before it had done irreparable damage.47In their immediate hopes for the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions , the Republicans were badly disappointed . Most of the legislatureswhich considered them had either been elected during the war scare of 1798 or were deeply disturbed by it , and regarded the Resolutions as disloyal acts . The Federalists were also the happy beneficiaries of jealousy toward the largest state in the union and her client . Nine state legislatures answered the invitation to speak out on the Alien and Sedition Laws , and they all condemned the Resolutions.48 New Jersey Federalists secured dismissal of them without even honoring Virginia and Kentucky by any formal communication.49In only one state was there any sign of positive support . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States reported that the North Carolina House had resolved that the Alien and Sedition Laws were " a violation of the principles of the constitution , " and had instructed their Senators to secure a repeal . But because the Senate did not concur , no official action was taken . Jefferson had originally hoped the North Carolina legislature would adopt the Kentucky Resolutions , but after the election of 1798 this was not feasible.5 ? South Carolina , Georgia , and Tennessee seem to have taken no action on them at all.5 ' . The Virginia and Kentucky legislatures had nonetheless inflicted considerable damage upon the Federalists . The coincidence of their Resolutions with French overtures for conciliation undercut Federalistefforts to prevent any renewal of pro-French sentiment andp224made them more afraid than ever of failing in this attempt . That is why many otherwise sensible men panicked and took the resolutions of Virginia , moderate as they were , to be " little short of a declaration of war . " 52 The controversies that the resolutions stirred up in many state legislatures certainly more than compensated for the hostilereplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them than silence would have done . The publicity attending the debates and the prosecution of Abijah Adams in Massachusetts helped to dramatize the issues and awaken the people to an interest in national politics they might otherwise never have felt.53 Then Madison 's authoritative " Report of the Committee " reopened the issue of the Resolutions on the eve of the presidential election , offering systematic rebuttals to all the objections which had been raised to them . Though it is doubtful that his tightly woven constitutional treatise was widely read , it did give authority to the Republican contention that the Alien and Sedition Laws had been unconstitutional , and this at a time when the passing of the war crisis left the people with no compelling reason to think otherwise.54If the Federalists were alarmed by the Republican attempts to emulate their style , manifested in the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions , they were also disturbed by their own failure to use the Republicanstyle of exposure successfully . Though the dispatches made French hostility so clear that the Federalists were able for the time being to proceed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the opposition was " in league with France , and ready to support her cause by force of arms . " " At first , people had been inclined to take the dispatches at face value as indisputable proof of a French party extant in America . On second thought , though , they seemed too candid . When Allen tried to use them for this purpose , 5c Nicholas asked : Did he suppose that Government , or any other , would authorize persons to inform the Ministers of a foreign country that they were not actuated by principles of justice . . . ? Had not insinuations similar to those now made by the gentlemen from Connecticut been heard in this House almost as often as gentlemen speak ? And was it improbable that men of thep225description of which these agents appear to be should address themselves to the fears which they supposed existed of a factious spirit in this country ? 57In the hysteria of the moment the Federalists were able to gain their immediate ends by flimsy , circumstantial evidence , but Nicholas'sspeech had served notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with something more substantial . They thought they saw their chance to do so when Bache 's Aurora published Talleyrand 's letter of March i8 , 1798 , on June i6 , two days before the President released it to Congress but ( so Bache said ) ten days after it had been received by the government 's At once they declared their suspicion that Bache was in direct communication with Talleyrand , a suspicion receiving added support from the disclosure of John Kidder and Samuel M. Hopkins that just before he left France William Lee had been given some letters for Bache , Monroe , and Genet , bearing the seal of the French Minister for Foreign Affairs . Learning that these were still in the New York post office , Wolcott rushed to New York to intercept them and ask Hopkins directly whether any of the letters had been addressed to Jefferson.5 " Though the packets he found could not possibly have been the source of Bache 's acquaintance with Talleyrand 's letter , they looked incriminatingenough for Wolcott to take them from Lee and send them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to open the packets and publish them if they contained evidence against him , or destroy them if not . The administration wisely decided not to risk it after William Lee , anxious to dissociate himself from the controversy , disclosed in public that he had turned the packets over to the government.UOThe administration 's attempt to expose Bache as " a hireling of , and in correspondence with the despots of France " was now turned against them . Even before they decided that because of Lee 's disclosurethey had best give Bache the packets , he went before the mayor of Philadelphia and swore that he had received Talleyrand 's letter not direct from France but from a Philadelphian who had probably found it previously published in some foreign newspaper . And after he received the packet from the Secretary of State , Bache staged an elaborate ceremony before the State Department 's messen/ger and two specially summoned witnesses . He opened the packet , and it contained two innocent pamphlets on English affairs written by Bache 's friend Pichon , now associated with the French foreign ministry.61 It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Talleyrand letter through Kidder . Lee later admitted that he might have left some letters with Kidder by mistake , and Kidder 's statement of his role in delivering them was confused and inconsistent . But when the administration perceived that Lee , who was central to their suspicion of Bache , was no French agent but a harmlesscommercial agent for Joel Barlow , they wisely decided not to press the matter further.62As the crisis with France began to wane late in 1798 , Federalist leaders felt a new urgency to convince the nation that it was threatenednot only by France but also by a subversive opposition . Harper was responding to this when he tried to make the Codman memorial demonstrate Republican disloyalty even though the attempt served more to prove opposition charges of Federalist belligerence.03 And in 1799 the Federalists were lured into two other notorious fiascos . The first grew out of a report from diplomatic sources that several suspicious persons bearing dispatches from the Directory , concealed in tubs with false bottoms , were aboard a Danish vessel bound for Charleston . When it arrived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found that they were indeed carrying French dispatches concealed as stated . Immediately the Federalists threw them in jail and proclaimed their discovery of a plot to raise an insurrectionin the South . When they did pause to decipher and read the documents , these pertained to a conspiracy against Toussaint L'Ouverture which was not even sponsored by the Directory . After promising many exciting revelations , the government could not publish even these disappointing papers for fear of damaging their efforts to reach a commercial agreement with the rebel regime in Santo Domingo . For the rest of the year , they were subjected to derisive taunts about the " Tub-Plot " and other efforts to substantiate the Jacobin conspiracy theory met with equally little success.s " An even worse fate awaited Morse 's exposition of the conspiratorial Illuminati in America . It was no sooner pronounced than sceptical voices were asking what authority he had for his disclosures , and demanding definite proof.65 Morse resorted to the dubious expedientp227of pointing to distinguished intellectual leaders who were also disseminatingthis theory : Tappan , the two Dwights , and Joseph Lathrop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a society in northern Massachusetts.66 This was somewhat anticlimactic after his projection of a sinister network all over America . Then , in early January 1799 , whatever authority Robison 's work had acquired was shaken when a letter appeared in the Columbian Centinel signed by Augustus Bottinger , described as a German university official , refutingRobison and declaring that the Illuminati had long since disappeared in Germany.67 To cap all , William Bentley , pastor at the East Church in Salem , made a devastating critique of Robison 's Proofs of a Conspiracy in a pamphlet showing that he had condemned the very principles on which the American Revolution had been fought.68 When Morse tried to document the conspiracy in his Fast Sermon on April 25 , 1799 , he was laughed to scorn.69 What finished him was his refusal to publish a letter he was known to have receivedfrom Professor Ebeling of Hamburg condemning both Robison'sbook and Robison 's character . Bentley had received a similar letter , and this was eventually published in the New London Bee as that which had been sent to Morse . Morse protested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to publish it suggested that he had something to hide.7 ? From this time on , Morse and the Illuminati theory were discredited in New England , and Alexander Addison met with small success when he tried to revive the conspiracy scare in his charge to the grand juries of Pennsylvania in 18oi.7 ' These episodes made it clear that the Federalists ' power to expose the Republicans was waning as their adversaries ' powers increased . This relieved the Republicans from any compulsive need to emulate Federalist ways with public opinion , particularly as Adams 's an- f1 nouncement of a new peace mission had calmed the war hysteria and brought popular feeling back into line with opposition objectives . On the other hand , it left the Federalists no choice but to continue struggling with an uncongenial Republican style . Adams had so alienated extreme Federalists in the administration as to put further aggressive use of the executive out of the question . The Fifth Congresswhich the Federalists had taken such pains to make a pliant instrument was about to disband , and it was unlikely that the newly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thep228same strenuous efforts as its predecessors to manipulate opinion . The people 's longing for a reconciliation with France was clearly irreversible . When Congress did meet most Federalist proposals , such as the expansion of the judiciary and the disputed elections bill , were designed to insulate the government as much as possible from public opinion . Enervated and divided after five years of frenzied maneuvering , they no longer had the resources to continue the heroic manipulationswhich had become a hallmark of their political style . Yet with an election on the horizon , they could not ignore public opinion altogether . Obviously the style that would best suit their depleted state was exposure , which had recommended itself to the Republicans in the first place because in principle it was as effectively wielded by an anonymous newspaper editor as by a president . Unfortunately the only factor absolutely essential to the continued effectiveness of exposure was the very one the Federalists lacked : a popular ideology in relation to which the activities of one 's opponentswere inadmissable . The full extent of their handicap in this respect can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the famous Mazzei letter . In April 1796 , Jefferson had writtento his Italian friend , Philip Mazzei , about recent political developments in the United States . He observed that the " aspect of our politics has wonderfully changed since you left us . In place of that noble love of liberty , &; republican government , which served us so triumphantly thro ' the Revolutionary war , an Anglican monarchical , &; aristocratic party has sprung up , whose avowed object is to draw over us the substance , as they have already done the forms of the British government . " He added that the " main body of our citizens . . . remain the to their republican principles " but that " Against us are the Executive , the Judiciary . . . all the officers of the government , all who want to be officers , all timid men . . . British merchants &; American trading on British capitals , speculators &; holders in the banks &; public funds , a contrivance . . . for assimilating us . . . to the rotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The letter was translated into Italian , from the Italian into French , and from the French into English again . When this last English version , three times removed from the original , appeared in Americanpapers , Jefferson was quoted as saying that the other party meant " to impose on us the substance , as they have already given us thep229form , of the British government . " By substituting the singular " form " for the plural " forms , " as Jefferson himself pointed out , he was made to appear to " express hostility to the form of our government , that is to say , to the constitution itself . " What Jefferson had meant by the " forms of the British government " were the ceremonies with which Washington had surrounded himself ; " the birthdays , levees , processions to parliament , inaugurationpomposities " and so on . Yet he could not explain this to the public " without bringing on a personal difference between Genl . Washington &; myself , which . . . would embroil me also with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to say , nine tenths of the people of the U.S. " 72 Consequently Jefferson chose to remain silent . It was a difficult silence , for the Federalists made hay with the letter . During the French crisis of 1797 ? 1798 they used it to neutralize his influence as vice-president by claiming that Jeffersonhad been instrumental in giving the Directory the idea that there was a division between the people and their government.i3 And during the campaign of i800 they used it to suggest that the Republicans opposed the form of government rather than merely its current administration , so that the election of Jefferson would amount to a revolution . ' In the meantime , Jefferson 's partisans had seen other possibilities in the Mazzei letter , and had explored them in a short pamphlet by Tench Coxe entitled , Strictures upon the letter imputed to Mr. Jefferson , addressed to Mr. Mazzei , published in June ' Soo . Coxe capitalized on the currency the Federalists themselves had given to the charges that they were bent on establishing a monarchy , charges which still had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice-president . IIe dwelt at length upon the alterations which had been made between the original letter and the Federalist version , tracing this last back to the French translation it had been taken from , and cataloguing in meticulous detail the " forms " to which Jefferson had objected . But his best energies were devoted to asking whether Mr. Jefferson was " right in saying , there was an English Monarchical Party in this Country . " 75 He dredged up a report the Privy Council had made to the King in 1791 to the effect that " a Parts/ in favor of Great Britain was formed in America . " He hinted that Adams himself had " entertained the opinion , that much Britishp230influence had been used upon our Government in a respectable Appointmentto that Court , " a reference to a letter Adams had written Coxe in 1792 , complaining about the appointment of Thomas Pinckneyas his successor to the Court of Saint James . This was doubly embarrassing to Adams , as Pinckney 's brother was the other Federalistpresidential candidate.76 Most of all , he took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been avowed by Citizensholding great Public Trusts and Employments . " Coxe reminded his readers that in a reply to an address published on July 3 , 1798 Adams had said that " Republican Government may be interpreted to mean anything " ; and that when vice-president he had been heard by two Senators to observe that " he hoped ... to see the time , when they would be convinced , that the People of America could not be happy , without an hereditary Chief Magistrate , and a Senate that should be Hereditary or for life . " Surely , Coxe said , this justified Jefferson in his doubts.77The argument that there was a conflict between Adams 's Federalism and revolutionary ideology was much more convincing than the Federalist charge that Jefferson was disloyal to his government , being less dependent on transient circumstances . Between 1797-1798 , when France threatened America , to change " forms " to " form " suggested that the nation was in danger not only from a foreign power but also from a disloyal opposition . After Jefferson passed through the crisis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans studiously refrained from making addresses to him ) , this suggestion lost its power to alarm . In contrast , the opposition 's ability to expose Adams and other Federalist " monarchists " as holdingviews inconsistent with revolutionary ideology was virtually timeless ; and though it had not been enough to outweigh the war hysteria of 1798 , all its original force returned with the prospect of peace . By 1800 , though the Federalists were under much greater pressure to avail themselves of the Mazzei letter than they had been before , it was more useful to them as support for the notion that Jefferson thought the fundholders were monarchists . This enabled them to play on the resentments and fears of public creditors , yet these still made up a far smaller audience than the Republicans could command for their charges of monarchism.78The Federalists had always known that they were hampered byp231the lack of a popular ideology . This had been made clear to them during the 178o 's , when every suggestion that an enlightened leadershipbe allowed to guide the republic had been assailed as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able to assert themselvesonly after the state governments had brought the nation to the verge of chaos . During the late 178o 's and early 1790 's they had developed a theory of popular sovereignty which had served them well in parrying attacks on such unpopular measures as the excise , neutrality , and the Jay Treaty . But the purpose and effect of this theory had been to suppress popular participation rather than to recruit popular loyalty . It was no help when the people were aroused , and threatening to use their power in the one way the Federalists had admitted as legitimate . What they now needed was a popular ideology which would allow them to attack Jefferson as the opposition had attacked Adams on the Mazzei letter . One thing they could do was appropriate the anti-Jacobinism that the French Revolution had made current amongst the European elite . They had been attracted to this from the start because it agreed with their own view of European developments , and the moral Manicheanism that was one of its distinctive characteristics appealed to their elitism . Ames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ censoring the popular societies , when he warned that " A Governmentthat protects property , and cherishes virtue , will of course have vice and prodigality for its foes . " 7 ? Nor could the evil be ameliorated by an enlightened administration of government : " Equal laws are the very grievances of these petty tyrants , who combine together to engross more than equal power and privileges . When power is conferredexclusively upon the worthy , the profligate and ambitious are driven to despair of success , by any methods that the worthy would adopt . " 80 Its potential for appealing to the people , however , did not lie in its capacity to fortify the Federalist leadership 's self-image . Its real value was that it allowed them to call on a popular loyalty which was older and more fundamental even than that felt for revolutionary ideology , the loyalty to Protestant piety . We have already seen the role played by anti-Jacobinism in luring a reluctant clergy into the Federalist cause in 1798 , and it was used again to the same end in 1800.81 Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Jacobin , with all the moralp232and religious connotations of that title , this would fail to touch the springs of native piety unless the clergy joined in sounding the alarm.82 The Federalist leadership must have been delighted when in the midst of the election two distinguished New York ministers assailed Jefferson as an infidel if not an atheist , and asked if this should not disqualify him from holding the first office in the land.83 William Linn 's Serious considerations on the election o -f a president and John Mitchell Mason 's The Voice of Warning to Christians , on the ensuing election of a president , tortuously extracted evidence from Jefferson 's own writings , and were not above using hearsay as additional proof of their point . From some cursory Biblical criticism that Jefferson had made in his Notes on Virginia , Linn inferred that he rejected the Bible from Genesis to Revelation . Then Jefferson had questioned the usefulness of Bible study for children too young to understand religion , suggesting that instead they should be taught some ancient and modern history together with the first principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof of his irreligion . In the same spirit , his famous statement in defense of religious liberty that " It does me no injury for my neighbour to say there are twenty Gods or no God . It neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg " was adduced as proof of an indifference to religion tantamount to having none at all.84Not content with establishing Jefferson 's infidelity , these men went on to make startling inferences . From Jefferson 's suggestion that religious freedom be extended to the point where the law would punish men only for doing physical injury to their neighbors , they inferred that Jefferson sanctioned atheism . Mason argued the case in these words : And that no class or character of abomination might be excluded from the sanctuary of such laws as he wishes to see established , he pleads for the impunity of published error in its most dangerous and execrable form . . . . A wretch may trumpet atheism from New Hampshire to Georgia ; may laugh at all the realities of futurity ; may scoff and teach others to scoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Jefferson , " it neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg . " This is nothing less than representing civil society as founded in atheism . . . if it does me or my neighbour no injury , to subvert the very foundation of religion by denying the being of God , then religion is not one of the constituent principles of society , and consequently society is perfect without it ; that is , perfect in atheism . "  |p233Mason  and Linn declared that belief could never be a matter of indifference because it influenced practice . It was not possible , they said , for a man 's life to be good regardless of his faith : " If there be no God , there is no law ; no future account ; government then is the ordinance of man only , and we can not be subject for conscience sake . " Oaths would no longer be sacred and crime no longer inhibitedby fear of God 's punishment . This was " the morality of devils , which would break in an instant every link in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into one equal scene of desolationand horror , where fiend would prowl with fiend for plunder and blood . " 86These gentlemen did not stop to ask themselves if this was not attributing too much power to a single individual . Their theory , articulated by Mason , was that society would be endangered " if rulers , by adopting atheism , be freed from the coercion of future retribution . " He preferred a pious hypocrite to an admitted infidel , for a hypocrite could hurt only himself : " We have a hold of him which it is impossible to get of an infidel . His reputation , his habits , his interests , depending upon the belief of his Christianity , are sureties for his behavior . " S7 Both Linn and Mason showed that they were the prisoners of Federalist ideas about the way opinion was formed when they argued that Jefferson would be dangerous as a President , not because he would oppress the people or use force to crush their religion , but because his example would insidiously corrupt them : " Let the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Let him spend the sabbath in feasting , in visiting and receiving visits , in riding abroad , but never in going to church , and to frequent public worship will become unfashionable . Infidelity will become the prattle from the highest to the lowest condition .... " 88 And Mason warned that " if you appoint an infidel for your president . . . you will declare , by a solemn national act .. . there is no more religion in your collective character than in your written constitution , " so drawing God 's retribution upon the nation.S3 Some Federalists even interpreted Washington 's death in December 1.799 as the first warning sign of divine displeasure. ? ? Yet despite the prestigious source of these alarms , it was not hard for the opposition to deflate them . Linn , who was by far the most eminent of the two clergymen , drew three pamphlet replies , one of them purportedly emanating from DeWitt Clinton of the prominentp234New York family . " ' Besides defending Jefferson 's religious faith , two accused the New York ministers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time emphasizing that Jefferson'sidea of religious liberty precluded such state regulation . This would appeal to religious minorities in states having orthodox establishments , or those who had left such states for religious reasons. ? 2 But the strongest Republican defense was to question that Jefferson 's religion was even relevant . In A Solemn Address to Christians and Patriots Tunis Wortman complained that press and pulpit , combined to serve party ends , were trying to tell the people they must choose between the good of their country and the good of religion . Yet it was not religion that was in danger , but the state . Wortman asked , " If your civil privileges are once gone , . . . what shall protect your religious ones ? " A monarchical President might subvert the Constitution , but an infidel President could harm neither this nor Christianity , for both would stand on their own merits . " ? 3 The real danger to religion , said the pamphleteers , was its perversion to party purposes . " ' And the author of Serious facts commented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pinckney 's deism , observing that to call one man a deist who was not and then to support another who was " shows what lengths unworthy priests will take , when they forsake the altars of God and descend upon the stage of politics . " 05This Federalist strategy threatened to destroy the reputations of its spokesmen as their part in propounding the Illuminati scare had destroyed the reputation of Morse , Tappan and Dwight . Moreover , religious fears could not be translated into political power as directly as political fears . The exhortations of the clergy would reach only members of the established , conservative denominations , and even then would not necessarily send a man to the polls , or fire him to try exerting his influence on his neighbors and friends , as readily as revolutionary ideology would inflame the political enthusiast . There is also some evidence that church membership and religious interest were disproportionately the province of women , who could not vote except in New Jersey , where the Federalists exploited a legal technicalityand used them to win the election of i800 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a popular ideology this strategy left much to be desired . So did the abusiveness which became typical of Federalism by i800 and which was an implicit admission of the handicaps they labored under in competing for public opinion . " '  |p235In  the nineteenth century , the distinction between the styles of the two parties became less sharp . The Republicans were now in control of the federal government and most of the state governments , and therefore enjoyed those resources for manipulation which had previouslybeen denied them . While they used this advantage sparingly and still relied on exposure as their principal weapon , they were not above occasional attempts to mold opinion , particularly as their Achilles heel was thought to be the lethargy of the Republican majority . At the same time , the loss of the national government drove the Federalists to continue emulating the Republican style , though their objective remained essentially the same as before : to bend public opinion in a direction it would not spontaneously have pursued . Although they were still hampered by the lack of a popular ideology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been transformed from a coalition with national pretensionsinto a regional sect , its New England leaders , at least , were given a chance to play on prejudice against other parts of the nation . The Federalist elite felt their strongest antagonism towards the western states , but violent popular prejudice could be most easily excited against the aristocratic plantation owners of the South whom they portrayed as pushing the eastern states from their rightful place in the nation 's councils through the constitutional inequality in the three-fifths clause.98 In i800 the Federalists could not use this strategy as much as they would have liked because their only hope of success was to keep up some semblance of rapport with the South , and particularlywith the , remnant of Federalism in South Carolina . " ) In i800 , the Federalists still had several options for frustrating the expression of hostile opinion through the electoral system . One such " electioneering " device , which had been put into their hands by the crisis of 1798 , was the Sedition Act . The temptation to use it was the greater because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition press than by divisions in the party or events abroad.09 Pickering set in motion all the prosecutions that were made tinder the law before he was dismissed , and they were carefully timed to inflict maximum damage on their opponents ' press during the election . In the end , all but one of the leading opposition papers were prosecuted , though only three were silenced , and one of thosep236no more than temporarily.100 But in the long run these prosecutions did the Federalists more harm than good , as the Republicans had foreseen . The provision in the Sedition Act that the accused could plead truth in his defense led to endless embarrassments . In 1799 , Duane threatened to produce Adams 's letter to Coxe complaining of Thomas Pinckney 's appointment as ambassador to Great Britain . As Pinckney was a member of one of the most powerful Federalist families in the South , the administration chose to abandon the prosecutionrather than risk alienating so important an ally.101 Then , when the President refused to be subpoenaed by Thomas Cooper as a witness for substantiating certain charges he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law which denied the accused means to procure evidence on his side . ' ? ' The Federalists ' determination to override procedural objections bore out the Republican claim that the law was unfair in design . When Callender was prosecuted in Virginia the defense was plainly less interested in protecting the accused than in dramatizing the unreasonableness of the proceedings . The Federalists did themselves infinitely greater harm with these sedition prosecutions than the Republicans suffered by the temporaryloss of a few presses.103Yet this did not exhaust Federalist electioneering options . Even with majority opinion against them they might still be victorious if they could concentrate their votes in the electoral college more successfullythan their opponents . The complexity of the electoral college , as it was then constituted , worked to the advantage of the Federalists because of their superior ability for concerted action . The events of 1796 were a good example of this . All the states east of the Delaware had delivered their votes for Adams , while those in the South scattered theirs among several candidates . If North Carolina and Virginia had shown the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The East presented its solid front partly because every state but Massachusetts resorted either to the legislative appointment of its electors , or , as in the case of New Hampshire , to a general ticket . Whichever way they chose , the net result was that minorities had no voice . But in three important southern states ? namely Maryland , Virginia and North Carolina ? the electors had been chosen by districts , and one vote from each of the two last-named states had been cast for Adams . It is true that evenp237if every state had voted by the unit rule , Adams would still have won the election , as the Republicans would have picked up only two votes for Jefferson while Adams would have gained four additional votes from Maryland . Nevertheless if the district system had been universal , Jefferson might have made greater gains from minority elements in New Jersey , New York and Vermont than Adams could match by minority elements in Pennsylvania . So the Federalist victory in 1796 could be seen partly as the result of the superior discipline and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college in certain areas.104These tactics did not even need the electoral college to succeed . They could be used in any election with equal facility . In 1797 " Republican " had warned the people of Northumberland County , Pennsylvania , that the Federalists had been purposely promoting various popular candidates so as to divide the Republican vote at the same time as they were boosting their own single choice . The obvious defense against such a strategy was nomination.105 Americans were not unfamiliar with nominations made informally and locally by the friends of a candidate . But this was not a procedure that could be used by just anyone in nominating candidates to be elected from the large constituencies the Federal government had created , where the coordination of many diverse groups was necessary for victory . Rather it played into the hands of cliques who had wide-ranging connections and could achieve agreement by informal means as the Federalist leadership had often done in the first years of the new republic , putting challengers lacking such aids at a distinct disadvantage . If they resorted to nominations through such devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a charge of violating the traditional freedom of elections , at least in places where this idea still carried weight . If they did not , they risked continuing to lose their battle to the Federalists ' divisive tactics and superior resources for concerted action even though the majority was on their side.100Some idea of the obstacles the Republicans had to overcome in openly employing such devices as state-wide nominations can be gathered from the Federalist response when the Virginia legislature tried to prevent unfair advantage being taken of it in the electoral college . Early in ' Soo , the legislature had repealed a law datingp238from 1792 that had provided for the district choice of electors , and substituted a new one providing for a general ticket . A block of twenty-one electoral votes was at stake , and several of them might have gone for Adams if the district system had been preserved . Not surprisingly , the Federalists protested the law . One of their reasons was that it violated the freedom of elections by a requirement that each voter list the names of twenty-one men , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be vital to those who did not want their votes disqualified . The Federalists said that this interfered with the people 's traditional freedom of choice because it forced the electorate to vote for men they could not personally know . And the nominations proceeded from a legislative caucus , whose actions were denounced as the aristocratic dictates of an exclusive minority.l07The proponents of the general ticket law replied that without it , and without the nominations it necessitated , Virginia 's majority would lose its full influence in the electoral college . As long as other states did not allow minorities a voice through district elections , Virginia could not do so without the risk that her minority , together with Federalist majorities in other states , might gain control of the electoral college . Though the proponents of the bill acknowledged that the general ticket law required nominations by a small minority , they argued that there was no other way to ensure the expression of the majority 's will . Without nominations in a general ticket election , victory would go to the most disciplined minority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that personal knowledge of electors was not necessary when the only important thing was that they vote for Jefferson ! 108In i800 , Virginia Republicans were in an unusually good position to trade charges of electioneering with the Federalists , at least compared to their ideological compatriots in other states . They were not unique in being able to expose the Federalists as hypocrites who denounced nominations by the opposition at the same time as they were meeting secretly to make nominations of their own . The oppositionin every state could have done that , and could also have revealed that the Federalist aim was to convince some that " their rights have been invaded , and from resentment . . . that they should withhold , or throw away their votes " in order that a minority might triumph over the Republican majority.100 Virginians were better ablep239to make the charge stick , however , since they had more prestige than their opponents , as the Federalists acknowledged when they complained of the " great and imposing names " associated with the Virginiageneral ticket strategy . In those states where the Republicans found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation was different . An exchange of electioneering charges might then have damaged them disproportionately because their efforts to mobilize the public were necessarily more visible than their opponents ' more covert forms of influence . So the Federalists often pressed this charge more openly than the Republicans , 110 with the ironic consequence that historians have used Federalist polemics as evidence to support a modern supposition that the Republican victory of i800 was primarilyachieved by superior organization.111When it came to the struggle for the presidential election , any pretenseto superior Federalist virtue quickly vanished . Virginia 's behaviorover the General Ticket Law touched off a mad scramble in which each party tried to seize the advantage by concerted action . In May , Republican and Federalist Congressmen met in caucus at Philadelphiato coordinate electioneering plans throughout the Union.112 In response to pressures building up in the electoral college , of which the Congressional caucus was merely a symptom , Massachusetts abandoned its old district system and , taking no chances , settled for legislative appointment.113 New Hampshire also replaced its general ticket system with legislative appointment.111 In Maryland the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointmentdecided the state elections . When the Federalists , hoping to appropriate Maryland 's entire block of votes , argued for legislative appointment in this election only , the were overwhelmed by Republicancharges that they ( sought to wrees " from the People their right of suffrage in the appointment of electors to elect the Chief Magistrateof the United States . " 115 In Pennsylvania , meanwhile , there was a reversal of roles . The Federalists knew that they were in the minority , and consequently the Federalist Senate insisted on district electionswhile the Republican House argued for a general ticket . " 6 In North Carolina the Federalists , who had briefly captured control of the state during the war crisis of 1798 , were in the minority , but they were nonetheless able to enforce a district system which allowed them to win four of the state 's twelve votes for Adams and Pinck/ney.11 Lastly , in states like New York , New Jersey , and to a lesser extent Connecticut and South Carolina , where legislative appointment was the accepted style , and in Maryland and Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections degenerated into bitter partisan struggles.18By i800 the framers ' original expectations for the electoral college had vanished on the wind . The overriding importance of the presidentialelection was each party 's justification for copying the devices of the other in fighting for control of the electoral college . But competitiveemulation played into Republican hands in two ways. it spelled the end to popular apathy , which was a prerequisite of the kind of factional intrigue at which the Federalists had excelled , and it transformed the Presidential election into a contest for public opinion in which the Republicans could hope to enjoy an advantoge.lk ? Secon it brought electioneering into the open so that it became harder for the Federalists to continue making use of the old prejudices against the activity . Thereafter , Republicans did not hesitate to embrace the legislative caucus openly whenever they thought it necessary , though they still had reservations about it . The Federalists did not always match them in candor . In areas like New England where electioneering was still frowned upon , the Federalists continued to be secretive about their own activity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people by dividing them . The result is that although the press of both parties offers insight into Republican party organization , the prime source of documentation for Federalist organizations is to be found in Republican prints which mercilessly assaulted Federalist hypocrisyin this **28;4407;TOOLONG Robert Goodloe Harper acted as valedictorian of the defeatedFederalists in A Letter . . . to his constituents ( i8oi ) , hepledged that those who had prided themselves on being friends to the government would support Jefferson as long as he conducted it on rational principles . This turned out to be more of a threat than a promise of help , as could be seen from his warning that the precepts " on which the federalists have acted must be adopted , their plans must be substantially pursued , or the government must fall in pieces . " Harper went on to present these in the most flattering light possible , insisting that " The leading principle of their system , as to foreign nations , has been to preserve peace and amity with all . . . but to grant privileges to none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rely for the protection of our rights and honour , not on the friendship the justiceor the forbearance of other governments , but on our own strength and resources . " This , he said , had enabled them to keep the nation at peace at a time when most of the world was caught up in an unusuallyvicious war . As for domestic policy , the rederaliss had done their best to protect the authority of the federal government against the jealousy of the states , and the executive power against encroachmentby the popular branch . They had also seen to it that government office would be well enough paid to attract the best men.lTurning from the precepts of Federalism to the record of administration , Harper said that " the Federalists laid it down as the corner stone of their system , to support cherish and invigorate commerce , as the best and indeed the only effectual means of promoting agriculture and every other branch of industry . " The farmer 's prosperity depended on commerce , and , more vital still , so did the revenue . This brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the federalists . . . the cestablishm ent of a solid and extensive system of revenue ;  |p242by  which the interest of the public debt might be punctually paid , the principal gradually discharged , public credit thus firmly established , the support of the government fully provided for , and ample means of defense furnished against the time of need . " Lastly , Harper claimed that the Federalists deserved credit for having seen that the laws were enforced with vigor but clemency , and that the frontiers were properly protected . He believed that some measure of their achievement could be gained by comparing the country as it was when they took office , " without a shilling of permanent revenue ; without a system of finance ; burdened with a debt arising from the war . . . and without money in the treasury sufficient for the ordinaryexpenses of government , " to its present happy state . Commercewas thriving , the revenue close to nine million dollars , and the nation able to look forward to retiring the national debt by 1824.2 Harper concluded by affirming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being judged on their record , but could " enjoy the secret and sweet satisfaction of knowing that their names will be remembered with affectionate respect , and their services with gratitude , when all the calumnies with which they have been assailed for the purpose of driving them from power , shall have been buried in oblivion . " 3History has justified his hope , for modern historians concur in his assessment of Federalist achievements . They look back to the Federalistdecade as a time when the nation 's ( basic bnstitutions were estab-lshed and America began to acquire a distinctive identity as a commercial , industrial culture . They feel an instinctive sympathy for the Federalists , and have tended to accept Harper 's view that resolutionof the tensions existing between the two parties in 1800 depended on the willingness of Jeffersonians to adopt their principles . It was a slow process , requiring the abandonment of many agrarian prejudices , but it received immeasurable impetus from the War of 1812 . The exigencies of military conflict taught the Republicans to value such Federalist measures as a national bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to propose federally-sponsored internal improvements. ? Harper 's delineation of Federalism left no room for explanation of his party 's defeat in the election of 1800 . If the Federalists had done so much so well , what possible reason could there be , except unparalleledingratitude ? Indeed , Harper assumed as much , but he sawp243this as less the people 's spontaneous act than the result of their being worked upon by a cabal . In Harper 's view , the Republican triumph had been achieved through lies , slander and misrepresentation ; in short , by the demonstration of a superior technique for manipulating opinion . This explanation has its appeal in an age which has been altogether too willing to believe that there is no problem for which there is not a technical solution , but it leaves some awkward questionsunanswered . Given the tendency of these adversaries to imitate each other in time of stress , why is it that after i800 the Federalists never came close to regaining power in their own right ? They themselveshad an answer to this , and modern scholars have recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle rather than technique , and that because many old-school Federalists refused to abandon principle for manipulation , after 1800 those who were willing to make this adjustment were at a distinct disadvantage.6 This assumes that before i800 the Federalists were as innocent of political technique as they claimed to be and also that they representedprinciples which the people would have embraced had they not been deflected by a series of sinister maneuvers . Harper 's sketch of Federalist principles and policies makes this assumption seem plausible in retrospect , but did the Federalist selfimagecorrespond to the popular view of them in their own time ? It is noticeable that Harper says nothing about the most controversial act of the 1790 's , the Sedition Law , whose re-enactment as a permanentmeasure he himself had urged two months before , despite a presidential defeat and decisive Republican gains in the Seventh Congress . To the Republicans , this law was the embodiment of all the dangerous tendencies they feared in their adversaries . The attempt to re-enact it confirmed their worst suspicions , and helped shape their approach to the judiciary in subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the basic ideological issues which had separated the Federalists and Republicans for a decade again became plain , despite the tendency of styles to merge in the late 1790 's . Even after the Republican triumph of i800 , when it might have been expected that popular abhorrence of the Federalists would gradually die away , their activities from i8oi ? 1815 kept it alive . Only when the Federalists are seen as most of their compatriots saw them is it possible to understand how and why the first party system came to an end after the War of 1812.  |p244Having  begun by trying to manipulate public opinion , the Federalistswere at last driven to attempt control of it through the SeditionLaw . In 1794 , when they were in the midst of badgering the popularsocieties to death , they had shown extreme reluctance to interfere with the press ; but now they wer sperate : ' , Their ability in 1798 tocircumvent all constitutional objectro s raised by their opponents and to command the almost unanimous support of the judiciary had a lotto do with the war scare , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they eagerly exploited . The oldtradition which had seen no incompatibility between freedom of the A ' press and restraint provided revolutionary precedent for the curbs which the Federalists now proposed to set on the opposition press . In prerevolutionary times , every literate American had allowed a distinction between the liberty of the press and licentious abuse of that liberty . Sir William Blackstone had endorsed this precept in his Commentaries on the Laws of England , a treatise on which the educationof most American lawyers was founded after the Revolution , and which helps to explain why what was essentially a prerevolutionarydoctrine should still be current at the end of the century . Blackstonehad argued that liberty of the press did not mean freedom from all restraint , but freedom from all prior restraint . This argument had won general acceptance before the revolution , not only because it was consistent with opposition ideology , but also because of the uses to which it might be put . At the same time as it could be invoked to assert immunity from executive control , it could also justify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggrandizement . The standard by which the press was to be judged as making proper use of its freedom or not was compatibility with the public good . / And the agency that made the discrimination was in both cases anp245arm of the people 's power . Through the right of a jury to find a generalverdict and acquit anyone accused of seditious libel by the executive , freedom of the press could be maintained against oppressive power . But the colonial assemblies , and after them the patriot mobs , felt no compunction about chastising Tory printers for endangering the cohesiveness of the people 's power . Following the premises of opposition ideology to their logical conclusion , the people were held to be better judges of public good than the executive . ' The controls the colonists imposed on their press seem to us to have been appallingly partisan , but they did not seem so then . The rationalefor them was essentially the same as that notion of privilege which Parliament had invoked against Charles I when it asserted its independence of the Crown . This said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people 's good , but that if its members could not preserve their own persons or reputations against the Crown they would certainly be unable to safeguard the rights of others . Similar reasoning had prompted the attempt of the colonial assemblies to imprison authors and printers for breach of privilege . The theory was that without the power to control the press , the people would not be able to combine in resisting an overbearing sovereign and public liberty would be forever forfeit . When the welfare of the whole demanded the sacrifice of individual rights , the prerevolutionaryAmerican had no doubt that this sacrifice should be made . " It was to this tradition that the Federalists turned in 1798 when they sought a justification for the Sedition Law . They argued that without the power to restrain the , press , the government could not accomplish the purposes for which it had been elected by the people . Harrison Gray Otis , speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives , said " it must be allowed that every independent Government has a right to preserve and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; for , unless it has this power , it is unworthy the name of a free Government , and must either fall or be subordinate to some other protection . " 3 Robert Goodloe Ilarper asked , " can the powers of a Government be carried into execution , if sedition for opposing its laws , and libels against its officers , itself , and its proceedings , are to pass unpunished ? " 4 The Federalistp246minority in the Virginia legislature contended that " government cannotbe thus secured , if , by falsehood and malicious slander , it is to be deprived of the confidence and affection of the people . " 5 And in a charge to the grand jury of Barnstable County in Massachusetts , Robert Treat Paine demanded : " How can the Congress protect the people , their constituents , if they are not able to protect themselves ? " 0 Once the people had conferred power on a government it was obliged to preserve itself for their sake , which made the Sedition Law " as essential to the rights and privileges of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped the Federalists put to use in a republic doctrines which were originally developed for confronting a monarch . The first , oddly enough , was that supervision of the press had largely vanished at the end of the Revolutionary War so that most people had not given much thought to the application of prerevolutionarydoctrine to a postrevolutionary state . This does not mean that freedom of the press was taken for granted . The lack of an explicit guarantee in the Constitution had even been used by antifederalists as an argument against ratification . But that freedom had been too integral a part of revolutionary ideology for anyone to dare disavow it , and one of the amendments proposed by the First Congress forbadeCongress to abridge " the freedom of speech , or of the press , " a provision against which not one recorded objection was brought.8Only in Massachusetts , where some thought the growing licentiousnessof the press provoked Shays 's Rebellion , were there any widespreadproceedings against seditious libels . And once the state had weathered the crisis , press controls disappeared . A pamphlet entitled Candid considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lamentedthat libels undermined public confidence in the virtues , abilities , and integrity of prominent men , but argued that libel laws were undesirable on two counts . They were useless in that no court judgment would change an opinion already rooted in the public mind , and potentially despotic in that they might be used to destroy freedomof the press. ? Although it was generally acknowledged that the press could be abused , most people thought the best guard against this was public opinion.10 Throughout the rest of the Union , freedom of the press was seldom an issue . As William Claiborne said when thep247Sedition Bill was under debate in the House , " the doctrine of libel was very unsettled ... . Prosecutions of this kind have rarely happened ; in some of the States , a cause of this kind had never been tried . " 11The second helpful circumstance was that the forces threatening the republic in 1798 seemed to parallel those which Americans had faced before and during the Revolution . The notion of controlling the press through the exercise of privilege could be justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who tried to exploit divisions among them as a step toward taking away their liberty . But after the Revolution , the power of a legislature to punish libels against itself was no longer defensible and had been challenged on the grounds that a representative body had no more right than an individual to judge a cause in which it was a party . " Nevertheless , if France were seen as the leader of an international Jacobin conspiracy , she could be cast in the role taken by the monarch or by Britain in revolutionary times while the Republican opposition would play the part which formerly belonged to ministerial scribblers or loyalists . And if control of the press had been right then , why not during the equally grave crisis of 1798 ? It might be objected that the Sedition Law protected all the officers of government , whereas only the lower House had claimed the privilege in colonial times , but this could be dismissed with the observation that all the officers of governmentwere now the representatives of the people and bent on defendingthem against French-sponsored aggression . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that " libels " by " corrupt partizans and hired presses " were part of the famed diplomaticarsenal with which she had undermined the will of many European nations to resist her.13Federalist sponsors of this law did their utmost to create alarm all the while the Sedition Bill was being considered . Allen of Connecticut charged : Let gentlemen look at certain papers printed in this city and elsewhere , acid ask themselves whether an unwarrantable and dangerous combinationdoes not exist to overturn and ruin the Government by publishing the most shameless falsehoods against the Representatives of the people of all denominations , that they are hostile to free Governments and genuinep248liberty , and of course to the welfare of this country ; that they ought , therefore , to be displaced , and that the people ought to raise an insurrection against the Government.14Allen was at no loss to document his charges . He pointed to pieces in the opposition press suggesting that the Federalists were warmongers ; Livingston 's rousing speech against the Alien Bill in which his critics claimed that he had urged the people to resist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Time Piece calling the President " a person without patriotism , without philosophy , and a mock monarch , " whose allegedly free election by the people was rather " a jostling him into the Chief Magistracy by the ominous combination of old Tories with old opinions , and old Whigs with new . " Allen saw this as part of a Jacobin conspiracy supported by French power without and disorganizers within which sought through the press to obtain a powerful influence over " the poor , the ignorant , the passionate , and the vicious . " The danger was all the greater , he said , because these ideas were known to be sanctioned by prominent men and even by members of the House . ' The opposition was not persuaded by these arguments . Gallatin spoke for most of them when he demanded : " Would any of them dare to assert that the time when the Western insurrection took place , when it was thought necessary to call to arms fifteen thousand men , was not a more dangerous moment for Government , and did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures or motives of Government than the present period ? " In order to show a need for such a law , he said , the Federalists would have to prove that the president and the House could not exercise the powers of governmentvested in them by the Constitution unless the opposition press was forbidden to abuse them in any way . ' ? Many Republicans would have added that the question of the necessity of the law should be subordinated to its constitutionality and that so palpable a breach of the Constitution , taken in conjunction with other Federalist measures , suggested the ' danger of a consolidated governments ' The opposition was also alive to the origins of the Sedition Law , and vigorously protested the application of a monarchical precedent to the affairs of a republic . In his " Report of the Committee " Madison pointed out the differences between the two forms of government :  |p249In  the British Government the danger of encroachment on the rights of the people is understood to be confined to the executive magistrate . The representatives of the people in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered as sufficient guardians of the rights of their constituents against the danger from the Executive . Hence it is a principle , that the Parliament is unlimited in its power ; or , in their own language , is omnipotent . Hence too , all the ramparts for protecting the rights of the people ? such as their Magna Charta , their Bill of Rights , &c.?are; not reared against the Parliament , but against the royal prerogative . They are merely legislative precaution against executive usurpations . Under such a government as this , an exemption of the press from previous restraint , by licensers appointed by the King , is all the freedom that can be secured to it . In the United States the case is altogether different . The People , not the Government , possess the absolute sovereignty . The Legislature , no less than the Executive , is under limitations of power . Encroachments are regarded as possible from the one as well as from the other . Hence . . . this security of the freedom of the press requires that it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in Great Britain , but from legislative restraint also . " Madison added that even in Britain , the press exercised greater freedom in practice than it was allowed in theory . Attacks on the governmentwere occasionally punished , but " The ministry , who are responsibleto impeachment , are at all times animadverted on by the press with peculiar freedom , and during the elections for the House of Commons , the other responsible part of the Government , the press is employed with as little reserve towards the candidates . " 19These objections had little effect in the emergency of 1798 . The Federalists had succeeded so well in promoting general hysteria that the people would not listen , nor if they had would they have cared whether or not the government was following monarchical precedent . Eventually the passing of the French threat would invalidate the plea of necessity and make the monarchical derivation of the Sedition Law more objectionable , but in the midst of crisis the strongest case Republicans could make against the act was that it struck " at the root of free republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Committee " explained how :  |p250In  competitions between those who are and those who are not members of the Government , what will be the situation of the competitors ? Not equal : because the characters of the former will be covered by the Sedition Act from animadversions exposing them to disrepute among the people , whilst the latter may be exposed to the contempt and hatred of the people without a violation of the act . What will be the situation of the people ? Not free ; because they will be compelled to make their election between competitors whose pretensions they are not permitted by the act equally to examine , to discuss and to ascertain . And from both these situations will not those in power derive an undue advantage for continuingthemselves in it , which , by impairing the right of election , endangersthe blessings of the Government founded upon it ? 21This powerful indictment of the Sedition Law did not deter the Federalists . They answered that it was not meant to curb an honest canvass of the government 's actions , which they agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant to keep the channels of information pure by stopping the dissemination of falsehood through the press.22 Was legitimate freedom of the press " abridged by a law to restrain lying ? " 23 they asked , adding that far from perverting the freedom of elections , the Sedition Law would help to preserve it . This was why their original proposal had allowed truth as a defense against the charge of libel . They had also proved the purity of their intentions by yielding to opposition pressure in the House for an amendment giving a jury the power to decide both the law and the facts , though some had protested that this was not necessarygiven the state of American law , and Bayard had even suggested it would work against the accused by obstructing appeals . Dana had observed with heavy irony that " it was not the will of judges ? those arbitrary party-spirited characters ? that could convict . " One man out of twelve could prevent conviction , and " what better protective barrier to the liberty of an individual can be presented than this ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a defense , and the limitations imposed in sentencing , the Sedition Act was an improvement on the common law which ensured that no man could be penalized for conducting a proper and honest canvass of government.24The opposition was unmoved by these protestations . They retorted that even if juries could ultimately acquit men who were accused ,  |p251|printers  would be inhibited from publishing criticism of the governmentby the fear of prolonged harassment . After all , the law gave the administration the last word on who might be prosecuted . If nothing else , the difficulty and expense of establishing legal proof that their statements were true would deter printers from publishing anything that might draw the government 's wrath . What was to prevent a government from using incidental misstatements of fact as a pretext to convict opposition printers ? 25 Bayard replied that the Sedition Law did not make a false statement unlawful unless it was malicious in intent , 26 but the Republicans said that to punish the intention of maligning the government was necessarily to silence all comment upon it except praise . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties , the more would be their incentive to punish their critics.27The only possible protection the law afforded an accused man was that a jury could prevent his conviction . According to opposition ideology , the jury was one of the people 's first defenses against oppressionby the executive . In Britain , juries had sometimes tempered the common law of seditious libel even though they were supposed to have jurisdiction only over the fact of publication , not over the question whether the matter was indeed libel . And when the Federaliststried to censor the popular societies in 1794 for abusing the right of free expression , the Pennsylvania Democratic Society retortedthat if there had indeed been such abuses , they might be restrained by a jury.28 But by the late 1790 's the Republicans were beginning to doubt the effectiveness of juries for several reasons . They had long entertained reservations about the impartiality of the federaljudicial system , where a judge might be appointed to some lucrativediplomatic post as Jay had been , and where in many parts of the country federal marshals appointed by the President had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioned that any jury was competent to decide the matters over which the law gave them jurisdiction.20Gallatin observed that the Sedition Law was directed against the kind of political criticism which would comprise not only facts but also opinions , whose worth could hardly be proved in court by the presentation of evidence . As an example he cited the navy , which some thought was necessary while others thought differently . Becausep252the President had recommended the establishment of a navy , might not " persons writing and speaking against this system , which they ought to do , if they believe the system inimical to the United States . . . be charged with bringing the Congress and President into contempt ? " 30 As Nicholas remarked , no jury could determine the truth or falsehood of an opinion , but only " whether or not it is their own . " Therefore the Sedition Law 's provision for trial by jury and the plea of truth would not protect free expression : " No man will be safe ; for though he may have formed his opinion as correctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and if it should happen not to be their opinion . . . he will be liable to a severe fine and imprisonment . " The chances of such abuse were greater now than ever before , becauseof the current tendency to let prejudices and passion form opinion . Therefore , if such a Sedition Law were passed , a man might be punished for publishing an opinion considerately formed and honestly held " merely because accident , or design , has collected a jury of different sentiments . " 31This was a crucial point of disagreement between Federalists and Republicans , one to which the Federalists never fully responded . Though Bayard , running true to form , tentatively suggested that opinions could be as " false , malicious , and scandalous " as facts , 32 Federalists in general argued more prudently that the edition Law punished nothing a good man would want to do . In the debate on renewing the Sedition Law in January , i8oi , Dana demanded : " How . . . could the rights of the people require a liberty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong ? " And Platt remarked : " To those who took every occasion to show their opposition to the Government , and were accustomed to vilify the conduct of its warmest adherents , this law must be obnoxious ; but those who considered the Government a blessing , and worthy the protection of a free people , must approve of the provisions of this law , as one of the most valuabinstitutionsin its support . " 33 Such an approach hadwo merit it avoided the issue and implicitly questioned the moral character of the Republicans . Two could play this game . From the start , the Republicans retorted that government did not need to control falsehood because truth would triumph in any free and fair debate . This assumption was behind Thomas Claiborne 's observation about some paragraphs abus/ing the President that " if they are calumnies they will have no weight ; and if they are truth , they ought to be published . " 34 Strictly speaking , according to the definitions of Gallatin and Nicholas , the supremacy of truth over falsehood was a concept applying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some Republican ideologues it acquired metaphysicalovertones which could not fail to alienate the Federalists . For example , Tunis Wortman and John Thomson in their respective treatises on the liberty of the press defined truth as that which the understanding of man could not resist , 3 ' giving as examples the triumphof Christianity in antiquity and the progress of science more recently in the early modern world . The triumph of Christianity , culminatingin the ideal of religious freedom , proved the uselessness of repressing opinion , while the progress of science demonstrated the benefits to be derived from freedom of inquiry and discussion.3 " If the principle of free debate had such happy results for science and religion , it was surely reasonable to suppose that it would be equally beneficial in other spheres of human life . Thomas Cooper and Thomson eagerly pointed to the role free enquiry had played in the revolution and in shaping the Constitution , two political advances to be matched in significance only by a Republican victory in i800 37It is not surprising that the notion truth would triumph , supported as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should have little appeal for the Federalists in i800 . Whatever their opinion of eighteenth-century science , most Federalists were appalled by the course world politics had taken since the overthrow of the French monarchy . Instead of bringing about a gradual increase of liberty , the French Revolution seemed to them to have become a symbol of regressive barbarism threatening civilization , a living proof of the evils inherent in democracy if not in republicanism itself . It seemed to show , not the inevitability of progress following on the unrestricted circulation of opinion , but rather the dire peril of exciting the passions and jealousy of the mob . Many Federalists believed that events in France since 1789 proved the people could be roused to destructive fury against the best government they had ever known by a league of clubs , presses and societies-.9 And if the French people had been so induced to destroy the Constitution of 1791 , even when the monarchy still had ways of influencing public opinion which were lacking in a republic of equal laws , then certainly republics were even more vul/nerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French experience alone . The opposition threat to their hegemony , steadily increasing throughout the 179o 's , made the notion of progress laughable to them . The historical pessimism of the Federalists was not confined to politics . Like their chosen allies , the clergy , when they were obliged to explain the success of infidelity against Christian truth , many lay Federalists were not above thinking that the history of Christianity justified a certain pessimism . James Bayard demanded of the House : " Would the gentlemen say the truth always prevails , when he looked at the state of our holy religion ? Near ' Soo years had elapsed since its light was abroad , and yet how large a portion of the world remained in darkness and error ! " In general , he concluded , history did not verify the intrinsic superiority of truth over falsehood . By such reasoning the Federalists justified their refusal " to be impartial between the principles of truth and falsehood , and to allow them to contend on an equal footing . " Alexander Addison argued that the disseminationof falsehoods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error and falsehood is indeed a strange way to discover truth . " 39 For the most part , Federalist politicians concurredwith Federalist clergymen in distinguishing public opinion from truth . This distinction accorded with the original definition of Gallatin and Nicholas , but it failed to persuade the Federalists that the test of truth was not protection enough for opinions . There was another flaw in the Republican notion that truth would triumph , and the Federalists hastened to exploit it . This was the assumption that for every falsehood there was a corresponding truth . It had long been a Federalist complaint that falsehoods disseminated by the opposition press went unchallenged in certain remote areas.40 " Crito " in the Gazette of the United States had observed in 1794 that if people in the interior " have no other source of political information , they will believe all the evil that is charged upon the government ; they will be amazed at the intelligence they receive , but they will not be much the wiser for their wonder . " Speaking of the opposition press , " Crito " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the distant states and retailed as often as it was necessary for some state demagogue to bespatter a rival that stands in the way . The truth perhaps never begins the chase , or , ifp255it should , the falsehood has got the start . " 41 The nation 's geographic diffuseness was not the only reason that its intellectual market place was one where the competitors were on less than equal terms . Dana remarked bitterly that lies against the government would always find a newspaper to air them , but there was less eagerness to publish rebuttals , Even when slander was subsequently refuted , the original attack was likely to make a stronger and more lasting impression than the defense.4The real issue between the two parties was not whether truth would triumph in some ultimate , metaphysical sense , but whether government could be threatened by the uncontrolled circulation of opinion . The Republicans never denied that there were governments which could be so threatened . The defense in the trial of Abijah Adams had admitted that the monarchical doctrine of libels suited the British government because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the test of scrutiny and investigation " so that it was necessary to punish " as a high crime and misdemeanour , every effort to analyze the character , or to illustrate the iniquity of any public department . " In Britain the truth of a libel increased the offense , because in a government of usurpation " a fair display of its true character would more endanger its existence , than all that malice could invent , or the hundred tongues of slander , falsehood or sedition could propagate . " But , so they argued , a republic had no need to fear . " The good sense , the affections of the people who formed it , and whose happiness it was intended to promote , were considered its safe and immovable foundation . . . . In vain might it be assailed by calumny or invaded by faction . Criticism would only tend to exhibitmore conspicuously its virtues , and calumny by being reverberated , to lessen the force and influence of its enemies . " Such reasoning , designed to challenge the application to the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revealed their faith in the superior stability of republics.43Needless to say , this faith was not shared by the Federalists . Men like Harrison Gray Otis believed that a monarchy was much better able to tolerate a licentiousness in the press than a republic , because if disorders should arise , the executive possessed means to put themp256down which were not immediately dependent on the people . In his view , the greater dependence of the American government on the people 's good will was an argument for rather than against restraint of opinion . Speaking on another subject , Otis condemned a colleague 's disrespectful address to the president because " where the Chief Magistrate is elective , and the dignity of his character is upheld , not like that of a monarch by the splendor of his state , or the compulsive homage of his subjects , but by the esteem of his constituents and the strength of public opinion , it is an incumbent duty to demonstrate , by all ordinary means , our respect for the character and the office . " 44 Alexander Addison put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , where they have no power , may produce no mischief . To mislead the judgement of the people , where they have all power , must produce the greatest possible mischief . " 45The belief that republics were fragile because of their dependence on public opinion gave the Federalists an excuse for perpetuating the Sedition Law even after the French crisis had passed . James Bayard first pointed the way to do this in February 1799 . Just after Adams had announced Murray 's appointment as commissioner to France , he renewed the motion to expel Lyon from the House on the grounds that he was guilty of a " crime . . . of the first political magnitude " which would " go to the subversion of the Government . " This Government . . . depends for its existence upon the good will of the people . That good will is maintained by their good opinion . But , how is that good opinion to be preserved , if wicked and unprincipled men , men of inordinate and desperate ambition , are allowed to state facts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time to be false , and which are stated with the criminal intention of bringing the Government into disrepute among the people ? This was falsely and deceitfully stealing public opinion ; it was a felony of the worst and most dangerous nature . Bayard claimed that Lyon had " defamed the President of the United States , with a view of exciting hatred , and stirring up sedition . " And the Federalists never gave up the idea that libels might endanger government by leading to violence , or that " the publication of false , scandalous , and malicious matter against the Government . . . tends to produce insurrection and total disrespect for its authority , andp257that , without the power of preventing these , no Government can exist . " 46The Republicans were confident that the free circulation of opinion would never disturb the tranquillity of society if only the government were sensitive to it . Thomas Cooper wrote : " The mass of talents , of knowledge , and of respectability will , in every country , from interest as well as principle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There can be few who , from ignorance or design , will be tempted publicly to support opinions inimical to the general welfare . " 47 Such an assertiondid not speak to the Federalist fear that in a government of this sort the public interest would be continuously sacrificed on " the altar of public opinion , " which in time might lead to disorder.48 The Republicans replied that government was always the expression of someone 's opinion , and better that this be the people 's rather than that of their " superiors . " As Cooper put it , " The immediate interest of the people is to discover and promote the general good : that of governors to extend their own power , or preserve it by the continuanceof the present order of things . " 49 What most Republicans meant when they said true opinions would triumph was that out of unlimiteddiscussion some concept of the general interest would emerge . Cooper gave his idea of how the process would work when he asked , " Should false opinions be propagated , is it probable that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by them , and that persons in power only will have the acuteness and discernment to detect their fallacy ? But were even this the case , surely the friends of the existing establishment , with truth on their side , and the collateral aids of wealth and power , will have no difficulty in confuting them . " He concluded that free and open discussion would never lead to the deliberatechoice of a bad system or the rejection of a good one . Republican ideologues went beyond arguing that freedom of discussioncould not endanger the state to assert that the denial of such freedom was a positive risk . Cooper believed that " restraints imposed on freedom of speech and writing , are evidently calculated to produce the mischief they ostensibly aim to destroy . While one party assumes a right to suppress the opinions of those who differ from them , and the other experiences a degrading and unjustifiable subjection ? violence , ill-will , and rancour must subsist. " 50 Ever sincep258the controversy over the popular societies , the Republicans had been arguing that to repress discussion would be counterproductive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until they burst out in rebellious violence . The Republicans attributed most of the excesses of the French Revolution and the Whiskey Rebellion to the ignorance of the people , the proper remedy for which was not coercion but free discussion.5 ' Even if the suppression of free discussion did not lead to actual violence , it would arouse the people 's jealousy . For just as the clamor against the popular societies had led their proponents to infer their necessity , so a government 's unwillingness to submit to examination would lead to the inference that it had something to hide.52The free circulation of opinion and its expression through electoral institutions , on the other hand , would help the government respond with sensitivity to the people 's hopes and desires . It would keep representatives informed about the sentiments and feelings of the nation and promote harmony among the people by allowing them to arrive together at a perception of the common good . Last and best , it would produce an enlightened people aware of their rights , a strong deterrent to any rulers who might try to encroach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government had a tendency to trespass on popular liberties . This was a tenet of oppositionideology which the experience of Americans in the Revolution and of the opposition in the 1790 's seemed to prove true . But as long as the people were vigilant and independent enough to check inroads on their rights , government would avoid giving them occasion to exert themselves against it . And rulers would be led to seek the general good rather than the advantage of a privileged few . Thus free discussion would impart " true republican energy to government , " by commanding " the confidence , zeal and prompt cooperation of the people . " 53There was another sense in which the Federalists felt government and society might be endangered by the free circulation of opinion . This was brought out by Gallatin when he questioned the claim that government depended upon public opinion by observing : " Surely it is not intended to mean whether there shall be a Government or not . It can only relate to the persons who administer the Government . " 5 ' When " Aristides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not only that its measures be correct , but that they be correctly understood , " he was in effect arguing that unless the people were told the truth , a good administration might be voted out of office if " the channels of communication between itself and the people becameperverted and corrupted " by " misrepresentation " and " falsehood . " Suggestions that the Federalists meant to establish monarchy or destroy the Constitution were just the kind of falsehoods they felt justified in controlling.55Again , the Republicans could not agree . Cooper pointed out that " Where respect and confidence are really due from having been earned , the public is never backward in paying them ; on the contrary , the people are notoriously apt to err on the opposite side , and to pay an exuberance of homage approaching to adulation , where there exist evidences of public merit . " 56 There was certainly no risk that the government 's story would not be heard , for as Wortman said , " There are more that will always be ready to vindicate than to censure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During most of the 1790 's the majority of presses were Federalist , and only in the last years of the decade did this imbalance begin to right itself . Therefore the Republicans felt justified in arguing that " Falsehood can not make a good administration bad , or a bad administration good . No administration need ever fear false publications , it can always destroy their effects whenever it pleases by publishing truth and truth alone can destroy Governments ; nor need any administration fear anything but truth . " 68The Republicans were not denying that freedom of the press could be abused , or that isolated injustices might arise from its abuse . But they pointed out that it was impossible to repress falsehood by force without the risk that truth would also suffer . It was better to tolerate some abuses " than , by pruning them away , to injure the vigor of those opinions yielding the proper fruits . " They agreed that if only it were possible to prohibit the publication of falsehoods withoutobstructing truth , it would also be desirable , but they argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts where " the persons who would have to preside in trials of this sort , would themselves be parties . " 59 The force of this argument was increased by features of the federal structure . Madison believed that " the peculiar magnitude of some of the powers necessarily committed to@@1375.txtp100poems became popular ; some found their way into the liturgy , and a number became zemirot for the Sabbath . Another factor in the development of zemirot was the growth of the Kabbala , whose mystic ideas became popularlyassociated with the Sabbath . One kabbalistic belief was that a Neshamah Yeterah , an additional soul , or a Sabbath soul , descended upon the one who observed the Sabbath day according to law . Many kabbalists believed that such a soul could be attained only through song on the Sabbath . The Lurian kabbalists of the sixteenth century laid particular stress upon the power of music . Isaac Luria himself encouragedhis disciple Shelomo Alkabetz ( c. 1503-1580 ) to compose the famous poem , L'cha Dodi . This poem , along with the Song of Songs , Azamer Bi-shevahin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of love songs by which the Jew expressed his love for God and the Sabbath . L'cha Dodi spread rapidly to all Jewish communities and , in later centuries , became a favorite text for composers of synagogue music . Isaac Luria also composed zemirot for each of the three Sabbath meals : Azamer Bi-shevahin , Asader Li-se'udata , and Bene Hechala . Not only the poetry but also the tunes of certain zemirot have been attributed to Isaac Luria and his kabbalistfollowers , including Israel Najara , the composer of Yah Ribbon Ola7n . While this may be doubted , it is clear that the hasidim , the spiritual descendants of the Lurian kabbalists , contributed much to the music for the zemirot . Hasidic tunes for zemirot are almost always joyous and rhythmic . Characteristic of the method of singing them is the frequent interpolation of stretches of wordless song where there is melody to spare between the phrases or verses of a poem . The hasidim were careless in choosing their melodies . They adapted to their needs military marches , waltzes and other popular tunes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhythm of thep101song or the length of the melody did not always fit . Yet to the hasidim this did not seem to matter . Among the HaBaD hasidim , however , one does find melodieswith mystic elements of the kind which colored their beliefs . The most mystic tunes were reserved for the Aramaic poems in the zemirot , such as Azamer Bishevahin , and Yah Ribbon . This may have been due to the Lurianic origin of these poems . Whether among hasidim or mitnagdim , zemirot served as the bridge between table talk and religious discourses , between the human and the divine , between the jocular and the serious . It has been pointed out frequently that a Jew must honor God with the beauty of his soul and the beauty of his throat:9 " While Israel feasts , he always sings songs of praise to God . " 10 The chief singers at the table were the father and the sons . Mother and daughters might join in the refrains or sing their own zemirot . " Such were the customs as the singing of zemirot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy.12 The Ashkenazim sang zemirot all year round , while the Sephardim sang them only in winter and summer . There are zemirot for all three meals of the Sabbath . However , the most important and colorful group , from the poetic and musical points of view , are those associated with the Friday evening and Saturday midday meals . At the Sabbath eve meal , the master of the home welcomes the Sabbath with the chanting of a group of prayers beginning with Shalom Aleichem . The Kiddush follows . The actual zemirot are introduced with a meditative poem ? Kol Mekadesh for Friday evening , and Baruch Adonay Yom Yom for Sabbath afternoon . The tune of each of these is reminiscent of a liturgical mode . Kol Mekadesh is sung in the Magen Avot mode on the Friday evening service , suggesting the " sweet peace and rest " attitude of the Sabbath ; Baruch Adonay is likewise associated with a Fridayp102evening synagogue mode , that of Adonay Malach , suggestingIsrael as the " Prince of God . " Generally , the zemirot melodies which follow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country or locality whence they stem . The Sabbath guest used to be asked to sing the zemirot with the melodies customarily used in his native town . If the Sabbath guest was a good singer , his hosts and their neighborswould gather to learn his songs . This is how melodies frequently spread through Jewish communities . It is not within the province of this discussion to speculateon the origins or authors of the poetry of the zemirot , but a few remarks on this aspect of Jewish music may be in place . Israel Najara ( 1555-1628 ) , the author of the very beautifuland popular poem , Yah Ribbon , holds a unique place among the authors of poetry in the zemirot period . He composed not only poetry but also melodies . He followed the favorite custom of his period in composing poems to existing rhythms and melodies of popular songs . In 1587 , in Safed , he published the first edition of his Diwan : Zerirot Israel , which became very popular in Oriental Jewish communities . It was the first Jewish song book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sabbath zemirot which deserves specialmention is Mah Ya fit , which is the work of Mordecai ben Isaac , whose name is found therein in an acrostic . One melody for this poem was of Polish origin and gained notorietyamong the wealthy Polish pans in the seventeenth , eighteenth , and nineteenth centuries . At their wild orgies these pans , who were the Jews ' landlords , frequently would compel a Jew to sing and dance to the Mah Yafit melody . Almost every Pole knew that a Jew could sing Mah Ya fit . Even Chopin was led to remark : " Poor Polish airs , you do not in the least suspect how you will be interlarded with Mah Ya fit . "  |p103Zemirot  were sung not only at the Sabbath midday meal , but also at the Shalosh Se'udot , the third meal of the Sabbath . This meal usually took place after the Sabbath afternoonservice , and almost always in the synagogue . The singing of zemirot was kept up until sundown , and thus the zemirot always had the character of a prelude to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the Havdalah , which ushered in the secular days of the week , zemirot again were sung . Later in the evening , at the Melaveh Malkah , still more were sung to indicate the accompanying of " the Bride " back to her abode where she would remain until her return on the followingSabbath . As a matter of fact , there was always a great deal of singing at the outgoing of the Sabbath , for it was considered appropriate to chant hymns and thus fittinglyto accompany the Sabbath " Bride " upon her departure . The music for the various occasions had distinct character and atmosphere . For the greeting of the Sabbath and for the Sabbath day itself , joyous melodies were generally employed , but for the outgoing of the Sabbath , mystic and nostalgic tunes were sung . The post-Havdalah group of zemirot dealt with the coming of Elijah the Prophet to deliver Israel from exile . Elijah songs are the most ancient of these zemirot , since the Jew hoped and sang of his return to his Homeland from the very moment of exile . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most ancient . The table-songs of the Sabbath comprised the Jewish song book . The Jew sang them through joy and tears . These poems and songs are the mirror of the soul-life of " Universal Israel , " for through them the Jew attained the Nesharah Yeterah ? Sabbath Over-Soul ? which descended upon him on the Sabbath day . There are very few parallels to the Jewish zemirot among other nations . Many nations have their drinking songs , but we have our zemirot . In these we find thep104genial piety combined with the good cheer and thankfulness , which were usually separated in the table-songs that existed among the other nations . They combine tragedy and joy , the material and the spiritual , changes of taste and progressof thought . All these elements are mirrored in the songs , and through it all the general theme is " The Sabbath . " Turning to Sabbath music in the synagogue , we find that the precentor or cantor always occupied an important position in Jewish religious worship . He led the people in prayer and read portions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " His importance increased during the early centuries of the exile , when the liturgy replaced the sacrifices . This liturgy had to be chanted . Precentors were also required to know the prayers by heart , and later on to improvise or compose prayers for special occasions . Under these circumstances , scholarly qualifications were paramountin precentors . Frequently the offices of rabbi and precentor were combined in one man . As time went on , however , two conditions in the Jewish community led to the rise of the cantor , who specialized only in chanting the prayers on Sabbaths and holidays . The first condition was the general development of the art of music in Western Europe , which made its influence felt upon the Jewish communities who sojourned in various parts of the continent . Secondly , as part of his Oneg Shabbat , the Jew wanted the cantor to entertain him on the Sabbath . The better the cantor 's voice and the more elaborately the prayers were chanted , the better the Jew like it.13Gradually , toward the end of the seventeenth century , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , and gifted cantors and choirs began to bring joy and comfort to their communities in the synagogues on the Sabbath . Cantor , choir and musicians , in certain communitiesduring the eighteenth century , would lead the congregation in the Kabbalat Shabbat ( welcoming of thep105Sabbath ) .14 The most elaborately sung part in this section of the service was the L'cha Dodi . Congregations in EasternEurope witnessed the development of the choir and the specialized cantor toward the end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth century . Salomon Sulzer ( 1804-1890 ) , in Vienna , was one of the first to bring technical order into synagogue music . His rendition of the service on the Sabbath was a delight to those who came to hear him.16 His influence penetrated into all the progressive communities in Europe . Soon Sabbatheve and Sabbath morning were anticipated with special eagerness and interest in the synagogue . Cantor and choir satisfied the great love for music which the Jews had since the days when they lived in Palestine as a nation among nations . A Jew was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor would the pious Jew have taken advantage of such a privilege even if it had been granted . The special music on particular Sabbaths of the Jewish calendar year was musically colored by the resourceful cantor and his choir with special modes and melodies . On Shabbat Shirai ) when the " Song of the Red Sea " was read in the weekly portion of the Torah , it was chanted by the reader elaborately , with a special tune . On Shabbat Hagadol , the Sabbath before Passover , the cantor would give the congregation a foretaste of some of the Seder melodies when he reached Hasal , Va-amartenz Zevah Pesach . On Shabbat Hazan , the Sabbath preceding Tisha B'av , he would chant the L'cha Dodi at the welcoming of the Sabbathwith the tune of Eli Zion of the Kinnot ; and on the Sabbath day , the focal point of the synagogue service was the reading of the Ala f tir , Hazan Yesha'yahu to the cantillationmode of the Book of Lamentations , which is chanted on Tisha B'av eve . This set the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nahamu , " the Sabbath of Comfort , " the heavy veil of mourning was lifted . All wasp106cheerful and hopeful . The major mode returned to L'cha Dodi on the Sabbath eve , and gone was the lament from the Ha f tarah on the Sabbath day . In the East European town , immediately after Tisha B'av , joyous strains could be heard from the rehearsal room of the cantor and choir , who would be preparing some special joyous composition to be sung on Shabbat Nahamu . The town musicians , too , would be tuning up for many weddings which would take place on the Friday afternoon of Shabbat Nahamu and on Saturday evening.16Shabbat Mebarechim , the Sabbath on which the new moon was announced , which naturally came once a month , also had its special importance and significance musically . The cantor considered it the most important Sabbath of the month , and on it special musical works were sung . The focal point of the service was , of course , the section which dealt with the benedictions for the new month . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Be Thy Will ) in the Ahavah Rabbah and Selichah modes ; Mi She'asah ( He Who Wrought Miracles ) , the announcement of the New Moon , and Yehadshehu ( May He Renew ) all in the Adonay Malach mode . When the new moon or Rosh Hodesh occurred on the Sabbath , the day was called Shabbat Rosh Hodesh . On it , the Hallel ( Psalms 113-118 ) was chanted and special changes were made in the Musa f prayers to conform with the character of the day . The general atmosphere in the synagogue on that Sabbath , as soon as the Hallel Psalms arrived , was like that of the Three Festivals : Pesach , Shavuot and Sukkot . This spirit was created by the cantor who ushered in the Hallel Psalms with the Three Festival cadence . From then on , all was festive . Of the enormous amount of liturgical synagogue music which was created during the nineteenth century , we find about 8o percent set to the Sabbath liturgy . The reason for this abundance is the fact that cantors did not see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which came but once a year , but did find it necessary , for the sake of variety and interest on Sabbath after Sabbath , to have various versions of certain parts of the liturgy in their repertoire . When the Reform movement began to flourish in Germany , it aimed to obliterate as much of the Oriental color in synagogue music as possible . As a step in this direction , the cantillation modes of the Torah and the Ahavah Rabbah mode in the liturgy were eliminated . Salomon Sulzer in Vienna and Louis Lewandowski in Berlin were the composers who accommodated themselves to these theories and reforms and became instruments for them . In their synagogue works one finds very little trace of the traditional Sabbath modes . Consequently , their music cannotbe considered typical of the synagogue . While larger communities in Eastern Europe liked the musical order which Sulzer and Lewandowski brought into the synagogue , they could not accept the music itself , which lacked the synagogal Sabbath spirit . We find in the works of Samuel Naumbourg ( 1815-188o ) in Paris , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by applying it to the ancient Sabbath prayer modes . It was left to men like Weintraub in Koenigsberg , however , and later to cantor-composers of Eastern Europe to start applyingmodern methods of musical composition to the ancientJewish modes and melodies . Among these musicians were Schorr , Nowakowsky , Dunaj ewsky , Gerovitch , Belzer , and scores of lesser known cantors . Although even these men were under the influence of European form and harmony , still we find in their works a constant striving to adhere to tradition . The literature which these cantors and choir directors created forms part of the tremendous structure of Jewish music . Surveying the American scene , if it were possible to observe the Sabbath according to tradition , we would findp108our Sabbath music far richer than it seems , but because the Sabbath is inadequately observed in our day , we find an attitude of satisfaction in a musical status quo . In Orthodox synagogues the music of the nineteenth century prevails . What is laudable in the Orthodox synagogueis the fact that the cantillation modes and prayer modes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where a mixed choir and organ are employed , the Orthodox musical method is peppered with some Episcopal hymns and Unitarian anthems . The music of the Reform synagogue moved away from tradition almost entirely until about a decade ago . The Reform synagogues , however , have had the greatest facilities for the presentation of good music . Some Jewish musicians , sensing these possibilities , have tried there , since the early part of this century , to create and to present music which is truly representative of the synagogue . This work began with the efforts of Edward Stark ( 1863-1918 ) , cantor of Temple Emanuel in San Francisco , California . In our own day , there have been men such as Ernest Bloch , Jacob Weinberg , Isadore Freed , and the writer . The Reformmovement has begun , though slowly , to realize its musical shortcomings . In an effort to provide a remedy , its leaders have revised the Union Hymnal twice in almost half a century . The present edition contains a specialSabbath section of hymns based on the traditional Sabbathmodes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Jewish home , music has receded into the background on the Sabbath . One may still hear Shalom Aleichem and the Kiddush chanted on the Sabbath eve , but the zemirot have vanished almost entirely . In some Jewish homes the custom of chanting the grace after meals still prevails ; but on the whole , Jewish music flourishesmostly in the synagogue , where significant contribu/tions are now being made to Sabbath music by a small group of Jewish composers . Curiously enough , we find very little folk music dealing with the Sabbath in Hebrew or Yiddish . The reason for this is that folk songs came under the classification of Shire Hol , " everyday songs , " while on the Sabbath only Shire Kodesh , " sacred songs , " were sung , and only in Hebrew . Whatever folklore did spring forth out of the Sabbath was sung either before the Sabbath eve or after Havdalah , when the Sabbath was actually over . The only exception in using the Yiddish song on the Sabbath is found in the chant Got Fun Avrohom , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chant just before the Havdalah . The song ShreitzheYidn Shabbes , " Cry Out Sabbath , " is a marvelous assertion of the faith of the Jew in the Sabbath . The Melaveh Malkah , " Seeing Off The Queen , " a song attributed to the hasidic Rabbi Levi Yitzchok of Berditchev , is a picture of the Jew as he returns to his regular weekday routine . A Chazendl Oi f Shabbes , " A Cantor For the Sabbath , " is a satire on Jews who ran from one synagogue to another on the Sabbath in order to hear various cantors , and on those Jews who were the followers of certain cantors . In the Hebrew language we find very few modern poems dealing with the Sabbath which have been set to music . Most magnificent are the two poems by Bialik : Shabbat Ha-malkah , " The Sabbath Queen , " and Yesh Li Gan , " I Have A Garden , " which have become popular folk songs . Shabbat Ha-malkah has even taken its place in certain Jewish communities at the late Friday evening services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , deservedly , among the regular zemirot in homes where they are still sung . This poem is really a paraphrase of Shalom Aleichezn . Yesh Li Gan is an idyllic love song , which undoubtedly has no place on the Sabbath but is widely sung . It has also become the custom in this country to singp110appropriate new Palestinian Hebrew folk songs at Sabbathgatherings . The great poet Bialik , remembering the sacred impressions which the Sabbath had made upon him in his early youth , felt a void in the Sabbath as it developedin Palestine , and particularly in the city where he lived , Tel Aviv . He missed the gatherings of great multitudesof Jews on the Sabbath day in the Bet Ha-midrash to listen to the I loly Word and to sing together the Sabbathzemirot . The Oneg Shabbat which he initiated in 1929 was an institution to supply this need . ' About fifteen hundred to two thousand Jews would gather in the Ohel Sher auditorium at about five in the afternoon . They then began with the singing , led by a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gathering in Sabbath zemirot . They always included the prayer Attah Echad , " Thou Art One , " an excerpt from the Sabbath afternoon liturgy , sung to a melody in East European style . That tune represented the sanctity of the Sabbath and the longing which the Jew always had for the spiritual rewards of the day . This excerptfrom the afternoon service was in lieu of the afternoonservice proper . The tune was at first sung by a few , then was gradually caught up by more and more , until the tremendous voice of an entire people was carried away on the wings of song to upper levels , where " dwells the Sabbathsoul of the Jew . " Then a discourse would take place . When that was over , there would be more singing . By this time , twilight had descended on the Holy Land , and the " Holy Spirit " rested on this multitude as it accompanied the Sabbath upon its departure . When the first three stars became visible , the flicker of the Havdalah candle appeared suddenly , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Havdalah : Hine El Yeshu'ati , " Behold The God Of My Salvation . " The entire congregation was now standing . When the words La-yehudim Hayetah Orah , " To Thep111Jews There Was Light , " were chanted , a blaze of light suddenly illuminated the gathering ; all the lights in the auditorium had been lit . When the Havdalah was over , there would be singing of zemirot in which the entire multitude participated , and that was followed by instrumentalmusic ? for the Sabbath was over . The great Bialik realized the power of song and made it an integral part of this celebration of the Sabbath . In the Diaspora this idea caught hold , and has since been instituted in many Jewish communities throughout the world . It has helped to bring the song back into the Sabbath . We are beginning to witness the realization of : Ki Mi-tsion Tetse Torah , U'dvar Adonay Mi-yerushalayirn . " For out of Zion shall go forth Torah , and the word of God out of Jerusalem . " **31;4437;TOOLONG EVE SERVICEThe reason for the observance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Exodus 3 z : 16 , 17 we find , " The children of Israel shall observe the Sabbath . . . . For in six days the Lord created heaven and earth , and on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed . " It is interesting to note that in our own day Igor Stravinsky , in his musical credo , links music with creation : " For my part , music is a force which gives reason to things , a force which creates organization , which attunes things . Music probably attended the creation of the universe . " Here we find the Sabbath linked with creation , and creation linked with music . The link between the SabbathFootnotep114and music is a very old one , dating back to Biblical days when the Psalm 92 , which is full of musical references , was chosen as the Psalm for the Sabbath . Throughout the ages , music was the chief aid toward the realization of Isaiah ' , injunction , " And ye shall call the Sabbath a delight . " We Ashkenazic Jews have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with our Friday evening liturgy . They are the Adonay Malach mode , based on the mixolydian mode , and the Magen Avot mode , based on the aeolian minor mode . Here we have the logic and the creativeorder of which Stravinsky speaks in his musical credo . The origin of these two Jewish modes goes back to our ancient musical source , namely : cantillation . The Adonay Malach mode derives from Pentateuchal cantillation , and the Magen Avot mode from the cantillation of the Prophets , or Ha f tarah . Each of the two modes have their specific purposes . The Adonay Malach , which according to our present musical patterns is a major mode , is a majestic mode . It signifies Israel as the " Prince of God . " It is applied to the first part of the liturgy which is called , " Welcoming of the Sabbath , " and it helped the Jew to extricate himself from the mire of ghetto life and to don his Sabbath attire . It helped prepare him to receive his special Sabbath soul . The Magen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the Sabbath liturgy , that is the evening service , is in the aeolian minor scale ; but it is far from having as its purpose sadness , which is commonly attributed to minor . The origin of this mode is very old , and according to A. Z. Idelsohn , " is the deepest expression of the Jewish soul , and will live as long as the Jewish people lives . " Its purpose is to create for the Jew the spirit of Sabbath rest and peace . There are today those who advocate the disregard of our musical tradition . They counsel Jewish composers " to do whatever they want " when writing for the synagogue . There were also those in the days of Theodor Herzl whop115advocated that a Jewish State be established any place where land could be gotten . Yet the deeply-rooted Jews wanted only Palestine ( Eretz Yisrael ) , for there was the land which contained our roots and our spirit . It was that land which our ancestors trod , and which was tied up with our history . I say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are to build a synagogue musical liturgy , it must be built upon our ancient musical roots , which have been nurtured and developed by our ancestors through many centuries , and which exude the Jewish spirit as does no other musical medium . I do not say that we are to sing or perform our musical traditions exactly as they were sung or performed centuries ago . I rather advocate that we build upon our musical traditions in our present day , developing this synagogue music according to those traditions , but in the best musical standards of our own day . What should be the purpose of the music on the Sabbatheve ? It should relax the mind , create a religious mood of peace and rest , raise the worshiper by its musical substanceand performance to high spiritual levels , and above all , it should serve as an aid toward a deeper concentration in devotion . If all those concerned in making a Friday eveningservice do not have these goals , then the entire purpose of the service is defeated . Rabbi , cantor , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synagogue musician is , in a sense , a full-time profession . One can not step into the role at 7 : oo PM on Friday evening and wash it off on Saturday at noon . If you do not feel the spirit of the Sabbath , you can not transmitit to a congregation through your music . You must believe in it in order to be believed . Only by our becoming conscious of the real role of Sabbath music can we expect our congregations to begin to realize its importance . When they begin to realize its importance , they will want only the kind of synagogue musical personnel who are capable ofp116giving to each service its genuine spirit . When that happens , we shall not be discussing " raising the level of synagogue music , " but rather " rising to the high levels of synagogue music . "  |p117Des|pite  the fact that instrumental playing , singing and joy-making were forbidden to the Jew after the destruction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem , these restrictions were lifted from almost the very beginning of the exile , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Simchat Torah and Purim . Joy became unlimited and uninhibited on these two holidays , the latter gradually approaching , often with official sanction , close to hilarity . The joyous spirit of Purim began with the reading of the Megillah ( Book of Esther ) in the synagogue , and gradually reached into the home . As time went on , it extended into the purimspiel and into the various parodies and songs which form an important part of the music that grew out of the celebration of this festival . Footnotep118The reading of the Megillah is preceded by three benedictions , in a major mode in which one immediately feels the joyous and carefree atmosphere of Purim . The traditionalmanner of reading the Megillah is , like that of a letter or document , animated and hasty.l In Oriental communitiesit is read in almost parlando style , with melodic variations at half and full stops . ' The dorian and phrygian modes are used by some Orientals , while the Ashkenazic Jews use the system of cantillation based on the dorian mode . This mode is , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lamentations and from certain liturgical motives . These borrowings are primarily used to give expression to certain key phrases and sentencesof the Megillah to make them accord with the talmudicand midrashic interpretations of the text . ' Midrash Esther 2.11 , for example , tells us that the vessels used at Ahasuerus 's feast were those taken from the Holy Temple when Jerusalem was captured by Nebuchadnezzar in 586 B.C.E. , which accounts for the melodic change from the joyous Megillah mode to the sad mode of Lamentations . According to tradition , those additional phrases which depictthe gloom and despair of the Jews are also to be chanted with motives from the cantillation mode of Lamentations . At the beginning of Chapter 6. r , we are told of the sleeplessnesswhich King Ahasuerus suffered on a certain night . According to Midrash Esther io.i , God , the King of kings , also suffered sleeplessness on account of the terrible plight of His people in Persia . Therefore , the Ashkenazim chant this sentence with the elaborate melody used for Ha-melech ( The King ) at the opening of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Yom Kippur . Accordingto the musical tradition in some communities , V'yitlu Et Haman ( Chapter 7 . Io ) is chanted in a joyous and exalted style . These are some of the special musical detours made byp119the reader while reading the Megillah . The congregation which listens to the reading also has its say at these points , and recites these verses aloud before the reader . These phrases were also either read by the congregation or sung to snatches of popular songs of the day . ' Such congregational interruptions gave the Jews opportunities to express their distaste for the many " Hamans " of their own day . The phrases were often sung to simple tunes for the purpose of amusing the children . ' Everything was done during the reading of the Megillah to make it happy and expressive of Israel 's gratitude for past and future deliverances . After the reading of the Megillah a special hymn , Shoshanat Yaakov , is sung to a joyous and sometimes even hilarious melody . Noisemaking at the mention of the name of Haman dates back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Deuteronomy 25.19 , we are commended " to erase " the name of Amalek , who was the first enemy of the Jews after they left Egypt . Thus we find that some Oriental Jews write the name of Haman ( who was supposed to be a descendant of Amalek ) on a slip of paper and erase it at the mention of Haman 's name , or they write it on the soles of their shoes and rub and stamp on it . The practice of using the grogger at the mention of Haman 's name , as we know that custom today , however , goes back to the thirteenth century in France and Germany. ? In view of the fact that the grogger is now classified among musical instruments as a percussion instrument , it should be interesting to trace its origin here . The grogger is a combination of two primitive instruments : the bull-roarer and the scraper. ? The bull-roarer consisted of a long stick at the top of which was attached a string and at the end of the string a thin board . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The faster it was twirled , the higher was the pitch of noise . The scraper consisted of a notched shell , bone , or gourd , which wasp120scraped with a rigid object . The grogger combines both of these rattles . Noisemaking of this kind was an old custom among primitive people at the outgoing and incoming of new seasons , in order to scare away the evil spirits . Purim , which comes at the beginning of springtime , most likely adopted the grogger from primitive practices at this period of the year . ' Many such primitive instruments have turned up among children 's toys . It took the Oriental Jews a long time to change their practice of knocking two stones together and stamping their feet at the mention of Haman 's name . Today in Palestine , they have turned to the grogger which they buy from the Ashkenazic Jews . In Persia , Jews still do not use the grogger . Children wearing masks go from house to house beating drums . ' In Italy , when Jews on Purim circle round an effigy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Purim were parodies which go back to the fourteenth century . These were usually composed according to patterns taken from the synagogue liturgy or from the popular songs of the day . These parodies were usually put to the melodies of the original songs or prayers . A parody on the Hanukkah hymn entitled " Ma'oz Tsur For Purim , " by Gabriel Pollack , l0 to be sung at the table , is an interesting example . These parodies were full of the good humor of the festival , caricaturesof the wicked characters in the Megillah , and the idealization of its heroes . Many of these parodies were in the form of wine songs . The Purim Rab , who was a take-off of the local rabbi , was an important character in Purim parody . He would deliver a humorous sermon in the style of the local rabbi , and sing the Purim Kiddush , which was a potpourri of several versions of the Kiddush for the holy days and the Sabbath . The birth of opera in the sixteenth century immediatelyp121began to exert an influence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear of cantors at this time indulging in excessive vocal pyrotechnics in operatic style during the chanting of the service , to the delight of the congregation and the chagrin of the rabbis . It was also at this time that the office of cantor and rabbi were divorced from each other in many of the large communities in Europe . Often communities wanted the cantor to possess a beautiful voice and to be able to sing some of the prayers with melodies taken from the popular songs of the day , no matter whether they were secular or sacred . " When Purina came , therefore , and joy and hilarity reigned , outside musical influencesmade themselves strongly felt , especially in the purimspiel . The influence of opera may be detected when we discoverchoral numbers used as entr'actes as well as epiloguesin Dos Purim Lied Fun Yosef ben Binyomin , found in Eisik Walich 's collection.12 Der Ashmedai Spiel had two such interludes which were sung by the chorus . Shoshanat Yaakov , the Purina liturgical hymn , usually ended all Purim plays , and during the seventeenth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solo and chorus , in the operatic style of the period . Acta Esther ( Prague , 1720 ) 13 which , we are told , was known by the famous Rabbi David Oppenheim of that periodand performed by his students , contains two songs in aria form ; 4 it calls for the accompaniment of Kol Mine K'le Zemer V'hatsotsrot ( trumpets and all types of musical instruments ) . In Hokmat Shlomo15 we find a death march for David , and trumpets for the crowning of Solomon . Jacob Dessauer in Amsterdam , in the eighteenth century , calls for music by various composers in his purimspiel , " Mordecai and Esther , the Greatest of Jews . " 16 Many popular melodies of the day must surely have been included . Who were the participants in the purimspiel ? The mu/sical accompaniment was played by the kleziner ( musicians of the town ) , " although in some cases , as in Bukowina , the purimspiel was accompanied by gentile musicians . " $ The acting was done by the letzim ( jesters ) " and badchonim ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the singing was also done by these , as well as by the meshorerim ( choir singers ) . Details of musical customs in the celebration of Purim vary not only from country to country , but from city to city , and even from community to community . Singing was the main means of individual and collective expression , and was an aid to creating the joyous Purim spirit . The main singing was done during and after the Purim feast , which took place a little before sundown on the day of Purim . Songs in the vernacular were permitted on this festival , and in various parts of Europe and the Orient songs in Judeo-Italian , Judeo-Spanish , and JudeoGermanwere sung.20 In Persia , Purim songs could be heard in the streets of the Jewish quarter weeks before Purim.21 In Amsterdam , in 18o4 , humorous songs were circulated in the community before Purim in a Purim almanac . Solomon Doklar became famous for his " purimiads " which were to be " read , sung , and retold . " 22The hasidic sect , which was founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customs in the celebration of Purim . Hasidim found spiritual qualities in the hilarities of a Purim celebration . They , for example , believed that all of the prayers and requests of the Tebbe were granted to him in heaven at the conclusion of his Purim dance . They also believed that the Divine Presence rested on a joyous and happy face , and they took special advantage of this interpretation on the festival when joy was unlimited . They began in the synagogue by singing passages such as V'yitlu Et Haman , V'ha-ir Shushan , La-y'hudim , Ba-laila Ha-hu ( Esther 7.10 ; 8.15 ; 8.16 ; 6.1 )  |p123very  elaborately and with a good deal of noise and enthusiasm . Rabbi Levi Yitzhok of Berditchev , in the early part of the nineteenth century , danced while he chanted Al Mikra Megillah , the first of the three benedictions preceding the reading of the Megillah . Rabbi Abbush Meir of Sanz , who was extremely musical , composed a new melody for Shoshanat Yaakov every year . His hasidim would gather at the Shalosh Seudot ( third meal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time he would teach them the new tune . This would , of course , be sung ad infinitum during the Purim celebration . The tune would again show up at the following Sabbath eve service in L'cha Dodi . On the night of Purim a flood of songs was released . At that time the Shoshanat Yaakov held the center of attraction . Later , they sang Psalms-7 , 33 , 121 , and 124 , among others . There would also be songs , hasidic and others , in the vernacular . Hasidim would frequently entertain the rebbe and the other hasidim with a purimspiel , which was often accompanied by singing and even instrumental playing . On the following day , Shushan Purim , joy and hilarity were still unabated . A climax was reached at the Mincha ( afternoon service ) , when one of the hasidim would act as cantor . He would first of all dress in a kittel ( white shroud used on the High Holy Days ) and chant the prayers with the serious High Holy Day melodies in burlesque style . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose credo it was to " serve God in joy , " made joy unbounded on this day , the most joyous of holidays.23In Israel Purim is celebrated in carnival style , particularly in Tel Aviv . On Purim eve one hears the Megillah read over loudspeakers throughout the streets surrounding the Great Synagogue for the benefit of those who can not bep124accommodated in the synagogue proper . In the evening the whole city is a blaze of light in accordance with the verse in the Megillah , " And unto the Jews there was light and joy . " Mass singing envelopes the city . Choruses from roof-tops join those in the streets . Here and there , groups of young people may be seen whirling about to the tune of a hora , which the band coming down the street is playing . On a platform erected in one of the main streets the characters of the Megillah sing and dance and entertain the crowds till the wee hours of the morning . It is hard to visualize any Purim , no matter how far back , without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our sources for Purim parodies , 24 which were indeed the first songs sung on Purim in both synagogue and home , do not give us the melodies . The Purim folk song , as we know it , dates back to the sixteenth and seventeenthcenturies ; examples may be found in Eisik Valich 's collection " and in Elchanan Kirchan 's Siinchat Ha-ne f esh ( Joy of the Spirit ) . " Fundamental in Yiddish songs of Purim is the folk song based on the greeting " Gut Purim , " with which Jews have greeted each other on Purim , and which the puri7nspieler sang when they entered a home where they were to perform . The folk songs then proceed to tell of the joy of the day , the revenge on Haman and his wife Zeresh ( purported to be a shrew ) , King Ahasuerus the drunkard , and the hero and heroine of the story , Esther the Queen and Mordecaithe Prince . The songs also tell how the tables were turned on Haman , who plotted to destroy the Jews , but who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially popular in folksongs , in view of the fact that Hamans have never been lacking in Jewish life in any generation . In one song we are actually asked why we can not have Purim every day , in view of the ever-present Haman ! Many songs tell also of the custom of sendingp125gifts on Purim , and of the special Purim delicacy , the hamantash . Many of the Yiddish folksongs were the creation of the purimspieler . Early Yiddish playwrights made use of the Purim theme . In Yiddish plays such as Ahasuerus , by Abraham Goldfaden , we find the popular folksong , Heint Iz Purim . In Hurewitch 's very popular play , Ben Hador , a stanza in the famous song , Min Hametzar is devoted to the subject of Haman . Over generations , little children , masked , went from house to house , rapped at the door and sang : " Today is Purim ; tomorrow is none . Give me a penny , and I 'll be gone . " Variations came where children at different times and places substituted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groshen , krepel , hamantash , etc . The melodies of the Yiddish Purim songs lost their ghetto pathos on Purina . Since there were few joyous tunes in the Jewish folk song repertoire , such melodies had often to be borrowed from foreign sources for these joyous texts . Hebrew folk songs for Purim , as we have pointed out , began with the Hebrew parodies of the Middle Ages . Purina songs in Hebrew began to be composed also at the time when the first Purina was celebrated by the early Palestinian pioneers of 1881 . Since then , many songs have been composed for this important and happy Palestinian festival . These songs fall into three groups ? original poems with original melodies ; poems translated from Yiddish to the accompanying melody ; and parodies on Yiddish folk songs sung to the accompanying melody . While the Hebrew Purim songs deal with all themes enumerated in the Yiddish folk songs , there are a few additional ones to be found , as for example : the general " tipsy " feeling of carnival times , the description of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the moods and pictures which the Megillah characters portray.  |p126In  the many children 's songs which are sung in Israel weeks before Purim , we find the idea of personalizing the grogger , the hamantash , and the shalah manot . Purim is also idealized in a song as Pur Pur Purim , in which birds and fishes , too , are pictured as celebrating the festival . One can not say that Palestinian melodies , extremely rhythmical and vibrant as they are , are not a new element in Jewish folk song as compared to those folk songs of the ghetto . Too much originality has not been displayed in America , where a musical literature for Purim has been growing steadily . While many of the Purim lyrics by Samuel S. Grossman are good , and admirably catch the spirit of Purim , the melodies for the most part are banal and undistinguishedin character . The texts of our American Purim songs deal for the most part with the same subjects as those which we found in the Yiddish folk songs . A number of attempts have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into English27 in order to enable our children to catch some of the true Purim spirit . An effort has also been made to utilize the cantillation mode of the Book of Esther in one English song , 28 so as to accustom the ears of the younger generation to a branch of Jewish song unfamiliar to them . In American Jewish Sunday schools , hymns of faith and deliverance are also sung on Purim.29 A favorite musical custom on Purim in Sunday schools , clubs , Hebrew schools , and other gatherings , is to sing Purim parodies to popular American folk songs , nurseryrhymes , and songs of the day . We find Purim parodies set to such songs as " The Man on the Flying Trapeze , " " Tit-Willow , " " It Ai n't Gon na Rain No More , " " Polly Wolly Doodle , " " Farmer in the Dell , " " A Bicycle Built For Two , " " London Bridge is Falling Down , " " Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush , " and " Ten Little Indians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Purim parody out of the popular comic operetta The Mikado , by Gilbertp127and Sullivan . This was done by Mabel H. Meyer and has been re-named Ha-Ha Hadassah.3 ? Serious musicians have not neglected the subject of Purim . At the head of the list of art creations inspired by the story of Purim is George Frederick Handel 's early oratorio , Esther , composed in 1720 . Two cantatas by Bradbury and Stoughton were composed in our country during the last century , and more recently , two operas were composed by the German Jewish composers Jacob Knoller and Frederick Bloch . Operettas by various composers have also been written , and an overture entitled Esther , to Grillparzer'sEsther , by Eugene D'Albert is to be found . The author of this article has just completed a dramatic narrativewith music , entitled Esther , Queen of Persia . All in all , Purim has made its contribution to Jewish music by the very joyousness of its nature , which , better than anything else , is expressed in the cantillation mode itselffor the Book of Esther . **26;4470;TOOLONG ENCYCLOPEDIC SURVEYI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half , Jewish musicians have played an important part in the musical life of the world . In all European countries , as well as in the Americas , Jews have contributed significantly to the development of musical art . Jewish names first appeared prominentlyamong performers and conductors , and later among the leading composers of every country . The emergence of the Jews on the world musical scene has not been accidental ; music has held a vital place in Jewish life from the ( This article originally appeared in the publication , The Jewish People : Past and Present , volume III . It was published in 1952 by Jewish Encyclopedic Handbooks ? Central Yiddish Culture Organization ( CYCO ) , in New York. ) 129p130earliest periods of history , from the days when the Jews wandered in the wilderness to the present . When Moses led the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage , the Bible tells us , " Then sang Moses and the childrenof Israel this song unto the Lord , and spoke , saying , I will sing unto the Lord , for He is highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the sea " ( Ex. xv , 1 ) . This was the first great song of freedom in the history of civilization . To celebrate Barak 's great victory over the Canaanites , Deborah sang a song of praise to God , " Hear , O ye kings ; give ear , 0 ye princes ; I , unto the Lord will I sing ; I will sing praise to the Lord , the God of Israel " ( Judges v , 3 ) . King David , too , the " sweet singer in Israel , " excelled from his earliest youth in the playing of the kinnor ( a small harp ) . It is David to whom the Book of Psalms is attributed . In it we find songs of prayer and praise that have soothed the hearts of men for many centuries . Singingand instrumental music were also used to inspire prophecy . " But now bring me a minstrel , " said the prophet Elisha , " and it came to pass , when the minstrel played , that the hand of the Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . In the Mishnah we find the following description of a musical performance during the service in the Temple , in the last century B.C.E. After the priests recited a benediction , the Ten Commandments , the Shema ( Deut. vi , 4-9 ) , the priestly benediction ( Num. vi , 22-26 ) , and three other benedictions , they began the acts of the offerings . When the sacrifices were over , the magrepha ( a kind of pipe organ ) was sounded . This was the signal for the priests to enter the Temple and prostrate themselves . Now the Levites began their part in the service . Two priests took their places at the altar and blew the trumpets tekiahteruah-tekiah . After this , they approached Ben Azra , the cymbal player , and stood on the right and left side of him.  |p131At  a signal with a flag by the superintendent , Ben Azra who was a Levite , sounded his cymbal and all the Levites began to sing the Psalm of the day . When they finished a part of the Psalm , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worshipped . Not only the Psalms were sung by the Levites , but also portions of the Pentateuch . The Mishnah describes the composition of the orchestra in the Second Temple as follows : nevel : minimum two , maximum six ; kinnor : minimumnine , maximum limitless ; cymbal : one ; halil : minimumtwo , maximum twelve . This indicates twelve instruments as the required minimum , with the halilim added on twelve festal days . It is clear that Israel did not stress loud orchestral instruments during the service , as did her idolatrous neighbors . Just as sacrifice was secondary to prayer , so was instrumental music secondary to song . The following antiphonal forms were used in public singing during the services : A. The leader intoned half a verse , and the congregationrepeated it . He continued with half lines , and the congregationrepeated the first half verse as a refrain . B. The leader sang half a line at a time , and the congregationrepeated it . This , according to Rabbi Eleazer , son of Joseph ha-Galili , was the manner in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line , and the congregation responded with the second , and so on . According to Rabbi Nehemiah , this form was used in reciting the Shema . It is still employed by the Babylonian Jews for chanting the Hallel on Passover . At public services , such refrains as Amen , Halleluyah , Hoshiah Na ( 0 , help ! ) , and Anenu ( answer us ) were chanted by the people . In later times , we find Ki Le-olam Hasdo ( for his mercy endureth forever ) used as a refrain ( Psalm cxviii , 1-4 ) . The responses , Amen , Halleluyah , andp132Hoshiah Na ( Hosanna ) have become significant elements of Christian liturgy . II . Biblical CantillationIt was customary in the ancient days to study prayers , poetry , and laws with the aid of song . Through association with the melody , the words were more easily rememberedand the meaning more clearly understood . " Now therefore write ye this song for you , and teach thou it the children of Israel , " Moses admonishes the children of Israel ( Dent. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Torah in a kind of unrhythmic melody known as cantillation . Portions of the Bible were read in this musical fashion during public services early in the history of Israel . We know , for instance , that the Song of the Sea , the Ten Commandments , and certain Psalms were sung at the daily service in the Temple in Jerusalem . According to the Talmud , " The Bible should be read in public and made understood to the hearers in musical and sweet tones . . . . He who reads the Torah without tune shows disregard for it and its vital values . " Moreover , " Whosoever intones the Holy Scriptures in the manner of secular song offends the Torah . " " The accentuation of the Torah is as sacred as its text , " it is further stated in the Talmud . A discussion follows as to whether a man may receive payment for teaching the meaning of the Torah accents , which leads us to believe that there were special teachers who taught the meaning of Biblical accentuation . The system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At first only three signs were known : pesik , which indicated a short stop ; etnahta , a half-stop ;  |p133and  so f pasuk , a full stop . Cantillation signs or tropes are known in Hebrew as taa7ne ha-neginot , taamim , and neginot . The neginot or taamim served to mark all the nuances in the interpretation of the meaning of a phrase . When these signs were introduced into the text , they also indicated a sort of punctuation . Later , in the eleventh century , ibn Ezra said : " All interpretations which are not in accord with the cantillation signs are not valid and should be disregarded . " The taamim were preserved traditionally by memory , and were taught by special teachers of accentuation . Over a period of time , however , a system of chironomy was developedand used at public readings . One or two tomechim ( helpers ) stood beside the reader and indicated the direction of the trope for each work by the rise and fall of a finger , or a twist of the palm of the hand . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the right the Torah tunes . " This system of chironomy was carried into the Middle Ages . It was practiced in Baghdad in the twelfth century , and is still used today in Yemen . Rashi tells us that those who came from Palestine used this method in his day . The only books of the Bible that have come down to us with traditional cantillation are those that were read in public services . The modes , or the musical interpretation of the tropes , differ . Special cantillation modes are provided for the Pentateuch , Prophets , Esther , Lamentations , Ruth , Ecclesiastes , Song of Songs , Psalms , and , in some Oriental communities , for Job , Proverbs , Ezra , and Nehemiah . Chronicles have no cantillation modes since they are never read at public services . Unlike our modern musical notation , where each sign represents only one note , the Biblical neginot represent groups of notes , the minimum being two ( as in pashta ) , and the maximum , eighteen ( as in shalshelet ) .  |p134Two  systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twenty-one books and another for Job , Proverbs , and Psalms. 111 . Biblical Cantillation and Early Christian MusicThe questions of the relationship between Biblical cantillationand the Byzantine and Gregorian chants have occupiedthe attention of musicologists and theologians throughout the ages . The Christian theologians were the first to accept the theory that the music of their churches had originally been brought from the synagogue by the early Christians . It has been shown by A. Z. Idelsohn ( Jewish Music , New York , 1929 ) that the Yemenite and other Near EasternJewish communities have preserved hundreds of melodiesthat are identical with the Byzantine and Gregorian chants . The fact that these Jewish communities were never influenced by either of these two churches , together with other evidence cited below , could be regarded as proof that the synagogue chant was the parent of both the Byzantineand the Gregorian chant . When the early Christians separated into their own synagogueswith their special form of Judaism , they took with them not only the Jewish liturgy , which was the only liturgy they knew , and in which the Book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ melodies with which it was sung and chanted . The early Christians in Jerusalem continued to attend Temple worship until at least 6o C.E.In the preface to his book Byzantine Music and Hymnography , Egon Wellesz writes , " The most important decisionwas to deal with the origin of Christian music in a separate work , which was to show that both Byzantine and Western chants ultimately derived from a common source , the music of the synagogue . "  |p135The  church also inherited the melismatic type of singingthat is particularly characteristic of the Halleluyah . In his exposition of Psalm 99 , Augustine describes the character of the songs of exultation : " He who jubilates , speaks no word ; it is a song of joy without words . " The spiritual songs to which he refers were obviously the melismaticmelodies of the Halleluyah and other exultant songs of praise which had been brought by the Jewish Christians from the Temple and the synagogue into the church ( cf. Wellesz ) . Like Amen , Cherubim , Seraphim , and Hosanna , the Hebrew word Halleluyah has been left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always been assumed that the chants for Halleluyah were derived from the Jewish liturgy . Bishop Isidore of Seville said , as early as 636 C.E. , " The melodies of the laudations , that is , the chants for the Halleluyah , are Hebrew canticles . " This view is supported by the musical structure of the Halleluyahof the Ambrosian rite , the oldest examples of this type surviving in manuscripts . The famous poet , Immanuel of Rome ( c. 1z6o-c. 1328 ) , says of the relations of church music to the synagogue chant , " What says the art of music to the gentiles ? I have been stolen from the land of the Hebrews . ' " The derivation of Christian music from Jewish liturgy has also been accepted by modern writers on the subject . In his Music in the Middle Ages ( New York 1941 , p. 114 ) , Gustave Reese writes , " The influence of Hebrew music has been acknowledged by the most modern writers , among them Wagner , Gastoue , Ursprung . . . . Circumstantial evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of . . . cantor . . . from the analogous position in the synagogue , and by the admission into the liturgy of portions of the synagogue service , such as the Alleluia ' and the Holy , Holy , Holy , ' the latter having been adopted , as indicated , by a letter from Clement I , about the end of the first century . "  |p136Another  noted musicologist says , " We must not forget . that the origin and heritage of Christianity is an Orientalone , or , more precisely , Hebrew ; consequently , the first Christian hymns and songs were taken from the Jewishliturgy or were direct imitations of it . " ( Paul Henry Lang , Music in Western Civilization , New York , 1941 , p. 23 ) It thus becomes clear that the ancient synagogue chant provided the foundation for the music of the church , which in turn formed the basis for the development of the art of music as we know it today . IV . The Musical Tradition of the Synagogue-Nusach Ha-tefillahThe great musical structure which the synagogue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , enshrining Jewish hopes and aspirations and , above all , the Jewish song . This musical tradition comprises three main elements : it rests on the Biblical cantillation modes ; from these came the nusach ha-te fillah , or the prayer modes ; and the two combined gave rise to the authentic synagogue melodies we know today . Different cantillation modes are used in chanting the various sections of the Bible . We find the Pentateuch cantillated in one way in Yemen , another in Spain , and still another in America . Again , among Ashkenazic Jews , the system of its cantillationon High Holy Days is entirely different from that followed at ordinary Sabbath services . And yet , despite the variations due to custom , occasion and geography , the cantillation modes are closely related , however great the distances that separate the people who use them . On comparison , we find common musical figures and intervals that are characteristic of the systems.  |p137In  the course of time the synagogue ritual was gradually developed and enriched . By the seventh century it comprisedthese elements : Tefillah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Tachanun ( petition ) ; Selichah ( prayer for forgiveness ) ; Viddui ( confession ) ; Kinah ( lamentation ) ; and Zemirot ( hymns ) . Because the synagogue liturgy stems from the Bible , it is quite possible that the nusach ha-te fillah ( traditional prayer modes ) evolved from the Biblical cantillation modes . We constantly hear cantillation modes and figures in all the authentic prayer modes . In the Ashkenazic tradition there are five fundamental liturgical modes : 1 ) the Adonay Malach mode ; 2 ) the Magen Avot mode ; 3 ) the Selichah mode ; 4 ) the Ahavah Rabbah mode ; and 5 ) the Viddui mode . These modes , which are sung differently in the Sephardic tradition , also vary according to occasion and , to some extent , according to geographic location . These are the oldest elements in the Jewish musical traditionas developed and preserved through generations . The Adonay Malach is derived from the Pentateuch mode ; the Magen Avot mode , from Prophets , Lamentations , and Psalms ; and the Viddui mode , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which contains the augmentedsecond interval that has become so characteristic of Jewish music , is the most recent of the modes , for it does not occur among the Biblical modes . It came from southwestern Europe . When Jews from Western Europe moved eastward toward Russia and the Ukraine , they encounteredfamilies of Jews who were of Tartar , Persian , and Byzantine origin . In the music of these peoples one finds church and folk melodies in a mode similar to our Ahavah Rabbah mode . When the Magen Avot mode , or Prophetic mode , was used by cantors in these Eastern areas , they frequentlyp138changed to the Ahavah Rabbah mode by raising the third on the way up and lowering the second when going down . Our synagogue melodies have been called Mi-sinai tunes , on the basis of the tradition that at Mount Sinai Moses spoke and God answered him in a voice in which Moses heard our entire musical tradition . These melodies are also termed scarbove , from a corrupted version of the word sacre , meaning " holy . " In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for various holidays and occasions , setting the specific atmosphere of the day . Sometimes these tunes were originally borrowed from the songs of the countries through which exile had carried our people . Before they were incorporated into the liturgy they went through a process of integration into Jewish style and spirit . The birthplace of numerous Mi-sinai melodies was southwestern Germany ? the old communities of Worms , Mainz , Speyer , and the Rhineland , where Jews had lived for several centuries and had developed centers of Jewish scholarship . Many of the Mi-sinai tunes for the High Holidays , such as Ha-melech , Musa f Kaddish , and Avot , are attributed to Rabbi Meir of Rothenburg ( ca. 1220-1293 ) , who lived in Worms . He was one of the leading sheliche tsibbur of his day , and helped to order the synagogue musical tradition . V. The Development of Cantorial Art Up to the NineteenthCenturyA . The PrecentorIn the Temple in Jerusalem the liturgy was intoned by the priests and Levites , but in the local synagogues in Palestinea learned and prominent man of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was called the sheliach tsibbur , messenger of the people , or precentor . The prayer modes , which were in the musical style of those days , were uniform and known to all . It was a very high honor to be called upon to lead in prayer , and the man thus chosen had to be well versed in the prayers and their meanings . After reciting the first benedictions , the precentor had to improvise prayers according to the need of the hour , and then he closed with the final benedictions , to which the community listened silently , with occasional short responses . Many learned and respected men served as precentors during the Talmudic period , among them Honi haMeaggel , Rabbi Hiya , and Rabbi Akiba . At the end of the first century C.E. , Rabbi Zenon was an important precentorin the court of Rabban Gamaliel in Yamnia . These great personalities improvised remarkable prayers , many of which have come down to us by tradition . In the second century , Rabbi Judah ben Ilai , in Palestine , enunciated the qualifications of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for existence and be of fine character , humble , well bred , and kind . He had to be learned and know the prayers by heart , as well as to have a sweet voice , clear articulation , and clean garments . Blindnessor deformities were no reason for disqualification . When the sacrificial ritual was discontinued after the destruction of the Second Temple , all instrumental music was forbidden . The precentors now took the place of the priests and Levites . When the prayers were finally formulated and written down at the beginning of the Middle Ages , the problem of who was to conduct the services was simplified . More of the common folk could now serve as precentors . Beginning with the ninth century , we find Hebrew poets imitating Arabic poetic rhythms in their liturgical poetry . This influence was a strong and decisive one , for it notp140only changed the prayer forms employed in the Hebrew liturgy , but also introduced a more regular rhythm into the synagogue song . Up to that time the unrhythmical chant predominated in Jewish song . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to begin their poems with Hebrew words that were similar in sound to the words of the Spanish song , the melody of which was to accompany the poem . At first this practice was strongly condemned by the rabbis , but the secular melodies finally gained acceptance . As one rabbi put it , " Why should Satan have all the beautiful tunes ? " B. The Earliest Professional HazzanimThe great rabbis who had served as precentors up to this time considered it below their dignity to use popular or alien types of song , but the new poetry was beautiful , and they wished to include it in the service . In many cases , therefore , the poets themselves became hazzanim , feeling that they were best qualified to interpret their own songs . Here we have the beginnings of the office of the professionalhazzan as we know it today . While many congregationsengaged professional hazzanim , the practice of selectingan honorary precentor from among the synagogue laity never disappeared . Another factor that led to the appearance of the hazzan in the pulpit of the synagogue in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persecutions and made necessary the presence of a professional leader in the religious service . Rab Yehudai Gaon , head of the Academy of Sura ( 76o764C.E. ) was one of the leading precentors of his time , and is credited with codifying and ordering the musical tradition . He favored the new practice of professional hazzanut and supported it with his authority . The reading of the prayers and the reading of the Pentateuchin the synagogue were now separated . The hazzanp141chanted the prayers from a lower level , and the Torah was read and the sermon preached from an elevated platform called Almemor or Bimah . The influence of Italy 's musical development at the end of the Middle Ages was making itself felt throughout Europe , and it reached the synagogue as well . More and more cantors brought into the service secular melodies and the style that was heard from traveling Italian singers and troubadors . In fact , at this period , in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries , we also find traveling hazzanim . These itinerant cantors carried melodies and customs from one community to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the musical tradition of the synagogue . Many rabbis looked with disfavor upon the practice of singing secular melodies in the synagogue and the new style of cantorial singing , which the congregations seemed to approve . They censured the hazzanim for introducing these innovations . The kabbalistic rabbi and cantor Herz Treves of Frankfort on the Main ( 1470-1550 ) complains bitterly about the new movement and the strange attitude of the hazzanim toward their holy functions . " They have ceased to be writers of Torah , Tefillin , and Megillot , nor do they care for the correct grammatical reading of the prayers . All they are concerned with is their songs , without regard for the true meaning of the words . They neglect the traditional melodies of their ancestors . " The protests of the rabbis proved unavailing . The Jews began to grow accustomed to going to the synagogue on the Sabbath for prayer and for musical enjoyment . Their innate love of music , dating back to Biblical days , found satisfaction on the Sabbath , for they heard no other music save that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of music , therefore , was the synagogue , and when they came there on the Sabbath , they expected the cantor to entertain them . The office of cantorp142rose in importance among the people , and he became a valued member of the community . In many cases he was preferred to the rabbi . Jacob ha-Levi Molin ( ca. 1356-1427 ) , also known as the Maharil , who was rabbi and precentor in Mainz and Worms , was a great adherent of the nusach ha-te fillah , the musical tradition of the synagogue . It was said of his renditionsof the prayers that they elevated the spirits of the hearers and moved the worshipers to devotion . The hazzanirn were not paid on a regular basis out of the synagogue budget . Instead , their earnings were pieced together in various ways that often belittled the dignity of their service . The sources of their income included weddings and circumcisions . At a certain time during the feast , the cantor sang a blessing for each of the guests gathered around the table , after which a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw fit . In some communities the cantor received a percentage of the dowries . He also received gifts from the local householders on Hanukkah and Purim . On the latter holidayhe went from house to house with the members of his choir to entertain the important members of the congregation , who gave him a gift of money . In certain communitieshe received a percentage of the money that was paid for slaughtering ( shechitah gelt ) , and part of the money collected in the charity boxes in the synagogue . Duringthe month of Elul , the month before the High Holidays , he went to the cemetery to chant prayers for the dead , for which he received payment . On Yom Kippur eve a plate was placed for him among the other charity plates on a table at the door of the synagogue . This manner of earning a livelihood corrupted many hazzanim . In the seventeenth century Rabbi Ephraim Lentshitz , the author of Olelot Ephraim , remarked that " The hazzanirn care not for their prayers , but only for their songs , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , in Amsterdam , in 1783 , Hazzan Solomon Friede was installed in his office with great pomp and ceremony , attesting to the high regard in which the cantor was held in that community . VI . Cantorial Art in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Cen-turiesThe impact of the musical progress of the eighteenth century , led by such great musical personalities as Bach and Handel , made itself felt among the hazzaninz as well . Many of them began to study music and instrumental playing . Influenced by the musical style of the period , they began to bring into the synagogue the popular melodies of the day . It was not unusual at the time to hear a prayer sung in minuet or gavotte rhythm . Ahron Beer ( 1738-1821 ) , who became a cantor in Berlin in 1765 , was one of the first cantors with a technical musical training . In his collection of prayers he had many tunes for each Sabbath . He explained that he did this intentionally , to preventthe congregation from learning the melodies and singing along with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period were musically unschooled , though they were endowed with native musical talent , often remark  --  able voices , and were usually learned and extremely pious men . Hazzanim who combined outstanding musical gifts , learning , and piety became great celebrities . Such a man was Hazzan Salomon Kashtan ( 1781-1829 ) , cantor in the town of Dubno , Russia , who traveled extensively throughoutLithuania , Poland , Austria , and Hungary . He possessed a remarkable tenor voice with which he was able to perform the most incredible coloratura passages . His compositionswere highly original , yet steeped in musical tradition and dignity , and moved the listeners to deep de/votion . Fortunately , many of his works were preserved by his son , Hirsch Weintraub . Another great cantorial light of that time was Bezalel Schulsinger ( ca. 1791-1860 ) , otherwise known as Bezalel Odesser . Ife was born in Galicia . While he had no formal musical training , he possessed great native talent , and is rememberedas one of the greatest hazzanim of the period . His style was graceful , full of emotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but unfortunately none of his music was published . Some of it is preserved in manuscript . Almost all of the prominent Eastern European hazzanim of his time were his disciples . A special form of improvisation was practiced by Boruch Karliner ( died in 1879 ) , who served as cantor in Karlin and Pinsk , in Russia . He would signal to one of the better singers in his choir to improvise a shtel as an introduction to an improvisation that he himself was about to begin . Frequently , during the service , Boruch would give his choir a new tune , and the singers would proceed to developit . Another great nineteenth century cantor was Yeruchom Blindman , or Yeruchom Ha-koton . He was very short in stature , and when he stood on the pulpit , he always used some elevation . While he , too , had almost no musical education , he composed many synagogue works that were steeped in the synagogue musical tradition . He conducted his own choir without the aid of a choir director . Thanks to his remarkable voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leading exponents of the cantorial art . Yeruchom 's contemporary , Nison Spivak , also known as Nisi Belzer , possessed some of the same qualities , but his voice was small and was said to have been very raucous . He won widespread fame nevertheless , and has gone down in cantorial history as one of the greatest hazzanim of his time . He compensated for his lack of voice with extremelyp145elaborate compositions , a finely trained choir , and wonderfulimprovisations which were tremendously moving despite his vocal deficiencies . Yeruchom and Nisi were competitors as well as contemporaries . Their stylistic influence on cantorial art was tremendous and lives on in the hearts and voices of many cantors even to this day . At this period , in the middle of the nineteenth century , cantors not only with good but also with poor voices held the attention of their congregations in Eastern Europe . They were also composers and sang their own works at the services . Their individual compositions were rather long , sometimes taking from fifteen minutes to a half hour . These cantors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yet they even managed to write contrapuntal passages , primitive as these sometimes were , and also succeeded in developing some harmonic choral effects . What they lacked most , however , was musical form . Their compositionswent from melody to melody without relationship , development , or integration . This is why their works , while valuable historically , are of little practical use to us today . After the first few minutes they lose coherence , and the listener 's attention begins to wander . We have seen that improvisation was an important element in Jewish prayer from the earliest days of the synagogue . A precentor had to be able to improvise a prayer to answer the needs of the moment ; later , he was expected to give it either a tune or a chant in a special mode . Improvisation , both in religious and in secular music , originated and developed principally because at first melodieswere played and sung from memory . Even when religiousmelodies were reconstructed from neuznes , the fact that each sign represented a group of notes rather than a single note made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent on his imagination and invention . Musical improvisation was continued in later centuries ,  |p146and  has survived to our day . In the seventeenth and eighteenthcenturies singers and solo players were permitted to improvise special passages in a musical composition , while the others waited silently . Improvisations on well-known melodies were demanded at concerts of instrumentalists like Beethoven , Liszt , and their contemporaries . In our own day , in our country , the jam-session in jazz bands is also improvisation . In the synagogue , the professional hazzan developed a special type of musical improvisational style . It is what we call hazzanut , or the real art of the cantor . First of all , it is the linking of the tone to the meaning of the word . It is highly florid , coloratura in style , with unique curves and figures , modulatory , intricate , brilliant in execution , and very moving . The coloratura style derives from two sources ? our Oriental origin , and the influence of the opera and oratorio to which our people responded strongly in Europeancountries at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Development of the Synagogue Choir drip to the Nineteenth CenturyMass participation in prayer and public celebrations is frequentlymentioned in Biblical literature . After the destruction of the Temple , music was prohibited : " The ear that listens to music shall be deaf , " says the Talmud . It was for this reason that all choral , and especially instrumental music was discontinued . On Sabbaths , holidays , and at wedding celebrations , however , musical performances were allowed . " There should be no mourning on the Sabbath . " It was therefore primarily in the synagogue that Jewish music was able to develop . While no choral singing was formally permitted , we find that as early as the third century the precentor was assistedp147by two helpers , called tomechim or mesayim , who aided him whenever necessary in remembering the prayers . The tomechim probably often joined in singing the prayers and thus became the foundation for the synagogue choir that was to develop in later centuries . The earliest mention of a professional choir is found in Babylonia in the ninth century . In Se @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installation of the Exilarch , which includes what seems to be the first account of choral participation in Jewish religious service . The introduction of choir singers in the synagogue musical service always provoked violent controversy . Even in Italy , where more and more Jews began to participate in the country 's musical life , departures from the accepted order of synagogue service met with considerable resistance , but nevertheless , influenced by the Renaissance , the synagogues in Venice , Mantua , Ferrara , Padua , and Casale Monferrato tried to introduce choral singing in their services . With the encouragement of Rabbi Leon of Modena ( 1571-1648 ) , the celebrated musician Salomone Rossi organized a choir for which he set various Psalms to music in arrangements for choirs of three to eight voices . It must be said , however , that these compositions contain no Jewishcharacteristics , but are decidedly in the style of the art music of the period . This innovation in the service of the synagogue met with a great deal of criticism from both rabbis and communities , though Rabbi Leon of Modena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rabbis in Venice , who decided in favor of the innovation . The synagogue as a whole , however , was not yet ready for the choir . Another 200 years had to pass before it was generally accepted . Rossi 's Psalms were published in Venice in October , 1622 , under the title , Shir Ha-shirim Asher Li-shelomoh . The volume was dedicated to Mose Sullam , and the intro/duction was written by Leon of Modena , who also did the proofreading . The synagogue choir at that time usually consisted of a singer ( a boy 's voice ) , a bass , and the hazzan . The oppositionof the rabbis took many forms . In i 6oz Rabbi Ephraim Lentshitz of Lublin spoke of the choir derisively as " the three who yell while no one answers . " In the meantime , through the combined influence of traveling singers , the developing church music , and the ars nova that was then sweeping Europe , this type of choral body began to find favor in many Jewish communitiesin Western Europe . In Amsterdam the try-outs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On October 20 , 1790 , a rabbinical decree abolished the use of choristers in the synagogue , but the interdiction did not long remain in force . The hazzan and his two choristers frequently had to travel from place to place , since no one community could support them . Even when they were engaged solely for the service of one community they received no fixed salaries , but as we have said above , had to depend on contributionsfrom various sources . The musical style of the synagogue choir at this time was mainly improvisatory . Most of the singing was done in unison ; when harmonies were used , they were either in thirds or in sixths , with an occasional chord . There were rehearsals , but it was never certain that the performances achieved at the rehearsals would be reproduced at the service , for the music was not written down because very few of the hazzanisn or singers were able to read music . The singers were also used for humming a root tune at certain points while the hazzan sang an emotional passage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the prayer , or at a cadence . Good singers were often per/mitted to improvise an introduction to an improvisation by the cantor . Singers with good voices were lured away from cantor to cantor . When they changed posts , they brought popular compositions and melodies from the previous hazzan to the new one . The usual synagogue combination of three or more choristers seldom presented what could be considered an artistic performance ; even their best was far below the quality of the choral singing that was already heard in many non-Jewish places of worship in Europe . It was against this musical chaos and inadequacy that Israel Lovy and Salomon Sulzer revolted some years later . VIII . Synagogue Music in Europe in Modern Times A. The Reform Movement in Western EuropeWith the emancipation of the Jews in Central Europe came experiments in reforming the synagogue service . The first experiment took place in Westphalia , in Western Germany , on the initiative of Israel Jacobson ( 1768-1828 ) , a wealthy merchant . At first these reforms consisted mainly of the introductionof a sermon in German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompaniment . The choirs which had hitherto been limited to two voices ? a boy 's and a basso 's ? supporting the cantor who improvised harmonizations as they sang , was now replaced by a four-part choir which read music , rehearsed the repertoire , and strove to present an artistic performance at the synagogue service . This fourpartchoir consisted of either boys ' and men 's voices or , as in Westphalia , of male and female voices . Much of the early influence in this direction came fromp150the Protestant church , the choral music of which had attained a high artistic level in the works of Bach , Handel , Mozart , and Haydn ? the musical luminaries of the period . The reformers sought to raise the musical standards of the synagogue . They also strove to eliminate all Oriental features from the synagogue song , including the cantillationmodes in the reading of the Torah . These , however , were the very foundations of the kind of music that this new reform movement was trying to bring into the synagogue . They succeeded in their efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their century . The first real effort to institute a four-part choir was made by Cantor Israel Lovy ( 1773-1832 ) , who was also known as Israel Glogow , or Reb Yisroel Fuerth , or Israel Strassburg ( according to the cities where he had served as cantor ) . He possessed a beautiful tenor voice as well as fine musical education , played several instruments , spoke many languages , and had received an excellent Jewish education . His was the spirit of a reformer ; in addition to the ordered four-part choir , he also attempted to introduce into the service the style of the classicists of his day . IIe attained a certain measure of success , although the actual accomplishment of sweeping musical changes in the synagogueservice must be attributed not to him , but to Salomon Sulzer . Jacobson 's experiment in Westphalia took root , but an attempt to open a Reform synagogue in Berlin in 1815 was frustrated by the government . Later , this idea was taken up by Jacob Herz Beer , again in Berlin . He organized a Reformservice at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who later became famous as the great opera composer , Meyerbeer . ( He had added his rich uncle 's name , " Meyer " to his own last name , " Beer . " ) The Reform ideas spread throughout Germany , and werep151everywhere met by strenuous opposition on the part of Orthodox communities . B. Salomon Sulzer and Louis LewandowskiAt the beginning of the nineteenth century the communityin Vienna decided to institute a Reform service , following the pattern of the temple in Hamburg , which had become a model for the Reform synagogues of Europe . In 1826 the Viennese community dedicated a new temple andresolvedto engage a hazzan who would be capable of bringing about the desired reforms . Salomon Sulzer ( 18o4-189o ) was brought to Vienna for this task . He was a pupil of Salomon Eichberg who , in turn , was a pupil of Israel Lovy . The Vienna synagogue did not eliminate the cantorial chant or the cantillation of the Torah , but it introduced a four-part choir of boys and men , the German sermon , and an orderly procedure in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vienna service . Thanks to his rich and beautiful light baritone voice , his understanding of the cantorial chant , his love of beauty and dignity in the service , and his artistic nature and good taste , his service became the envy of all communities , east and west . Instead of hazzan , Sulzer called himself " cantor , " a designationused by Johann Sebastian Bach for himself . A synagoguewhich employed a four-part rehearsed choir became known as a chor-shul . Sulzer gave dignity to his post and demanded respect for it . The community gladly gave him the respect his post deserved . As a matter of fact , he was not permitted to sing or speak outside of the synagogue . Sulzer , who was also a distinguished Lieder singer , had to decline , therefore , an invitation to sing at the royal court.  |p152As  a friend of Franz Schubert , Sulzer was one of the first to interpret his songs . In the course of their friendship , Schubert composed for Sulzer a choral musical setting of Tov L'hodot ( Psalm 92 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to the synagogue to hear Sulzer , including Franz Liszt , who said of the experience , " Only once were we given the opportunity to see what true Judaic art could be . We have seldom been moved as deeply as we were that evening ; so stirred that our soul was entirely immersed in meditation and participation in the service . " Salomon Sulzer is generally known as the father of modernhazzanut and synagogue music . His chief contribution to the cantorial chant and to synagogue music was form ? a thing that was lacking up to that time . Yet the process of modernization also brought the infusion of a German style , foreign to synagogue music , and eliminated certain characteristics of the synagogue chant , such as the melisma and traditional modulations . In his choral music Sulzer set the nusach , when he employed it , behind bar lines . To the traditional Jew his music sounded un-Jewish . Many of Sulzer 's works are in 3/4 time , which give further evidence of the tremendous influence exerted by Johann Strauss and the Vienna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when he had closer contact with East European hazzanim who came to study with him , he learned to value traditional hazzanut and incorporated it in his work , adapting it to his own style . Sulzer was venerated by the entire Jewish world . His opinion on musical matters was sought by all , and very many in the cantorial profession came to study with him . It was his lifelong aim to raise hazzanut to a high level of dignity and art . Louis Lewandowski ( 1821-1894 ) , another musical reformer , was born in Wreschen , in Posen , and lived and worked in Berlin . He did for the German synagogue whatp153Sulzer did for the Austrian . While he possessed great talent and a personality of his own , his work was strongly influenced by Sulzer . He was principally a choir director , but he also officiated as assistant cantor . The post of choir director was not yet definitely established at that time as a separate office . In 1864 he was invited to become choir director of the New Synagogue in Berlin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was here that he came into his full powers . It was here , too , that he composed and publishedhis two volumes of synagogue music , Kol Rinnah ( Sabbath services ) and Todah V'zimrah ( holiday services ) . Two men influenced Lewandowski 's music ? Sulzer and Mendelssohn , both of them his contemporaries . While he followed Sulzer 's patterns and principles , he further developed the musical forms evolved by Sulzer , and infused them with deeper expressiveness in interpreting the texts . In Lewandowski 's work , also , there are many German substitutes for the musical tradition of the synagogue , and too many bar lines where the cantorial recitative should be free . One of the chief defects in Lewandowski , as in Sulzer , was the application of a Western harmonic system to the musical tradition , which disguised the true spirit of the synagogue chant and melody . In a German tune such as Seu Shearinz ( Todah V'zinnrah , p. 214 ) , this system is very appropriate , and even emphasizes the German derivationof the tune ; but where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three Festivals Maariv recitative ( Todah V'zimrah , p. 8 ) , or the Tel Kaddish , his use of the Western system of harmonization distorts the character of the music . Despite these flaws , melodies by Sulzer and Lewandowski are extremely popular and are sung regularly in synagogues throughout the Western world . Lewandowski was also influenced by Strauss ' 3/4 rhythm.  |p154C  . Samuel Naumbourg and Hirsch WeintraubIn Paris at this time Samuel Naumbourg ( 1815-1880 ) was accomplishing reforms similar to those of Sulzer and Lewandowski in Vienna and Berlin . Paris was considered the musical capital of the world , and was most active in the field of opera . Those operatic influences are strongly and frequently evident in Naumbourg 's work . His compositions , collected in four volumes entitled Zemirot Yisrael ( 1847 ) , follow to a great extent the forms of Sulzer and Lewandowski , but he had a greater sense of that Jewishnesswhich was lacking in the works of his contemporaries . He made frequent use of traditional melodies , or melodies anciennes , as he called them , and his harmonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its harmonic atmosphere is his famous Ana Tova ( Zemirot Yisrael , Vol . II , p. 323 ) , which surpasses any synagogue composition written up to that time from the point of view of Jewish style and form . Naumbourg was one of the first composers to study Jewishmusicology , publishing in Paris , in 1874 , his Precedees D'une Etude Historique sur la Musique des Hebreux . In 1817 , in collaboration with Vincent D'Indy , he edited and published Salomone Rossi 's Shir Ha-shirim Asher Lishelomob , originally published in Venice in 1622 , thus making available to the musical world the oldest published choral music of the synagogue . On the recommendation of Jacques Fromental Halevy , the French-Jewish composer of the opera La Juive , he was appointed cantor of the synagogue on Rue de Temple , in Paris , in 1845 . Halevy 's famous operatic setting of Min Ha-metzar ( Psalm 118 ) is included in Naumbourg 's Zemirot Yisrael ( Vol . I , p. 74 ) , as are some compositions by one of his predecessors , Israel Lovy . Samuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Europe to show the way toward preserving the musical tradition of the synagogue within the framework of contemporary musical development . The musical reforms introduced by Sulzer , Lewandowski , and Naumbourg exerted a deep influence in all synagogueswhich employed a choir and cantor at the Sabbath services . Their effect was felt even in Eastern Europe ? in Russia , Poland , Hungary , and Rumania ? where Orthodox Judaism was firmly entrenched . The new music was acceptedonly in part in these countries , however , for it lacked the essential element of the synagogue spirit , its nusach ha-tefillah ( musical tradition ) , without which this spirit can not survive . Those who felt this deficiency took the first steps to remedy it . They strove to preserve the synagogue musical tradition where it was still retained and to bring about a return to it where it had been abandoned . The former path was followed by Hirsch Weintraub ( 1811-188z ) , a cultivated musician with a beautiful voice and great interpretivetalents . Two factors combined to produce the Jewish style of many of Weintraub @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of the greatest cantors of the time , and was therefore profoundly steeped in the musical tradition of the synagogue . From earliest childhood he had heard his father sing , and the impression remained with him throughout his life . Furthermore , he served as cantor in Konigsberg , Germany , a city in close proximity to the highly traditional centers of Eastern Europe . Weintraub was not entirely free of the **27;4498;TOOLONG , and , many of his compositions were in poor taste . In his arrangements of his father 's works , however , or in his own work in a Jewish vein , he began to evolve a Jewish melodic line and specifically Jewish harmonies . His Barchu for the Sabbath morning , or his Ve/nislach , for Yom Kippur eve , found in his three volumes entitled Shire Bet Adonay , illustrate these aspects of his work . D. The Way Back to the Nusach Ha-te fillahThe way back to the musical tradition of the synagogue within the framework of existing musical conceptions of form and interpretation was found by the cantors and choirmasters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cantor Eliezer Gerovitch ( 1844-1913 ) , who lived and worked in Rostov-on-Don . Most of his works adhere to tradition , with simple but suitable harmonic background . Meanwhile , the art of hazzanut was making progress in Eastern Europe , which produced at that period a large numberof distinguished hazzanim . These included Yeruchom Blindman , called Yeruchom Ha-koton ( 1798-1891 ) , Nison Spivak , called Nisi Belzer ( 1824-1906 ) , Nison Blumenthal of Odessa ( 1805-1902 ) , Boruch Schorr ( 1923-1904 ) , Pinchos Minkowsky ( 1859-1924 ) , and Jacob Bachman(1846-1905)-It was David Nowakowsky ( 1848-1921 ) who integrated all the previous efforts to further the progress of synagogue music . Nowakowsky was born in Malin , in the province of Kiev , Russia . He received his early musical training as a choir-boy in Berditchev , but acquired most of his musical knowledge through his own efforts . In his twenty-first year he became choir director and assistant cantor in the Broder Shul in Odessa , where Nison Blumenthal was chief cantor . It was not until Pinchos Minkowsky became chief cantor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talents as composer and conductor . Only two of Nowakowsky 's works exist in printed form , published by himself ; they are Shire David ( Sabbath eve music ) and Neilah ( concluding service for the Day ofp157Atonement ) . Many of his works remain in manuscript , and are in the possession of his son . In Nowakowsky 's music we find a deep sense of nusach ha-te fillah and a conscious striving toward a Jewish harmonicidiom . His Adon Olaan in F ( Shire David , p. 8o ) , and Tov L'hodot in F ( ibid. , p. 30 ) , show a fine sense of form , integration , and development of thematic material . An excellent example of the evolution of the melody in the nusach into a fugal theme , with development in Jewish style , can be found in his V'sho7nru in C minor ( ibid. , p. 57 ) . His oratorio , Haazinu , the farewell song of Moses , is still in manuscript , but on its merits David Nowakowsky may be ranked as the greatest of the nineteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his musical performances on the Sabbath became known throughout Russia . Many gentiles could often be seen at the Sabbath services in Odessa 's Broder Shul . Nowakowsky died in poverty , without the recognition his talents deserved , but he lives on in the hearts of all honest and sincere synagogue musicians . IX . Synagogue Music in the United StatesIn 1756 , the Jewish community of Charleston , South Carolina , engaged Isaac Da Costa as its first reader and cantor . He was later followed by Jacob De La Motta , Abraham Alexander , Emanuel Nunes Carvalho , and Abraham Azuby , who was cantor of Temple Beth Elohim in Charlestonfrom 1785 to 1805 . It is not , however , until the early nineteenth century that we begin to hear of serious musical activity in the synagogue . In 1818 , a chorus was organized by the Shearithp158Israel congregation , the oldest in this country , for the dedicationof its Mill Street Synagogue in New York . Synagoguechoirs were gradually introduced in such synagoguesas Anshe Chesed and Emanu-El , both in New York . The developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well . In 1842 Leo Merzbacher , the cantor of Temple Emanu-El , introduced a choir to lead congregational responses . Accordingto procedure , the cantor gave the key for congregationalsinging . The works of Sulzer , Lewandowski , and Naumbourg were in great demand in American synagogues . When Leon Sternberger became cantor of Temple Anshe Chesed in 1849 , he sent for the music of Sulzer and Lewandowski , requesting that it be delivered to America post-haste . While organized choir singing encounteredmuch opposition in this country , as it did in Europe , special choral groups of men and women were permitted to perform at dedications and other **25;4527;TOOLONG . On such occasions they usually sang appropriatePsalms in Hebrew . In 1853 , at a concert given at Temple Emanu-El to raise funds for a new organ , EdwardWeber prepared a program of religious music , which was performed by chorus and orchestra . Such cantors as Leo Merzbacher and G. M. Cohen of Emanu-El , Jonas Hecht , Leon Sternberger and Ansel Leo of Anshe Chesed , and Ignatius Ritterman and Judah Kramer , of B'nai Jeshurun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music in our country , and were therefore the logical forerunners of the Jewish musical movement that was to come at the turn of the century . The published music of that early period shows that the Sulzer-Lewandowski Reform movement exerted a great deal of influence on this side of the Atlantic . The Americancantors of those days , whose music was sung in the synagogues and who led the way in synagogue music , were not of the highest musical caliber.  |p159The  Jewish women 's section of the " Parliament of Religion , " held in Chicago in 1893 in connection with the Columbian Exposition , issued a volume of Jewish music entitled Principal Melodies of the Synagogue from Ancient Time to the Present . This volume was edited by two of the outstanding cantors of that time , Alois Kaiser of Temple Ohev Sholom in Baltimore , and William Sparger of TempleEmanu-El in New York . It contained an attempt at a historical account of the development of Jewish music . In the music itself we find traditional modes and melodies for the Sabbath and holidays , hymns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American and European . This volume , quite elaborately issued , bore the stamp of the Germanic influence of Sulzer and Lewandowski , with elimination of certain Jewish characteristics from melodies harmonized in the Western tonic-dominant manner . Nevertheless , it also showed the desire of the editors ( which must have been shared by many others ) to preserve the musical traditions of our people . At first , synagogue choirs consisted only of volunteers . The sole reward offered was free synagogue membership for the men , and a suit of clothes for the boys . Later , in 1848 , A. Hirshman , the choir leader at Temple Emanu-El , was paid seventy-five dollars for the year 's services , while the choir singers received twenty-five dollars each for the same period . Married singers were given free tickets to the High Holiday services for their wives . The Reform congregations in this country were founded in the nineteenth century by German and Bohemian Jews ; the Polish and Russian Jews adhered to the Orthodox tradition . In the Orthodox synagogues they even retained the medieval musical trio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1808-1887 ) became cantor of Temple Rodeph Sholom in Philadelphia in 1848 . Alois Kaiser ( 1840-1908 ) became cantor of Temple Ohev Sholom inp1601866 . Samuel Welsh ( 1835-1901 ) became cantor of CongregationAhavas Chesed in New York in 1865 , but returned to Prague in 1880 . Moritz Goldstein ( 1840-1906 ) became cantor of Temple B'nai Israel in Cincinnati in 1881 . After a series of brutal pogroms in Russia , starting in 1881 , large numbers of East European Jews began to emigrate to America . With them , East European hazzanut , which had risen to great heights by this time , found its way into the new world . In 1891 , the great cantor and composer , Boruch Schorr of Lemberg , became involved in a conflict with his congregation . He had composed the music for a play , Samson and Delilah , which was presented in the newly emerging Yiddish theater . After the performance the composer came out to take a bow upon the stage . This angered the leaders of his congregation , and he was suspended from his duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the punishmentand left for America , where he accepted a post in the Attorney Street synagogue , Mogen Avrohom , on the Lower East Side of New York . After five years he returned to Lemberg and his old post at the request of his former congregation . Another great cantor , Pinchos Minkowsky , of the Broder Shul in Odessa , came to New York in 1897 after he had also run into difficulties with his congregation . He accepted a post with the congregation Adath Jeshurun , on Eldridge Street , in New York 's Lower East Side . A year after the returned to Odessa . He came to New York again after the First World War , but died soon afterwards , in 1924 , in Boston . Israel Cooper , cantor of the great Wilno Synagogue , also came to the United States in 1900 , as a result of a dispute with his congregation . He had been censured for attending too many rehearsals and performances at the new Yiddish theater , thus neglecting his official duties . Hep161became cantor of the large Kalvarier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was the father of the boys who later formed the Empire City Quartet , a toprankingvaudeville team in the first quarter of the present century . Abraham Frachtenberg ( 1861-1927 ) came to this countryin 1901 from Przemysl , Galicia . He was a pupil of the venerable Yeruchom Fla-koton , and was at one time the choir director of Nisi Belzer 's choir , which was a considerablehonor . He had a bass-baritone voice of light texture , but his great distinction lay in his talents as an improviser , composer , and choir conductor . He was a typical example of the nineteenth century cantor of the chor-shul . Frachtenberg , like so many of his predecessors , knew very little about harmony , counterpoint , or form in composition . Sheer native talent enabled him to write a fine chorale and fugue . His compositions , rooted in the nusach ha-te fillah , were rich in melody and became very popular with congregations here and abroad . Another gifted cantor of similar background was Zeidel Rovner ( Jacob Samuel Margovsky , 1856-1946 ) , who came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of others , dependingsolely on their own compositions . Most cantors did not conduct their choirs , but had special choir leaders for this task . The most distinguished of these musicians in the early part of the present century were Herman Wohl , Jacob Margulies , and Meyer Machtenberg . In 1919 Cantor Jacob Beimel ( d. i 944 ) and this writer ( as musical director ) were engaged by the new Jewish Center on West 86th Street , New York , to work for a revival of congregational singing . That movement was initiatedunder the special sponsorship of Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan , who was then the rabbi of that congregation . While congregational singing has since flourished and spread throughout the country , in many ways , however ,  |p162it  has proved detrimental to the cause of choral singing in the synagogue . Gustavus Poznanski , appointed temporary cantor of Temple Beth Elohim in Charleston in 1836 and elected to that post in 1838 , introduced the organ into religious servicein his synagogue ? the first in this country to accept this reform . He also suggested discontinuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Penina Moise ( 1797-188o ) , the well-known Jewish poetess who lived in Charleston , wrote many religious hymns for that synagogue . Her hymns were sung in English . German hymn singing was also common among early American Reform congregations . In 1848 the Har Sinai Reform Congregation was organizedin Baltimore , Maryland . Three years earlier , in 1845 , Temple Emanu-El was founded in New York . The only reform , however , that was instituted by Temple Emanu-El in 1845 was the introduction of the boys ' and men 's choir . In 1849 , as we find in the minutes of this congregation , the cantor was required to chant in the ancient traditional style . At first the traditional prayer-book was still used , with certain variations and omissions , and the music of Sulzer , Lewandowski , and Naumbourg was adapted to these changes . The appearance in 1894 of the first Union Prayer Book , with its many new prayers in English , and numerous abbreviations in the old Hebrew prayers , placed the Reformsynagogue in a dilemma , since the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By this time , toward the end of the nineteenth century , gentile singers and gentile organists were providing the music at the Reform temple services . It was to these organiststhat the congregations turned for new music for the revised liturgy . Cantors Welsh in New York , Goldstein in Cincinnati , and Kaiser in Baltimore also composed some new settings.  |p163In  the hymnals edited by Otto Loeb in 1876 , Simon Hecht in 1878 , and Isaac S. Moses in 1894 , and in the Union Hymnal ( first edition , 1897 ; second edition , 1914 ) , we find almost all of the hymn tunes ? whether set to Jewishor non-Jewish texts ? taken from Protestant hymnals or composed by non-Jews . Even those melodies that were written by Jews at the time were non-Jewish in character . It was not until the third edition of the Union Hymnal , ( edited by the author of this article ) appeared in 1932 that much of the non-Jewish material was eliminated and replaced by hymns translated from the piyutim and set to music of such Jewish composers as Achron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heller . That Hymnal also included melodies from the liturgical works of Nowakowsky , Gerovitch , and others who worked within the Jewish musical tradition . Sigmund Schlesinger ( 1835-1906 ) , who became organist and choir-leader of Congregation Shaarei Shomayim in Mobile , Alabama , composed a complete musical liturgy for the first edition of the Union Prayer Book . His music , however , was almost totally devoid of any traditional elements , and more than any other , was responsible for the breakdown of the Jewish musical tradition in the Reform synagogue in this country . Edward Stark ( 1863-1918 ) , cantor of Temple Emanuel in San Francisco , was aware of the problem , and being the son of a cantor , proceeded to compose a musical liturgy for the Union Prayer Book which brought back some traditionalelements into the service of the Reform synagogue . His was the first attempt in this direction . Not long afterward , in the nineteen-twenties , there appeared several other complete musical services by composers with a progressive outlook . Today such composers as Schalit , Fromm , Adler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are following in the footsteps of their nineteenth century predecessors . In the early nineteen-twenties increasing numbers ofp164Jews began to agitate for the performance of the great synagogal musical literature in our American synagogues , and for the employment of Jewish choir personnel . This was practically unknown at the time in Reform synagogues . Soon many of the congregations in this country began to engage capable Jewish musicians to direct their musical services . This important step raised the musical standard of the synagogues and led to an improvement in the performances . Today many synagogues can be justly proud of employing Jewish musical directors who are excellentcomposers , first-rate musicians , and experienced choir conductors . In the twenties many synagogues had begun to restore to their services the Jewish nusach ha-te fillah and Jewish melody . They sought a solution to the problem of Jewish harmony which had long engaged the attention of East European composers and to which the St. Petersburg Societyfor Jewish Folk Music was beginning to find an answer . Such composers as Ernest Bloch , Heinrich Schalit , Isadore Freed , Jacob Weinberg , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others have since written serviceswhich have contributed much toward the development of a Jewish musical idiom , enriching the religious life of the American Jew . Some synagogue composers have also written complete services in oratorio form . The most significantand most successful attempt in this field was made by Ernest Bloch in his Avodath Ha-kodesh . Bloch 's harmonictreatment of his Jewish material has influenced many Jewish composers throughout the world . There is a healthy tendency among the contemporary composers of synagogue music to liberate the synagogue chant from the bar lines which have imprisoned it since the early nineteenth century . This has allowed the chant to regain some of its original character . Joseph Yasser 's theory that ancient Jewish music was pentatonic , and should therefore be harmonized with chordsp165of the pentatonic scale , has also been of tremendous help in solving the harmonic problem . Many composers of synagoguemusic have turned to modal harmonizations and to harmonizations with fourths and fifths . Unfortunately , some of the present-day composers of synagogue music have only a slight acquaintance with our musical tradition . This is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product of centuries of Jewish musical experience . It should be held sacred and guarded jealously . It is our musical treasure , containing the essence of our originality as a musical people . On the whole , the present state of synagogue music in our country is encouraging indeed . There is extensive evidence of a genuine desire to improve our musical service . Special services of music by individual composers are frequentlyheld , and the annual Jewish Music Festival Month devotes a special Sabbath to synagogue music . X. Modern Trends in Jewish Music in the United StatesThree important factors contributed to the development of modern Jewish music here and abroad . The first was the Zionist movement , which began in 1881-1882 with the arrival of the first Bilu settlers in Palestine . This new phenomenonin Jewish life set off a tremendous wave of poetry and song . Some of the songs of that period are still rememberedand sung today . The second factor was the organization of the Yiddish theater by Abraham Goldfaden in 1876 . People would come out of the theater after the performances singing such songs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others which have since become folk songs . Goldfaden was succeeded in the Yiddish theater by such composers as Friedsell , Brody , Wohl , and Sandler . Such songs as Dos Talisl , Dos Pintele Yid , Eili Eili and others were first sungp166on the stage , and were later adopted by the Jewish people as part of their folk heritage . The third and most important factor leading to the renaissance of Jewish music was the formation of the Societyfor Jewish Folk Music in St. Petersburg in 1908 . The organization of the Society was preceded by intensive activityon the part of musicians and folklorists in collecting Yiddish folk songs . To the material that was already gathered and known they added the results of their own research . Out of this total mass of musical source material they began to shape longer compositions , often of high artistic merit , for piano , violin , voice , and chamber-music combinations . A Jewish musical style was thus beginning to be evolved , pointing the direction for Jewish music for decades to come . Joseph Achron 's popular violin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the products of this period . Scores of concerts of Jewish music were given throughoutRussia in those days . In 1912 Simeon Bellison , one of the outstanding clarinetists of our time , organized the Moscow Quintet for National Jewish Music , which toured the country , giving many concerts of Jewish music . Years later , in 1921 , Bellison came to the United States with his Zimroh ensemble . This fine musical group appeared in New York and in numerous other cities throughout this country in concerts of Jewish music devoted solely to compositionsby members of the St. Petersburg Society for Jewish Folk Music . Although the general public remained cool toward this new Jewish music , it gave warm inspirationto the younger Jewish composers , who at that time were a mere handful in this country . It opened for them a new world and new vistas into the future . The Zimroh concerts were important stimuli toward the development of serious Jewish music in America . Jewish choral groups of mixed voices began to spring up in Russia at the end of the nineteenth century . Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sing together . Joseph Rumshinsky organized the first mixed choral society in Lodz in 1897 , under the name of Hazornir . The chorus consisted of fifty voices . Its first concert , given at the State Theater , was a tremendoussuccess , winning over all previous opponents and refutingtheir objections . Warsaw followed the example of Lodz and organized its own Hazon'ir under the direction of Leo Low . Before long the new immigrant population in America took up the idea and also began to organize choral groups . During the first ten years of the present century a stocky man of medium height , with long hair , a flowing Windsor tie , and wearing a Prince Albert and a high hat , could be seen strolling up and down the streets of New York 's East Side . His name was Platon Brounoff . He must be mentionedas one of the earliest pioneers in the field of Jewish music in New York City . He lectured on Jewish folk music at a time when such lectures were as yet unheard of , and was one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1911 he organized the Poale Zion SingingSociety , which he conducted for two years , and in 1911 he published a first collection here of Jewish folk songs with piano accompaniment . While Brounoff was not a musician of the highest caliber , his part in paving the way for Jewish music in this country can not be overlooked . He was succeeded as conductor of the Poale Zion Singing Society by Henry Lefkowitch , later a publisher of Jewishmusic . In 1916 this writer organized the Hadassah Choral Union under the auspices of the Hadassah . It was the first chorus in this country to specialize in the singing of Palestinian folk songs . Lazar Weiner , who founded the Freiheit SingingSociety in 1923 , has also helped to educate the broad masses to an appreciation of Jewish music . Such groups as the Yiddish Culture Chorus , conducted by Vladimir Heifetz , the Farband-Labor Zionist Orderp168Chorus , conducted by Leo Low , and the choruses of the Jewish Music Alliance , until recently conducted by Max Helfman and Leo Kopf , have furthered the cause of Jewishmusic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in communities throughout the land . In 1950 the Congress for Jewish Culture , through its music division , organized a competition for the best musicalsetting for mixed chorus of J. L. Peretz 's poem , Treist Mein Folk . The competition was won by Cantor Leo Rosenbluth of Sweden . The new work was performed at a music festival arranged by the organization at Hunter Collegein New York , on March 26 , 1950 . The following Yiddishchoruses participated : The Workmen 's Circle Chorusesof Philadelphia , Trenton and Newark , under the direction of Samuel Bugatch ; the Workmen 's Circle Chorus of New York , directed by Lazar Weiner ; the FarbandLaborZionist Order Chorus of New York , and the Hazornir of Waterbury , under the direction of Leo Low ; the Yiddish Culture Chorus of New York and the Workmen'sCircle Chorus of Patterson , under Vladimir Heifetz . Each unit performed by itself , and at the end of the programall combined in a joint performance ( 500 voices ) of Rosenbluth 's prize-winning work , under the direction of Lazar Weiner . In 1940 Jacob Weinberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish Art , in which he presented many works of great interest and value . In 1910 , the Bureau of Jewish Education was organized under the direction of Dr. Samson Benderly . One of the Bureau 's goals was the furthering of a revival of Jewish music . The inclusion in the Hebrew school curriculum of Hebrew and Yiddish folk songs as well as liturgical responses , brought to our Jewish youth the knowledge that we possess a musical heritage of our own . The many thousandsof youngsters who came under the influence of SamuelGoldfarb , the Bureau 's music director , later becamep169either members of Jewish choruses throughout the land or constituted audiences which patronized Jewish concerts . Another important event in the development of Jewish music in this country was the arrival here of Ernest Bloch in 1916 . Bloch won the interest of Artur Bodanzky , the German-Jewish conductor at the Metropolitan Opera in New York , who presented a concert of Bloch 's Jewish orchestral compositions at Carnegie Hall in 1917 . The programincluded his Three Psalms for baritone and orchestra , the Three Jewish Poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It showed the world that the Jews can produce a composer of the first rank , demonstrated to the younger generation of Jewish composers what the music of a Jewish composer could be like , and above all , it convinced many people that Jewish music of high quality could take its place in the concert hall on an equal footing with the music of other nations . The arrival in this country of Joseph Achron 0886-1943 ) , and his presence in New York for about ten years , was another great source of inspiration to Jewish composers . Joseph Yasser , noted musicologist , whose theories of Jewish music have helped many of the Jewish composers , has also exerted great influence . Solomon Rosowsky'sactivity in America from 1931 to 1933 advanced the cause of Jewish music to a considerable degree . With the cooperation of Mrs. Miriam Zunser and a group of Jewish musicians he organized Mailamt which did much for the cause of Jewish music in America while it was in existence . It was succeeded by the Jewish Music Forum , organized by this writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 . Soon similar musical organizations began to spring up in Detroit , Chicago , Cleveland , and other cities . Jewish music had finally come of age . Firmly rooted , it was ready for further growth . The next step was the first Jewish Musicp170Festival , organized in 1944 by Dr. Bernard Carp , and held in May 1945 under the auspices of the National Jewish Welfare Board . The Festival has functioned successfully since then , and has continued to broaden its scope over the years . When the time was felt to be ripe for the establishment of a school of Jewish music , it was undertaken by the Hebrew Union College and the Jewish Institute of Religion . The school was launched in October , 1948 . XI . Badchonim , Purim Players , Klezmer , and the Music of the Yiddish Theater . The badchon is primarily a product of Jewish sufferingand the Jewish sense of humor . At different times Jewishentertainers were variously termed badchonim ( merrymakers ) , letzim ( jesters or comedians ) , and marshalks or marshaliks ( entertainers ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Common Era . Their method was at all times improvisation . This required talent and learning , for their extemporaneousverses were intermingled with quotations from the Bible and the Talmud . In the Middle Ages they formed small itinerant groups , patterning themselves after the troubadours . Their services were in especial demand at weddings . Frequently badchonim had other sources of income , such as match-making . In a notebook belonging to the badchon Israel Kessler , who lived in Radziechow , Kowel and Tarnopol ( in Galicia ) , we find entries , dated 1889 , which deal with possible matches , dowries , kest ( maintenance of bride and groom ) , and similar matters . On Purim , songs , merrymaking and general rejoicing were often accompanied by folk plays called purimspiel . These comedies were primarily based on the Book ofp171Esther , and were performed on the day of Purim in the homes of the various householders of the community . Operatic influence is discernible in the use of choral numbers as entr'actes and epilogues in Dos Purim Lid Fun Yosef Ben Binyomin , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contains two interludes which were sung by the chorus of Solomon 's attendants . Shoshanat Yaakov , the Purim liturgical hymn , was usually sung at the conclusion of all Purim plays . During the seventeenthand eighteenth centuries it was frequently arranged for solo and chorus , in the operatic style of the time . Acta Esther ( Prague , 1720 ) , which , we are told , was read and approved by the famous Rabbi David Oppenheim and performed by his students , contains two songs in aria form and calls for the accompaniment of a variety of musicalinstruments . In Hokrnat Shlomo we find a " Death March " for David , and trumpets for the crowning of Solomon . In the eighteenth century Jacob Dessauer , of Amsterdam , used music by various composers for his Purim play , Mordecai and Esther : the Greatest of Jews . Many popular melodies of the day must have been included in the performances . The musical accompaniment for the plays was provided by the klezrner or klezmorim ( instrumentalists ) , although in some cases , as in Bukowina , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays later evolved into the Yiddish theater . The badchonim not only entertained at weddings , but also served as the voice of the people , comforting those who suffered in times of trouble , administering verbal chastisementwhen Israel went astray , and rejoicing on happy occasions ; they were folk singers in the truest sense of the word . While most of their songs were improvised and soon forgotten , some of the badchonim published their verse . Among these we may mention Hershel Weinshenk-Tausigp172of Prague , who wrote a necrology on the hazzan Lippman Popper in 1655 ; Moses Steindal , who translated the Psalms into Yiddish verse in 1586 ; hazzan Jacob Koppel , who wrote an elegy in 1670 on the expulsion of the Jews from Vienna ; Leib Walich , who composed a hymn in honor of King Charles ( Prague , 1704 ) ; Wolf of Cracow , who wrote a song , The Conduct of Life ( Prague , 1692 ) ; and Noah Abraham Altshul , who published wedding songs , as well as Purim and Hanukkah songs ( Prague , 1676 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteenth century , but in Eastern Europe they survived far into the twentieth century . There were several outstanding badchonim in the nineteenth century . One of these was Berl Broder , who toured southwestern Russia with a troupe of badchonim . They became very popular , and were known as the " Broder Singers . " Their theatrical performances , which antedated those of Abraham Goldfaden 's theater , were given on a stage which was set merely with a table and two candles . Their acting and singing were unusually successful . Berl Broder published a collection of thirty songs in Yiddish ( Lemberg , 1876 ) . Another outstanding badchon , Wolf Ehrenkranz , known as Velvel Zbarazher , was born in 1826 ( ? ) and died in 1883 . Driven from his native town by irate compatriots who refused to tolerate his scoffing verses , he made his way to Rumania . At first he sang in inns and taverns . When his audiences and popularity grew , he was invited to entertainat rich homes and weddings . Velvel Zbarazher freed the Yiddish poem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both Yiddish and Hebrew . His satire was especially bitter against the hasidic movement . Eliakum Zunser ( 1840-1913 ) was born in Wilno . An unhappy fatherless childhood had not stifled his poetic gifts . His songs , for which he also composed the music , spread throughout Eastern Europe and enjoyed great popularity . He rapidly became one of the most famousp173badchonim , and was in great demand at wedding celebrationsin rich homes . His songs , Shivas Zion and Die Soche , which he also translated into Hebrew , became the forerunners of the modern Israeli song . Zunser was a badchon who was able to write down the music of his songs . In 1889 he sailed for America , where he was welcomedwith reverence and regarded as a great Jewish folk poet . Klezmorim played an integral part in Jewish community life . In some Oriental communities , musicians accompanied the singing of special hymns during the intermediate days of Pesach and Sukkot . Later , in East European communities , town musicians accompanied the cantor and choir at the special concerts held during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played at the Kabbalat Shabbat ( Welcoming of the Sabbath ) in the synagogues in Prague and in Holland in the eighteenth century . In 1629 , Jewish refugees from music-loving Mantua organized an orchestra in Venice , calling it Be-zochrenu Et Zion ( When We Remember Zion ) . It was directed by Rabbi Leon of Modena ( 1571-1648 ) . This group occasionallyexchanged courtesies and compositions with nonJewishmusical groups . During the Middle Ages music-making became an acceptedprofession among Jews , and every city and town had its own musicians . Frequently , Jewish musicians were preferred at gentile celebrations because of their sobriety and art . This eventually led various governments to imposenumerous taxes and restrictions upon the Jewish musicians . A typical Jewish band consisted of a violin , clarinet , bass , flute , trumpet , trombone , and both snare and bass drums . No Jewish wedding was complete without music . The musicianshad a saying that a wedding without a band was like a funeral without tears.  |p174Another  instrument often used in Jewish bands was the hackbrett , or dulcimer . Michael Joseph Gusikow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He toured Europeand even won the praise of Felix Mendelssolm . Other noted klezmer were Podhotzer and his band , which included Yisroel Moshe Rabinovitch , fiddler ( 1807-1900 ) , and Wolf Tcherniaysky ( 1841-1930 ) , son-in-law of Yossel Drucker , who was nicknamed " Stempenyu . " Most of the klezmer could barely read music . Their playing was much like the improvised performance of the synagogue combination of singer , bass and cantor . However , what they lacked in musical knowledge , they made up in talent , for some of them were true virtuosi on their instruments . At weddings , the clarinet was the principal instrument in the dance music , and the violin was used during bedekens , when the badchon entertained the bride just before the marriage ceremony . The violinist accompanied the badchon with improvised sentimental melodies and musical interludes . Abraham Goldfaden , generally known as the father of the modern Jewish theater , was born in Starokonstantin , Volhynia , in 1840 . In his work he consistently strove to lift the people 's taste . His first plays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are Shmendrik and Breindele Kosak . Later , when he had established his regulartheater , he wrote and presented a witty and beautiful full-length comedy , The Two Kuni Lemels , a satire on hasidic life and conduct , and a plea for the haskalah ( Enlightenment ) . It was his ambition to write operas on themes from Jewish history and legend in the style of Richard Wagner , who held musical sway throughout Europe at that time . His first attempts in this direction were the musical plays Shulamith , Bar Kochba and Akedas Yitzhok , for which he wrote both the librettos , usually in verse , and the mu/sic . However , although the music was sometimes original , most often was taken from oratorio , opera , and synagogue compositions . Yet many of Abraham Goldfaden 's songs as original compositions soon gained such wide popularitythat they virtually became folk songs . Goldfaden settled in New York in 1903 . Here he produced an operetta , Ben Ami . He died in 1908 . The Yiddish theater continued to flourish with such composers as Herman Wohl , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their music was , for the most part , in the folk manner , and was reminiscent of synagogue modes and melodies . Wohl and Brody were choir leaders in synagogues as well . The modern Yiddish theater on Second Avenue in New York has produced a quartet of very able composers ? Joseph Rumshinsky , Sholom Secunda , Abraham Ellstein , Alexander Olshanetzky . Their style has been completely different from that of the Perlmutter and Wohl days . While some of their music has folk characteristics , most of it is a Jewish imitation of Broadway jazz . Rumshinsky and Secunda have produced some of their best work in incidental music to serious Yiddish plays presentedby Maurice Schwartz in his Yiddish Art Theater . For his production of Sholom Asch 's Kiddush Ha-Sheen and Di Tsen Gebot , Maurice Schwartz invited Joseph Achron to compose the incidental music . X11 . The Development of the Jewish Folk Song A. The Beginnings of Jewish Folk PoetryIf the theory that such Psalm titles as Al Shoshanim , Al Neginot , and Al Yonathelem Rohokim were the names of popular songs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secular folk songs existed at that time.  |p176Ben  Sira praises song at a wine banquet , but warns the people against association with female singers . The sages maintained ( Shir Ha-shirim Rabbah ) that songs of wine and lust cause destruction in the world , while Israel 's sacred songs save the world . The Song of Songs is also assumed by many scholars to have been a series of popular songs incorporated in the Bible only after a religious interpretationwas given to them . Every people creates its own folk songs on its own soil . The Jews in Biblical times were no exception in this respect . They later took these songs with them into exile , just as they took their religion . Time and a succession of troubles all but obliterated them . The oldest themes that have come down to us are found in the songs about Elijah , the Sabbath , and the holidays , in the group of songs called zemirot . There were also a great many songs for such occasions as weddings and circumcisions . Robert Lachmann ( Jewish Cantillation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) points out that on the Isle of Djerba , which contains one of the oldest isolated Jewishcommunities in the world , the women 's songs are always sung in Arabic . The texts give us a lively insight into the people 's thought and feeling . We find here expressions of the desire to go to Jerusalem and longings for the coming of the Messiah . There is a song in praise of Moses and of Pharoah 's daughter who found him on the river bank ; there is a description of the Feast of Weeks which does not neglect the secular delights , especially those of eating and drinking ; and finally , there is the favorite theme of the bridal period and the wedding . Similar themes are found in the secular songs for men . After the expulsion from Spain in 1492 , Spanish Jews migrated eastward , taking with them the Castilian cancionesand romances of that period . Even today we find Jews in the Balkans and in North Africa who sing suchp177Ladino songs . In Greek , Turkish , and Arab surroundings these songs combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While there are both religious and secular songs , the former predominate . The melodies are Oriental in color , and vary somewhat according to locale . B. The Yiddish Folk SongMeanwhile , the Western European Jews of Germany and France created folk songs of their own , mostly religiousin character , with melodies often borrowed from their region . The oldest collection of Yiddish songs was made by Eisik Walich of Worms in 1595-1605 . In 1727 , in Fuerth , Elchanan Kirchan published the first collection of Yiddishsongs with music under the title Simchat Ha-ne f esh . The songs deal exclusively with religious themes , in particularwith the Sabbath and Jewish holidays , and contain minute instructions as to their observance . This collection was republished in New York in 1926 with an introduction by Jacob Shatzky . The characteristic Yiddish folk song originated in EasternEurope , where the language of the Jews became predominantlyYiddish . Hence we occasionally encounter in it an admixture of Russian , Ukrainian , and other Slavic words . The topics of these songs run the gamut of human life and emotions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes foreign , and sometimes of Jewish origin . The texts , for the most part , deal with Jewish life , but occasionallythey are of foreign derivation , as Der Rebbe Elimelech , which is a Yiddish version of " Old King Cole . " The singing of folk songs was always frowned upon by the learned Jews . Their greatest concession in this directionwas to sing a Hebrew folk song with Jewish contentp178on Siinchat Torah . The secular Yiddish folk songs were therefore confined mostly to the artisan classes , who sang them at their work . Yiddish folk songs include numerous cradle songs , in which the mother prays not only for the child 's health and happiness , but also that his heart be inclined toward the Torah . The melody of Unter Dem Kinds Vigele , for instance , is in the Ahavah Rabbah liturgical mode . Jewish children were initiated into Jewish learning at the early age of three or four . The parents took pride in introducing the child to Jewish lore , and sang the song , Gei Mein Kind In Heder . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a poem in Aramaic read on Shavuot , the Festival of the Giving of the Law , at which such introductions took place . This is a genuine Jewish folk song ; both its text and melody are Jewish . Although they spent most of their day studying in the heder , the Jewish ghetto children liked to play , like any other children . The great Jewish poet Bialik describes these Jewish boys with much tenderness in his beautiful poem , Unter Di Grininke Boimelech . The poem was set to music by Platon Brounoff and has become a folk song . It is in the Ahavah Rabbah mode , with a modulation to the major key on the fourth ? a modulation frequently found in synagogue music . A picture of little Jewish children being taught the alphabetby the melamed ( teacher ) is found in the song Oifn Pripitchok by Mark Warshawsky ( 1845-1907 ) . The melodyis based on the cantillation of the Prophets in the Ashkenazic tradition . When the boy became nine or ten , and sometimes even earlier , he was initiated into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sent to the yeshivah in a larger city , he lived by " eating days " with various householders of the community . This was often depressing and humiliating . Mai Ko Mashma Lon , by Abraham Reisen , describes the lot ofp179the yeshivah bachur . Its tune is derived from the melody used in studying the Talmud . Were it not for the Jew 's sense of humor , it is doubtful whether he could have weathered the storms of the exile . He laughed and often mocked at himself , his lot , and even his troubles . Yiddish love songs are rare , for it was deemed improper for the Jewish maiden to express herself on the subject . Yet she wanted to get married as urgently as her parents wanted to see her married . In Yome Yome the maiden finally admits to her mother her wish to have a suitor . The melody is in the Magen Avot mode . The rhythm in the latter part of the melody suggests a Russian folk song . A wedding was a great event in Jewish life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of no small importancewere the musicians , whose task it was to add cheer to the occasion and give pleasure to the bride , the bridegroom , and the guests . In the song Hatskele , a poor aunt asks the musicians to play her a kazatskele ( a wedding dance of Russian origin ) , even though she is poor and cannotpay for it . The first part of the melody is of Jewish origin , the latter part is Russian and in keeping with the character of the dance . Wedding songs contributed a joyous element to the Jewish folk song . In Di Mezinke Oisgegebn , the parents who have married off their last child dance and sing to celebrate the long awaited event . The melody is Slavic in character . Curiously enough , we find relatively little folk music in Yiddish dealing with the Sabbath . The reason for this is that folk songs came under the classification of Shire Hol , everyday songs , while on the Sabbath only the Shire Kodesh , or sacred songs , were sung in Hebrew . Whatever folk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eve or after Havdalah , when the Sabbath was actuallyover . The only exception was the chant , Got Funp180Avrohom ( God of Abraham ) , which the women recited or sang in Yiddish just before the Havdalah . The song Shreitzhe Yidn Shabbes is a marvelous expression of the Jew 's faith in the Sabbath ; and Melaveh Malkah ( Seeing Off the Sabbath Queen ) , attributed to the hasidic Rabbi Levi Yitzhok of Berditchev , is a picture of the Jew as he returns to his weekday routine . A Chazendl Oif Shabbes is a satire on the Jew who ran from one synagogueto another on the Sabbath to hear various cantors . The melodies of Got Fun Avrohom and Shreitzhe Yidn Shabbes are in the Ahavab Rabbah mode . A Chazendl Oi f Shabbes is in the Adonay Malach mode . Both of these modes are frequently used in the Sabbath liturgy in the synagogue , and have influenced the folk song . These songs are excellent examples of genuine Jewish folk melodies . Very few modern Hebrew poems about the Sabbath have been set to music , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bialik ? Shabbat Ha-malkah ( The Queen Sabbath ) , and Yesh Li Gan ( I Have a Garden ) , which have become popular folk songs . Shabbat Hamnalkahhas even been adopted in some Jewish communities as part of the late Friday evening services ; it is also sung at Oneg Shabbat gatherings , and has won a place among the regular zemirot in homes where these are still sung . The poem is really a paraphrase of the traditional zemirah ? Shalom Aleichem . Yesh Li Gan is an idyllic love song which , strictly speaking , does not belong to the Sabbath . In this country it has become customary to sing appropriate new Israeli folk songs in Hebrew at Sabbath gatherings . The Yiddish folk song also includes many national songs , holiday songs , and women 's songs . There are , however , few nature songs , for Jews were confined to small towns and villages during the ghetto days , and rarely had the opportunity for close contact with nature and its beauty . Efforts to collect Yiddish folk songs began on a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in thisp181field came only at the end of the century , after the postromanticmovement in music had given way to nationalism . The Russian national school at this time was already in full flower , with the works of Glinka , Rimsky-Korsakov , Moussorgsky , and Tchaikovsky to its credit . In Norway , national music had such exponents as Grieg and Sinding , and the Bohemians had Dvorak and Smetana . The Jews also felt the impact of this new national movement . The first real effort at collecting the texts of Jewish folk songs was made by S. Ginsburg and P. Marek in St. Petersburg in 1901 . Their collection contains the texts of 376 songs , without the music . Many similar collections have since appeared , and the work of collecting such materials continues into the present day . The St. Petersburg Society for Jewish Folk Music , founded in 1908 by Joel Engel ( 1868-1927 ) , set itself the task of collecting Yiddish folk songs and arranging piano accompaniments for them in a style that would reflect their true spirit and atmosphere . This Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ephraim Skliar , Joseph Achron , Solomon Rosowsky , Moses Milner , Michael Gnessin , Alexander Krein , Lazare Saminsky , and Jacob Weinberg , not only collected and arranged , but also presented these songs at public concerts of Jewish music throughout Russia . Its members also began to develop Jewishart music , basing it on thematic material found in these songs , and seeking to evolve a truly Jewish musical style . These ideas came to even richer fruition two decades later , when some of the most active leaders of the movement migratedto America , and later found new inspiration when the land of Israel was reborn . Here in America many Jewish musicians have busied themselves with arranging Jewish folk songs for concert performances . Among them have been Vladimir Heifetz , Henry Lefkowitch , Lazar Weiner , Jacob Weinberg , Pinhas Jassinowsky , Nicholas Saslaysky , and this writer.  |p182These  men have also contributed significantly to the development of the Yiddish art song . The labor theme has always been present in the Yiddish folk song , but has received special attention in America , where many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David Edelstadt 's Der Arbeter and Mein Yingele , to texts by the great Yiddish poet Morris Rosenfeld , are examples of this type of song . The melodies are in the Ahavah Rabbah mode . The Jews of the Soviet Union have also created songs that describe their crafts , occupations , professions , and loyalties . The songs of the ghetto and concentration camps have been the newest addition to the Yiddish folk song . As always , our people gave voice to their suffering in poetry and song . Hundreds of poems were written during this terrifyingperiod in Jewish history . Many were set to music ? in most cases to well-known tunes or synagogue melodies . Occasionally a new melody was composed . The melodiesoften used , however , were inferior to the words . These songs speak of courage and hope , of ghetto walls , of concentration camps , of longing for home and family , of bombings and the brutality of men . The partisan song Zog Nit Keinmol , the most popular and revered of those new songs ( many Jewish audiences rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glick , who said , " These songs were written with blood , not with lead . " The melody of Zog Nit Keinmol is a Russian folk melody . Another significantsong from the concentration camps was Ani Maamin , which has become a cherished melody . XIII . Hasidic SongsThe founder of hasidism , Yisroel Baal Shem Tov , or the Besht , as he was later called , was born about 1700 in the town of Okop , Ukraine . He spoke in easy parables whichp183even the most lowly were able to understand . He taught that God could be found and approached not only by the learned scholars , but also by simple folk ; that God was to be loved rather than feared ; and , that God could be reached with prayer and song at all times and places . The approach to God required preparation however . These preparations for the ultimate ecstasy of prayer led through three stages : kavanah , or complete absorption and concentration ; deveikut , or a cleaving unto God in which the sense of separation from Him disappears ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows complete surrender to prayer . In addition to these disciplines , men must " serve God in joy , " for " God must be approached with joyous and singing heart . " Music , therefore , came to occupy an all-important place in hasidic life and practices . Hasidic rabbis , beginning with Yisroel Baal Shem Tov , propounded definite ideas and theories about the powers of melody . The nigun , the song without words , became the musical expression of hasidisni . It was sung merely with a repeating syllable or a combination of syllables such as la , tra , bim , or barn . Yisroel Baal Shem Tov , as folklore has it , was able to tell the character of a musician , as well as his life and his deeds , through his playing . He was also credited with the ability to discern words and meanings in the tones of a melody and to follow the thoughts of his hasidim as they poured their hearts out to him in a nigun . Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi ( 1747-1813 ) said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stream of emotion . " A melody with words , he felt , was limited in time ; with the end of the words , the melody also ceases . But a wordless tune can be repeated endlessly , allowing the singer to pour out his feelings through the nigun from the innermost recesses of his heart . This gave rise to the ein so f nigun , the melody without an end . Rabbi Levi Yitzhok of Berditchev ( 1740-1810 ) was per/haps the most musically gifted of the hasidic rabbis . Music was an important medium of expression in his life . He taught his hasidim in song and prayed to God through song . He left us a number of songs with texts in which Hebrew and Yiddish intermingled . These songs are true gems of Jewish folk music . Rabbi Nahman of Bratslav ( 1772-181 1 ) also gave music an important place in hasidism . He regarded melody as the essence of all thought . " Every bit of wisdom in the world has its own melody , " he declared . " All creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ melody , the most important of all , and affecting all others . " He taught that there was music in the whole universe and in every man 's soul . " Nature is replete with melody , heaven and earth are full of song . The man who hears it is purified and inspiredto lead a new life , the more so if he also understands the dance , which brings complete harmony through its rhythm . Every limb of the body contains in itself a rhythm that corresponds to the rhythm of the melody . There is rhythm in the movements of the head and the feet , of the whole body and of every part of it , all in accord with the rhythm of the melody . And the melody is even more completewhen it is invested with words , because the rhythm of the verses in consonance with the melody produces harmony . How splendid it is to hear it and to see it supplementedby dancing . " Of all the zaddikim , or leaders of the hasidim , Rabbi Nahman was the greatest lover of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followers , " There are gates in heaven which can not be opened save by song and praise . " The zaddik of Ger , Yitzhok Meir , used to say to his hasidim , " Were I blessed with a sweet voice , I would sing you new hymns and songs every day , for as the world is created anew every day , new songs are created with it . " The melody without words , the nigun , became the most popular form of song among the hasidim . There were twop185types of nigunim : the meditative , expressing the moods of kavanah and deveikut , and the dance type , expressing moods of joy and supreme exaltation ( hitlahavut ) . Since the zaddik was regarded as a divine singer , the tunes he created were held to be holy and of heavenly inspiration . Several melodies attributed to zaddikim are still sung among hasidim . It is , however , uncertain whether these are original tunes or old melodies reshaped to suit the temperament and character of the rebbe and his " court . " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the rebbe himself was unable to lead his hasidim in song , one of his more musical followers would do so . In many " courts " there were special hasidim whose task it was to lead the singing and compose new melodies for holidays and festivals . Some of the " courts " developed unmistakablestyles of their own , so that their melodies and the manner in which they were sung were immediately recognizable . Individual hasidim were frequently associated in the " court " of the rebbe with certain tunes . When they were asked to sing , they were expected to sing a particular melody , and no other hasid could sing another 's tune if its original " possessor " was present . At their gatherings , the hasidim sang Psalms , songs with Hebrew and Yiddish texts , and songs without words . Many of their dance melodies were called wolech or wolechish , suggesting the musical style of the folk songs of Walachia , in Southeastern Europe . At certain moments of religious exaltation , the rebbe or the hasid would introduce a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire . At those times the hasidim felt that their souls were united with that of the Creator , for in song they reached the heights of ecstasy . The cardinal clementin singing was the joy it created . The melody was most important ; the words were secondary.  |p186While  there was singing at all hasidic gatherings , the more fervent sessions took place at various hours on the Sabbath . The greatest intensity , however , was reached on the Three Festivals ? Pesach , Shavuot , and Sukkot . Comparedwith these occasions , even the Sabbath celebrations seemed restrained , for the Jew was commanded , " And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast " ( Deut. xvi , i4 ) ; and the hasidim took this command literally , especially on Sukkot . On the second night of Sukkot the hasidim commemoratedthe Temple ceremony of the " water libation " with singing , dancing , and processions with candles . On the last two days of Sukkot , which ended with Simchat Torah ( the Festival of Rejoicing in the Law ) , song and dance reigned supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent householders danced with the Torah . The hasidim found spiritual significance even in the hilariouscelebration of Purim . Rabbi Levi Yitzhok of Berditchevdanced as he chanted the first of the three benedictionspreceding the reading of the Megillah . Rabbi Abbush Meir of Sanz , who was extremely musical , composed a new melody for Shoshanat Yaakov every year . His hasidim would gather at the Shalosh Seudot ( third meal ) on the Sabbath preceding Purim , and he would teach them the new tune . It was then sung over and over again during the Purim celebration , and reappeared on the following Sabbath eve service in L'cha Dodi . The night of Purim was a time of song and merry-making . The Shosbanat Yaakov held the center of attention . There were also songs , hasidic and others , in the vernacular . Often some hasidim entertained the rebbe and the other hasidim with a purimspiel , which was frequently accompanied by singing and even instrumental music . On the following day , Shushan Purim , the rejoicing went on unabated , reaching a climax at the Mincha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasidim acted as a cantor . He dressed in a kittel ( a white shroud worn on the High Holy Days ) and chanted the solemn prayers in melodiesused on the High Holy Days , but parodying both melody and style . Dancing , as we have seen , was an aid toward achieving a state of joyousness ; but the dance in Jewish life was not an innovation brought in by the hasidbn . The Bible often speaks of dancing . No less a person than King David himselfdanced before the Ark of the Covenant . In the Psalms , too , there are references to the dance ( Psalm 15o ) . Among the great hasidic rabbis , Nahman of Bratslav was the most enthusiastic about dancing . He believed that dancing and the clapping of hands could move the judges on high to mercy . " Through joy we unite ourselves with God . " Therefore the hasidim danced round dances on the High Holy Days , and the zaddik himself sometimes joined in . Life 's realities were swept away , forgotten , as they danced round @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the more gifted rabbis and hasidim presented a pleasant sight as they danced , using their limbs and bodies with much grace . As a rule , these dances were for men only . A hasid would never be so bold as to dance with his wife except within the walls of his home , and even then infrequently . On the rare occasions when men danced with women , they did not join hands , but held on to the oppositeends of a handkerchief . When the Besht brought hasidism to the Jews , it attractedmostly the simple and uneducated . After Ber of Mezhiritch ( 1:710-1772 ) , successor to the Besht , was won over to hasidism , his influence led many learned Jews to join the movement , for he himself was a great scholar . It was this wing of hasidism that produced the philosophical system known as Habad , which was founded by Shncur Zalman of Liadi , and won most of its adherents in Lit linp188ania and White Russia . The Besht system drew most of its followers from Poland , Southern Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the initials of the three words designating the principles upon which it rested : hokmah ( wisdom ) , binah ( understanding ) , and daat ( knowledge ) . This philosophy was permeated with the mysticism of Rabbi Isaac Luria ; its goal was the attainmentof divine bliss . This , its proponents taught , could not be achieved by leaping from extreme melancholy to extreme joy . It had to be approached gradually . The stages toward the elevation of the spirit consisted of : 1 ) hishtapchut ha-ne f esh , or the outpouring of the soul and the effort to rise out of the mire of sin and the grip of the evil spirit ; 2 ) hitorerut , or spiritual awakening ; 3 ) hitpaalut , or the stage in which the seeker is possessed by his thought ; 4 ) deveikut , or communion with God ; 5 ) hitlahavut , the flaming ecstasy that precedes the highest stage ; and 6 ) hitpashtut ha-gashmiyut , the ultimate stage where the soul casts off its garments of flesh and becomes a disembodied spirit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Habad hasidim composed special melodies which embodied all of these stages , several of them , or only one . The founder of the Habad system himself composed a tune call Dem Rebbns Nigun to conform to his system . The music of the two hasidic schools differed in their serious moods , but they shared the same tunes for joyous moods . On the whole , Habad hasidim preferred melodies of a mystical character and zemirot of the Lurianic period , which they sang to mystical tunes of their own . The hasidic songs are characterized by Jewish melodic modes and idioms . Most of their melodies , however , are based on the synagogue prayer modes rather than on cantillation , since the hasidim were more familiar with the former . They even read the weekly portions of the Torah on the Sabbath in a melody which merely resembled can/tillation , but did not follow the exact interpretation of the tropes . This was another of their innovations . Their slow melodies are the most beautiful , and the songs attributed to Rabbi Levi Yitzhok of Berditchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty and sincerity of feeling . However , in the hitorerut and hitlahavutmelodies , the hasidim borrowed without reserve or discrimination from the peoples around them . We thereforefind among these songs Oriental , Ukrainian , and Slavic tunes , as well as Cossack dances , military marches , polkas , and waltzes . Still , many of the dance tunes were based on synagogue modes . The spirit of hasidism , with its beauty and wisdom , mysticismand fire , has given wings to the creative spirit of Jewish artists in every field . We shall not dwell on the extensiveliterature and poetry which came from the pens of both its adherents and critics at the height of the struggle against hasidism , but rather upon its influence on Jewish music . Hasidism , as we have seen , has made an important contribution to Jewish folk music . The nigunim have a character all their own . Since so many of them served to express religiousand mystical states , as in Habad hasidism , we have untold numbers of melodies consisting of up to seven sections ? aform rarely found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left an indelible imprint on the cantorialart of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , and helped to develop the styles of many great cantors . At the beginning of the twentieth century , hasidic songs began to appear , singly or in groups , in such collections of Jewish folk songs as those of M. Kipnis , J. L. Cahan , and F. M. Kaufman . A substantial collection of hasidic songs without words may be found in A. M. Bernstein 's Musikalisher Pinkas and S. Rosowsky 's Mi-zimrat Haaretz . Many hasidic songs arranged as art songs have been published by various Jewish composers.  |p190The  hasidic song in its many forms stimulated the musicalimagination of numerous Jewish composers , who built upon this material a variety of musical works , both large and small . Outstanding among these works are the two suites drawn from Joel Engel 's incidental music to The Dybbuk , which is arranged for a small ensemble and utilizesthe various hasidic moods . Another fine example of this type of music is Solomon Rosowsky 's Fantastic Trio , built upon Habad nigunim . Maurice Ravel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasidic songs are also noteworthy . The moods , practices , and philosophies of hasidism have also inspired a number of composers . Works based on hasidism include Ernest Bloch 's superb Baal Shen Suite for violin and piano , Aaron Copland 's Vitebsk Trio , and this writer 's Two Hasidic Moods , for string quartet . There are many other works for various musical combinations . Since the beginning of the twentieth century , hasidism has also influenced the folk song of Palestine . In a great many songs that are being composed and sung in Israel today , we find closing sections consisting of melody alone , sung to such syllables as la or li , and reminiscent of the hasidic nigun . Most of the early hora melodies were hasidic dance nigunim . Nigun Bialik , very popular in the twenties of this century , was a hasidic melody . In retrospect , this remarkable movement in Jewish life still retains validity for us primarily in the mystic spirit , the intimate love of God in nature , the spirit of fellowship which prevailed among the hasidim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The hasid felt , in the face of all adversity , that God is kind and merciful , and loves his people with a love that is eternal . Hasidism has left for Jewish artists and musiciansa heritage so rich that its influence will continue to inspire generation after generation in creating the Jewish art of the future.  |p191XIV  . ZemirotZemirot , or table songs , are known to have been sung as far back as the days of the Second Temple . It is believed that Tsur Mi-shelo , one of the zeimirot for the Sabbath eve , whose author is unknown , belongs to the early Tannaiticperiod , perhaps even before Yabneh . The poem is based on three benedictions ? Ha-zan , Al Ha-aretz , and Boneh . It contains no reference to the Sabbath . Most of the zemirot , however , are products of a much later day . The idea of making the Sabbath a day of delight and joy through music developed as time went on . Mounting persecution made the Jew 's burden increasingly heavy . It became necessary to emphasize those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his troubled existence , some way of restoring his self-esteem . The Sabbathwas to bring sweet peace and rest and remind him that he was a prince of God . It is , therefore , significant that the gayest zemirot were written at the darkest times in Jewishhistory . The eleventh century witnessed the beginning of a great period in the history of Hebrew poetry , both sacred and secular . It was the fashion in those days to compose religiouspoetry to the rhythm and melody of popular secular songs , and to imitate their sound in Hebrew . At first the rabbis censured such practices , but ultimately the poets won . Many of the sacred poems became popular songs ; some found their way into the liturgy ; and a number becamezemirot for the Sabbath . Another factor in the development of the zemirot was the growth of the Kabbala , the mystic ideas of which becamepopularly associated with the Sabbath . Of particularsignificance was the mystical concept of a neshamah yeterah , a second or Sabbath soul , that descends upon thosep192who observe the Sabbath according to Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through song on the Sabbath . The Lurian kabbalists of the sixteenth centurylaid particular stress on the power of music . Isaac Luria himself encouraged his disciple , Shelomo Alkabetz , to composethe famous poem L'cha Dodi . Together with the Song of Songs , Azamer Bi-shevahin , and An'im Zerirot , it forms the center of a group of love songs through which the Jew expressed his love of God and the Sabbath . L'cha Dodi quickly spread to all Jewish communities , and in later centuries became a favorite text for composers of synagogue music . Isaac Luria is also said to have composed zemirot for each of the three Sabbath meals ? Azamer Bishevahin , Asader Li-seudata , and Bene Hechala . Not only the words , but also the tunes of certain zemirot are attributed to Isaac Luria and his kabbalist followers , including Israel Najara ( 1550-1620 ) , the author of the beautiful and popular poem , Yah Ribbon . He holds a unique place among the poets of the zemirot period . In later centuries hasidism , influenced by Lurianic mysticism , contributed much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hasidic manner of singing is the frequentinterpolation of stretches of wordless song between the phrases or verses of a poem . Hasidic tunes for zemirot are almost always joyous and rhythmic . Among the Habad hasidim , however , we find melodies that reflect the mystic elements which colored their beliefs . The most mystic melodies are those of the Aramic zemirot , such as Azamer Bi-shevahin and Yah Ribbon . This is probably due to the Lurianic origin of these poems . Both among hasidim and mitnagdim , zemirot served as a bridge between table talk and religious discourses , between the human and the divine , between the jocular and the serious . It has frequently been said that a Jew must honor God with the beauty of his soul and the beauty of hisp193throat . " While Israel feasts , he always sings in praise of God . " The principal singers at the table were the father and the sons . Mother and daughters might join in the refrainsor sing their own zemirot . These were the customs that developed as the singing of zemirot became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany and Italy . There are zemirot for the three meals of the Sabbath , but the most important and colorful groups , from the point of view of both poetry and music , are those associated with the Friday evening and Saturday midday meals . At the Sabbath eve meal , the master of the home welcomes the Sabbath with the chanting of a group of prayers , beginning with Shalom Aleichem . The Kiddush follows . The actual zemirot are introduced with a meditative poem , Kol Mekadesh for Friday evening , and Baruch Adonay Yom Yom for Sabbath afternoon . The tunes are reminiscent of liturgical modes . Kol Mekadesh is sung in the Magen Avot mode of the Friday evening service , suggesting the " sweet peace and rest " of the Sabbath . Baruch Adonay is also sung in a Friday evening mode , that of Adonay Malach , suggestingIsrael as the " prince of God . " Zemirot were sung not only at the Sabbath midday meal , but also at the Shalosh Seudot , the third meal , which usually took place after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synagogue . The singing continued until sundown , and bore the character of a prelude to the departure of the Sabbath . It was followed by the evening service . After the Havdalah , which ushered in the secular days of the week , zemirot were sung again . Later in the evening , at the Melaveh-Malkah more zemirot were sung , as a fitting farewell to the Sabbath . There are few parallels to the Jewish zemirot among the songs of other nations . Unlike the table songs of other peoples , they combine piety with good cheer and thankfulness . They reflect the material and the spiritual , tragedy andp194joy , changes of taste , and the progress of thought . Through all these elements , the general theme is the Sabbath . X V. Music in IsraelWith the modern rebuilding of Palestine , which began in the 188o 's , the Jewish people developed new powers of growth . Along with these came a revival of song , which played an important role in our musical life . The pioneering Jews felt the need of song as soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the culture which they had set out to build . Indigenous and original folk songs do not spring up overnight , and so for thirty-five years the settlers experimented with the various types of songs they had known in the countries from which they had come . They sang their Yiddish folk songs translated into Hebrew , their liturgical songs brought out of the synagogue , and also Arabic and Yemenite songs which they had found in Palestine . The period of 1881 to 1918 produced some popular songs , but few of them could truly be called Palestinian . While the resettlement went on with hope and enthusiasm throughout that time , it could not compare with the new burst of activity that began in 1918 , following the issuance of the Balfour Declaration of 1917 , and the end of the First World War . A wave of young men and women , halutzim and halutzot ( pioneers ) from all parts of Europe and from Eastern Europe in particular , streamed into the land in a determined effort to make use of the promise of a Jewish homeland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halutzot brought new energy to the growth and development of Palestine . They also brought with them a tremendous capacity for song and dance , an expression of their joy in being a part of the generation that was rebuilding Israel . The spirit of democracy which camep195with them pervades all the songs of this period . The people did not sing of kings and princes , but of their land , their work , their hope , their destiny , and themselves . The modern Israeli song is characterized by constant experimentation with new rhythmic effects . This change of rhythmic design in Israeli songs is in keeping with the vital spirit one finds throughout the land . There is a great deal of syncopation , both simple and compound , reflecting the vibrant tempo of the new Israeli life . The Palestinian song of the early period was a conglomerationof songs of the exile , songs of the various nationsamong which the Jews had lived , some Arabic and some Yemenite songs , and some excerpts from the Jewishliturgy . However , as time went on , there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the second period , beginning with 1918 , they said , " It is true that we sing much , but our songs are not yet really Palestinian . These will come . " They did begin to come about ten years later , when the people struck deeper roots in the soil of the land . These new songs combined features of liturgical song with those of the Yemenite and Arabic song , emerging as an indigenousexpression with a spirit entirely their own . All of these bear kinship to various branches of Jewish music ? the cantillation modes , the prayer modes , and the synagogue songs . Also encountered in the modern Israeli songs had been features of the cantorial art of the past centuries . The cantillation modes as traditionally used in reading the Bible have contributed much toward the evolutionof the true Israeli song . In its evolution toward originality the new Israeli song has taken on a number of characteristics which will in future years help to distinguish it among the folk songs of the various nations . There are , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayers , and study themes.  |p196A  melodic characteristic that frequently appears in Israelisong is the interchangeable accidental . Its effect is extremely Oriental , lending a note of contemplation that is typically Jewish . Many popular Israeli folk songs make use of the interchanging accidental . Another feature is the change of mode within a melody . This type of modulating melody was frequently found in the cantorial improvisations of the nineteenth century . The patterns of these modulations are interesting , and will probably play an important part in the Israeli song of the future . Modulation to a key a fourth above the original key has always been characteristic of key changes in synagogue music . As a matter of fact , the interval of a fourth up or down is the strongest interval in ancient Jewish music . A two-decker modulation to the fourth above occurs in some new Israeli songs . Also , in a number of new Israeli folk songs there are special effects which lend individuality to the song and sometimes add to its humor . " Let me write the ballads of my people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said a wise man . It is a fortunate composer who can write a simple melody which the people will adopt as their own , making the song folk property ; yet , few of the great masters of music have succeeded in this direction . In Israel a number of professional composers have tried to write songs for the people . Although many of them were sung for a time , few have attained the popularity of the folk songs created by Israeli farmers and workers . Most of the best songs of modern Palestine have come from the agricultural settlements . All the song writers in Israel are inspired with the high goal of creating a true Israeli song , for Israel is trying to develop a musical idiom characteristic of the land and expressiveof the life of the people . There is full realization that art music ultimately rests upon folk music , both of which the people themselves are in the process of creating.  |p197Among  the early song writers from among the people there were many naturally gifted young Jews , such as MordecaiZeira , Matthityahu Weiner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ezrahi , David Zahavi , Gabriel Grad , Emanuel Pugatchov , Verdina Shionsky , Zvi Kaplan , Emanuel Zamir , Sarah Levi , Menashe Ravina , Daniel Sambursky , and Moshe Bick . Music schools have existed in Israel since 1910 , when Shulamith Ruppin organized the Shulamith Music School in Tel Aviv . The Jerusalem School of Music was founded by the British Governor , Sir Ronald Storrs , in 1918 , and was directed by Sidney Seal , a British pianist . Mademoiselle Dunia Weizman established a music school in Haifa in1921 . The Palestine opera was organized in 1923 by Mordecai Golinkin . Since that time , it has presented almost all popularoperas in Hebrew translation . Moshe Rudinow , former cantor of Temple Emanu-El in New York , and his wife , Ruth Leviash , were among the first members of that company . In recent years Dan Ha-shonner ( Dan the Watchman ) , Israeli opera by Marc Lavry , has enjoyed great popularity . In 1930 the Palestine Symphonic Ensemble , consisting of forty players , was organized by Zvi Kumpaneetz . It gave weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orchestra was organized by Bronislaw Huberman , a famous violin virtuoso , in 1936 . Its personnel consisted mainly of musicians who had fled from countries oppressed by Hitler . The first conductor was Arturo Toscanini ; he was followed by Michael Taube , JosephRosenstock , Bernardino , Molinari , Charles Munch , Izler Solomon , Jascha Horenstein , William Steinberg , Issai Dobrowen , Leonard Bernstein , and Serge Koussevitzky . Now as the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra , it has truly becomeone of the most vital cultural forces in the Near East . The orchestra made its first American tour in 1951.  |p198Music  occupies an important part in the curriculum of the Israeli school system , and the Cultural Department of the Histadrut ( Labor Federation of Israel ) devotes a good deal of its efforts to the organization of choral bodies , which exist in large numbers throughout the land . The radio stations in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem also provide daily musical fare of good variety . Jewish art music originated in the efforts of the St. Petersburg Society for Jewish Folk Music . Afterwards , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . More Jewish music has since been composed , published , and performed in this country than in any other part of the world . Jewish composers in America have produced works in all forms , from the shortest piano pieces to symphonies and operas . Among the more active of these composers have been Joseph Achron , Lazare Saminsky , Jacob Weinberg , Isadore Freed , Frederick Jacobi , Julius Chafes , Reuven Kosakoff , Chemjo Vinaver , and this author . Internationally famed Jewish composers who have residedin the United States have from time to time written music on Jewish themes or to Jewish texts . Arnold Schoenberg ( 1874-195 I ) composed a work , Kol Nidre , as well as a cantata , A Survivor From Warsaw . His other works on Jewish themes are the Psalm De Pro fundis , an opera Moses and Aaron , and an unfinished oratorio Die Jakobsleiter . Darius Milhaud ( b. 1892 ) has composed several artisticarrangements of hasidic folk songs and an elaborate setting of the Sabbath liturgy , which he called Service Sacre . His opera Esther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ernest Bloch ( 188o-1959 ) is considered Jewish , whether specifically designated or not . Aaron Copland has composed a trio Vitebsk and a choral setting on the theme of creation In the Beginning . The composers of serious Jewish music in Israel include Marc Lavry , Frank Pelleg , Paul Ben-Haim , Verdina Shlon/sky , Alexander Uriah Boscovich , Menahem Mahler-Kalkstein , Ben Zion Orgad , Oedoen Partos , Erich Walter Sternberg , and Joseph Kaminsky . Composers both in and out of Israel are working toward the same goal ? the development of a Jewish musical idiom . Israel is an inspiration for Jewish musicians . The Jewish music of the future will therefore not be the expression of any one particular segment of the Jewish people , but of Klal Yisrael ? the entire world Jewish community . Footnotep200The early pioneers who came to Palestine after World War One brought a rich choral tradition with them . They began to organize all types of choral groups . Under the direction of Fordhaus Ben Zisi an oratorio society was founded in the early twenties . It began to perform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the original tongue of the Bible upon which these texts had been based . Today this choral tradition is stronger than ever in the young State of Israel . I was told during my recent visit to Israel that there are at least ninety large adult choruses throughout that tiny land , as well as innumerable children 's choruses . They rehearse under very difficult conditions , but they come promptly and regularly because they loveFootnotep201choral singing . At one rehearsal in Jerusalem of the Kol Israel Chorus , which is a volunteer choral group of the Israeli Broadcasting Service , the rehearsal was held in the lobby of a school . It took place during early evening , and there was no heat , for fuel is expensive . There were about ten backless wooden benches lined up in rows . Upon these the men and women who gathered sat and rehearsed for one and a half hours , lovingly and interestedly . At another rehearsal , which took place in an agricultural settlement , the chorus consisted of about eighty lusty voices , but very well balanced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock in the evening , after the tables were cleared and most people were through with their daily tasks . Many of them seemed worn and tired after a hard day 's work in the fields , yet as time went on , their leader Shelomo Kaplan , a dynamic well-schooled and enthusiastic leader , had them singing in a vital and almost professional style . They rehearsed until midnight ! I was told that several chorus members would have to be up at three in the morning for their duties on the farm and field . In the Galilee there are three agricultural colonies which have three choruses under one leader . He rehearses them separately , and then brings them together for gala public performances . They rehearse under the same conditions as the chorus of Shelomo Kaplan ? finishing late in the night and having very little sleep after that . I heard this triple chorus of Ain Hashofet , Ramat Hashofet , and Dahlia , at the music festival at Ein Gev , during the week of Passover . Ein Gev , on the Sea of Galilee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of music which included a chorale by Bach , the final chorus from The St. Matthew Passion to a Hebrew text , some Jewish folk songs , some liturgical works , and choral music composed by Israeli composers . The choral groups came to Ein Gev in not too comfortablebuses , and did not return home until three in thep202morning . The love of music and of choral singing transcendedany discomfort which might have been caused by such a strenuous pilgrimage . The most important choral activity today is in Tel Aviv , Israel 's chief metropolitan city . There are : the chorus affiliatedwith the Israeli Opera Company ; the oratorio chorus of Fordhaus Ben Zisi , which recently presented the Brahms Requiem in Hebrew with the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra ; and , the chamber chorus of Moshe Lustig , which performsold and new choral music . It was this latter chorus which presented Aaron Copland 's In The Beginning duringthe composer 's visit in early Spring . A choral festival called a Zimriyah was arranged to be held in Israel during the early part of August . Jewish choruses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belgium , Ireland , Italy , France , and Yugoslavia , as well as twenty-eight choruses from all parts of Israel participated . From the United States , five choruses of more than four hundred men and women joined in this festival . Each chorus was to present music of its own choosing , to includesecular music , and especially the native music of the country from which the chorus came . All the choruses studied three pieces to be sung by the combined choruses at the final festival in Ramat Gan , near Tel Aviv . The three pieces were by Alexander and Nissimov , two Israelis , and also the performance of an Israeli song by Mordecai Zeira , which had been specially arranged for chorus by myself . There were tremendous difficulties in transportation and other arrangements , but the great love of singing in chorus came through it all . To have heard the combined voices of two thousand singers sound forth in Ramat Gan surely gave one an inkling of what the great Levitical choirs sounded like during the days of King David , the sweet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the days of King Solomon.  |p203When  one beholds the mixed population of Israel today , one wonders how long it will take to weld the people into a homogeneous nation . It is a common saying in Israel that whereas the United States was called " a melting pot , " Israeltoday must be " a pressure cooker , " for there the process of integration must be quicker . If the situation at times may seem fraught with difficulties , one is alway asked to behold the children , for there is the future of the Israeli nation . When I questioned a Moroccan Jew about his fluency in the Hebrew language , during my recent visit , he answered : " I do not speak very well , but my daughter , she speaks good ! " The Israelis see in the next generation the future and hope of Israel . And it is for this reason that both in theFootnotep204cities and on the land nothing is too good for the children . They are given every possibility to develop under the best conditions available . In the kibbutzim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment of the schools , bright rooms , comfortable desks , and everything which one would expect to find in America . The head of the educationaldepartment of the kibbutz Ain Hashofet ( named in memory of Judge Brandeis ) told me that the rich man 's child in the United States could not hope for better primaryeducation than that given there . All over Israel they are seeking to incorporate the most modern methods , and are constantly studying new trends in childhood education . Music plays an important part in the education of the child . Instruction begins at an early age with Dalcroze eurhythmics and the playing of toy instruments . Musical instruments being scarce , the road to music is mostly through singing , yet somehow they manage , as they do in everything else . One finds pianos , though not often good ones , in the schools , as well as phonographs for the playingof records . The little recorder , which is easy to make and easy to play , has become very popular in Israel . Due to its flute-like tone , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A large literature for recorder , in combination with voices and other instruments , is gradually being created by the composers in Israel . It is also used as an accompanying instrument for dance . The Israeli composer , A. U. Boscovich , has written a charming group of pieces for two recorders and high and low voices . In them one finds the spirit of the new Israeli music idiom . The work is entitled B'tupim Uvimcholot . The pedagogical aim is to provide children with a generalmusical education through the music of the classics , and a knowledge of Jewish music which includes liturgicalmusic , folk music , and contemporary music of Israel . I attended the kinnusim , or general assemblies of school choruses in Jerusalem and in Tel Aviv . At each kinnus , Ip205heard twenty choruses ? in all , forty . Their conductors are not always men and women who devote themselves entirely to music . In a great many cases , they are the regular teacherswhose duties also include teaching music and leading a chorus . The results are not always most satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two or three pieces . The music ranged from the contrapuntal sixteenth century Pergolesi through Bach , Haydn , Mozart , Schubert , and Mendelssohn . In each group could be found at least one piece by a contemporary composer of Israeli folk songs . In the groups sung by childrencoming from Orthodox schools one could always find a liturgical selection by the German composer Lewandowski , or a liturgical work by an Israeli contemporary . One could also find folk songs of other nations , like French bergerettes and Negro-American spirituals such as " Go Down Moses , " and " Nobody Knows the Trouble I 've Seen . " All the songs were sung in Hebrew . The choruses , made up of boys and girls together , sang mostly unaccompanied . The children were well clad , orderly , and obedient to their teachers ' orders . There were about eight hundred children assembled in Jerusalem in the auditorium of the YMCA , and a similar number in Tel Aviv 's Ohel Shen , / hall . The children were both dark and light-skinned . Some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the type of the school from which they came . The musical quality of the singing and performance itselfvaried according to the ability of the conductor . The tone of the groups in Jerusalem appeared to be better than that of the Tel Aviv choruses . In general , there seemed to be a lack of musical coloring such as contrast , loud and soft , crescendo and diminuendo , and all the nuances which go into any kind of musical performance . The thought occurredto me , and was later confirmed by others , that most of the teachers did not know how to train children 's voices.  |p206Most  of the children produced their tone from the chest . Good children 's tone can only be secured through head tones . That is the type of tone which one hears from good children 's choirs in this country . The supervisors of the music departments ? Emanuel Amiran and his assistant , Ben Zion Orgad ? realize this shortcoming . They hope to remedy this problem by organizing supplementary music education courses in large cities for conductor-teachers . Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instrument . The music schools are therefore filled to capacity . I was told that there was a shortage of music teachers in Israel today . Just as years ago there were four teachers to every student , at present there are four students for each teacher . The bona fide music schools in Israel are on a high music level . There are many good teachers in Israel , and the results are very praiseworthy . Most children study either the violin or the piano . I believe that they would study the other instruments , too , if they had them . If they had cellos , there would be many a youngster who would be willing to study this instrument . The same is true of viola , bass , the woodwinds , and the brass instruments . In the music schools in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem , a child takes an instrumental lesson as well as a theory or harmony lesson . It was interesting to note that their ear-training is done through modal melodies in the Israeli melodic style , which might seem strange to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher was trying to explain the unfinished feeling of a modal melody , whereupon a student replied : " This does not seem unfinished . To us , it sounds quite complete . " The children do much of their singing outdoors , and that is perhaps another reason why it is so difficult for teachers to secure a soft , modulated tone . The overall fact , however , is that one recognizes immediately as one looks at them that the Israeli children are a happy lot . They are Israel 's future.  |p207THE  JEWISH MUSIC MOVEMENT IN AMERICAIn order to understand the history of the Jewish music movement in America , we shall have to go back to the first musical manifestations in the synagogues of seventeenth century Colonial America . The Jews who migrated to America during the period from 162o to i800 came here for either of two reasons : for freedom of religion , or for adventure and profit . The first type of immigrant , mostly of Sephardic stock ( Spanish origin ) , had sincere and genuine religious motives ; but , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We find also that up to the beginning of the nineteenth century , no European cantor of substance or renown ventured to come to the United States . Footnotep208Isaac Da Costa , a cantor , came to this country from London about 1750 , at the age of 29 . He could not subsist completely on the earnings of his religious office , so over the years he engaged in various business enterprises , such as the sale of European and Indian goods , shipping , the sale of " Havana rum in pipe , " and many other activities too numerous to mention . He died in Charleston in 1796 . When Jews who sought religious liberty arrived in America in the seventeenth century they immediately formed into a community . They built places of worship , provided Jewish instruction for their children , and founded the necessary beneficent institutions which their Jewish life required . The modern Jewish music movement in America is generally taken to be about half a century old . Actually , there already were sporadic signs of it early in the nineteencentury . We hear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel Congregation for the dedication of its Mills Street synagogue in New York City , Synagogue choirs began gradually to appear in synagogues such as Anshe Chesed and Emanu-El in New York City during the early part of the nineteenth century . The introduction choir music into European congregations at that time was also making itself felt here in America . The works of Sulzer , Lewandowski , and Naumbourg ? the musical reformersin Western Europe during the mid-years of the nineteenth century ? were sought and used in American synagogues . While organized choir-singing encountered hard going in this country , as it did also in Europe , specialchoral groups of men and women were permitted to organize for dedications and other extra-synagogal activities . On such occasions they would sing various appropriate Psalms in Hebrew . In 1843 , at a concert given at Temple Emanu-El to raise funds to acquire a new organ , Edward Weber preparedp209a program of liturgical music which was performed by chorus and orchestra . Such cantors as Leo Merzbacher and G. M. Cohen at Emanu-El ; Jonas Hecht , Ezra Sternberger , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kramer at B'nai Jeshurun ( all in New York City ) were the early pioneers of synagogue music in our country . They were , therefore , the logical forerunners of the Jewish music movement which was to come at the turn of the century . The published music of that period points up the fact that the influence of Sulzer and Lewandowski on German Reform held great sway on this side of the Atlantic , too . In those early days the American cantors who composed music which was sung in the synagogues , and who led the way in synagogue music , were not altogether of the highestmusical calibre . As a souvenir of the Jewish women 's section of the Parliamentof Religion , held in 1893 in Chicago in connection with the Columbian Exposition , a volume of Jewish music entitled : " Principal Melodies of the Synagogue from AncientTimes to the Present " was issued . It was edited by two of the leading cantors of that period ? Alois Kaiser of Temple Ohev Sholom in Baltimore , and William Sparger of Temple Emanu-El in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historical account of Jewish music . One could find traditional modes and melodies for the Sabbathand holidays , hymns and synagogue compositions by composers of synagogue music both here and abroad . Study of this volume reveals the Germanic influence of Sulzer and Lewandowski , with the nullification of some of the Jewish characteristics in a melody harmonized with Western tonic-dominant harmonies . This quite elaborately issued volume , nevertheless , shows a desire at that time on the part of the editors to adhere to the musical traditions of our people , traditions which form the basis not only ofp210synagogue music , but also of our art music , which is a recent development . There were three important factors which led to the modern Jewish music movement here and abroad . The first was the Zionist movement , which began in 1881 with the arrival of the first settlers in Palestine . This new phenomenonin Jewish life set off a tremendous wave of poetry and song . Some of the songs of that period are still rememberedand sung . Among them are Eliakum Zunser 's Shivas Zion , Die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the true forerunners of the modern popular Israelisongs . The second factor was the organization of the Yiddish theatre by Abraham Goldfaden in 1878 in Eastern Europe . Our people came out of these performances singing such songs as Rozhinkes snit Mandlen , Flaker Faierl , Yankele Geht in Shul Arein , and many other of Goldfaden 's songs which have become folk songs . Goldfaden settled in America in 1903 and continued his dramatic activities here . Successors to Goldfaden in the composition of music for the Yiddish theatre in America were such men as Friedsell , Brody , Wohl , and Sandler . In the plays for which they wrote the music they contributed such popular Yiddish songs as Dos Talis'l , Pintele Yid , and Eili Eili . The third and most important factor in the renaissance of Jewish music was the organization of the Society for Jewish Folk Music in 1908 in St. Petersburg , Russia . This new movement proceeded with an intensive effort on the part of musicians and folklorists to collect Yiddish folk songs . A monumental collection of folk songs by Guinsburgand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this new Society was Joel Engel , who later went to Palestine , where he worked until his death in 1927 . With him were associated such composers as : Michael Gnessin , Moses Milner , Alexander Krein , Solomon Rosow/sky , Joseph Achron , Lazare Saminsky , and Jacob Weinberg . To the material which was already gathered , these men added their own research and began to shape musical compositionsin the larger art forms . This period produced many piano , violin , vocal , and chamber music works of high musical merit which pointed the way toward a Jewishmusical style for Jewish composers of that decade , as well as decades to come . Joseph Achron 's violin piece HebrewMelody , was one of the popular products of that period . Not being satisfied with just gathering and composing Jewish music , the group in Russia set out , through lectures and performances , to educate the Jewish people to appreciatethis music . Many concerts of Jewish music were given throughout Russia in those days . In 1912 Simeon Benison , an outstanding clarinetist , organized the Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerts of Jewish music throughout Russia . Later , in 192 I , Bellison came to the United States with his Zimroh ensemble . This gifted group appeared in New York and in many other cities in concerts of Jewish music comprised solely of the compositions created by the members of the Society for Jewish Folk Music . While the public was generallycool , this new Jewish music warmed the hearts of a handful of the younger generation of Jewish composers . To these American Jews it opened up a new world with wide vistas into the future . During the early days of the Zimroh ensemble 's sojourn here , Bellison interested Serge Prokofiev , who was concertizing in America at that time , to compose a work for the group . He also gave Prokofiev the two folk themes which were later woven into that composer 's Overture on Hebrew Themes , now a popular chamber work . On the East Side of New York , during the early years ofp212this century , there strolled up and down the streets a stocky man of medium build , with long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high hat . He was Platon Brounoff , formerly a pupil of Rimsky-Korsakov and Anton Rubinstein . Brounoff must be mentioned as one of the earliestpioneers in the field of Jewish music in New York City . He lectured on Jewish folk music when such lectures were unheard of , and was one of the first to include Jewishfolk music on his concert programs . In 191 1 , he organizedthe Poale Zion Singing Society which he conducted for two years ; and , in the same year , he published the first collection of Jewish folk songs with piano accompaniment . Significantly , one of his four symphonies bears the title : " Return of the Jews to Palestine . " While Brounoff was generally a musician with international interests , his part in making way for Jewish music in this country must be taken into account . He was succeeded as conductor of the Poale Zion Singing Society by Henry Lefkowitch , the Jewish music publisher . In 1916 this writer organized the Hadassah Choral Union , under the auspices of the then new Hadassah organization . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singing of Palestinian folk songs . Some Palestinians , who were in America at that time , sang these songs to me ; I notated the melodies and then arranged them for female chorus . The members of this chorus consisted mostly of Jewish nurses , who later left to join the first medical unit going to Palestine . The guiding spirit of this organization was Mrs. Jacob Sobel , one of Henrietta Szold 's close associates in the founding of Hadassah . The Paterson , New Jersey , Singing Society was founded in 1918 by Henry Lefkowitch , and was later conducted by Jacob Beimel . Cantor Beimel then passed his leadership over to Leo Low , who had just arrived in America from ' Warsaw . Leo Low raised the level of performance of this organization and gave many important concerts of Jewishp213music with this chorus in New York and New Jersey . He was succeeded by Jacob Posner , Max Helfman , Samuel Bugatch , and Vladimir Heifetz . This writer also founded in 1917 the New York 92nd Street " Y " Choral Society , which not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but has also given severalpremieres of large Jewish choral works . They include : Oscar Guttman 's oratorio B'reshit ; Jacob Weinberg 's oratorioIsaiah ; and my own choral poems Israel Reborn and Requiem-Yiskor . Lazar Weiner , who founded the Workmen 's Circle Chorus in 1925 , has also helped to develop an appreciation for Jewish music among the people . In 1940 Jacob Weinberggave the first of a series of annual festivals of Jewishart , in which he presented many Jewish works of great interest and value at Town Hall and Carnegie Hall concert stages in New York City . Other choruses , such as the Yiddish Culture Chorus conducted by Vladimir Heifetz , the National Worker 's Alliance Chorus conducted by Leo Low , as well as others throughout the land , have helped to advance the cause of Jewish choral music . In 1942 , the Woodmere Choral and the Temple Israel Choral were combined as the United Temple Chorus under the direction of Isadore Freed . That chorus instituted an annual Ernest Bloch Award to stimulate the composition of Jewish works for female or mixed chorus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the advancement of Jewish music . Large choruses devoting themselves to the performance of Jewish music may now be found in such major cities as : Chicago , Cleveland , Boston , Detroit , Philadelphia , Los Angeles , and San Francisco , as well as scores of smaller cities throughout the United States . The repertoire of these choruses consists of choral arrangements of Yiddish and Hebrew folk songs , larger works on Jewish themes in the forms of oratorios and can/tatas , many of which have been created in the United States . Some choruses mix their repertoires with the classicalchoral works of Handel , Bach , Beethoven , Mendelssohn , and Brahms , and also with the moderns . Thus it seems clear that the programs of the Jewish choruses in this countrydepend entirely on the education of the particular conductorand his musical tastes . Concerts are given by these choruses in the largest auditoriumsof the cities , where they perform before mixed audiences of Jews and gentiles . In New York City , concertsof Jewish music are often given in Carnegie Hall and Town Hall . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division , instituted a competition for the best musical setting for mixed chorus of J. L. Peretz ' poem Treist Mein Folk . The competition was won by Cantor Leo Rosenbluth of Sweden . The new work was performed at a music festival arranged by the Congress of Jewish Cultureat Hunter College , New York , on March 26 , 1950 . The following Yiddish choruses participated : the Workmen'sCircle Choruses of Philadelphia and Trenton , under the direction of Samuel Bugatch ; the Workmen 's Circle Chorus of New York , under the direction of Lazar Weiner ; the Jewish National Workers ' Alliance Chorus of New York and the Hazonnir of Waterbury , under the direction of Leo Low ; and the Yiddish Culture Chorus of New York City and the Workmen 's Circle Chorus of Paterson , under the direction of Vladimir Heifetz . Each group performed by itself . Then , at the end of the program , all 500 voices performed jointly Rosenbluth 's prize-winning work , under the direction of Lazar Weiner . In the meantime , Jewish music dealers on the East Side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the publication of Jewish music , of which a negligible amount was published up to 1900 . Pioneers in this field were Joseph P. Katz , Goldberg 's Music Store , A. Teres , The Hebrew Publishing Company , and the Bloch Publishing Company.  |p215They  were followed by the Metro Music Company , which in 1928 bought the copyrights of Jewish music held by Katz , Goldberg , and Teres . The Transcontinental Music Publishing Company was founded by Josef Freudenthal in 1936 , and is now a leading publisher of Jewish music outside of Israel . In recent years the Mills Music Company , one of the larger publishers of popular music in America , has published a good deal of Jewish music of various types by some of the leading Jewish composers . Mills Music Company has also published many works by Israeli composers . Such leading publishing firms as G. Schirmer , Carl Fischer , and E. B. Marks have also published Jewish music , in a limited amount . The early efforts in 1920 in the publication of Jewish music stimulated its performance throughout the country . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs . Sophie Braslau , at one time a leadingcontralto at the Metropolitan Opera House , used to sing Eili Eili at the Metropolitan 's Sunday evening concerts ; she also included this writer 's V'shorru , a liturgical song , at her Carnegie Hall song recital in 1920 . Increasingly , cantors and concert singers began to include songs of Jewish interest on their programs , and to give full concertsof Jewish music . There are in this country three important publishers who issue Jewish music exclusively : the Bloch Publishing Company , which publishes for the most part synagogue music , as well as folk music and larger choral works ; the Metro Music Company , which specializes in Yiddish theatre music , Yiddish folk and art songs in sheet music and collections ; and the Transcontinental Music Company , which issues all types of Jewish music . Recordings of synagogue music began to be made at the beginning of this century . Soon after the invention of the phonograph , virtuoso cantors such as Sirota of Warsaw and Kwartin of Vienna , were invited to record cantorialp216recitatives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to a limited degreeuntil after World War I. At that time , there were residing in New York four of the greatest cantors in the history of the cantorate : Joseph Rosenblatt , Zavel Kwartin , Mordecai Hershman , and David Roitman . Both the Columbiaand the RCA recording companies vied for their recordings , and many records of synagogue music were made by them . As a result of the depression following 1929 , these recordings suffered . Their sales fell off tremendously , and most of the original pressings were destroyed . After World War II the recording business picked up again , and with the establishment of the State of Israel , the recordings of Israeli folk songs both here and abroad becamebig business . These recordings fall into three categories : Israeli folk and popular songs ; songs for children ; music recorded in Israel by small orchestras , to be used for folk dance purposes . One of the pioneers in the presentation of Yiddish and Israeli folk songs on records in America has been the basso Sidor Belarsky . He has striven to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent years recording companieshave recorded two Metropolitan Opera stars ? RichardTucker and Jan Peerce ? in synagogue and Jewish folk music , with accompaniment by choirs and orchestras conductedby Sholom Secunda and Abraham Ellstein . Unfortunately , little of Jewish art music for chamber groups and orchestra has been recorded either here or in Israel . Ernest Bloch 's works , which are not only Jewish but also general in appeal , have been recorded most . His symphony Israel , and his cello rhapsody Schelomo enjoy popularity . His Avodath Hakodesh ( Sacred Service ) has been recorded twice , once conducted by Bloch himself , and more recently by Leonard Bernstein . Darius Milhaud 's Service Sacre ( Sacred Service ) has been recorded by Lazar Weiner conducting the Centralp217Synagogue Choir , with Cantor Frederick Lechner as soloist . This writer recorded Songs and Prayers For the Sabbath , with Dr. Stephen S. Wise reading the Sabbath liturgy ( the only recording of his voice ) , accompanied by the Free Synagogue Choir , with music composed by myself . A new phenomenon in the recording of Jewish music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ songs and prayers which have become traditional and characteristic of their rabbis and their " courts . " So now we have recorded music related to the Modzhitzer Rabbi , the Melitzer Rabbi , the Lubavitcher Rabbi , and others . This recording activity is unprecedented , and some of it providesvaluable Jewish musicological material . Today , the State of Israel is recording music of variousOriental groups which have migrated to Israel since its establishment . Their musical traditions are age-old . The government and private individuals feel that these musical traditions should be recorded before they are lost with the passing of this generation . Many of these recordings are available here . Actively engaged in this work are Edith Gerson-Kiwi of Jerusalem , who has worked for the government and for the Hebrew University , and Johanna Spector , who has done this work with private subsidy . The greatest deficiency among the recordings of Jewishmusic is still the lack of recorded Jewish art music . Such recordings would give the public an idea of what is going on today in Jewish musical composition for solo instruments , chamber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operas . One of the developments coming from Samson Benderly'sprogram of the New York Bureau of Jewish Education , organized in 1910 , was the encouragement of Jewish music . The inclusion in Hebrew school curricular of Hebrewand Yiddish folk songs , as well as liturgical responses , brought to the attention of Jewish youth the fact that we possess a precious musical heritage of our own . The manyp218youngsters who came under the influence of Samuel Goldfarb , the Bureau 's music director , later became members of Jewish choruses as well as of Jewish audiences who patronizedJewish concerts throughout the country . Such music education is now being carried forward and developed under the auspices of the Jewish Education Committee of New York and similar organizations in other cities in the United States . Music was given an especial role in Jewish education when Alexander Dushkin , himself a musician , assumed the leadership of the Jewish Edcuation Committee . Its current music director , Harry Coopersmith , has developed a curriculum of music for Jewish schools , whereby children are taught the songs of the synagogue , Jewish folk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variousstyles . The cantorial art , which has played such an important part in the musical life of our people , and which is the natural heritage of every Jew , is also being perpetuated through classes in hazzanut . The text used is an excellent volume of hazzanut for the Sabbath , edited by Harry Coopersmith , and including music by two outstanding cantors in America ? Jacob Beimel and Gershon Ephros . Classes for the training of Jewish music teachers are held , and many of these teachers have gone to communities over the entire country , bringing back , through the religious school , the musical accompaniment to Jewish living , enhancedwith poetry and beauty . The Brandeis Arts Institute was established in 1945 in Santa Susana , California , as an extension of the general Brandeis Camp Institutes under Shlomo Bardin , executive director . Max Helfman was its first musical director . The threefold purpose of this special Institute was : to help foster , orient , and channel the vast artistic potential of American Jewish youth for the greater enrichment of Jewish life here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel ; and , to establish thep219proper instruments which can adequately bring these creativeforces to the people , in order to vitalize them and be in turn revitalized . Ernest Bloch arrived in this country in 1916 . He succeeded in interesting Artur Bodanzky , the German-Jewish conductor at the Metropolitan Opera House , in presenting a concert of his Jewish orchestral works at Carnegie Hall in 1917 . That program included Bloch 's Three Psalms for baritone and orchestra , the Three Jewish Poems , the rhapsody for cello and orchestra Schelomo , and the symphonyIsrael . That concert showed the world for the first time that the Jews are capable of producing a composer of top rank . It showed the younger generation of Jewish composers in those days what the music of a Jewish composerworking in larger forms could be . Above all , it showed us that if Jewish music is of high ranking quality , it can move into the concert hall and take its place alongside the music of other peoples . The arrival in this country of Joseph Achron was of inspirationto other Jewish composers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the noted musicologist , whose harmonic and melodic theories of Jewish musichave helped almost all Jewish composers . Solomon Rosowsky 's sojourn in America from 1931 to 1933 advanced the cause of Jewish music in America organizationally . With the cooperation of Mrs. Miriam Zunserand a group of Jewish musicians he organized in New York a society called Mailamm . The aims were two-fold ? to present monthly concerts of old and new Jewish music and to create an appreciation for that music ; and to support the work in research into Biblical cantillation , which Rosowsky was then doing in Jerusalem . Mailamm did much for the cause of Jewish music in America . At an international music contest on the occasion of the United States of America Sesquicentennial ( 1776-1926 ) , a first prize was awarded to Jacob Weinberg for his three/act opera The Pioneers . This first opera in the modern Hebrew language was premiered in 1934 at the old New York Mecca Auditorium . It was also published in America , and was subsequently performed in Israel and Europe . Efforts at Jewish musicology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date back to the middle of the nineteenth century . In 1913 the Central Conference of American Rabbisissued a pamphlet by Rabbi Jacob Singer of Chicago , entitled , Jewish Music Historically Considered . Later , in the twenties , Abraham Zevi Idelsohn 's excellent and authoritativework , Jewish Music in its Historical Development , appeared . That volume was welcomed by both Jews and gentiles , for it was the first scholarly work on Jewish music to be given to the world . It especially meant much to the Jewish musicians in America who were working in this field . New avenues for further investigation were opened up , and waves of debate and discussion were set off . At last there could be no more doubt that Jews had a music of their own , that they gave the Western world its musical foundations through their Biblical chant which influencedthe Gregorian chant , and that they have contributedmuch to the development of the art of music in Westerncivilization . The Jewish Music Forum , which was founded by this writer in 1939 , was essentially a Jewish musicological society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting a scientific paper on some phase of Jewish music , or a phase closely related to it , and new Jewish music . This was followed by discussion and criticism . Much creativity came out of these meetings , affecting all branches of Jewishmusic . The Jewish Music Forum functioned until 1962 , and then was reorganized in 1963 as the Jewish Liturgical Music Society of America . Over the years from 1939 to 1962 , outstanding scholars and musicians such as Curt Sachs , Joseph Yasser , Salo Baron , Frederick Jacobi , Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco ,  |p221Stefan  Volpe , Jacob Weinberg , Isadore Freed , Leonard Bernstein , and a host of others , read papers , led discussions , and performed their new Jewish works at the meetings of the Jewish Music Forum . At the end of each season the Forum sponsored symposia on various important subjects . The symposium held in June 1940 on " The Status of SynagogueMusic in America " resulted directly in improving synagogue music , raising its level of performance , and later , in the establishment of the School of Sacred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Eric Werner , Professor of Jewish Music at the Hebrew Union College ? Jewish Institute of Religion , has written some very valuable articles in the Hebrew Union College Annual on neglected by-ways in Jewish music of the MiddleAges . In 1959 he published his extremely important work , The Sacred Bridge , which is a comparative study of Jewish and Christian liturgy . Peter Gradenwitz 's volume , Music of Israel , was warmly welcomed here , as was also Aron Marko Rothmueller 's work , The Music of the Jews . A volume of great interest entitled Bibliography of JewishMusic appeared in 1950 . It is the work of Alfred Sendrey , who was an orchestral conductor in Germany . His hidden passion was Jewish music bibliography . When he was exiled to America he came with several thousand items already in his files . In America he developed this 1nateral , added to it , and received the encouragement and help of members of the Jewish Music Forum . The bibliographyas finally published in full by the Columbia University Press was hailed as a significant work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli and AmericanJewish Music was founded by this writer with the cooperation of outstanding Jewish composers here and in Israel . The purpose of this group was to foster closer cooperationbetween Israeli and American Jewish composers through mutual public performances and the exchange ofp222ideas . The full realization of this ideal has not yet been achieved . Over the years the American Musicological Society has also invited Jewish musicologists to speak on various Jewishmusical subjects at its monthly meetings . In 1950 the Society published in its journal an extensive article on " The Structure of the Synagogue Prayer Chant , " by Baruch Joseph Cohon . Branches of organizations like the Jewish Music Forum were established in Detroit , Chicago , Cleveland , Boston , and other cities . Jewish music was on the march ; it had come of age . The first Jewish Music Week was held in 1945 , organized by Bernard Carp , under the auspices of the then newly-formed National Jewish Music Council of the National Jewish Welfare Board . This has now been expandedand internationally observed as the annual Jewish Music Festival . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the National Jewish Music Council has continued to broaden its scope . Leah M. Jaffa , as its executive secretary from 1948 to 1963 , contributed much toward its development and advancement . When the first annual Jewish Music Festival was announced , a credo was set forth as follows : " Recognizing the importance of music in the culture of a people , the National Jewish Music Council aims to enrich American Jewish culture by highlighting its musical heritage . In elevating standards of Jewish music in content and performance , and by disseminating knowledge about it , the National Jewish Music Council endeavors to accord Jewishmusic dignity and status in Jewish and general culture in America . " The National Jewish Music Council , sponsored by the National Jewish Welfare Board , has grown since its foundingin 1944 to approximately eighty affiliates representing national Jewish organizations , numerous local communityp223Jewish Music Councils , and a multitude of members-atlarge . From Purim to Passover each year , more than a thousand Jewish organizations , Jewish Community Centers , synagogues , youth councils , schools , Zionist bodies , women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Festival . Included in these programs are symphonic , chamber and choral concerts featuring music by Bloch , Milhaud , Achron , Engel , Binder , Weinberg , Weiner , Freed , Jacobi , and others , along with the works of Israeli composers . There are also forums , exhibits , sermons , and special synagogue events , lectures , and radio and television programs . Many programs are planned at camps and veterans ' hospitals by Jewish Welfare Board Armed Services workers and Jewish chaplains . The Council has aided communities in sponsoring Festivalobservances and in conducting year-round music events . Finally , the Council has made available packets of reprints from Jewish Community Center Program Aids containing valuable program suggestions , music for Jewishgroups , and a catalogue of audio-visual materials . In the " How a Song May Serve as a Project " program chairmenare advised how to correlate effectively singing , dancing , acting , music listening , and poetry-writing . The JewishMusic Council has also published an excellent annotated Bibliography of Recorded Music , edited by Eric Werner . In 1963 and 1964 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridging Israel and America Through Music , " and " Honoring Four American Jewish Composers . " To aid communities in carrying out these projects , an extensive bibliography of music by Israeli composers and by American Jewish composers whose work was inspired by Israel , was issued by the Council with the assistanceof Issachar Miron and the America-Israel Cultural Foundation.  |p224While  Jewish Music Festival climaxes the work of the National Jewish Music Council , it is only part of a yearroundplan whose aim is the stimulation of an interest in and appreciation of Jewish music and Jewish composers . Composed of national Jewish organizations , as well as noted scholars , musicologists , composers , teachers , rabbis , and communal leaders , the Council is a coalition of the musical interests of the Jewish community . In effect , it represents a cross section of those forces in American Jewry concerned with giving direction and impetus to a growing Jewish culture . It has by universal agreement become a significant factor in stimulating an abiding love of Jewish music and interest in Jewish composers . Through its JewishMusic Notes , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has introduced Jewish musical personalities to wider audiences and has reported musical events and new materials . The National Jewish Music Council is striving to encouragecommunity planning and group participation on local levels , and to offer information and advice concerningJewish music , program planning for Jewish Music Festival and for year-round musical activities . It is concerned with stimulating composition , research and publication . Finally , it is trying to elevate standards of Jewish music in content , and to dignify the status of Jewish music . The advent of the Jewish Music Festival serves to focus attention on these objectives . It has therefore become an increasingly meaningful rallying point for all Jewish culturalforces among American Jewry . Its aims are simply stated in a brochure-catalogue issued by the National JewishMusic Council . The Festival has served to do more than promote performance and participation in Jewish music ; it has brought varied segments of the Jewish communitytogether on an inter-organizational basis , cooperatingin the development of a cultural project of interest to all.  |p225By  1956 , it was felt that the time had come to intensify the focus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all it must be in a constant state of progress and evolution . The vitality and vibrancy of an art depends not only on its past and present , but most importantly on its future . Composersmust be encouraged to create new works expressive of American Jewish life . It is for this reason that the National Jewish Music Councilthen undertook a major long-range project of encouragingand stimulating national organizations and institutions , local Jewish Community Centers , synagogues , Jewish community groups , singly and collectively , to commissionJewish musical works . Each composition , the nature of which could be determined by the musical needs of the particular organization or community , would be written for a specific performer or performing group , and presentedduring the Jewish Music Festival by the artist or the group for which it was written . Where possible , the composer selected would be from the local community or from the region , depending on whether the sponsoring groups were local or regional in character . Since 1957 , over 150 new Jewish musical works have been commissioned all over the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music works , choral compositions , synagogue services , religiousballets , Purim and other holiday operettas , organ and piano pieces , and many other musical forms . There have also been some commissions for Israeli composers . Two Sabbath eve services , with music contributed by Israeli composers , were commissioned in 1961-1962 by Temple on the Heights in Cleveland , Ohio , through Cantor Saul Meisels , and Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst , Long Island , through Rabbi Edward T. Sandrow and Cantor Samuel T. Dubrow . Some of the large and reputable orchestras in America such as , the New York Philharmonic , the Rochester Phil/harmonic , the Detroit Symphony Orchestra , the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra , and many smaller ensembles , as well as top-rate soloists , have included on their programs compositionsof Jewish interest by American Jewish composers . Joseph Szigeti has featured Joseph Achron 's Sternpenyu Suite on his programs . Achron 's Hebrew Melody has becomea classic violin piece , and may also be heard frequentlyon radio networks when Jewish or Oriental atmosphereis sought . At its regular concerts and on a coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this writer 's Concertino for String Orchestra and Jacob Weinberg 's Yemenite Rhapsody . The Symphony for Brass by Isadore Freed was performed by the Philadelphia and San Francisco Symphony Orchestras . Ernest Bloch 's works are played most frequently . His cello rhapsody Schelomo is often heard in concert and on radio , and has become accepted as a classic by both Jew and non-Jew . His Trois Poemes Juifs for orchestra is also frequently performed , as is his Israel symphony . His Baal Shem Suite is a popular selection in the violin repertoire . The works of the gifted Israeli composer Paul Ben-Haim are frequently heard . On March 3 , 1963 , the Symphony Orchestra of the University of Miami , under the direction of Dr. Fabian Sevitsky , saluted the State of Israel with a performance of Ben-Haim 's violin concerto ; and in 1962 , the Hartford Symphony Orchestra , under the direction of Fritz Mahler , performed his Fanfare to Israel . Arnold Schoenberg 's A Survivor From Warsaw , for chorus and orchestra , was performed with great success by the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all over the land , both in concert and informally . Thanks to the many excellentarrangements made by American Jewish composers , these melodies have been given a hearing on the large concertstages of America , bringing them before the publicp227and making the names of their folk- and art-composers known in this country . The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and various choruses and dance groups have appeared in transcontinental tours , presenting for the most part general music and some works by Israeli composers . It may be said with pride that the musical standards of all these organizations have been uniformlyhigh . Soon the time was felt to be ripe for the organization of a school of Jewish sacred music . The Jewish Music Forum had aroused musicians , rabbis , and laity to the fact that , while we possess a tremendous literature of synagogue choral music , much of the music which was being sung in the synagogue was not synagogal in character . The extraneousmusical influences which had nothing to do with our sacred nusach ha-te fillah ? our Jewish musical tradition ? hadinvaded this sacred domain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to engage trained musicians to lead their music , and better singers were sought . It was found , however , that the cantor , who had to be trained for this calling , was largely the most deficient . With a few notable exceptions the cantorate in America had descended to very low standards . Congregations engaged cantors for their voices only , not taking into consideration their knowledge of the profession , their scholarship , or their piety . Many knew only the recitatives which they had learned by way of phonograph records , and for the most part , they were disappointed opera singers . Thus the time had come for a cantorial school to be founded . There had been a great deal of discussion about such a school for a half century , but nothing concrete had ever been done ; so , the Society for the Advancement of Jewish Liturgical Music was organized , and through its members headed by Eric Werner and this writer , con/vinced the authorities of the Hebrew Union College to start a School of Sacred Music . The school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its first class of eight students . Courses offered in the school consist of : the history of Jewish music ; nusach ha-tefillah ; synagogue and folk music ; music education ; cantillation ; choral ensemble and conducting ; theory and harmony ; sight-singing ; analytical bibliography ; and musical settings . Special courses are also offered to cantors in service who wish to improve their knowledge of the cantorate . A course for the training of organists was also initiated by Isadore Freed . This cantorial school today has been heartily welcomed by the American Jewish community . Throughout the country , congregations seek trained cantors , just as Jewish communities throughout the ages have always sought trained rabbis with s'micha . Members of the school 's graduatingclasses easily find posts awaiting them . In 1952 , through the efforts of Cantor David Putterman , the Jewish Theological Seminary of America opened the Cantors Institute and College of Jewish Music , and engagedHugo Weisgall as its director . Its chief purpose is to train cantors for service in the many Conservative congregationsin this country . The Yeshiva University , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cantors for the Orthodox congregations , and organized such a school in1954 . And so , with members of the three faculties , three student bodies , and three cantorial alumnal organizations , the JewishLiturgical Music Society of America was organized by this writer in 1963 , with the aim of uniting the three groups of each school under a neutral canopy . The Society is dedicated to the advancement of synagogue music in America . A significant forward step in synagogue music was institutedby Cantor David Putterman at the Park Avenuep229Synagogue in New York City , when he organized his annualmusical service dedicated to contemporary music for the synagogue . During these special services , Cantor Puttermanhas presented new music for the synagogue , composedespecially for these occasions by many younger Jewishcomposers . The fruits of this worthwhile project are contained in a volume entitled Synagogue Music by ContemporaryComposers , published by G. Schirmer . Today we have two tremendous reservoirs of world Jewry ? Israel and America ? each with its own remarkablepotentialities . In Israel , the land of our fathers , echoes of ancient Israel 's Biblical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our people are re-echoed in new musical manifestations . Here in America Jews have striven for decades to hold fast to the faith of our fathers , and helped in the building and development of our country for three hundred years . We must not lose sight of the fact that after World War I , when many of the great Jewish creative musical spirits came to America , it devolved upon American Jewish musicians to carry forward the work . This they did . They helped to develop the Jewish musical art to the stage where it is today . In the last quarter of a century more Jewish music has been composed in the United States than in any other country in the world . Jewish composers in and out of Israel are working toward the same goal , namely , the development of a Jewish musicalidiom in a Jewish art music which will be recognized unmistakably as our own , and which will take its place alongside of the great music of other nations . Israel is the inspiration of all Jewish musicians . The true Jewish music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not of any particular segment of the Jewish people , but rather of all the Jews the world over.  |p230To  all those who have become accustomed to the synagoguemusic of Sigmund Schlesinger ( 1835-1906 ) and Edward Stark ( 1863-1918 ) , the music which has come from the pens of the new generation of synagogue music composerssuch as Bloch , Freed , Weinberg , Schalit , Fromm , Chajes , myself , and others , must surely sound strange . Insteadof operatic tunes , we now have melodies based on our musical tradition ? nusach ha-te fillah . Instead of the tonic-dominant harmonies characteristic of the nineteenth century , new harmonic efforts are made to retain the character of the Jewish melody . Instead of secular rhythms , we have rhythms related to the Hebrew language . The tremendous musical structure which our ancestors wrought in our round-the-year liturgy over a period of more than 2,000 years , consists of modes and **27;4554;TOOLONG into small motifs , each one designed to create the atmosphere of a particular holiday , prayer , special occasion , or spiritual moment . If this musical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacred and traditional spirit . The sacred spirit of our people and its prayers are enshrinedin our nusach ha-te fillah . Melody : In the new synagogue music of our day we find first of all a change in melodic materials . The musical materialof Schlesinger was for the most part operatic in style ; he did not hesitate to take a complete operatic aria and set it to an important prayer in the Day of Atonement liturgy . A flagrant example of such misuse is found in Ki Vayom , of the evening service for the Day of Atonement , where he applies the melody of the famous aria by Donizetti , Una Furtiva Lagrira . It is true that Schlesinger did make some efforts at using traditional melodies in his works , but in the harmonies he imposed upon them they lost their character and spirit . Edward Stark , a cantor in San Francisco , realized Schlesinger 's shortcomings and tried to effect a remedy . He used more traditional material in his music , and sought to adhere to the authenticity of modes . He also tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partially because he was greatly handicapped by the lack of technical musical equipment needed to deal with the harmonization of a Jewish tune . At best , his music resembles the Germanic style of Sulzer and Lewandowski , which planted synagogue music in an alien harmonic soil in the nineteenth century . Composers of present-day synagogue music have benefitedfrom the results of fifty years of research and discussionon the nature of genuine synagogue music . It may be that we have not arrived at the final answer as yet , but we are much nearer to it than we were at the turn of the century . Our efforts during the past two decades indicate that we are on the right track ; our synagogue musical tradition and the traditional melodies which have developed out ofp232our new approach are rooted in the cantillation modes of the Bible . These cantillation modes also were the foundationsof the Byzantine chant of the Greek Orthodox Church and the Gregorian chant of the Roman Catholic Church . Both churches have guarded their musical traditions zealously . Some of our modern composers will sometimes use a traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a traditional mode . An important step forward is the use of the correct mode and melody at the right time , thereby helping to create the right atmosphere and spirit of the occasion . Let us recall at this moment how the traditionalRosh Hashanah eve melody helps to establish immediatelythe spirit of the holiday in the synagogue ; how the melody of Kol Nidre brings the spirit of the Day of Atonement to us ; and how the soul of the Sabbath descends into the synagogue when V'shomru is sung in the Magen Avot mode , which is the correct modal tradition for this prayer . I have endeavored over a period of two decades to bring back the beautiful cantillation of the Bible into the Reform service . Our young cantors and rabbis are now being trained to chant the Torah in such a way as to enhancethe text and bring back musical beauty to our service . I have also tried to bring back the free chant into synagogue music , not only in solos , but also in choral passages , thus giving to the synagogue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the synagogue music of the nineteenth centurymuch of the true color of synagogue music was lost when the composers of that period attempted to harmonize our traditional music with the existing Western system of harmony . They did not go together . Toward the end of the nineteenth century serious synagogue music composers began to experiment with various methods of harmonizations . Their main goal was to harmonize the Jewish tunep233in such a way as to reflect its true beauty and characteristics . At the beginning of this century the composers in the Jewish Folk Music Society of St. Petersburg were active and most fruitful in this effort . Men like Achron , Milner , Rosowsky , and Weinberg understood the problem and tried to solve it . Soon such talented synagogue composers as Eliezer Gerovitch ( 1844-1913 ) and David Nowakowsky ( 1848-1921 ) began to follow them in their synagogue works . These two were the first to grapple with the importantproblem in this field , and it is for this reason that the works of Gerovitch and Nowakowsky remain useful for the modern service even in our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our greatest composers , and Joseph Achron ( 1886-1943 ) , another gifted composer , both pointed the way for our contemporary musicians who are today writing synagogue music for the Reform synagogues . Joseph Yasser ( born 1893 ) has developedharmonic theories in this direction which have also been very helpful . It must be said for posterity that it has been largely the Reform movement which has sponsoredthe new era in synagogue music during the past two decades . It was also the Reform movement in America which had the foresight and idealism to make music an important part of a rabbinical training curriculum . This now enables the student-rabbi to develop a knowledge not only of the text of the liturgy , but also of the music which should accompany it . With an appreciation of good synagogue music , the rabbi is able to plan an inspiring religious service . The School of Sacred Music , which is a surety for the perpetuationand development of Jewish music in America , is another of the notable musical accomplishments of the Reform movement in America . Rhythm : In examining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant facts emerge : 1 ) Most of the tunes are by Sulzer and Lewandowski ; 2 ) Most of these tunes are in three-quarter ( waltz ) time . Sulzerp234and Lewandowski were contemporaries of Johann Strauss , the great waltz composer , and were undoubtedly influenced by him . Today it is felt that the composer must derive the rhythm for his melodic material from the rhythm of the text with which he is dealing . The Hebrew language has rhythmic individuality , and the synagogue composer must attune his ear to its pulse . In some cases measured rhythm is possible and even necessary ; in others , the free chant will speak the true spirit of the liturgy . It is most important , however , to reveal through melody the accents of our ancient tongue . Form : An important contribution which modern composershave made to synagogue music has been in the field of musical form . Form was sadly lacking in a good deal of our synagogue music literature of former days . Today we have services which are based on specific thematic material integrally woven throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ha-kodesh . Then , too , we have services where each individual piece is an integrated entity . Above all , it is satisfying to note that the new synagogue music , for the most part , is good music by all accepted standards in the art of music . One of the primary reasons for the development of higher standards in the music of the Reform synagogue is attributed to the fact that our synagogues in the early twentiesbegan to engage trained Jewish musicians to direct their music . Soon this small but able group was joined by others over the country , as well as by the musicians from Europe who sought haven here in the thirties , and whose contributions to the cause of good synagogue music in America should not be minimized . The modern synagogue musician does not advocate the elimination of all old music and the substitution of the new ; rather , he advocates a happy combination of both old and new , provided that both belong in the category of good music . He does not advocate that services by one composerp235be sung in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a service be constructed and balanced like a fine concertprogram , with works by composers in various styles . Special programs of new synagogue music and the production of new works are all part of the new trend in synagoguemusic . In preparation for such occasions ? usually during Hanukkah and Purim , and for Jewish Music Month ? the life and musical activity of the Jewish composer should be stressed , his work and aims described . The cooperationof all forces in the synagogue should be sought in order to make the occasion a cultural and spiritual success . What are some of the goals of good synagogue music ? The worshiper should be moved to deeper concentration upon prayer , and to more profound devotional feeling . Sacred music should help bring forth all that is good and tender in a human being . When the service is artistically performed , the worshiper undergoes a religio-musical experienceunobtainable in any other manner . For this spiritualexperience he will surely return !                     