@@773972

txt aeronautical side of the British War Office . In 1909 Mervyn O'Gorman , a professional engineer , was appointed Superintendent of the Balloon Factory at Farnborough . Here were engineers , civil and military , working on aeroplanes . These men saw the need to establish design and manufacture upon a formal basis and in 1912 the first Airworthiness Certificate was granted , to a BEI aircraft , on completion of satisfactory static load tests on the structure . Early in 1914 the Aeronautical Inspection Department of the Royal Flying Corps was established under Major J. D. B. Fulton , RFA . There was at this time a lively aircraft design and manufacturing industry , but no British manufacture of aero engines . Still before the outbreak of war , C. G. Grey was reporting in The Aeroplane that the AID were getting into order a proper system of what one must , I suppose , call " book-keeping " , by which every incident can be traced . ' By 1915 there was a large production of aircraft and engines in Britain . The AID played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval became a hallmark of quality , and Lord Weir stated later that the AID had played a definite part in raising the level of British engineering quality ' . Nevertheless , by 1917 the AID was being criticized for being too rigid in its interpretation of requirements due to dilution and a lowering of the standard of the rank and file inspectors . Fulton died in 1915 and his place was taken eventually by Lt. Col. H. W. S. Outram , who also died in harness , as Director-General , in 1944 . Thus , there was early insistence upon conformance of product and process with specified requirements . Records had to be kept , and all changes , to assemblies , detail drawings , processes and standards had to be approved by the customer 's representative the resident AID Inspector-in-Charge . Thus , although the phrase was not used until Bell adopted it about 10 years later , the basic requirements of quality assurance were laid down . The system has in fact become so much the way of life of British aircraft firms that it is sometimes difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to introduce similar practices into defence industries are really nothing new . Additional confirmation of the soundness of the system is provided by automobile manufacturers . To comply with the US National Traffic and Motor Car Safety Act 1966 , they have found it necessary to introduce a system of design , manufacturing , and quality control which is practically identical with that of the early AID-trained aircraft firms . It is a great pity that those who were charged with effecting economies 30 in Government expenditure in the years following the Second World War failed to understand that inspection ' was not the major role of the AID . Twenty five years elapsed before the importance of the underlying system of quality assurance was properly appreciated . Opportunities Missed Even in the United States , industry was at first a little slow to follow the lead of Jones and his team at the Bell Telephone Laboratories . The Second World War provided an incentive . Unfortunately , the circumstances of greatly increased rates of production lent themselves readily to the application of the new statistical techniques , and the fundamentals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducted across the United States , to train thousands of people in the techniques of statistical quality control . The three essential requirements outlined by Shewhart were appreciated by only a few . Large numbers of SQC practitioners found work in machine shops , and it probably did not occur to them that the detail drawing , with its dimensions and tolerances , was in fact the specification which had to be met . In both the United States and Britain the education campaigns were Government-sponsored . Whereas in the United States the task was delegated mainly to the universities , in Britain Government participation was the more obvious , the chosen instrument being a Government statistical advisory unit . Possibly because those who helped in the American campaign had come under the direct influence of the enthusiastic and experienced Bell team , their work had a more permanent effect . In Britain , quality control seems to have been adopted rather more from compulsion than from conviction . Hence , when Government controls were removed at the end of the war , quality control was an early victim . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's market meant too that the incentive of competition was absent . Other factors influenced the situation in Britain . As Tippett has said : Statisticians like myself are apt to call the subject statistical quality control , hoping thereby to absolve themselves from the duty of considering management aspects . 5 In consequence , there was little understanding of basic principles . A common sight in British factories during the war was row upon row of control charts mounted in expensive metal frames , one to each machine , standing in dusty futility . There is little point in maintaining control charts on processes which are consistently in control , as the majority of 31 machining processes usually are . Management and operatives alike became quickly disillusioned as to their value . It was unfortunate , too , that Professor Egon Pearson 's excellent guideb went out of print just before the war . A second impression was planned , but this intention was frustrated when the set type was destroyed by enemy action . Whatever the reasons , the fact remains that in the United States there was earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fundamentals of quality control . This was accompanied by a rapid growth of professionalism , so rapid in fact that today the membership of the American Society for Quality Control is in excess of 20,000 . It is perhaps indicative of the pattern of developments in the United States during the past 30 years , however , that it is only within the past two or three years that the ASQC has set up Reliability and Inspection Divisions . During the postwar years statistical quality control became wellestablished , on the continent and in Britain , in firms employing continuous processes , as in the chemical industry and papermaking . The large quantity production units of the rapidly growing electrical and electronic industries followed . In Holland particularly , the home of Philips and Unilever , statistics gained a firm hold . In Britain , with its large numbers of old-established engineering firms , with much of its industry concerned with short runs and small batch production , the applications of statistical methods have been more restricted , as already indicated . Indeed , there can be little doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their value was limited , retarded the adoption of quality control . This may well prove to have been an advantage in the long run . This is probably because British reluctance to be stampeded into acceptance of the new techniques led to a thorough study of the fundamental factors underlying the achievement of product quality and reliability . A Return to Fundamentals During the ' fifties the managements of Britain , the United States , and Japan began to take an increasing interest in the advantages which might accrue from the adoption of quality and reliability principles . These movements had different motivations , but although they have followed different paths they are tending towards a common pattern which resembles closely the original concept of Bell . In Britain , the British Productivity Council had been struggling to spread an interest in quality control . Independently , the Institution of 32 Production Engineers set up a committee which prepared for publication a valuable booklet which showed a new and refreshing appreciation of the basic approach. ? It was certainly the first British publication to emphasize the responsibility of senior management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments concerned with the design and manufacture of the product . About 10 years ago a study was made of the reasons for the difference between American and British progress since the war . It became apparent that many British industrialists had an innate suspicion of the predominantly statistical approach to quality control which then prevailed . It was clear , too , that the conflict between the quality and reliability interests in the United States , which still exists to some extent , was benefiting neither party . It was sensed instinctively that quality and reliability had always been implicit but undefined factors of great importance in the planning and direction of successful British enterprises . Research among consumers , and more particularly among housewives , showed that most of them looked upon quality ' as a desirable attribute , but one which was beyond the reach of their purse . They thought of quality in its sense of degree of excellence ' , so that a quality product meant the best obtainable . They experienced no such difficulty when it came to considering reliability . A common definition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product which went on working properly for as long as it was felt that it ought to , for the money paid for it ' . Add the proviso that the user must treat the product fairly , and not abuse it , and we have a far better definition of reliability than some of those evolved for military weaponry . At this time , the suggestion was being made that there should be set up a specialist institution of reliability engineers in Britain . It was realized , however , that such a move would probably retard rather than advance progress towards the wider involvement of managers and engineers throughout industry which was felt to be essential . At the Fourth Annual Conference of the European Organization for Quality Control , which was held in London in 1960 , my presidential address included the following : The Purpose of an Industrial Organization is to Achieve the Requisite Quality of Product , at Minimum Cost . Requisite quality is defined as that which is necessary to ensure customer satisfaction , by achieving a given standard of reliability , or fitness for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of product quality will require the 33 application of commonsense , engineering , inspection , proving ( e.g. by testing ) , and statistical methods of analysing manufacturing performance , each in greater or lesser degree according to the nature of the product , its value , its purpose , the rate and scale of its production , the personality of the organization , and the capability of the personnel concerned ... . There is no simple universal solution , nor any single ideal form of organization . The precise title under which each of the basic acts is operated is of no significance , and it may well vary in different organizations . The National Council for Quality and Reliability In 1961 , as a result of the active encouragement of the British Productivity Council and of individual members of other bodies , notably the Institution of Production Engineers , the National Council for Quality and Reliability was formed . Its constitution was unusual . It was set up to promote , throughout the country , an awareness of the importance of achieving quality and reliability in the design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in services throughout the private and public sectors . Its membership consists of 45 national bodies which include many of the senior professional institutions , Government departments in defence and technology , the Trades Union Congress , the British Institute of Management , and the Institute of Directors . It wields no executive authority , nor can it with such a membership of widely diverse interests have a single voice , save on matters of broadest principle . It functions by exercising an instigatory and catalytic influence upon its members . Many of them have initiated or sponsored conferences on a national scale , some of which have been of great significance . Since the aggregate membership of its member organizations is of the order of 750,000 , not counting the millions of trade union members and tens of thousands of civil servants , the potential influence of NCQR greatly exceeds that of any other body concerned with quality and reliability . In 1966-67 , only five years after the formation of NCQR , it was found possible for the British Productivity Council , its sponsor , to launch Quality and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more than 1400 of them held campaigns within their organizations . The campaign was noteworthy for the extent to which it succeeded in involving senior management . In fact , this was a major factor enabling the campaign to be mounted so quickly , completely , and effectively . 34 Management 's Task In 1963 , I was invited to present a paper at the XIIIth Triennial Conference in New York of the Comite International de 1'Organisation Scientifique , on the latest developments in quality and reliability in Europe . There was no doubt that the organizers expected a dissertation upon some new refinement of current techniques . Realizing that Rolls-Royce had enjoyed for nearly 60 years a unique reputation for the quality and reliability of its products , a study was made of how this had been achieved . It soon became apparent that this reputation had been established long before quality and reliability had become catchwords in many firms , cults in others . Further investigation showed that the company , at that time only about three years old and employing only a few hundred people , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare today , was by no means unusual in those days , before management had become confused by today 's plethora of techniques . The company 's continuing success has been due in large measure to its retention and observation of the principles upon which its reputation was founded . It was possible to identify the following : Essential Requirements for the Achievement of Reliable Product8 ( a ) A satisfactory design of product , thoroughly proved by adequate testing in order to establish its reliability under the conditions to which it will be subjected in use . ( b ) A full specification of the requirements of the design , which must be clearly understood by everyone concerned with the production of the constituent parts and the complete end-product. ( c ) Confirmation that the manufacturing processes are capable of meeting these requirements . ( d ) Full acceptance , by all those concerned with production , of the responsibility for meeting the standards set by the specification . ( e ) A check that the products conform with the specification . This check is required to protect the customer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide essential information regarding failure to conform . ( f ) Instruction in the use of the product . ( g ) A study of user experience , feedback to the department concerned , and rapid remedial action . When offering these essentials at the International Conference on Quality Control , Tokyo 1969 , two more were added to the list : ( h ) Everyone in the organization working till it hurts ' , in the words of the late Lord Hives. 35 ( i ) Realization that the customer must receive better satisfaction than he can obtain from the company 's competitors . The foregoing is merely a statement of the obvious . Nevertheless , contact with many companies in different industries in many different countries has shown that it is rare to find firms having a clear understanding of these requirements , still rarer to find them all properly implemented . In the majority of cases , it has been found that there exists a greater or lesser degree of neglect in the following areas : ( a ) Failure of design to take all service requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reveal potential deficiencies in the design . ( c ) Little or no effort to educate the user . ( d ) Neglect of experience in the field . The essentials listed above show clearly the extent to which management must involve departments throughout the organization in the effort necessary to achieve reliability . Indeed , only senior management can ensure the direction and coordination which are obviously needed . Meanwhile , in the United States , there had appeared , in 1951 , Dr J. M. Juran 's Quality Control Handbook , and Dr A. V. Feigenbaum 's book Quality Control . Both of these works emphasized the role of management . At about the same time Dr W. Edwards Deming had begun a series of visits to Japan . Here , he played an important part in showing Japanese executives how to ' incorporate the quality philosophy in the organizations of the companies which they were re-establishing after the war . At first , statistical techniques were taken up with great enthusiasm . Courses of instruction were given on radio , on television , and in the factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , Japanese firms were probably even quicker than those in the United States to see clearly the vital part which management must play . Companies that have promoted it as Q.C . equals management / control ' are very prosperous , while those that have conducted Q.C . within a small part of the inspection department by interpreting Q.C . in its narrow sense have not been so successful.9 Recognizing the general movement towards greater involvement of management , Feigenbaum produced , in 1961 , a new book Total Quality Control . This was followed in 1963 by a second edition of Juran 's Handbook , greatly enlarged , and in 1964 by his Managerial Breakthrough . Perhaps the greatest influence has been exercised , however , by the US Department of Defense , which in 1959 published Specification 36 MIL-Q-9858 Quality Program Requirements ' . Its successor , MIL-Q9858A , published in 1963 , has made it incumbent upon contractors to the Department to have within their organization a system of control which is similar to that established in Britain 's aircraft industry 50 years ago . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the American National Traffic and Motor Car Safety Act , 1966 . For their own protection , as well as that of motorists and pedestrians alike , main and ancillary firms in the automobile industries of every nation must , sooner or later , adopt similar systems . Some Pitfalls Simple , clear , and obvious as may be the principles outlined by Jones ' team at the Bell Telephone Laboratories , there remain many who are still not fully aware of them . These people tend to fall easy prey to those who profess to an understanding which in fact they do not possess . Regrettably , considerable confusion still exists , in many circles , about the real purpose and function of various activities connected with the overall aim of quality assurance . On the whole , it is people who feel that their jobs are threatened ? inspectors who fear that quality control will pass them by ? or aspirants who do not understand the management viewpoint , who have created the confusion . One symptom of it is the number of different titles which are used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and often identical . Inspection , Quality Control , Statistical Quality Control , Quality Audit , and Quality Assurance describe what really are different activities . Yet they are often applied , indiscriminately and with little understanding , to what is often no more than post-mortem inspection . Quality Engineering and Total Quality Control are other titles which do little to simplify the situation . Implicit in many of them still remains the suggestion that statistical methods play a vital part . In much the same way , reliability is interpreted in entirely different ways by people concerned with missiles and electronic and nuclear equipments on the one hand , and with mechanical products like aero engines and motor cars and lawn mowers on the other . The former , who were extremely concerned from 10 to 12 years ago by the then unacceptably high unreliability of highly complicated products , went statistical ' . They had some justification for doing so , because the inherent unreliability , by mechanical engineering standards , and the large number of components involved , provided a sound enough basis for the statistical probability approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compulsion of safety of life , engineers and managers in all branches of the aircraft industry have always had a clear understanding of the fundamentals of reliability achievement . The principles and practices which they follow are applic able to all types of industry , yet it is only recently that they are beginning to be adopted . It has been interesting to see how the challenges posed first by nuclear submarines , and later by the American National Traffic and Motor Car Safety Act 1966 , have led to the introduction of aircraft engineering and management practices by shipbuilders and motor car manufacturers . During recent years , there has been a great improvement in the reli ability of detail electronic components . This means that the statistical sampling methods used earlier are diminishing in value , for the reasons which apply to mechanical equipment . The fewer components of a com plex device that are likely to be unreliable , the larger the test sample that is needed . Hence in this field , too , we have seen the adoption of engineering and management systems which derive from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this has been a factor in the success of the Apollo expeditions to the moon . 38 PART 2 Industrial Enterprise 4 The Manufacturing Complex Since the days of Charles Babbage so much has been written about business organization , manufacturing , and productivity that a further essay on these subjects could only be repetitious and boring . There is , however , one aspect of industrial enterprise which has so far received too little notice . It concerns the number of interdependent firms involved in each separate project . Even the smallest concern , the village shoemaker for example , must buy leather from tanners , who buy skins , tannic acid , and dressings from other companies . The shoemaker must obtain wax and thread , nails and eyelets from specialist suppliers , and he will use a modicum of machinery . Needles will be a consumable item of equipment , and once in a while he will require a new apron , rasps , a hammer and a last , as these become damaged or wear out . As manufacturing organizations become larger , their dependence upon outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services increases rapidly . A firm producing motor cars , or accessories for motor cars , will probably have as many as 700 to 1000 main suppliers . They will be responsible for up to 70 per cent of the value of the end product . They will include suppliers of materials , steel and alloy bar , sheet , forgings and castings ; manufacturers of standard detail components such as nuts , bolts , ball and roller bearings ; makers of proprietary products , for example pumps , carburettors , brake and steering assemblies , gearboxes , locks , and handles . Specialist manufacturers will supply pistons , piston rings , valves , and valve springs ; other companies will provide machining services , making parts under sub-contract to the primary firm 's own drawings . These subsidiary firms will themselves 41 depend upon perhaps several hundred other suppliers . This same pattern applies throughout industry . The only difference is that somewhat fewer firms might be involved when the end-product is less complicated than a motor car . At the other extreme , some large firms in the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Defense has 18,000 contractors , and the mind boggles at the total number of enterprises involved , directly and indirectly , in supplying the Department of Defense with equipment . The majority of defence agencies , and large retailers such as Marks and Spencer Ltd , make nothing themselves . They are entirely dependent upon outside suppliers . In the ultimate , it is probably no exaggeration to say that every manufacturing organization in the country bears some responsibility , however indirect or however small , to every primary product . In addition , every organization depends upon people . A company 's employees are indeed among its suppliers . Whether it employs ten or a hundred thousand people , the firm is customer to all these individual men and women who supply their knowledge , intelligence , and skills in exchange for wages and salaries , job interest , and fulfilment . The Challenge to Management This complex situation brings in its train a host of difficulties which are at the root of most of the troubles encountered in industrial relationships . Every Production Manager has suffered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the late arrival of essential items , or by a batch of material or parts which is found to be unsatisfactory on receipt . Or it may be the late arrival of an important machine tool , or the breakdown of another one , and non-availability of a replacement part which makes it impossible to meet the desired programme . It is doubtful whether people responsible for late deliveries of supplies , or poor reliability of equipment , are aware of their failure . The supplier of steel bar or billet , for example , can not easily visualize the form which vital components made from that material will eventually take . Nor will he understand , generally , the conditions of stress and the importance of the quality of what are to him merely lumps of metal . The long and complicated cycle of conversion , the remoteness both in time and technical complexity , form a barrier to the realization and acceptance of responsibility for the proper performance of that metal . What other reasons can there be for the reluctance of steel suppliers , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their long established resistance to suggestions that steel specifications should be 42 quantified ? It would be a healthy exercise for material suppliers to consider how they themselves would react should they be compelled to buy furnaces , machinery , or their own motor cars , under the conditions of sale which they offer to their customers ( and impose upon them , when there is a seller 's market ) . If management wishes to bring a major producing company to the point of maximum efficiency , all individuals and firms supporting the enterprise must identify themselves with the end-purpose . Yet only a minority of managements appreciate this . A study of the extent to which a company is dependent upon so many people , within and outside its direct control , can so broaden the viewpoint of that company 's senior management that by taking appropriate action it must inevitably benefit . That this is not better appreciated is due probably to the discipline to which most managers are subjected . They are conditioned to achieve 43 the short-term or immediate result . The prospect of a long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterrent , since it usually interferes with the immediate task . Yet the advantages and benefits are considerable . By making supplying firms realize their responsibilities not only can promised deliveries be maintained , product quality improved , lead times shortened , and stockholdings reduced , but also there will be an overall increase in efficiency and a consequent reduction in costs . Leading firms are already taking action to involve their suppliers in their own end-purpose . Each step taken has an ever-widening effect . By acting as a tonic to each group of suppliers , it influences their own suppliers in turn . In consequence , several thousand firms may be influenced for the better as the result of the action of one company . During National Quality and Reliability Year ( 1966-67 ) , this movement towards total involvement , which had already been started by a few firms , received further impetus . The definition and allocation of responsibility throughout the whole of the complex involved in the effort to produce an equipment or a service is in fact a specific requirement which contractors to the US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministry of Defence must now meet . Figures 4.1 and 4.2 show the composition of British and American industry , in terms of the number of firms of each size , large and small . These analyses ignore the smallest firms , the tens of thousands employing fewer than ten employees . Yet these small firms are not negligible to the efforts of the large industrial empires . It is a fact that some of the largest firms in Britain obtain essential supplies from some of the smallest . In addition , each and every one of these firms depends upon people . A company 's employees are one of its major assets . The involvement of its employees in the purpose of the enterprise is one of the prime responsibilities of management . Q &; R provides one of the best means which has yet been evolved for the motivation of people . Because every man can see clearly that quality and reliability are good things in his own individual case , he can appreciate that they are good for everyone else as well . It has been found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself ensure involvement in a company 's aims . It is useful to remember , too , that a company 's employees are in their turn the customers of suppliers of food and clothing , shelter and public transport , amusement and recreation , protection ( as by police and the armed services ) , medical care , and organization and coordination ( as by local and national Government ) . Without this interdependent 44 complex of primary suppliers with the other supplying agencies , there ld bid Looking Both Ways In every case , whether we are considering the individual employee or the industrial organization , there is a dual attitude of mind . We are , each one of us , at one and the same time both a supplier and a customer . Indeed , in not a few cases a supplier may be the customer of his own customer . A man may buy a bicycle , a television set , a motor car , or bread which he has himself helped to make . A supplier of castings or of ball bearings may buy a machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question should be posed is he entitled to receive better service and value than he himself provides ? Consideration of the dual role of supplier and customer enables management to see more clearly what must be done to achieve the requisite quality and reliability of product , and who must do what . In the general case , unfortunately , we are more conscious of our rights , of our personal dissatisfactions as customers than of our duties as suppliers . Some large supplying firms , however , have clearly realized their responsibilities to their customers . Firms which have done this 45 usually prove to be good customers in their turn . They have come to expect cooperation and assistance from those whom they supply , and they realize that they themselves can benefit by offering similar help to those who supply them . They have appreciated that for them to offer optimum value to their customers it is necessary for them to enlist the maximum support from their own suppliers , whose end-customer is not themselves , but their own customers . They make it clear to all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market by providing customer satisfaction , they will cease to be a market to their present suppliers . In this interdependent cycle , they are agents as well as doers . To achieve the involvement of a firm 's suppliers in the total enterprise of the firm requires in the first instance a recognition by senior management of the importance of this involvement . This must be followed by action , by the same senior management , and through the medium of the purchasing department , to enlist the cooperation and support of all the suppliers concerned . This holds good as much when we are considering the individual employee as a supplier of services to his firm as when the supplier is a company , small or large . In every case , it is incumbent upon the customer ( or the employer or his agent , the manager ) to make certain that his supplier ( or employee ) : ( a ) Knows what is expected of him . ( b ) Has the ability , the will , and the facilities to do what is expected of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( d ) Can be seen to have done so . Business is a Two-Party Affair At each of the many interfaces in the complex of supplier/customer relationships only two parties are involved . As we have seen , each party has a share of the responsibility towards the successful provision of customer satisfaction . These responsibilities will only be met to the full when each party realizes that it stands to benefit from cooperation with the other . During the past few years , there has been a tendency on the part of the Governments or Government agencies of some countries to presume to ensure customer satisfaction by carrying out independent checks of the quality of suppliers ' goods , by examining and approving their quality assurance ' ( sic ) or inspection organizations . To a considerable extent these are seen to be misguided attempts by inspectorates and/or standards organizations to exercise power ' . In 46 the words of Dr Juran , i such bodies are aggressive . Often , they fail to understand the fundamentals of business life . Let us examine , however , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two-party interface is justifiable and desirable . The Intrusion of a Third Party There are certain circumstances in which a third party may justifiably take action , as when there is Government legislation to lay down standards which must be maintained in order to protect the health or safety of the people . Unfortunately the basis of this third party interest is not always clearly understood , and there are well-meaning but mistaken attempts , by individuals in this country and abroad , to impose standards of quality upon ordinary commercial products , and to approve ' the quality assurance organizations of the firms producing them . It can perhaps be taken as a compliment to the efforts of the protagonists of quality and reliability that Government departments in more than one country should have been so impressed by the value of quality assurance that they should wish to make its use mandatory throughout industry . Some go further , and wish to assume the right to certify the effectiveness of the quality assurance systems of industrial firms , and to lay down standards of quality to be reached by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed intention of increasing the attractiveness and competitiveness of products , especially in foreign markets . In support of this proposal is adduced the example of Japan , in the early days of the recovery of whose industry after the war quality control and the Export Inspection Law played important parts . In general , this trend is indicative of the failure of these departments to understand the fundamental principle of two-party responsibility , and the relevance of product quality to the customer 's needs . In the cases already discussed , in which a Government department is the customer , there may sometimes be a tendency to look upon the appropriate Inspectorate as a third , independent party . In fact the Inspectorate is acting as the agent of the customer , who in the ultimate is the sailor , the soldier , the airman . The extent to which the Inspectorate may be compelled to apply its own standards is a measure of the ineffectiveness of the specification , or of the lack of standards laid down by the design and procurement authorities . Justifiable Action In the purely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and proper that the Government , or its approved agents , should lay down standards of cleanliness , of purity , of safety , for the protection of the people . 47 We are happy when we buy a pint of beer to know that the mark etched on the glass indicates that the right quantity has been drawn for us , and that inspectors have checked the accuracy of beer metering pumps . When we buy a pound ( or half a kilogram ) of tobacco , or sugar , or butter , we are glad to know that the weights and scales have been checked by an Inspector of Weights and Measures , and that we can confidently expect to receive not less than 1 lb ( or 0.5 kg ) weight of the product . With the rapidly increasing amount of electrical domestic equipment in our homes , we are reassured to know that standards have been laid down to ensure the safety of cables , plugs and sockets , of electric irons , electric razors , refrigerators , washing machines , etc . With food and drugs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Food and Drugs Act 1955 , and they are monitored by inspectors . The safety of civil aircraft is established by the Air Registration Board , of ships by the requirements of the Merchant Shipping Acts . In 1966 , there was passed by the US Congress the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act , which is being strictly enforced and which is having a big influence upon exporters of motor cars from Britain . Lloyd 's Register of Shipping has a somewhat different basis . It came into being to lay down and to check standards of safety of ships so that the insurers , members of the Society of Lloyds , could with confidence underwrite the risks of loss to the ship-owners . In all these cases , there is a minimum standard which must be met . There is no attempt to impose upon the industrial firm a pattern of quality assurance organization . All that is required is that those minimum requirements shall be met , and shall be seen to have been met . The action in Japan , where samples of some types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was justified in the circum-stances pertaining in that country after the war . Many industries had been destroyed by bombing . In starting up afresh it was obviously in the common interest to have a central testing facility , until each firm in a particular industry had established itself and could do its own testing . At the same time , there was a traditional image of cheap and shoddy imitative goods . It was essential to live this down if an export trade was to be built up . Concurrently , Japanese industrialists had enthusiastically espoused the quality cause , under the helpful lead of Dr Edwards Deming and other American experts . The Japanese Export Inspection Law was passed , and the JIS ( Japanese Inspection Standard ) mark was established , in emulation of the BSI kite mark . Samples of goods ready for export are inspected on a statistical basis , and the batches which are passed , e.g. of cameras , have a gold sticker affixed bearing Passed JCII ' ( Japanese Camera Inspection Institute ) . It is a fact that the large and successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is highly likely that this additional inspection , which in any case is by no means stringent , is no longer necessary . It is also a fact , established by large British retailers of cameras , that the quality of Japanese cameras is not significantly higher than that of those from several other countries . Nor is it likely that the stamp sells many cameras . The great success of Japanese cameras and other products during the past decade is surely due to their advanced design , and their relatively low price , i.e. it is due to their value to the customer . In Britain , entirely different conditions have prevailed , and British industry has long enjoyed a reputation for the high quality and reliability of its products . It is difficult to understand , therefore , how it can be suggested that national standards of quality of product , and certified conformance with stipulated quality control practices , can increase the attractiveness , the value , the competitiveness of goods which are on offer to customers who must in any case be unknown to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his customer 's needs , of the duty likely to be imposed , which is such an essential factor ensuring customer satisfaction . Fallacious Reasoning The thinking which underlies this tendency to apply controls by a third party is fallacious because : ( a ) there is the assumption that assurance of quality of conformance can of itself ensure customer satisfaction ( see page 17 ) . ( b ) there is the mistaken notion that national standards , which by definition must specify the minimum quality which is satisfactory , can have any significant bearing on competitiveness of products . ( c ) it ignores the importance of design for purpose , the quality of which can be assessed by nobody but the customer . Dangers to Industry There are , too , real dangers in this approach . Specifically they are , collectively , the factors which may have some appeal to people in industry who seek protection rather than the bracing wind of competition . The underlying danger is that they could weaken the sense of responsibility which the successful supplier must feel 49 towards his customer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object , by reducing rather than increasing value and competitiveness . 50 5 Conducting the Affairs of an Enterprise We have seen that the achievement of reliable product involves senior management in two major areas of activity . The first may be looked upon as functional , the planning , organization , coordination , and management of the technical departments whitrh have been indicated on page 35 . The second is the direction and motivation of all the people involved in the total effort to evolve satisfactory end-product . As has been pointed out by the National Aeronautics and Space Authority in the United States , there must be A planned and systematic pattern of all actions necessary to provide adequate confidence that the end-item will meet all specified requirements . Modern management education takes into account the need to understand the problems of getting the best out of people . There has , perhaps , been insufficient recognition of the number of people involved , of the extent of the dependence of an enterprise upon the employees of vendors and sub-contractors . On the other hand , the narrow specialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager to have an adequate knowledge of the technical aspects of the enterprise . This is , more probably than not , the reason underlying the failure , common in many firms in many countries , to appreciate the importance of planned and systematic management ' which is necessary to ensure the efficient coordination of all technical actions . During recent years the American Department of Defense , conscious of the vast sums of money at risk in the procurement of more than 30 billion dollars ' worth of equipment annually , has made great efforts to encourage its contractors to realize the importance of systematic , documented planning . This has been 51 followed by an increasing appreciation of the fact that managers benefit by having technical experience , and engineers benefit by having an understanding of the skills of managing.2 The manager has often been compared with the conductor of an orchestra , in the sense that he is a leader . This simile , taken further , can be illuminating . The orchestra can function only if each member has clear instructions ? his score ? which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper tune , and he must be able to play it . The orchestration comprises the overall plan , which ensures that there is the requisite number of each type of instrument to produce the desired amount of noise of the right quality and at the right time . The conductor trains and motivates and leads his team to perform , as a coordinated unit , so as to produce the desired result . The success of a good conductor is far more widely acknowledged than is the success of a good manager . Yet apart from the fact that conductors must have an intimate knowledge of the capabilities of each instrument and its player , their task is simpler than that of managers . They know at once if a player or an instrument is at fault , if the scores are not coordinated . The manager of an industrial enterprise often can not know until much later , and until large sums of money have been lost , should some unit of his enterprise have failed to function in accord with the others , producing a discordant result . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been achieved , he is usually incapable of seeing that the predominant weakness has lain in the lack of clearly defined instructions at every stage of the complex procedure involved in converting a concept into useful product . Management In this chapter . we are considering the role of management . This involves the duties of managers , that body of men who carry out the act of managing , to which the word management ' also applies . It is interesting to note that the American Society of Mechanical Engineers has a definition of management which closely resembles the classic definition of engineering , which was evolved by Thomas Tredgold for the British Institution of Civil Engineers in 1818 . Management is the art and science of preparing , organizing and directing human effort applied to control the forces and to utilize the materials of nature for the benefit of man ' . The manager is therefore he who , among his other duties , directs the efforts of men . He may be the foreman , responsible for a team of say 52 30 men , or he may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ title this latter operates , whether he be the chairman of the board of directors , the managing director , the chief executive , the president , or the executive vice-president , he is still a manager . In this case , he manages managers of subdivisions of the entire enterprise . He may be responsible for a small company employing only a few tens of people , or for an industrial empire with tens or hundreds of thousands of employees and hundreds of managers of many different grades of seniority and responsibility . All of these men must work to the same set of principles . These derive from the scientific method which was identified and promulgated by Francis Bacon 350 years ago . This can be described as management method ( or hints to conductors ) . The following actions must be carried out : ( a ) Determine what is required to be done . ( b ) Convert this into clear and unequivocal instructions . ( c ) Confirm that everyone concerned with their implementation understands the instructions , and knows what he himself is expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge , ability , and will to do the job correctly , training him if necessary . ( e ) Provide the equipment and the procedures necessary to enable the work to be done correctly and efficiently . ( f ) Check that the job has been done correctly . These apply to the typing pool and to the production operative , as much as to an executive at any level of seniority . Obviously the scale of effort will vary according to the task . As far as top management is concerned , in the technical area we have identified the activities which must exist if reliability of functioning product is to be achieved . It is the responsibility of senior management , indeed no one else has the authority , first to determine the amount of effort which is required in each of the departmental activities in order to meet the requirements of the particular product . The work of the different departments must then be coordinated and monitored to achieve the desired result . The foregoing might be considered as stating the obvious were it not for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at all levels , who either do not understand the elements of management method , or fail to apply them . One of the commonest indications of this is the widespread failure to provide written instructions of what 53 must be done , and to require written evidence that it has been done . This is the basic system which was introduced into the British aircraft industry half a century ago . It is the present concern of the US Department of Defense and of the National Aeronautics and Space Authority . It is what is being introduced into their organizations , as rapidly as possible , by British and American automobile manufacturers in order to comply with the requirements of the American National Traffic and Motor Car Safety Act , 1966 . These , however , represent only a small fraction of that portion of a nation 's industry which produces functioning machinery and equipment . It will be instructive to examine some of the misconceptions which are held by the majority of managers in the remainder of industry , who have insufficient appreciation of what must be done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Contact with hundreds of managers , in many countries , shows that a number of incorrect beliefs are strongly held . DELUSION 1 Management by objective ' means achieving maximum economy and hence maximum profit to the shareholders . These aims are admirable provided that they are viewed in the context of the overall aim of the enterprise . Unfortunately , emphasis upon costs and profits , for which managers feel a personal responsibility , tends to exclude other considerations . Confronting managers with the Q &; R concept tends to restore a more balanced perspective . DELUSION 2 The complaining customer is a nuisance-maker who can justifiably be fobbed off by a stereotyped letter , or at most by the grudging replacement of the defective component . One large American corporation has estimated that up to forty potential customers hear about each single instance of customer dissatisfaction , and cease to be business prospects . DELUSION 3 Customer complaints are due to poor workmanship . With products made in large numbers , such as motor cars , kitchen equipment , and much defence equipment , quality defects have a relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it is likely to affect each unit of product , will usually have a much greater effect . Yet the design function is persistently neglected by management . DELUSION 4 Poor quality is due to careless workmen . A rough estimate by Dr Juran showed that not more than 20 per cent of quality defects are due to operator error . More detailed investigations suggest that this figure is at the upper limit . In well-planned and tooled 54 machining operations operator error may be as low as 1 to 2 per cent of the total causes of defects . The rest are management controllable ' . The managers who criticize the workers are themselves far more often than not directly or indirectly responsible for the causes of manufacturing defects . DELUSION 5 The chief inspector is responsible for the causes of criticism of defective products by customers . But how often have standards been laid down for the Inspection Department to work to ? Not only is the inspector compelled to lay down his own standards , he has little authority to enforce them . In the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand increases . In any case , inspection can be no more than a postmortem activity . DELUSION 6 The remedy for excessive customer complaints is more inspection . The fallacy of this should be self-evident . Inspection can only sort good from bad , it can not prevent defects . DELUSION 7 Quality control or quality assurance are only new names ? for the inspection function . It is a prime purpose of this book to expose this fallacy and to show that quality assurance is the totality of effective management system . DELUSION 8 The adoption of quality control is all that is necessary to put everything to rights . Quality control will certainly enable substantial economies to be made . It will have a beneficial but limited effect upon reliability . Quality assurance as defined earlier in this chapter will go much further , but capability of product for the duty to be imposed upon it is of far greater importance , and this depends upon the quality of the design and development engineering . It is a management responsibility to ensure that adequate effort is devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delusions just described are natural to the manager who has been conditioned to look upon the practice of his profession as comprising a collection of specialist techniques . There is no shortage of these . Work study , time and motion study , organization , administration , budgetary control , stock control , motivation , automation , industrial psychology , personnel management , incentives , management by exception , cooperation , involvement , ergonomics , quality control , standard costs , PERT , numerical control , value analysis ? you name it , some management consultant will provide it . 55 A senior member of the Management Board of a large nationalized organization requested information about quality and reliability . Eagerly he asked to be told about this new technique ' . When he heard that it was largely a matter of commonsense and of managerial responsibility ( of which he himself carried a major share ) to mobilize , coordinate , and direct the activities of managers and engineers throughout his vast organization , to ensure the exercise of the principles of Q &; R to give better and cheaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many another senior executive , he had thought that by setting up a department to run a new specialist technique , he would have discharged his responsibility . No one will gainsay the value of the aids to management which are available . They can all contribute to the overall efficiency of industry . They are no more , however , than facets cut on a rough diamond . When one side of the diamond remains unpolished , when the different facets are not carefully matched to each other in size and direction , the stone will not achieve its full glory . Nor will an industrial enterprise which , by adopting all the appropriate techniques , achieves a high productivity of some product which it can not sell because its quality and reliability fall short of the market 's requirements . Quality and reliability , of product or service , are the first requirements to be met by the industrial enterprise . Once a market has been won , a wise management will strive to hold it by increasing the product 's value to the customer by further improving its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application of the appropriate techniques of management . As the enterprise prospers and grows in size , so it will be found that the specialist techniques will grow in value . Unless the product itself is satisfactory . however , these techniques will be largely costineffective . It is significant that notable exceptions to the general pattern have been found in firms and organizations facing new technological problems . One which recognized the activities and methods essential to success is one of the earliest recorded Boulton , Watt and Sons . By 1795 , the sons of their better-known fathers were applying the following techniques in their quite small organization : 3 Market research. * Planned shop layout . Production planning. * Production process standards. * Machine-operating standards. * 56 Standardization of components . Statistical records. * Detailed cost accounting . Workers ' training. * Work study . Payment by results . Personnel welfare . Executive development. * Provision of spare parts. * Operating instructions. * Extensive sub-contracting . The items asterisked are essential to the achievement of product quality and reliability , the rest help to improve the efficiency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collected by Colonel Urwick as making major contributions to management practice evinced an appreciation of the need for the systematic provision of information . This was Hans Renold , the roller-chain maker . In 1913 , he included in a list of the main characteristics of his successful firm an organization structure based on a functional specialization and recorded on charts ; the existence of written standard management instructions and practices prepared and administered by functional departments ; and an interlocking committee system acting as a consultative mechanism among the management staff ' . A contemporary of Renold 's was Harrington Emerson . His Principles of Management Efficiency deserve to be reproduced , not only for their soundness , but because they are too little recognized and too little observed : 1 . CLEARLY DEFINED IDEAL Know what you are attempting to accomplish . Eliminate vagueness , uncertainty , and aimlessness characteristic of a great many undertakings . 2 . COMMON SENSE A supernal common sense that enables one to differentiate between woods and trees . This is a common sense that strives for knowledge and seeks advice from every quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 3 . COMPETENT COUNSEL Actively seeking advice from competent individuals . 4 . DISCIPLINE Adherence to rules ; strict obedience . The function of this principle is to bring about allegiance to and observance of the remaining eleven principles . 57 5 . FAIR DEAL Justice and fairness . 6 . RELIABLE , IMMEDIATE , ADEQUATE , AND PERMANENT RECORDS A call for facts upon which to base decisions . 7 . DISPATCHING Scientific planning through which each small function is performed so as to serve to unify the whole and enable the organization to reach its end objective . 8 . STANDARDS AND SCHEDULES A method and time for performing tasks . 9 . STANDARDIZED CONDITIONS Uniformity of environment . 10 . STANDARDIZED OPERATIONS Uniformity of method . 11 . WRITTEN STANDARD-PRACTICE INSTRUCTIONS Systematically and accurately reducing practice to writing . ( This was Emerson 's legal codification for industrial practice. ) 12 . EFFICIENCY REWARD Reward for successful execution of a given task . Claude S. George4 has identified the first five of these principles as applying to problems of personnel ( i.e. employer/employee relationships ) ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today , the greatest influence for good , exerting pressure upon industry to adopt the basic principles of Q &; R , comes from some of the largest buyers of components and equipment , in widely different fields . Practically simultaneously two large organizations , one British , one American , realized the vital importance of customer satisfaction , of quality and reliability , and of a clear , mutually understandable and acceptable specification of the requirements of the customer , which must form the basis of a legally enforceable contract between customer and supplier . Each of these organizations was inspired by the need to obtain maximum value for what was , relative to the size of each , a very large expenditure . The British organization was Marks and Spencer Ltd , the American , the Department of Defense . The former was at the time spending upwards of ? 100m annually with a large number of suppliers ( and in the past few years this figure has been more than doubled ) . The US Department of Defense 's buy ' is of the order of ? 12,000m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the order of half the British Gross National Product ) . Both organizations realized that acceptance inspection of their purchases would be a costly business , and inefficient because it would be a post-mortem rather than a corrective activity . They realized that the supplier must be held responsible for delivering satisfactory product . To do so , however , he must know precisely what is expected of him . 58 Marks and Spencer 's specification of a shirt , for example , is a model of its kind . The supplying firms know what is expected of them , and once it has been established that they can achieve the desired standard , they are held fully responsible for maintaining it . The Department of Defense has promulgated its ideas through MIL-Q-9858A , Quality Program Requirements ' . This requires of a contractor to the American Government that he shall have an effective system , to ensure that all the actions necessary to produce goods which will meet the specified requirements are fully documented , and that evidence can be produced , as required , , Director for Quality and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Government does not say how these subjects are to be tackled and can never directly approve the contractor 's methods , as it would then be sharing in the responsibility and diminishing the responsibility for delivering products to specification ' . The responsibilities referred to are the managerial and engineering activities necessary to meet the requirements stipulated in the Government contract . In both examples we see that two parties are involved ? the customer , and the supplier or suppliers . Marks and Spencer Ltd , large customers themselves , in their turn supply millions of customers , through their hundreds of retail shops . The Department of Defense acts as the agent of the armed forces . In the sense that these Services are at the receiving end of the efforts which have gone before to stipulate a requirement , to design the equipment , to place orders , and to manufacture the end product , the armed forces are customers . These examples help us to realize that every individual , every department , every organization throughout the whole industrial complex is at one and the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this fact helps towards the clarification of the role of management . Systematic Management We have seen that system was introduced into the British aircraft industry half a century ago . Much more recently , its essentiality has been recognized by the American Department of Defense . Management of all countries should be grateful to this organization for the way in which it has formalized the requirements , while leaving it to each individual firm to meet these requirements in the manner best suited to its individual circumstances . // 59 and it provides the best foundation upon which to build the quality relationship between any two parties . A few quotations from the specification are illuminating . This specification requires the establishment of a quality program by the contractor to assure compliance with the requirements of the contract . The program and procedures used to implement this specification shall be developed by the contractor . The quality program , including procedures , processes and product shall be documented and shall be subject to review by the Government Representative . Design of the program shall be based upon consideration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and materials . The program shall assure adequate quality throughout all areas of contract performance ; for example , design , development , fabrication , processing , assembly , inspection , test , maintenance , packaging , shipping , storage and site installation . The program shall provide for the presentation and ready detection of discrepancies and for timely and positive corrective action . The contractor shall make objective evidence of quality conformance readily available to the Government Representative . The authority and responsibility of those in charge of the design , production testing , and inspection of quality shall be clearly stated . Facilities and standards such as drawings , engineering changes , measuring equipment and the like which are necessary for the creation of the required quality shall be effectively managed . The program shall include an effective control of purchased materials and sub-contracted work . Management regularly shall review the status and adequacy of the quality program . The term quality program requirements ' as used herein identifies the collective requirements of this specification . It does not mean that the fulfillment of the requirements of this specification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function or person . . . . all work affecting quality shall be prescribed in clear and completely documented instructions of a type appropriate to the circumstances . ... Records are considered one of the principal forms of objective evidence of quality . 60 These extracts convey in admirably succinct fashion the basic principles of management responsibility . Several points may be emphasized : ( a ) The contractor is made fully responsible for delivering goods in accordance with specification . ( b ) The existence of a clear and adequate specification of Government requirements is implicit . ( c ) Nowhere does the specification lay down hoii ' a contractor shall fulfil his obligations . ( d ) Surveillance ' by the Government Representative consists of no more than a review of the contractor 's system and of the objective evidence of quality of conformance which must be provided by the contractor . ( e ) The functions other than inspection which affect the quality of the product are clearly indicated . ( f ) . There is emphasis upon the importance of system but none on the organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An important result of the implementation of this philosophy , according to John Riordan , is that the cost of quality assurance incurred by the Department of Defense has been reduced to 0.47 per cent of the total expenditure on supplies . The enormous costs which would have been incurred had the Department of Defense employed the old-fashioned practice of direct inspection of $30 billion worth of goods provided a powerful incentive to this intelligent delegation of authority . This specification has provided the basis for a number of others . A few years ago the Navy Department of the British Ministry of Defence was faced with the problems posed by the construction of nuclearpowered submarines . Standards of quality of conformance far higher than ever before were required from shipbuilders who had heretofore followed methods long established by tradition . The American Navy had already coped with the problem successfully , and this experience was drawn upon . The Ministry of Defence ( Navy Department ) Specification DPT.200 General Requirements for the Assurance of Quality ( Submarines ) ' was issued in February 1965 . It follows closely the pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipbuilding concerns , resulted in the construction of two nuclear-powered submarines , ahead of schedule and remarkably free from technical snags . The fact that this revolution in thinking and in practice reached a successful culmination within only half a dozen years is sufficient evidence of its soundness . Other organizations are following this example . The North Atlantic Treaty Military Agency for Standardization published 61 in 1968 NATO Quality Control System Requirements for Industry ( AQAP-l ) ' . It is an updated equivalent of MIL-Q-9858A , and it has been accepted by countries whose firms tender for the Agency 's business . There is a supplement to AQAP-1 , Guide to the Evaluation of a // ( AQAP-2 ) ' .5 This provides a useful primer for the management of any company wishing to set its affairs in up-to-date order . It is somewhat surprising to find that there are many specifications of requirements issued by organizations other than those mentioned , which fall into the trap of mistaking inspection for quality assurance . With the alleged intention of defining the responsibilities of the contractor , they specify how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they diminish the responsibility of the contractor , and provide him with the excuse that if he had not been required to carry out his duties in a certain way , he would have been able to provide a more satisfactory product . Of course , none of the foregoing can be effective unless it is the subject of a legally-binding contract between the two parties . Before considering the contract it will be useful to examine the actions which must be carried out , the responsibilities which must be accepted , by each of the two parties involved in every business transaction . The two parties are , of course , the customer and the supplier . Since the responsibilities of the customer are too seldom realized , they will be dealt with first . The Customer 's Responsibilities When the customer is an aggregate of individuals constituting a market for consumer goods , the most that the supplier can expect is that the majority of those people will be sufficiently well-informed as to be able to select the products best suited to their needs , and to treat the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual customer through the small firms in industry to the larger ones and ultimately to the biggest ? the industrial giants , the nationalized industries , and services , Government agencies , and Defence Departments ? the customer becomes increasingly organized . His responsibilities towards the achievement of reliable product increase in proportion . It will be convenient , therefore , to consider the state of affairs which should exist , the responsibilities which should be accepted by the biggest customers , for example the Defence Departments , collectively buying goods from industry to the annual value of about ? 600m . The principles apply equally to all large buyers . In all cases , whether we are considering the Navy , the Army , or the Air Force , the Atomic Energy Authority , a Gas Board or an Electricity Board , or a large industrial concern , there will be a need for new plant 62 or equipment . Its performance and the scale of the requirements will have been determined . In some cases , the design will have been carried out by the authority , in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whichever method has been adopted , contracts will be placed with industrial firms for the manufacture of products to the designs laid down . Clearly , each transaction between the two parties involved should be based . upon a full and explicit specification of the requirements of the customer , in which the requisite standards must be laid down . At the same time the customers , in the size category under consideration , have of necessity to place a great deal of dependence upon their suppliers , and they are entitled to require assurance that the money spent will result in the timely delivery of goods of the right quality and reliability . The ways in which this is done vary widely , and an examination of the methods will lead us to conclusions of value . Government Departments as Customers Taking first the case of defence equipment , those concerned with the strategic needs of national defence will have determined what is felt to be necessary , in the way of submarines and ships , aircraft and tanks , guns and ammunition , general stores and clothing . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders are placed with industrial firms , but it can be taken that as a rule this work will not comprise more than a fraction of the total business of the contracting firms . In many cases , the products will be special or , when not novel , will be required to conform to special standards of quality . The special nature of the products will sometimes have required heavy financial investment in plant and equipment , which will have been borne by the Government agency . The defence of the nation will depend upon the delivery of the right goods at the right time , and there will be the need for coordination , in the delivery programmes , of large numbers of different products . The Government departments are quite justified , therefore , in desiring assurance that their needs will be met . For many years past , this assurance was sought by stationing considerable numbers of Government inspectors in the works of the contractors , ostensibly to oversee the work and to confirm that the products delivered were to specification . More recently , there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an expensive and not very effective way of assuring quality . There is an increasing tendency to adopt the principles of quality assurance by placing responsibility upon the contractor to deliver goods of the right quality . The customer , the Defence agency , will reserve the right to assure himself that the contractor understands what is required of 63 him , and that he has the necessary system to ensure that the required standards are met . It may take some time for this approach to be fully understood by both parties . in particular , there is a general weakness in the drawing up of specifications , and a widespread confusion between organization and system . For a clear understanding of what is necessary , we must return to fundamentals . The first step is to determine what is required . In most cases , there will be the need to reconcile conflicting requirements of performance , capability , reliability , price , and delivery date . With defence vehicles ? marine , land , or air there is debate among those requiring speed , or range , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or offensive power , or environment , or low cost , or early delivery . Not surprisingly , the resolution of these different demands may sometimes take a considerable time , which usually encroaches upon that which should have been available for research , design , and development . All too often a requirement is released to industry before it has been fully agreed and defined . In any case , so much time will have been taken that the importance of laying down clearly defined specifications is usually overlooked , if indeed it were possible to stipulate them in advance of actual experience . The result of this is that the contractor himself is usually left to decide what standards of quality he thinks appropriate , and he fixes his price accordingly . Unfortunately , all too often the Government inspectorate concerned will not have been provided with defined and pre-agreed standards . Conscientiously endeavouring to ensure value for the taxpayer 's money , it lays down its own standards , and so the seeds of conflict are sown . Meanwhile , management should bear in mind the differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency , and when it is an industrial organization . The differences will be obvious from the following list of the circumstances which apply , especially in the case of military business , but often too when the customer is a large organization such as a nationalized industry , or a large corporation , or a public utility : ( a ) The requirement is determined by the customer , who faces the supplier as a single large ( but not necessarily unified ) organization . ( b ) Often , there is competitive tendering , which usually results in the contract being awarded to the lowest bidder ' . ( c ) Responsibility for training the operating , servicing , and maintenance personnel rests largely with the customer . 64 ( d ) Improvements in design to improve reliability as a result of service experience can only be introduced by going through a complicated and slow modification system ' , which is usually under the sole control of the customer . ( e ) As an important consequence of the foregoing points , it is not possible for the customer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Two items deserve comment : 1 . COMPETITIVE TENDERING This practice is widespread throughout capitalist countries , since the Government agency must be seen to be making the effort to obtain maximum value for the taxpayer 's money . Equally widespread are the criticisms voiced by contractors who find themselves underbid by competitors whose products they know to be inferior to their own . The users are often no less critical . There is the oft-repeated remark made by John Glenn , the first American astronaut , at the press conference which was held after he had completed his mission . A reporter asked him what his thoughts and feelings had been during his 41 hour orbital journey . He replied , How would you feel strapped into a machine which has thousands of parts each supplied by the lowest bidder ? ' Quite obviously there would be full justification for the placing of orders with the lowest bidder if the competing products were equally good . Lacking evidence to the contrary , the procurement branch of the 65 Government agency is not to be blamed . The party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test . All too often this consists of no more than a type approval test , of a specified duration , under specified conditions , usually on the test bed or in the laboratory . For reasons which will be discussed more fully in chapter 8 , such a test can do little to demonstrate the potential reliability of the product . In the meantime , Fig. 5.1 will give sufficient indication of the basic argument . 2 . GUARANTEED PERFORMANCE Some Government agencies in Britain and in the United States are making the attempt to buy better value , based upon the total life cost ' of the product . The Navy Department of the British Ministry of Defence is offering Incentive Contracts for performance better than specification.6 The American Department of Defense is actively studying methods of estimating the total lifetime cost of defence equipment its first cost , its replacement and maintenance and failure costs , and so on . Both of these approaches require closer collaboration between customer and supplier . They lead to the possibility that the supplier will be able to accept a greater share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the customer is an industrial organization , the operator of a fleet of aircraft or hire cars or buses , of machine tools , or of processing plant , a different attitude prevails . The customer is immediately and directly conscious of costs . He usually knows from past experience how serious can be the consequences of breakdown in the equipment upon which his business depends . Increasingly , he is entering into a dialogue with his supplier to ensure that both parties benefit from a joint study of the conditions required to be met , and the problems which arise from these . Where equipment is of a new type , the customer should demand proof of its reliability . He should involve his own technical staff , and he should negotiate with his supplier the additional costs of proving and demonstrating the effectiveness of the new design . These costs will be only a small fraction of those which could be incurred through breakdown of the equipment , and the consequent delays in achieving productive and profitable use of the plant or the service . In all cases the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will back up his product by adequate support . In particular , he should be able to expect immediate availability of spare parts . The example set by Boulton &; Watt in the seventeen ' nineties should be followed . At the same time , the customer must realize his own responsibilities . 66 When trouble does arise , he should be prepared to cooperate fully with his supplier in effecting a remedy . When the customer is a military agency , considerable delays are usual in the acceptance of design changes . This is due in part to the complex nature of the agency 's organization , to the lack of defined responsibility . A civil airline will estimate the cost of living with a trouble , due to delays , frustrated passengers , loss of revenue , maintenance , etc . It will be quick to accept the cost of a modification which will eliminate the trouble. ? Other industries which may not be so aware of the costs incurred would be well-advised to compute them . They may be as high as those described by Sir Ronald Holroyd.8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his supplier makes sense . Yet seldom do the relevant departments of the two contracting parties meet . Salesman meets buyer , but does engineer meet engineer ? Figure 5.2 reproduces slides which were used at a joint meeting between the Aero Engine Division of Rolls-Royce Ltd , and a gathering of its machine tool suppliers . Customer responsibilities are no more than recognition of the fact that satisfactory performance results from an effective total system . This comprises not only all those involved in the supply of the equipment , but those involved in the specification , procurement , and use of the equipment as well . The Supplier 's Responsibilities For his part , the supplier must do his best to evolve a product which will satisfactorily meet his customer 's needs . The basic elements have been laid down on page 35 . It will help if these are reproduced as definite activities . The company undertaking to manufacture components or products designed by its customer must : ( a ) Check that it understands what is required to be done to meet the requirements of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skills and equipment which will enable it to meet those requirements . ( c ) Confirm that the standards to be achieved are unequivocally defined in the customer 's specification . 67 68 ( d ) Reach agreement with the customer on all matters affecting the product , its price , its delivery , the supplier 's responsibilities . ( e ) Require that all this information is contained in a mutually agreed and formal contract . ( f ) Procure materials , products , and services from its own suppliers of quality required to satisfy the requirements of the design . ( g ) Plan methods of manufacture and control to ensure the manufacture of goods of the right quality . ( h ) Manufacture components and products in accordance with the specifications and conditions laid down in the contract . ( i ) When required , provide evidence to the customer that the necessary quality has been achieved , so that he can accept the product with the minimum of additional inspection . ( j ) Deliver the products at the time promised . ( k ) Accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supplier as Customer Management which has been subjected to the tonic exercises laid down by , for example , the Navy Department 's CP form 161 ( General Requirements for the Assurance of Quality in New Construction Surface Warships ) or its equivalent , will not unnaturally begin to wonder to what extent it can pass some of the burden on to its own suppliers . The latest specifications , to which reference has been made , require a prime contractor to carry responsibility for all components and accessory products obtained from his sub-contractors and vendors . It is incumbent upon the contractor to ensure that his suppliers are as capable of satisfying him as he is expected to satisfy his own customer . Parenthetically , there is the exception ? the case where a Government agency procures subsidiary equipment directly from the manufacturers , and makes it available to the main contractor under a system going under the name of embodiment loan , or agency supplied items . Since this practice tends to absolve the contractor 's management from responsibility , it need not be considered here , save to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined responsibility , or at best , of split responsibility . When we consider commercial business it is not usual for the customer to expect more of his supplier than that the equipment as a whole will be satisfactory . Surprisingly and regrettably , many managements fail to see ' itat they are responsible to their customer for the quality of bought-out materials and parts . They are apt to disclaim responsibility for troubles experienced by their customer due to accessories not of their own manufacture . Some , indeed , have been able to divert the responsibility 69 directly to their supplier , disregarding the fact that the way in which they themselves have installed the accessory , and the duty which they have imposed upon it , are directly their concern . Enlightened management treats its suppliers in much the same way that it is treated by its customers . In general , however , industrial management usually has a somewhat wider choice of supplier than is available to British Government agencies . Faced with a choice , it is important that management should make certain that its purchasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are simple enough to apply , requiring as a rule no more than the application of a check list ; a survey of the facilities of the vendor ; an assessment of his apparent integrity , and a measure of his performance , based upon the quality of goods received . This aspect of management is dealt with more fully in chapter 13 . The Contract If the relationships between supplier and customer , customer and supplier , are to be conducted satisfactorily , they must be established on a formal basis , by means of a contract . For far too long , certainly for a period of time which coincides with that during which the inspection function has been misunderstood and debased , the contract itself has been regarded as a mere formality . Excess of demand over supply , a situation long prevalent in Britain , has given the supplier the edge over his customer . Few if any sanctions have been applied when the supplier has failed to conform , as often as not because the contract itself had failed to specify what was of basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much has been written on the subject of purchasing contracts . Aspects such as quantities and rates of delivery , specifications , price , terms of business , time of delivery , special conditions , inspection , guarantees , and penalties are dealt with in some detail . Usually , however , and in line with the general trend , little is said about the quality of conformance . The system necessary for the achievement of the required quality , the evidence that the quality has in fact been achieved , the conditions of acceptance inspection , the conditions for dealing with unacceptable products , the methods of submission of non-conforming products , and so on ? these will only be found in the quality assurance requirements of some few large organizations , and in the purchasing contracts of even fewer . Managing Affairs Efficiently It may have seemed from the foregoing that top management is being saddled with a host of additional responsibilities . On the contrary , the 70 customer- and product-oriented approach to the overall purpose of the enterprise leads to such a clarification of vital issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and management 's burden is lightened . The first step is the important one : to ensure that all the departments in the organization know what their own responsibilities are , that they have the ability and the facilities needed to meet those responsibilities , and that they carry them out properly . In all probability there will exist already a sound organizational pattern , which will , however , lack the essential cross-links which the system demanded by the quality assurance requirements of various large customers provides . Industrial manage ment has cause to be grateful to the US Department of Defense , to the British Ministry of Defence ( Navy Department ) and to NATO 's Military Agency for Standardization for having laid down so clearly the essential steps towards the achievement of requisite quality of product . Not the least valuable contribution has been the implied necessity for clear specifications , at every stage from the definition of need , through every phase of design and manufacture to the finished product . 71 6 The Specification The Oxford English Dictionary defines specification ' as A detailed description of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or the like , giving the dimensions , materials , quantities , etc. of the work , together with directions to be followed by the builder or constructor ' . There is perhaps significance in the fact that this definition dates from 1833 , the time when , with the beginning of the railway age , engineering was establishing itself as the basis of modern industry . The need for specification of requirements extends into every sphere of activity . At the one extreme , there may be the description of the need for a new item of defence equipment which may lead to orders worth hundreds of millions of pounds . At the other , there is the simple verbal instruction given by a chargehand to an operative , telling him what he is required to do . The specification may be a written or a verbal communication , but more and more it is coming to be appreciated that the risk of misunderstanding is lessened if needs or instructions are set down in writing . To produce a clear and unequivocal written instruction of requirements is not an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to query the feasibility of producing specifications which will be absolutely clear and definitive in black-and-white terms . Others feel that in consequence an incomplete specification is not worth the effort , being worse than no specification at all . This , however , is tantamount to saying that it is better to remain in ignorance than to try to throw at least a little light on to a dark situation . The cost of the effort will be more than recovered by avoiding the losses due to misunderstanding and incomplete instructions which are otherwise inevitable . Moreover , as 72 will be shown , simple guide lines can be laid down which greatly facilitate the preparation of meaningful specifications . Specification , the written or spoken description of requirement or need , is the basis of effective communication between two parties . Accurate and effective communication becomes increasingly important as products become more complex and as our dependence upon their correct functioning increases ; as industrial organizations grow in size , and depend upon increasing numbers of other firms for materials , components , and services . In consequence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to ensure that there is someone in the organization responsible for the preparation of specifications , and that he is given the opportunity to practice and improve his art . It will be recalled that in 1935 Shewhart laid down as the first requisite for the control of quality the specification of the aimed-at standard of quality ' .1 If further justification of the importance of the art of specifying were needed , one could adduce again the example of Marks and Spencer Ltd . This company 's highly successful policy of quality control has resulted in a continuous raising of value to the customer , and sales and profits have increased rapidly since the policy was adopted . The basis of this policy is clearly written specifications of the products which are required from the company 's suppliers . After confirmation that the supplier has understood the specification of a product , and has demonstrated his ability to meet it , he is then made responsible for the quality of all future deliveries of that product . His performance is monitored by occasional checks , but more especially by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Marks was describing to the present author how his company had come to realize the importance of the specification . At the time he was concerned with the procurement of garments from sub-contractors , and he told how the specification for a shirt included such details as needle size , count of thread , number of stitches per inch . Straightness of lines of stitching , consistent width of seams , the quality of the stitching-on of buttons were stipulated by samples produced by young girls with no more than three weeks ' training . This ensured that the supplier was being asked to do no more than was within his capability . Lord Marks asked if the specifications of sub-contracted machined parts included similar detail . Did they , for instance , include instructions regarding tool design , speeds , feeds , and coolant . He 73 was told that the engineering industry differed from the rag trade ' in that sub-contractors were expected to know these things , so that it was not considered necessary to specify them . Lord Marks ' reply was You will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs which are incurred by the failure of sub-contractors to deliver goods to the required but usually unspecified standards of quality , at the rates and on the dates required , it can only be concluded that Lord Marks showed a prescience of a situation which must inevitably come to pass , and the sooner the better . The Purpose of the Specification The overriding purpose of a specification is to ensure that , as far as is humanly possible , the two parties to a business deal know : 1 . What the party of the first part requires of the party of the second part . 2 . What the party of the second part believes will satisfy the party of the first part . Mutual satisfaction requires that there shall be a contract between the two parties , customer and supplier , which must be based upon prior understanding and agreement on the following points : ( a ) The general terms of business . ( b ) The product or service which is required , with stipulated standards of quality , or of performance . ( c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The price . In unpublished talks E. J. Goodall , Chief Buyer of the Aero Engine Division of Rolls-Royce Ltd , has pointed out that contracts have tended to become one-sided . The interests of the supplier must be borne in mind , and the contract should take into account such factors as risk , opportunity , penalty for breach , and reward for performance . These are important aspects of the partnership between supplier and customer which it should be the aim of every buyer to encourage . A contract which is based upon mutual understanding of the interests of both parties is essential to such a partnership . Future misunderstandings of some or all of the customer 's needs will be avoided only when each of the foregoing items is specified so fully and clearly that there can be no reasonable risk of misinterpretation ; when the consequences of failure to conform with the conditions are laid down ; and when agreement is reached on price changes which might 74 be necessary to match changes in costs which are outside the control of either party . Agreement having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then becomes entirely responsible for meeting his part of the bargain by satisfying his customer on all counts . Before considering the contract and the product specification in detail , it will be useful to discuss the various kinds of specification . Kinds of Specification The purpose of a specification has been seen to be to establish a clear understanding between two parties . It is unlikely that any two parties will have , initially , an identity of viewpoint . While not necessarily in opposition , indeed one party will usually want to buy Or receive goods or services and the other to sell or deliver , there will usually be the need to reconcile some differences . For example , a performance may be required of a prime mover , or of a machine , which is not at the moment attainable . Should the customer not declare his desires , should the supplier not state what he can achieve , and should no compromise performance be agreed , the result could only be disappointment to both parties . The attempt to lay down a specification of requirements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of bringing to light any differences which might otherwise remain unrecognized until trouble arises . Although given different names , specifications are required at every stage in the evolution of a product from the initial concept of a need , to its correct use and maintenance in service . They will vary widely in type and form of presentation , but the same general principles apply to all of them . Specifications may exist in the following forms . 1 . THE INDICATION OF A NEED This may be no more than a board meeting minute suggesting that a market exists for a certain type of product , and asking that an investigation be made ; or it may be an invitation issued by a Government department , asking industrial firms to prepare design studies for a new type of product . It will usually be expressed in general terms , but where possible the performance , the conditions of use , and the environment should be indicated . This is in line with the customer responsibilities which were discussed on page 62. 2 . A DESIGN PROPOSAL This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should define the basic design , the intended performance , the probable cost , and the estimated completion date . Alternative proposals might be submitted , and depending upon the degree of technical innovation , a certain amount of research and development might be required , to optimize the factors influencing performance 75 and to confirm the feasibility of the schemes . This research and development might be carried out by the company , or if the project were entirely novel , a contract to carry out preliminary investigations might be awarded by the prospective customer . 3 . COMPLETE PRODUCT DESIGN When the final form of the product has been decided , a complete design can be prepared . This in itself is a specification , which describes , usually by drawings , the arrangement of the product , the size and shape of detail components , the materials to be used . 4 . PRODUCTION DESIGN The final schematic design needs to be converted into detailed instructions to the manufacturer . These instructions usually comprise a complete set of detail drawings of every component , fully dimensioned , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a minority of engineering components have toleranced dimensions . These tolerances are themselves a specification ? of the variation in size which will be acceptable . 5 . PRODUCTION INSTRUCTIONS The specification of the design which is conveyed to the manufacturing department in the form of detailed descriptions of components must be translated so that it will have meaning to those whose function is to convert drawings into hardware . Forging drawings , pattern and casting drawings , drawings of components at intermediate stages of operations , process instructions , inspection instructions , the design and calling up of appropriate jigs , fixtures , and tools comprise the manufacturing specification . It is an essential part of good housekeeping . As a rule its preparation is carried out better than is done in some of the other areas mentioned . This is probably because the production engineer and the planning engineer are already working closely with the designer on the one hand , and the producer on the other . Faced with the responsibility for delivering the goods . requirements can be seen more clearly . 6 . QUALITY STANDARDS For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality which is acceptable must be laid down . In the case of a simple machined component , this is defined by the tolerances on dimensions . Here the detail drawing is the quality standard . It indicates the maximum deviation from the norm which is acceptable . The quality standard should , as a matter of principle , demand no higher level of quality than is necessary for the correct functioning of the part . Unfortunately , often through ignorance of the capabilities of the machining processes , designers tend to specify much tighter tolerances than are necessary . At best , this results in higher costs of manufacture . At worst , it leads to friction between manufacturing , inspection , and engineering departments , and lowers the prestige of the specification , 76 which comes to be ignored . This situation is common in every industrial country . In the case of non-dimensional attributes ( for example the porosity of a casting , the non-metallic inclusions in a critically-stressed forging , the porosity and appearance of a weld bead ) , it is not usually possible to lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is because no one can really know before production begins the extent of the variability in process capability which is likely to be experienced with the components in question . Separate quality standards must be laid down , and this is a responsibility of quality engineering ( see chapter 14 , page 191 ) . In the cases of subjective or qualitative standards , it may be necessary to specify them by means of samples , models , or photographs . An impressive example is the uniformity of fruit and vegetables ? apples and lettuces come to mind ? which are offered for sale at the better supermarkets . Wherever possible , however , standards of acceptance should be defined quantitatively , in numerical terms . 7 . THE PRODUCT SPECIFICATION When a product is manufactured entirely in a company 's own plant , and sold to customers of its own seeking , the specifications outlined above will be sufficient to meet the needs for communication between departments . In engineering manufacture it is found , however , that an average of 60 per cent of the finished product , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of raw materials , finished components , or proprietary accessories . There is too the frequent case where a firm is manufacturing to meet the requirements of a single large customer . In these cases a complete product specification is necessary . It will comprise : A description of the product . Its purpose . Its performance . The design . The detail drawings . Assembly drawings . Material specifications . Process specifications . Specifications of manufacturing techniques . Quality standards . Inspection methods . Acceptance tests . 77 The product specification along these lines is an essential part of the purchase contract . At a different level , as when the customer is the domestic consumer or the motorist , the product specification usually takes the form of a glossy brochure , or an attractively illustrated hand-out . Even though its purpose may quite overtly be to attract sales , it is essential that it must be truthful and accurate . The customer is now protected by the Trade Descriptions Act 1968. 8 . THE USER SPECIFICATION Satisfactory performance of product depends upon its being used properly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructions so that the customer will get best value from his purchase . A simple everyday example is the method of application which is printed on the bottom of a shoe-polish tin . With medicines , the instruction may need to include a warning regarding the dangers of an overdose , and this will usually be on the label on the bottle . In the case of a radio or a television set or other item of domestic equipment , the specification of the way in which the product should be used may be no more than a small leaflet simply indicating the position of the controls . At its best it will be a small booklet , well-illustrated , which includes advice on care and maintenance , and warnings against repair of electrical components by unskilled people . This wide variation suggests that not all manufacturers have realized the importance of the user as a factor in achieving satisfactory performance of the product . The same tendency is evident in respect of motor cars . The manual with which the owner is provided is often today no more than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plugs and lamp bulbs , the approved oils and frequency of oil change . It is not unlikely that the majority of motorists would welcome instruction and advice on tyre care , on how to drive to achieve best fuel economy , and longest car life , how to preserve the bodywork , how to tune the carburetto , and adjust the door locks . On the other hand , most washable garments today carry an informative label giving advice on the preferred method of laundering and ironing . This became a necessary part of user education as more and more new fabrics were put on the market . Manufacturers of more costly and complex equipment treat this matter seriously . Whole departments exist to compile instruction manuals which for a ship 's machinery , an aircraft , a processing plant may run to several large volumes . Managements of concerns involved with less costly equipment would nevertheless be wise to follow this 78 example , adjusting the effort of course to the type of product and to the importance of the market . Specifications in this area of activity present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consult the author on matters of interpretation , and in many cases he is not an expert buyer or seller , designer or producer . He is merely the most important man in the business cycle , the customer . In the better examples of instruction manuals , effective use is made of diagrams , sketches , and photographs . It goes without saying that the written matter should be in plain simple everyday language , with none of the jargon to which the producer will be accustomed , but of which the user can not be expected to be aware . The Strength and Weakness of Standards Writers on specifications tend to suggest that standards should be incorporated wherever possible . Unfortunately , the words specification ' and standard ' are used loosely , often interchangeably . Here we are discussing standards which have been promulgated by a national body ( e.g. the British Standards Institution ) or a trade association or professional institution ( e.g. the Society of Automobile Engineers ) . It is true that many products can be standardized , with great overall economies . The wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are inclined to take for granted the convenience of having standard electric light fittings , voltages , and wattages ; standard power plugs , wiring , switches , and conduits . Users of electric razors who travel abroad know of the difficulties due to different standards of power plugs and appreciate the value of standards all the more when they return home . Buyers of materials for industry greatly value the convenience of standard sections , gauges , and materials . As long as designs remain fairly static , so that new requirements are not posed , standardization is a very good thing . However , if technical progress is not to be hampered , it is essential that standards should be kept up-to-date by continual review . It is when we come to areas of industry in which rapid technological advances are being made that standards become frustrating , mainly by reason of the inordinate time which appears to be required to evolve new standards , and to update old ones . These aspects have come under serious critical review by the Institute of Purchasing and Supply.3 Criticisms are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for writing their own individual specifications for what are similar materials and items of equipment . This , however , may to 79 some extent be excused by the lack of currently available specifications suitable for their needs . It is when we come to specifications of materials of construction , however , that there are the strongest grounds for complaint . The present author has referred in numerous papers to the need to apply the same criteria to metal specifications as are applied to finished products . Indeed , as Dr Kinzel4 has pointed out in his lecture great advances in design could be made , with enormous economies in materials , if specifications called for quantified standards of quality , declared values of the range in physical properties , and data on fatigue properties . It should he possible to use a standard as the basis of a purchase agreement . The vast majority of metal specifications fail to meet the first essential requirement ? of precision . To describe qualities of bar by such terms as to be free from laps , seams and roaks ' , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on is merely to sow the seeds of discord between supplier and customer . How free ? Detected by what method ? It should occasion no surprise that manufacturers of products of integrity find it necessary to lay down their own requirements . What is more astonishing is that suppliers of metals should make such a small effort to understand and to meet the needs of their customers . There seems to be completely lacking , in all countries , that sense of responsibility towards the customer which is possessed by all suppliers of satisfactory products . Exceptions known to the author are two American steel forgers . It is perhaps significant that neither has deep roots in the business , and has therefore not developed the traditional outlook . One started as a brewer , the other as a builder of oil-well drilling equipment . Both were compelled to produce forgings to meet their own requirements because the requisite quality was unobtainable from other sources . They brought a fresh approach to the task . Both became expert , and pioneered new techniques of manufacture of forgings which have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the requirements and the satisfaction of their customers their especial concern . It is only a little less surprising that manufacturing industry has for so long been content with this situation . The cost of maintaining checks of the quality of incoming materials , by all manufacturers who can not afford the consequences of defective material , must be truly enormous . This point was given rare emphasis by Dr Augustus B. Kinzel in a strongly worded address to the American Society for Testing and Materials : Specifications ? ! The question mark pertains to the first part of this lecture ? What is the purpose of a specification ? . . . The 80 exclamation point pertains to the astonishingly unsatisfactory state of the art , to the astounding lack of communication and pertinence in many specifications , and to the inexcusable waste due to ignorance ? of materials , meaning of tests , and lack of engineering service requirements . ... 4 Even more important is the need to include data on the fatigue properties which can be guaranteed , so that the material supplier can assume his due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen when we discuss the relevance of fatigue properties to the achievement of reliability that a knowledge of variability , of the scatter in fatigue strength and fatigue life , and in other physical properties , should be available . This is necessary to enable the designer to know what is the worst that he may expect in production quantities of material . It is surprising that with rare exceptions material specifications contain little or no indication of the standard deviation in the numerical values of physical properties . Yet as long ago as 1935 Professor Egon S. Pearson prepared for the British Standards Institution a valuable specification on the use of statistics as a measure of the variability of physical properties of materials . 5 The unfortunate accident of the loss of the set type in a bombing incident during the war is no excuse for the continued failure to make any attempt to include in specifications the mean ( x ) and range ( R ) of measurable properties . This matter received further notice in 1938 when W. T. O'Dea pointed out the fallacious nature of specifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ batch of product having a much lower average value can still have a higher minimum value than a batch apparently much better on the basis of its average value only . Yet the designer needs to know the minimum value of the properties of the materials which is likely to be encountered in production batches . Unless he can base his calculations on this knowledge , it is ' highly likely that some failures will occur in service . Lacking this information , the designer is compelled to apply factors of safety ' , which are more correctly described as factors of ignorance ' . ? 8 In consequence , the design lacks refinement and is wasteful of material . It would appear , therefore , that for as far ahead as can be foreseen , the use of national standards should be restricted to those applications where existing static designs are acceptable . In all other cases , standards 81 82 can only lead to stagnation . With materials of construction , it is to be hoped that a better understanding of the fundamentals of specification writing , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead before long to specifications which , by quantifying quality stipulations , can become the basis of legally enforceable contracts . The Specification of a Specification A specification is a document intended to convey from one person or party to another a clear understanding of what the one requires of the other . The requirements may be a product or an activity . The activity may be that of designing a product , or of machining components to the designs of the customer ( sub-contracting ) , or it may mean the provision of a service . Ideally , it should define the minimum which needs to be done to satisfy the needs of the customer . This should be written in such a way that the specification alone is sufficient to convey to any prospective supplier a clear idea of what is needed to satisfy the requirements of the design . Only by this means can ambiguity be avoided . Another matter , of great importance to firms whose products have achieved an initial success , and to Defence departments , is the assurance that the original product can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturer . A specification is , therefore , a precise definition , or as precise a definition as can be written at the time . It is a means of reconciling the views of the two parties to an agreement , since on the one hand it must define the conditions which will satisfy the customer , and on the other it must be accepted by the supplier as being capable of achievement . There follows a list of items which should be included in a fully comprehensive product specification . Many products can be specified by something less than this . Minor components , for example , can be completely specified by the detail drawing . ( a ) The form of the product . ( b ) The purpose of the product . ( c ) The description of the product , including the material from which it is to be made , its dimensions , tolerances , finish . ( d ) The method of making the product . This will usually be defined in subsidiary process specifications , manufacturing technique specifications , operation planning sheets . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum level of quality which will satisfy the requirements , e.g. of porosity , cleanliness . This will normally be defined in a quality specification . 83 ( f ) The inspection of the product . Again , this will usually be covered by a separate specification or specifications , where special methods , e.g. of non-destructive testing , or pressure testing , are required . The checks to be carried out by supplier and customer must be laid down . ( g ) The performance of the product . This will apply particularly to functioning devices , e.g. engines , fuel systems , actuators , etc . Minimum acceptable performance , and methods of testing , must be specified . ( h ) The reliability of the product . This will stipulate the degree of reliability under defined conditions , with the method of estimating or measuring this . ( i ) The durability of the product . This will cover the total useful life expected , with the means of measuring it . ( j ) The packaging and storage of the product . Description of method of packaging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Swedish Association of Metalworking Industries ( Sveriges Mekanforbund ) published , in English , a memorandum Preparation of Technical Specifications for Use in Purchase ' . It was the first contribution to the subject which had appeared for many years . It was followed in 1967 by a Guide to the Preparation of Specifications ' .9 This last was prepared by an ad hoc Committee of the National Council for Quality and Reliability , and published by the British Standards Institution . Both documents are useful as reminders of what should be included , although , regrettably , neither sufficiently emphasizes the importance of quantifying all measurable attributes . Writing the Specification Since the aim is mutual understanding , clarity and simplicity are prime requirements . Clarity of definition needs plain , simple language and the specification should be : ( a ) As short as possible . Unnecessary words or descriptions lead to lack of precision . ( b ) Positive in meaning and intent . ( c ) Unambiguous . ( d ) Specific and precise . ( e ) Free from vague generalities such as to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' . No question such as how good ? ' or how free ? ' should remain unanswered . ( f ) Numerical wherever possible , e.g. finish should be specified by the CLA ( centre line average ) value . ( g ) Clear regarding the minimum acceptable level of quality or 84 performance . ( Note : This may be effected by specifying the average and the range of characteristic required , as with a nominal dimension and the tolerance . In the case of non-dimensional attributes , e.g. porosity , magnetic particle inspection indications of non-metallic inclusions , etc. , the minimum acceptable level will be defined by the maximum size and number of blowholes , and so on , in specified areas. ) ( h ) Augumented by photographs , diagrams , models , or samples where a precise numerical value can not be given . ( i ) Free from the common fallacy of calling for an unattainable desirable ' target . ( j ) Supported whenever possible by national or company standards , but only after it has been confirmed that the standards themselves are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk which he gave in London in March 1969 , John J. Riordan , Director of Technical Data , Standardization Policy and Quality Assurance in the US Department of Defense , said In all the industrial countries of the world , if there is any area of technology which can be considered an underprivileged or underdeveloped area , it is the field of what I would call specification technology . This is a fact of life which we all have to live with and this incidentally is verified by the fact that when one goes to the Library of Congress to get a book on specification writing there is no book . There are fragments of books , but a measure of the cultural development of a subject is its literature , and there is very little really good literature on this business of how to write a specification . I think that it is possible to write definitive specifications for such items as clothing or common stores . I also think it is possible to write definitive specifications for items that are in a process of change , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one gets into these more changeable and evolving items , the requirements are increasingly in performance terms rather than in descriptive or dimensional terms . My answer is yes , it is possible , but it takes a real talent and most Governments and most industries do not put their best people into the business of specification writing . The point is that the problem of specification is central to business management but as I see it neither in Government nor in industry ( I 'm speaking of course of American Government and industry ) has there been recognition that the man who writes the specification has a blank cheque on the Treasury . We do not realize this , but the fellow who puts a particular test or a particular 85 requirement in a specification could be committing the U.S. Government to vast sums of money . But for some reason this is not understood and in consequence there is no real major effort to support the preparation of good specification . It is obvious from the foregoing that an essential qualification of the specification writer is that he should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to visualize how the specification will be interpreted by those who must implement it , and he must have a sufficiently broadly-based experience to avoid the pitfalls of excessive requirements of proof of quality mentioned by Riordan . A useful guide to the writer of specifications was compiled over 40 years ago by N. F. Harriman. l o Precepts for Specification Writers ( a ) Either specify or omit . Eliminate all clauses that reflect indecision or lack of knowledge . Do not put anything in the specifications that will not be enforced to the letter . ( b ) Use simple words . Use technical words in their exact technical meaning . Do not use words that are subject to ambiguous interpretation . ( c ) Use nouns . Do not use pronouns . It is better to repeat the nouns , even at the sacrifice of elegance . ( d ) Do not write long and involved sentences . ( e ) Use commas sparingly . Do not construct sentences in such form that the omission , addition , or misplacement of a comma will alter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and concise expression of just what is meant . ( g ) Give directions , not suggestions . Tell the manufacturer definitely what shall or shall not be done . ( h ) Do not attempt to conceal obligations or to place all the risks on the manufacturer . ( i ) Either specify results desired and leave methods and properties to the manufacturer , or specify methods and properties desired and assume the responsibility of results . Finally , the specification writer will be well-advised to bear constantly in mind the rhyme of Rudyard Kipling : I keep six honest serving men , ( They taught me all 1 knew ) ; Their names are What and Why and When , And How and Where and Who. l i 86 This advice is applicable not only to the writing of specifications , but to the solution of problems of all kinds . The principles of specification writing which have been described could have applications of even greater value . Used in discussions between the two parties in industrial dispute , it should be possible to avoid much of the misunderstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 87 PART 3 Evolving the Product Specification 7 The Engineering Function A whole sequence of activities , coming under the general description of engineering ' must be brought into action in order to convert a managerial decision to enter a particular market into a product which it is hoped will satisfy that market . These activities come under the headings of design , development engineering , production engineering , procurement , manufacture , and quality control . Here , we are concerned with the earlier stages , that is , those activities , of design and development , which are necessary to define a product which will satisfy the customer . In many of today 's more forward looking organizations , these two stages are combined under the general title of engineering ' . This tends to de-emphasize the design activity , but it has the advantage of recognizing the essential partnership with development engineering . This is all to the good , since even where management recognizes the importance of good design there is plenty of evidence to show that the hardly less important role of development testing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British , although they exist to some extent in the United States , engineering has never been accorded the professional status which it receives in other European countries . To some extent , this may be due to the long persistence of the Greek tradition in our older universities , which regarded practical , technical , and scientific pursuits as ungentlemanly . This was strengthened by the exclusion of non-conformists from the universities of Oxford and Cambridge . Many of these men , escaping the stereotyping of an orthodox university training , turned to industry , where they played a great part in establishing Britain 's lead in the 18th and 19th centuries.i Another 91 reason is perhaps the word engineering ' itself , which carried the connotation of engines and of the men who controlled the engines , men wearing overalls and greasy caps . It is a pity that to correct this misconception we have come increasingly to use the word technology ' . This is in fact a less meaningful word than engineering ' , which stems from the Latin ingenium , the ingeniator , or engineer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institution of Civil Engineers 150 years ago , when they adopted Thomas Tredgold 's definition Engineering is the art of utilizing the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience of man.2 It will help management better to appreciate the importance of the role of the engineering department if this is borne in mind . Current overuse of technology ' and its too frequent combination with science ' have led to a widespread impression that a technique exists for the solution of every problem . Just as there is art in engineering , there is art in management , and success in both engineering and management depends upon recognition of this fact . It is worth repeating again the theme of this book , that by focusing attention upon customer ' and product , the Q &; R concept leads inexorably to observance of these fundamental arts both of management and of engineering . In this connection it has been stated that the Q &; R concept has been concerned excessively with engineering products and the engineering industry . The fact is that engineering thinking ' is fundamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promulgated here are applicable to all branches of industry . As we have seen , basic weakness of the design of a product carries by far the greater share of the responsibility for unreliable performance . In a period in which technology ( used here in its proper sense of the scientific study of the practical or industrial arts ' ) is advancing more rapidly than ever before and markets are becoming increasingly more difficult to win in the face of intensified competition , engineering , the art ' content of the subject , assumes even greater importance . It is significant that the most successful manufacturing companies are those with strong and able teams of design and development engineers . Usually , the boards of directors of such companies include men with an engineering background , well able to appreciate the importance of the engineering function , and to weight it accordingly . Since it is essential that adequate staff and facilities should be made available , an account will be given of the function of the engineering departments as a whole , and of the action which should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best possible chance of 92 success . If at the same time this account gives help or encouragement to engineers themselves the effort will have been doubly justified . The Cost of Engineering First , let us justify the cost of engineering design and development . In the case of highly sophisticated products where each new model represents an advance beyond the frontiers of existing scientific and technical knowledge , the design and development work necessary to evolve a viable specification of product is admittedly expensive . This is , however , well understood by the managements concerned , and full account is taken of it in determining policy . Taking as an example a new type of aircraft engine , the necessary research , design , and development can cost from 125 to 150 times the selling price of the engine which will eventually be produced . The provision of new manufacturing facilities , production planning , and tooling can cost as much again . To limit the amortization of these costs to 10 per cent or so of the price of the engine and of the spare parts which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market of at least 1600 engines.3 This high cost of the launching of a project , and the limited market , are factors in the low profitability of some technologically advanced industries . Less sophisticated products such as motor cars may command markets two hundred or more times as great , for a single model . In such cases , the design and development content of the cost of a single unit of product will be quite small , of the order of 1 per cent of the selling price . This leads one to wonder why there are such marked differences in the quality of the design of models of different makes within a given price bracket . To hire the best brains available would have a barely discernible effect upon the price of his car to a customer , yet the improvement in customer satisfaction , and the increased assurance of a greater share of the market would be out of all proportion . Where the product is a single complex unit , such as a large scale chemical plant , a power station , a ship , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many millions of pounds . The cost of design and development , relative to the product , may loom large compared with the previous example . This may be a reason for the seeming neglect of the engineering phase seen in the too-frequent examples of catastrophically expensive failures of large one-off equipments during recent years . The consequential cost of the failure of a single component might easily run into millions of pounds , through penalties for delay , lost revenue , or diminished return on capital invested due to reduced performance . In addition , 93 there is the incalculable cost of lost reputation and of lost prestige . Any conceivable increase in expenditure necessary to strengthen the design and development effort would represent a very small insurance premium indeed . The Function of Engineering Engineers , who increasingly are becoming specialists in narrow fields , tend to look upon their work as an end in itself . The manager must preserve the broad viewpoint . He should see that the function of the engineering department is to convert a corporate decision to cater for a particular market into clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacture of products which will satisfy the needs of the customer , at minimum cost to the company . He must see the function of each engineer , of each section of the engineering department , as contributing to the evolution and the finalization of the product specification . The total activity of engineering employs a wide range of abilities and talents . These include : ( a ) Creativity , imagination , and the ability to visualize conditions of operation and of the form of products and components which will be able to cope with the conditions which might arise from the intended duty . ( b ) The ability to synthesize a complex product from an assembly of detail components , and to analyse the interactions of these components . ( c ) A knowledge of statics , dynamics , and kinematics. ( d ) A knowledge of the properties of materials , of methods of manufacture , and of construction . ( e ) An awareness of the economics of manufacture . ( f ) Foresight of the conditions of use and abuse to which the product might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ g ) The ability to describe what is required to be done by the manufacturing and quality departments in order to evolve products which will meet the needs of the design , through the medium of drawings , specifications , and standards of quality . For the efficient deployment of this bewildering variety of talents there must obviously be a plan and a programme . Indeed , the management of 94 an engineering activity probably presents a greater challenge to managers than they are likely to find in any other department of the organization . It calls for the management of men who are practising an art , much of which will be a mystery to a non-technical manager . As a result , all too seldom do we find engineering management recognized as an essential function in the organizational structure . The effort and the time scales required to perform the engineering function will vary widely according to the scale of the enterprise and the novelty and complexity of the concept . In the small firm , there may be only one engineer ? designer , who will be surprised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talents and abilities just described . The intended product may be a slight variant of a well-established and simple design , requiring a minimum of new engineering effort . It may be an entirely new departure from previous practice , requiring research , a number of exploratory design studies ( some of which will need to be tested to determine their feasibility ) , and thorough testing of the final design . This will require the services of a large team of men possessing talent and skill in the specialities referred ' to . An example of the simple type of product might be an item of domestic equipment . The ultimate example of the second case is the family of Apollo spacecraft . In both , as in all intermediate cases , there is a common pattern of approach which must always be followed , whether it be by the single design-engineer of the small firm , or by the specialist sections of the larger engineering organization which might be several thousand strong . The Methodology of Engineering Man 's creative activities , in whatever field , follow a basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Today , it is known as scientific method ( cf. page 53 , chapter 5 ) . Well-known exponents were Aristotle ( 384 Bc ? 322 BC ) , Roger Bacon ( 1214 AD ? 1294 AD ) and Francis Bacon ( 1561 AD ? 1626 AD ) . It was Francis Bacon who gave greatest prominence to scientific method , and whose name is associated with it . Surprisingly , it is still far too little known and applied by professional managers and engineers , although it provides the guide to all their activities . It will be found to be applied intuitively by most little mesthers ' ? the owners of small firms whose incentive to do the right thing is survival . It is reflected in the Essential Requirements for the Achievement of Reliable Product ( page 35 ) and it forms the basis for the intelligent approach to any problem , whether it be scientific , technological , engineering , or managerial . 95 engineer . Management should recognize its responsibility to understand the importance of these stages , and to ensure that adequate facilities are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort allowed for the activities just listed . A common complaint is that there is never enough time or money available for proper design studies , for adequate development testing . The engineer ought not to be compelled to have to request these . It is the responsibility of management to understand the engineer 's problems and to make his task as easy as possible . Where the product is complex and the engineering department is a large one , with many problems under review simultaneously , management will be well-advised to enlist the cooperation of the engineers in making a critical path plan . Far from exerting pressures which might be resented , such a plan can help everyone involved in the enterprise by highlighting the problem areas likely to require greatest effort so that the available resources can be employed most effectively . A management approach is necessary , too , to plan the efficient dovetailing of the design and development processes with those of prototype manufacture , clearance to production , and preparation of production tooling . A typical plan is shown in Fig. 7.1 . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The time scale will differ greatly according to the type of project . At the one extreme it will be measured in weeks , at the other , it may be in years . The activities already mentioned will be familiar to all engineers , in every industry . The pursuit of reliability , however , requires a broader knowledge of certain fundamentals which affect the product after the design has left the engineering department . These are not yet sufficiently well-known , either to engineers or to managers . They are of vital importance to the evolution of satisfactory reliable product , and they will be described before proceeding to a fuller discussion of design and development engineering . 98 8 Engineering for Reliability It is management 's task to organize , guide , and help specialist engineering departments towards the successful achievement of reliable end product . Specialists are inclined to look upon their own work as of greater importance than that of other specialists , and too often they lose sight of the end-purpose of the enterprise . As Dr Robert Lusser has said : Designers ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieving high performance , which is fun and glamorous , than in achieving high reliability , which is hard work and entirely unglamorous. 1 It will help management towards a better and hence more sympathetic understanding of the competing claims of their engineering departments if we consider briefly the fundamentals of reliability . Reliability is a subject which of recent years has tended to become something of a mystery ' of the exclusive type which was cultivated by alchemists in the Middle Ages . As a matter of fact , difficult as it may be to meet reliability requirements , they can . be stated extremely simply . The Basis of Reliability Achievement In every problem concerning product reliability , there are only two main factors which must be borne constantly in mind . These are duty and capability . The simple fact is that if a product is to be completely reliable in use , if it is never to break down , then each and every component of each unit of product must be capable of withstanding the duty which will be imposed upon it . 99 This essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow speciality of reliability , and who have emphasized that it is a statistical probability , with 100 per cent success only achieved by chance . Yet it is in the aerospace field , where statistics have had their greatest vogue , that we have seen what have probably been the greatest reliability performances to date , the Apollo 11 and 12 moon landings . These took place no more than twelve years after the attempts to prove statistically the near impossibility of achieving 100 per cent reliability . Without question , their success owes much to the scientific and formalized approach to reliability which was pioneered by engineers in the electronics , space , and nuclear industries . But even more vital has been the realization that planned and systematic management of all the multitudinous activities involved was an essential requirement . It is unfortunate that in the early stages there was little contact between mechanical engineers and the pioneers of reliability engineering in these highly complex fields . The fact that the approach was at first predominantly statistical deterred non-statistical engineers and managers from attacking the subject boldly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electronics and nuclear fields have deprived themselves of a basic approach which would enable them to achieve better reliability , instead of expending considerable effort on the assessment of the degree of unreliability to be expected . The successful doctor diagnoses and cures the pain . He does not waste time measuring its intensity . In the aircraft and automobile industries in particular , engineers have for a long time had an intuitive understanding of the basic elements of reliability achievement . The vital contribution which has been made by the electronic/space engineers has encouraged mechanical engineers to clarify and to formalize their own thinking . Fortunately , this has led to a simplification of the subject , which should assist engineers and managers in all types of industry to achieve the benefits of increased reliability of their products , at minimum cost . Duty and Capability It is worth repeating that no product will be 100 per cent reliable unless each and every component in each unit of product is capable of meeting the duty which it will encounter in use . It will be obvious that no two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identical strengths and capabilities . Similarly , no two products will receive exactly the same treatment at the hands of the user . One has only to consider one 's own experience of motor cars , rand of the experiences of one 's friends and acquaintances with cars of a given type and make . There is always the likelihood that a component which is slightly 100 below the average of strength or capability will never meet the wol conditions of duty which can be imposed by an individual user . Tl introduces the element of risk , the probability of the statisticians . makes us realize the fact which must never be forgotten by those co cerned with the quality and reliability of products , that there is va ability in everything . The capability of components and of the prodtu of which they are constituent parts will vary between a maximum anti minimum value , and the duty will vary similarly . Moreover , we can never be absolutely certain that the extent of t variations ? both of duty and of capability ? are known accurate Unless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that t worst individual specimen will still be adequate for the highest dt which might conceivably be imposed , there will be some risk that t weakest product will be subjected to the most arduous duty and fails of that part will occur . ( See Fig. 8.1 . ) It is important , therefore , that adequate effort should be devoted to the determination and control of the extent of the variation in both duty and capability . In the majority of design departments even today there persists the concept and practice of designing to a so-called factor of safety . This factor is the ratio of the average strength to the average stress expected to be applied . The acceptable figure for this factor is based upon experi ence , and the highest factors are to be found in the most traditional and conservative cases . A railway overbridge might have a factor of safety of 102 8 , while a vital component of an aircraft engine might be designed to a factor of safety of 1.2 . The term is obviously a misnomer . It disguises the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time it is misleading because it engenders a feeling of false security . Simultaneously and quite independently , two engineers , the author in Britain , and Dr Robert Lusser in the United States , pointed out that the factor of safety was no more than a measure of ignorance . The author introduced the concept of margin of safety , as indicated in the diagram Fig. 8.2.2 Lusser , who was working side-by-side with electronic engineers and statisticians , found it necessary to communicate with them in their own language , and he described the same idea in the diagram in Fig. 8.3.3 103 engineers , and reliability engineers , in order to increase the confidence that there will be a margin of safety , without resorting to too much overdesign . Figure 8.3 emphasizes the existence of variability , and the importance of studying and determining , as far as possible , what will be the strength of the weakest product likely to exist in a series production run , and what will be the highest or most arduous duty likely to be imposed . Testing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realization that development testing , to determine the capability of a product , is of little value unless it is continued until failure occurs . All too often development engineers are criticized by their managements for ruining good products by testing them to destruction . Management 's criticism is not diminished by the fact that the engineers so evidently enjoy their work . Many designers too , who ought to know better , resent the destruction of their brain children . On consideration , it will be obvious that a successful test of a product , for a given time at a prescribed duty , has done no more than demonstrate that one sample of product has survived that particular test . It can not establish that the same product would not fail were the test to be continued for a little while longer . It does nothing to reveal , for the benefit of the designer , what is the weakest component ? that which would be most likely to fail in service ? in the product as a whole . The Fallacy of the Type Test Quite obviously it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a test of the same duty and duration that it will be expected to withstand in service . A motor car is expected to function reliably and without wearing out for about 100,000 miles . An aircraft engine is expected to run reliably for 10,000 hours or so between overhauls , and to have a total useful life of say 60,000 hours . A steam turbine 's useful life might be 30 years , with only brief intervals of shutdown for maintenance and replacement of worn parts . The art of the engineer is needed to devise tests of much shorter duration , which will reveal to him and to the designer the potential weaknesses in the prototype model . If he is wise , he will continue testing until failure occurs , reducing the time necessary by carefully designed overload tests . Yet it is quite usual for a customer to accept a new product on the basis of a test of short duration , sometimes of only a few hours , seldom of as much as the 150-hour type test demanded by Air Registration Board and Air Force authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a final product to such an approval test , the engineers concerned with design and development will have sought approval of their management to carry out much more extensive testing . Unfortunately , with the exception once again of aero engines and motor cars , they will usually have been unsuccessful . Even in these cases , it is customary to select the cheapest of competing products , such as proprietary components or assemblies , on the basis of a type approval test , successfully completed . In the defence field , designers of end-products are often required to make use of Government supplied accessories known as embodiment loan items , in the interests of standardization . Almost invariably these will have been selected on the basis of lowest first cost , subject to the proviso that the product has passed a type test . Unfortunately in many cases the test will have been established for an earlier design of end-product . It will have taken no account of subsequent changes in duty or environment . Figure 5.14 illustrates the fallacy of the type test as a basis for the demonstration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testing which , to be of value , must , as already indicated , have led to the failure of one or more components , there is a real risk in allowing a design to proceed to the production stage . Management 's Contribution The many constituent activities of the design function are dealt with in detail later . At this stage it is hoped that sufficient will have been said to convince management of the need to offer facilities to design and development engineers for obtaining the maximum possible information about the capability of the product and its components , and of the duty likely to be met . There must be sufficient testing to ascertain the variability in capability . This involves : ( a ) Work by metallurgists , to determine the scatter or variability in the properties of the materials of construction . ( b ) Testing , by development engineers , to determine the scatter in the capability of complete components . ( c ) Testing , by quality and reliability engineers , to determine the variability in materials , processes and components produced in large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The laying down of standards of acceptable quality . ( e ) Investigation to determine the extent to which the scatter can be limited by improved processing or by non-destructive examination . Designers should be given every opportunity to study at first hand the conditions of use and environment . They should be allowed to hold 105 discussions with the user and by this is meant the engineers who will operate the plant , the soldiers , sailors and airmen who will use military equipment , the housewife who will use domestic aids , or the motorist . Designers should , as far as possible , be allowed to visit the regions in which the equipment will be used , and to see it , or similar equipment , actually in use at the hands of the intended customer . Examples are far too numerous of costly failures of equipment which have been due to ignorance on the part of the designer of factors with which he could easily have coped , had he known of their existence . The designer himself is seldom in a position to authorize the necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management to understand the value of these studies , and to see that they are carried out . 106 9 The Fundamentals of Fatigue The vast majority of reliability failures are due to the effects of repeated applications of load . Whether it be a wheelbarrow , or a complicated machine , it is unusual for it to break down the first time it is used , under a single application of load . It is the cumulative effect of stresses repeated many times which causes eventual failure . This is called fatigue , which is short for metallic fatigue ' , and although it is mentioned more and more frequently in the daily press ( vide the Comet aircraft disasters , the Hither Green railway rails , the American F.l I1 aircraft controls , the Queen Elizabeth II turbine blades ) , it still remains a mystery to many people . This is despite the fact that the phenomenon of metallic fatigue was identified by British engineers as long ago as the eighteen-forties . In retrospect , it is clear that the fundamental work carried out a few years later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn . He was a railway engineer , who investigated the causes of failure of railway axles . He designed a machine to test full scale axles in rotating bending , at a speed of 15 rev/min . Becoming interested in the fatigue phenomenon , he developed a machine to use smaller test pieces , which enabled him to speed up the rate of testing and to use less material . Today , the Wohler rotating bend ' test machine uses specimens only 0.25 in. diameter or less . Being inexpensive , it has become the standard machine for the great preponderance of research work , and tor teaching . Its widespread use has established the study of the stress ? life relationship ( the S ? N curve ) as the main aim , which was indeed Wohler 's purpose at that time . This has diverted attention from the fact that today we need to be much more concerned with conditions at low lives and at high stress levels . 107 During the ensuing years , a vast amount of research has been carried out to investigate the causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crack is initiated , how it progresses , and how it responds to applications of load of different magnitudes . While all this is of the greatest potential value in the effort to understand the phenomenon so that fatigue failure can be avoided , it has had the effect of confining most of the work on fatigue to the research laboratory . A simple pragmatic approach , as was in fact used by Wohler and his contemporaries in their early experiments , can be of the greatest value . My own experience has confirmed this on very many occasions , and as a result improvements in reliability of great magnitude have been achieved by simple tests based upon approximate assumptions . Because it is felt that these deserve to be much more widely appreciated , they will be described here , so that there can be established a proper basis for the discussion of the design and development activities which will follow . The Life ? Stress Relationship It is fortunate for us that metals and most other materials of construction behave in a consistent manner . Taking first the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life-to-failure and the magnitude of the stress applied follows the pattern shown in Fig. 9.1. 108 This is known as the S-N curve , where S denotes the magnitude of the stress which is applied repeatedly , and N the number of times the stress is applied . A part will fail under one application of load when the stress equals the ultimate which the material is capable of withstanding . If the load is applied oftener , a progressively lower stress will be sufficient to cause failure . Compared with the work which has been carried out at large numbers of cycles of stress , very little research indeed has been done at low lives , below say 5000 cycles . From about 5000 cycles , however , until about 10 million cycles , there is a continuous fall in the stress which will result in failure . After about 10 million cycles the curve levels off , indicating that stresses below the corresponding figure will not lead to failure , no matter how often they are applied . This stress level is called the fatigue limit , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In order to provide a more open scale at higher stresses , it is usual to plot N logarithmically . The S-log N curve , which is the one most commonly seen , is reproduced in Fig. 9.2. 109 approximately 50 per cent of the ultimate strength . With stronger steels , however , the fatigue limit falls progressively to about 40 per cent of the ultimate strength . Where fatigue conditions prevail , therefore , it is not always advantageous to use a stronger steel . Things might even turn out to be worse than with a weaker steel . In the case of non-ferrous metals , including aluminium and its alloys , there is no clearly defined fatigue limit , although there is still a distinct bend , or knee ' in the S ? log N curve at the corresponding point . Beyond this , the curve continues to fall slowly , and it can be assumed that if stresses were applied to a test piece for an infinite number of times , the part would fail at near zero stress . This , however , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that at any given stress a component in aluminium has a finite life , whereas in steel , at a sufficiently low stress , i.e. below the fatigue limit , the test piece should , theoretically , last for ever . Preoccupation with the fatigue limit is due to the fact that Wohler 's original work was in connection with railway wagon axles , which are loaded in rotational bending , one complete stress cycle between positive and negative values occurring at each point of the circumference of the axle for each revolution of the wheel . With a wheel diameter of 3.5 ft , therefore , the axle would be subjected to 10 million cycles of stress in 20,800 miles , or after 77 round trips between London and Derby . The great impetus to the study of fatigue came from the aero engine designers of the First World War . In their reciprocating engines , where low weight meant high stresses , 10 million cycles of stress would be applied to a connecting rod or a gudgeon pin in about 160 hours of engine running at 2000 rev/min . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible what was the fatigue limit , and to design the parts so that the applied stress would not reach this value . These conditions apply to all types of reciprocating engine . Surprisingly , it is not generally appreciated that the majority of today 's products are subjected to the full range of fluctuating stress far less frequently . For example , the steam turbines of a power station suffer one stress cycle from zero when they are at rest to a maximum at their running speed , and back to zero , each time they are started , run , and stopped . Turbines which are shut down once a week will accumulate no more than 1500 cycles in a total life of 30 years . The rotating parts of an aircraft gas turbine engine are subjected , in the same way , to one stress cycle each flight . The total number of cycles will vary according to the purpose and use of the aircraft . A light military trainer , or a short haul airliner might have 6000 cycles of stress annually . A transatlantic airliner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose no more than 110 600 cycles . Accordingly it is usual to design the discs of these engines for a maximum life of about 30,000 cycles . In the case of aircraft , the undercarriage , the flap-operating mechanisms , and many other functioning components suffer no more than two cycles of stress per flight . The disastrous failures of the Comet pressurized fuselages in 1954 occurred after a working life of about 9000 hours . With an average flight duration of 3 hours , this meant that the fuselages failed in fatigue after no more than 3000 cycles of applied stress . It was the realization of the fatigue nature of the one stress per flight condition which led to enormous improvements in the reliability of the heat exchanger equipment of the military aircraft of the Royal Air Force in the later stages of the Second World War . Fatigue has implications of a more personal nature , as biomedical engineers are now realizing . The human hip joint , for example , will be subjected to between 1.5 and 2.0 million applications of load annually . The normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in extreme conditions it may rise to 5 times the body weight . These facts must be taken into account when designing and developing artificial hip joints . In addition , the environmental conditions , especially of the corrosive nature of body fluids , must be allowed for . In the case of motor cars , whereas the engines will accumulate many millions of stress cycles during their working life , many components ? in the transmission and suspension say will suffer no more than an estimated 12,000 or so cycles of maximum stress range . In these examples it is assumed that no resonant conditions of vibration exist . With these examples in mind , it is surprising that so little attention has been paid to the low cycle high stress region of the S ? log N curve . Indeed , it will be found that the great majority of the published work records no test results below about 400,000 cycles . When reciprocating aero engines provided the main stimulus for research into the fundamentals of fatigue , it was logical to concentrate upon the fatigue limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has persisted , despite the fact that the low cycle region is of far greater importance today . For ' many years , this has deprived industry of a technique for the establishment of reliable designs which , if more widely known and applied , could probably have prevented some of the catastrophic and expensive failures which have achieved notoriety recently . Stress-Raisers Quite early in the history of fatigue it was observed that components tended to fail at oil holes in shafts , at keyways , at shoulders , and corners . Research established that such discontinuities in the otherwise smooth 111 form of a component can increase the stress , locally , by three times or more in the case of a sharp edged oil hole , for example . l It was found that the effect of these stress-raisers could be reduced by providing generous radii in re-entrant corners , and by smoothing off external edges . Surface scratches due to too hasty machining , or to the use of incorrect or insufficiently sharpened tools can be similarly detrimental . Today , all this is pretty well-known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shops . There is still a tendency , however , towards a lack of generosity in providing large fillet radii , especially on castings . On the other hand , although good finish is important , there is evidence that the excessively smooth finishes proposed by research workers are not always strictly necessary on actual working components . Other stress-raisers , which are especially important when working stresses are high , are defects which may exist in the metal itself . Blow holes or porosity in castings ; piping , laps , seams , or roaks in bar or forgings ; non-metallic inclusions ; fine surface cracks ; internal or locked-up stresses in forgings and weldments , all these are capable of raising stress locally to unacceptably high levels . A great deal of progress has been made during recent years in techniques of non-destructive testing to reveal the presence of such undesirable defects . The application of appropriate methods of non-destructive examination is an aid to reli ability , because it reduces the areas of ignorance . ( See Fig. 8.2 . ) Stress-raisers have by far their greatest effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under conditions of static stress , where there is only one single application of load , their effect is very much smaller . This is due partly to the fact that at high static stresses local yielding of the metal will occur , reducing the effective concentration of stress . Although this is well-known , there still persists the widespread practice of carrying out a static proof test in the utterly mistaken notion that it can establish the integrity of a product . The effect of stress-raisers upon the fatigue strength of test pieces and components is shown in Fig. 9.4 . This is presented schematically , be-cause actual examples based on tests extending from one single applica tion of stress to beyond the fatigue limit are rare This diagram is important as forming the basis for practices of great value to all who wish to achieve reliability of functioning products of any type . Scatter or Variability So far , we have presented the S ? N curve , and the S ' ? log N curve , as single discrete relationships , indicated by one black line . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data on fatigue , the results of countless research investigations . 112 These suffer from the serious defect that they assume that all samples of material behave in the same way . They ignore completely the vari ability of materials , of test pieces , of components , which must always be borne in mind by the engineer who is concerned with the achievement of reliability . Unfortunately , it is a matter of sober and regrettable fact that variations in the quality of materials , which still elude our ability to measure and control them , cause variations in fatigue strength and fatigue life which are quite considerable . Perhaps because research workers have been more concerned with the establishment of relationships between stress and life , S and N , or possibly because the truth would require them to investigate the arduous 113 and unglamorous aspects of the pursuit of reliability , they have , with a few notable exceptions , closed their eyes to the existence of scatter in the results of tests of fatigue strength and life . Indeed , more than one professor of mechanical engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test results which did not fall on the anticipated and tidy normal ' line . The information which was not recorded could have been of far greater value to the designer than the precise form of the nominal curve which the researchers were at pains to establish . Figure 9.3 shows examples from the relatively sparse published data indicating the scatter in fatigue characteristics . This scatter is of such magnitude as to occasion more than a little surprise that it has been ignored for so long . The variation in fatigue life which can be expected , in test pieces from laboratory specimens and from actual components , may be as much as 100 to 1 between the maximum and the minimum life . This is on the basis of a scatter of 3 a , that is , assuming that 99.7 per cent of the total population will come Aithin these values . In the case of fatigue strength , as distinct from fatigue life , the variation between maximum and minimum will be seen to be of the order of 1.5 : 1 . It is important to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designers . It is quite astonishing that standard specifications for materials ignore the fundamental fact of variability . The extent of the variability could easily be defined by quoting the mean and the range of figures to be expected in a batch of material . This was pointed out more than 30 years ago by Professor Egon Pearson , 3 and later by W. T. O'Dea4 and by Kinzel , 5 but action by national standards institutions and by material suppliers is still awaited . Non-Destructive Testing Granted that information has been obtained on the extent of the scatter in fatigue properties , the decision must be made as to whether the lowest figures must be accepted as inevitable , and the design based accordingly , or whether a minimum standard at a higher life can be laid down which can be maintained by eliminating the lower end of the scatter by nondestructive testing to identify the worst components . This is an area of activity which has so far received little attention outside the aero engine and nuclear fields . Fortunately , it is far less difficult to establish acceptable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by taking advantage of the characteristics of the S ? log N curve at its higher ( low life ) end . An Engineering Approach Determining the Extent of Scatter Information of inestimable value has 114 been obtained , quickly and economically , by making use of the standard form of the S ? log N relationship . Figure 9.4 indicates , schematically , the fact that there will be scatter in the life and strength of individual samples . We need to determine , as quickly as possible , the extent of this scatter . To follow the usual practice of determining the scatter in fatigue strength necessitates carrying out tests totalling hundreds of millions of cycles , because at least 7 and preferably as many as 30 test results are necessary to enable a statistically viable estimate to be made of the total scatter . Moreover , since the fatigue curve in this region beyond the fatigue limit is open-ended , it is difficult to control the test programme . The amount of testing might total at least 2000 hours and this fact has already been a sufficient deterrent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we determine fatigue life rather than fatigue strength , by working in the high stress low cycle area of the curve , things become much more feasible . By carrying out tests on specimens at a high level of stress , approaching the 0.1 per cent proof stress , conditions will not be significantly different from those existing at lower stresses . At this stress level , the test pieces will have a finite life and it will be possible to test even the desirable 30 specimens for a total test duration of about 1 million cycles , or from 8 to 10 hours ' testing at 2000 cycles per minute . As we have seen already , the great majority of today 's products do 115 have finite lives . If , however , a particular component , e.g. a crankshaft , connecting rod , gudgeon pin of a reciprocating engine is under review , the scatter in fatigue strength beyond the fatigue limit can be estimated from the scatter in fatigue life . The slope of the S ? log N curve does not vary greatly for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes can be obtained by sketching in a curve based upon the predetermined life-scatter at a given stress . Standards of Acceptable Quality Short life tests of this kind have another great advantage . They sort out for us the specimens which are better than average , from those which are worse than average . It is then possible for the metallurgist to compare these to try to detect the significant factors influencing goodness and badness . This provides , too , material for the development of methods of non-destructive examination . If a method of non-destructive testing can be evolved which can with confidence predetermine the quality of a specimen , then it becomes possible to specify a minimum standard of acceptable quality and to reduce the scatter in the fatigue life which must be catered for in the design . This approach has been of great value not only in improving reliability , but in providing a challenge to the development of improved methods of non-destructive testing . indeed , the engineers carrying out the fatigue tests , and those working on non-destructive testing , become mutually self-fertilizing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Simple Equipment The method described was developed by quality engineers , using test pieces taken from actual components . Because it is based upon low-life testing , it has been found possible to use simple home-made test rigs , operating at moderate speeds , which can be constructed quite cheaply . Yet these have given results comparable with those obtained from the most advanced and expensive fatigue machines . Figure 9.5 compares test results obtained on a simple constant deflection test machine operated by a a hp electric motor , used in a workshop , with those from a Vibrophore machine , used in a research laboratory on similar specimens . it is to be expected that research workers who have investigated the effects of rate of cycling and of overstressing by prior damage will object that this pragmatic approach will produce misleading results . More than 25 years ' experience , with a wide variety of components and many different types of construction including castings , forgings , machined forgings , sheet metal fabrications soft soldered , brazed , and welded , in brass , copper , mild steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light alloys , and titanium alloys , has however not yet 116 117 produced spurious or doubtful results . On the contrary , it has been possible on many occasions to reproduce identically the type of failure occurring in the full scale component , even though the actual stress conditions have not closely simulated those of the engine proper.6 As a result great improvements in reliability have been achieved . It is important to distinguish between this work , which falls within the sphere of activities of quality engineering and reliability engineering , and that of the development engineer . It is the task of the development engineer to establish the viability of a design . The quality/reliability engineer is concerned with detecting and eliminating the causes of trouble in production units , which are due to variations in components produced in large numbers . Proof Testing Another valuable aspect of this approach is the facility which it offers of proving components the integrity of which can not be established by any known method of non-destructive testing . Such components include heat exchanger equipment , such as coolant radiators and oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually constructed of thin foil in copper , brass , steel or light alloy , joined by soft soldering , brazing , or welding . They include myriads of joints , which can not be examined . Another family of components is that having welded or brazed joints . It is not generally realized that in the state of the present art of inspection , while it may be possible to detect a defective weld or brazed joint , it is not possible to be assured that the joint is a good one . X-ray examination can reveal defects . It can not confirm the existence of good fusion . A great deal of what has been written in this chapter applies as much to complete functioning components as it does to test pieces or single discrete details . A defective valve in a pneumatic or hydraulic jack , a defective limit switch in an electric motor , can act as a life reducer ( i.e. the equivalent of a strength reducer ) just as can a hairline crack in a metallic component . In the examples mentioned , it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the typical defect is considerable relative to the normal scatter to be expected in the population of sound products . The situation can be illustrated by Fig. 9.6.6 The effect of the high stressraiser is to produce a virtual separation between good ' and bad ' families of components . This separation has been found to exist in a wide variety of products . There will not , however , be this separation in the case of non-metallic inclusions in forgings . Here , the effect is continuously deleterious as between the less and the more harmful inclusions so that there is simply one wide scatter band . 118 It must be emphasized , too , that the author 's experience has not cluded heavy weldments . In no case should the method he applied ui it has been established that the situation of Fig. 9.6 does in tact cxi Then , by imposing a test of duration , typically of 2000 cycles on rvi component produced , there is a high probability that all detective ut will fail while the life of good components will be reduced by no nt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small price to pay for the assured In tegt of the products which pass the test . The approach which has been described is far removed from that the research worker . Hence , no manager should accept the excuse t i such testing can not be carried out because research facilities do I exist , or because the laboratory is too busy . The tests are basically engineers , using the minimum of easily built-up equipment . Their has been . established so convincingly that it is a matter of surprise t l they have not been more widely adopted . Vibration Troubles No mention has been made of the effects of high speed vibrito because resonant vibration is an unwanted condition which must detected and eliminated from the design if it is to function satisfactor We all know that soldiers break step when crossing a bridge . l rhythmic marching tread of a number of men provides a pm() exciting force . If the frequency of the step should coincide with the natural frequency of the bridge , or a multiple or sub-multiple of it , then vibration would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successive tread . Even though the force applied might be small compared with the strength of the bridge , a sufficient number of applications of the force could cause the bridge to fail . One person crossing a plank bridge over a stream can easily set up resonance . Usually he has hurried off the bridge before he has been thrown off by losing his balance . In the same way quite small periodic forces in machines can cause failure of components which have an appropriate natural frequency so that resonance occurs . The tooth contacts between mating gears may produce no more than a buzzing , which may be detected as a faint vibration felt by the finger tips . Should its frequency coincide with the natural frequency of a component , then serious trouble may be anticipated with that component . Valve springs surge in tune with the harmonics of the cam , crankshafts oscillate torsionally under the influence of periodic explosion forces . These conditions have long been known , and today they are coped with . The blades of a steam turbine may be subject to excitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of a gas turbine due to variations in gas flow intensity . The natural frequency of a steam turbine blade may be of the order of 1000 cycles per second . It will vibrate at this frequency when the exciting force is in resonance . Only about 3 hours of accumulated running time at speeds producing resonance will be necessary to impose 10 million cycles of stress . These vibration stresses , which will alternate between positive and negative values , will be superimposed upon the centrifugal stresses due to rotation of the turbine and the bending stresses due to the steam . These stresses will be unvarying at a given running condition , but it is known that the higher this steady stress , the lower the resonant stresses that can be withstood without failure . There is a relationship between mean stress and the range of fluctuating stress which is approximately as shown in the Goodman diagram . ( See Fig. 9.7 . ) The trouble experienced with the turbines of Queen Elizabeth II was , in fact , due to resonance between the blades of certain stages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was overcome by modifying the blades to lower the running stresses , and by lacing them together in batches to change their frequency . Often , the critical period extends over only a narrow range of operating speed . A detailed and painstaking search may , therefore , be necessary to ensure that resonance does not in fact exist . Quite small dimen-120 sional changes can alter the natural frequency of a part and put it at hazard . The possibility of resonance existing in a design should never be overlooked . The consequences can be dire , and failure to carry out thorough tests , especially on expensive or critical products , has resulted in extremely costly breakdowns. 121 122 10 From Concept to Prototype Management may perhaps be forgiven for failing to appreciate the importance of the design phase in the evolution of a satisfactory product . The literature shows that technical and professional individuals and organizations find difficulty in defining the function of design , indeed in defining design itself . In different organizations , a man carrying out the same duties might be described variously as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other firms , the designer may in fact be a stylist , or an industrial designer ' . Added to this is the fact that good engineering design calls for a great deal of judgement and intuition , and much of it is an art which can not easily be described to non-engineers . Finally , the design department is often regarded as non-productive , as an indirect ' drain on the company finances . Managers who are accustomed to assessing performance in terms of output in a given time , for a given cost , find difficulty in evaluating design effort which at best may result in a collection of drawings , at worst in the abandoning of what might have appeared , to the sales director say , to be a promising project . So much for design in the mechanical , structural , civil , chemical , and electrical fields , where the product is a complex of many components , each one of which is called upon to play a part , dynamic or static , which is contributory to the functioning of the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mover , a machine , or a processing plant , can be compared to the human body , with its skeletal framework , its muscles , heart pump , lubrication system , heat exchanger , and means of converting fuel into energy . In electronic engineering , the components are more nearly analogous to the cells of the brain . They receive and transmit signals in response to stimuli , and form a complex system of actions and 123 interactions . In this case , design is the word used to describe the arrange ment of the system , its logic . This kind of design , however , is capable of being treated much more rigorously as a rigid scientific discipline than is , up to the present time at any rate , mechanical design . At the same time electronic devices still require to operate through the medium of mech anical , structural , and electrical components . To this extent , they are subject to the art rather than to the science of design . Design in the Doldrums With such a diversity of tasks , with art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of advanced science on the other , with a confusion of semantics , it is small wonder that designers often fail to justify their existence in the eyes of their management . They are unable to win the status and the awards which they feel to be their due . They are not accorded the time nor the facilities necessary to enable them to do their job to their own satisfaction . The unfortunate consequence of this lack of appreciation of the important role of the designer is that it becomes the ambition of many able men to get off the drawing board ' . Those who do not succeed in doing so are driven to adopt a defensive attitude which isolates them from the rest of the organization in which they work , and an already unsatisfactory situation is made worse . The too frequent occurrence of catastrophically expensive failures of large one-off equipments is ample support for the general impression that too little heed has been paid to the Feilden Report . It is hoped that the following account of the design function and the basic pattern of design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way in which the designer works , why certain expenditure is justified , and perhaps most important of all , how to integrate the design departments more effectively into the organization as a whole . The designer and the manager both work in essentially the same way , applying , by their art , the totality of existing relevant knowledge the science of their subject . It might have been thought , therefore , that there would have been a better understanding of each other 's problems than does in fact exist . The Responsibilities of the Designer Despite the low status which is so often accorded to the design activity , the fact remains that the designer bears a much greater responsibility for the success of the whole enterprise than does anyone else in the organization . We have seen already that reliable performance depends predominantly upon design . The volume of sales , the competitiveness of the product , 124 its profitability , are all determined by the designer above all others . Should the quality of the design be low , or should the product not meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever scale it might be mounted , will have a lasting effect . Indeed , to plug ' a product which is less than adequate for the customer 's needs approaches confidence trickery , and a disappointed market will remember this . Competitiveness requires that the product shall be of equal or better value to the customer than he can obtain elsewhere . Value , as we have seen , depends upon quality and reliability and price . Profitability depends upon cost related to the price which can be demanded . Here , despite the efforts which should be made by production engineers to reduce manufacturing costs , their work is circumscribed by the basic pattern of the design , which determines the cost bracket within which the product lies . The price which can be obtained depends to a great extent upon the customer satisfaction which is offered . A product design represents the designer 's opinion of what he considers will be successful in satisfying the needs of a particular market . Although there will have been a corporate decision on the basic type of product and on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that decision , the translation of intention into hardware , is the responsibility of the designer . It should be obvious that this activity is of fundamental importance to the success , indeed the survival of the company . Yet how often is the designer given adequate time and facilities ? above all adequate time ? to be able to devote the careful thought necessary to arrive at the best decision ! The weight of responsibility which falls upon the designer will vary widely according to the type of product , and upon its state of maturity . This variation is possibly an additional reason why it is difficult to arouse the interest of management by generalizations regarding the importance of design . The Life-Cycle of a Design Concept R. J. Dain has identified seven ages in the total life-cycle of a product design . ' Illustrated by topical examples , these are : I. INVENTION A new concept is conceived , e.g. the Wankel engine , through-the-lens exposure metering for cameras . 2 . DEVELOPMENT OF THE IDEA Conversion into practical reality , e.g. Wankel engines for motor cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantities , in the beginning at high prices , e.g. custom-built sports cars of high performance . 125 TECHNICAL IMPROVEMENTS Development to meet customers ' demands , e.g. the current move to design safer motor cars . INCREASED COMPETITIVENESS Refinement of design to improve value , e.g. by enhanced quality of design , better reliability , lower costs ; e.g. the mini motor car . INCREASED PROFITABILITY Cultivation of mass market , improved detail design for lower production costs , application of value engineering , more economical methods of manufacture by new plant and equipment , better planning . REPLACEMENT BY A NEW DESIGN For example , the highly developed car ferry replaced by the hovercraft , the petrol-engined motor car replaced by the small electric town vehicle for commuters . Only the largest organizations will find themselves engaged in the whole range of activities covering this total life-cycle . Even then different phases will usually be confined to different design departments . In general , most companies will have concurrent activities in no more than three or four of the phases just described . At any given time an established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one of the later stages described by Dain . It will be well advised to have under active consideration new products in the earlier stages , and to ensure that there is a continued progression from one stage to the next . The type of design activity required at each stage will vary in degree , but in every case the designer must be respons-ible for keeping abreast of technical developments in fields ancillary to his own . It should go without saying that the designer should be aware of changing needs in the market , of new products being evolved by compet-ing firms . He should know of new materials , new manufacturing process-es , new methods of inspection . One reason for the growing consciousness of the importance of the design function is the fact that demands are increasing concurrently in so many areas . The greatly expanded con-sumer market has led to intense competition in the field of consumer durables , and the customer is becoming increasingly educated and critical . The restraints on Government spending on defence which have had to be made to balance the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to demands for enhanced value , increased reliability and life of military equipment . The greatly increased performance of land-vehicles , of aircraft , of warships means that the designer must strive continuously to keep up-to-date his knowledge of new technical developments . All this is necessary if a company is to remain in business . We can all 126 i call to mind instances of firms which , after enjoying a long period of prosperity due to a high reputation for a good design , have declined and failed because they have not kept abreast of their competitors . The vital role of the designer should now be manifest . Yet woe betide the designer whose product suffers a breakdown . The adverse publicity might well be worldwide . Surely , to counterbalance this there should be a better realization of the heavy load which falls upon the designer , and he should be given credit and praise for work well done . Management should bear this in mind . Prince Philip , in his speech launching National Quality and Reliability Year , said : A good reputation for well-designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't fail or break down , is the criterion for certain success . A bad reputation is a very costly luxury which this Nation can not afford . The Function of Design The designer 's task is to create a specification which will make possible the manufacture of a product meeting the specified requirements as economically as possible . In order to discharge his task satisfactorily , the designer must first know what are the needs , the requirements , or the expectations of the intended customer . Whether they are needs or expectations will depend upon the type of customer . The large organization which by the nature of its purpose must determine its needs for itself ? a defence department , a large chemical manufacturer , a large manufacturing organization requiring new plant or equipment , an airline will itself define the performance , the operating cost , the cost of ownership , the delivery dates , which must be met . The demand of the individual customer , on the other hand , will be much more in the nature of a reaction to the supply of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the market will be defined in the first instance by the market research department of the organization which achieves a breakthrough and hence becomes a trend-setter . Competing organizations must make haste to diminish the lead thus established . In either event , the designer finds himself presented with a broad expression of need . It is his function to visualize the need , to see in his mind 's eye the conditions in which the product will be used ? and abused ? and to synthesize a form of product which will satisfy the requirements as he sees them . The more successful designer is he who possesses creative ability . This means that he is able to evolve , at first perhaps intuitively , a form 127 of product likely to be able to meet the specified performance . It is then necessary to confirm that the concept will be able to meet the requirements of performance , strength , safety , reliability and so on . Since these characteristics will probably be in conflict with each other , it is not unlikely that the designer will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the desired minimum weight , for instance , in exchange for adequate structural safety . This second phase of design , which in effect adapts the initial concept to practical reality , can be dealt with by engineers possessing the necessary technical knowledge of stressing , of dynamics and strength of materials , but not necessarily having creative ability . Depending upon the novelty of the design , more or less testing will be necessary to confirm the assumption made by the designer . When the design has been finalized , it must be defined and specified , usually by means of drawings , specifications , and instructions . During the stages of creation of specification , finalization of specifica-tion , definition and communication , it will help the designer to bear in mind the main areas of requirement , which will vary according to the type of product and its end-purpose . These provide the designer with a broad guide which can be broken down into greater detail . The following list of the more important characteristics required by the Navy , in its ships , machinery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would require only little change of emphasis on individual items in this list for it to be applicable to any kind of product . Performance . Reliability . Robustness . Maintainability and repairability . Ease of operation . Silence . Safety . Compactness and lightness . Habitability and appearance . The activities involved in arriving at a specification of product to meet requirements as indicated above are primarily the concern of the engineering department ? the designers and the development engineers . Optimum value , which involves manufacturing cost , requires that the designer should consult engineers concerned with the assessment of value , with the planning of manufacturing methods , with manufacture itself , with quality assurance , and quality control . Since there is often found to exist the tendency towards departmental isolationism which 128 has already been mentioned , it is incumbent upon management to ensure that means exist for bringing about the necessary cooperation , and for seeing that it is effective . The essential interdependence of design with the other activities of the organization is shown in Fig. 10.1 . This will provide a key to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comprise the whole of effective design . The Design Process When management has reached a decision on the type of product needed , the designer has in effect received his instructions to proceed with the evolution of a design of product which will fulfil the hopes and aspirations of the enterprise by satisfying the intended market . Whether they take place within the brain of the chief executive of the small business who doubles the role of chief designer , or whether they require the services of many engineers and designers staffing a complex of specialist departments , there is a logical sequence of stages of thinking , decision , and action . Their importance and their function must be recognized and understood if they are to be managed efficiently and implemented in appropriate measure . Determination of Need The need may arise from the simple personal desire on the part of the proprietor of a company to make something which he wants to make , to satisfy his creative instinct . Many important new concepts have arisen in this way . It may arise from a desperate need to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market . This is a common determinant of company policy . Many managers will look upon the determination of need as market research . They should , however , guard against the tendency to regard this as a separate independent activity , concerned mainly with the study of the size of market for a particular product and the price which the market will stand . Of at least equal importance should be the consideration of the product itself , of the feasibility of evolving a product for the appropriate market at a price which will allow it to be satisfactory , competitive , and profitable . This means that the designer should be involved from the outset . Merely to instruct the designer of a product to meet broadly-stated requirements and firmly-stated targets of delivery date and cost may lead to satisfactory sales in the short-term . Such a plan is not likely to lead to long-term success , mainly because insufficient time will be allowed for proper design and development . In other cases , a demand may arise for plant or equipment to help a large organization to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm may decide that it will be more economical to produce basic materials in much larger quantities by large-scale plant continuously operating . A shipping company may need a new passenger liner to 130 attract more custom , or a much larger cargo carrier to improve the economy of operation . An airline may have to keep pace with competition , or ahead of it , by procuring faster and more economical and quieter aircraft . Perhaps an even greater incentive comes from the needs of defence . Pace those who advocate universal disarmament , man 's history is one of continuous evolution of means of offence and defence . In every country , there are defence departments conducting research into the strategic and tactical problems arising out of their particular situation . In most countries , the expenditure on defence is a large proportion of the Gross National Product . Hence the demands imposed upon industry , for defence hardware of all kinds , form an important part of a country 's manufacturing economy . Also of great importance are the financial assistance given to industry for study and research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new techniques and technologies which derive from this work and which have on occasion founded whole new industries . Study of Need The expression of a need , whether it comes from within the organization or from a potential customer , must be clearly defined if the designer is to have a real opportunity of satisfying that need . This phase is probably the most important of all . More trouble arises through failure to communicate to the designer precisely what is required , what performance is expected of a product , how it is likely to be used and abused than from any other cause . We have already seen that inadequacy of design accounts for the greater part of unreliability . It is not the ability of the designer which is in question , but rather the adequacy of the specification of requirements with which he is provided , and the facilities which are afforded to him to find things out for himself . He needs to know what are the conditions of use and environment to which the product will be subjected . Is low weight important , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In what climatic conditions will the product be used ? hot and dry , hot and humid , cold and dry , cold and wet , dusty , muddy , salty , or any combination of these ? Are corrosive atmospheres likely to be encountered ? What is the degree of skill , or potential for being trained , of those who will operate the equipment ? Large organizations , nationalized industries , industrial firms , defence forces , large retailers , all these have technical departments capable of specifying in some detail their requirements , and the anticipated conditions of use . In some cases ( some armed services are among the worst offenders ) , however , so many different departments may be involved 131 that time which would have been valuable to the designer is denied to him . Conflicting demands will come from those departments concerned with offensive weapons , defensive armour , size , speed , range , delivery date , initial cost , reliability , and cost of ownership ( i.e. life-cycle cost ) . Sometimes several years may elapse before a mutually satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially in times of financial stringency , here is another indication of failure to appreciate the ' importance of the design function , which as usual is left until last , and is then expected to achieve good results in an impossibly short time . Management should realize that this phase of the design cycle is crucial . The designer should be given the opportunity to take part in the discussion of need with the potential customer . Whenever possible , preliminary design studies should be authorized while these talks are proceeding . These would help to determine the feasibility of the project , and in appropriate cases this work should be financed by the customer . When he does not already have direct experience , the designer should be sent into the field , to study the conditions for himself . After all , it is he who will be committing his firm , and the customer . The cost of a short trip overseas to see at first hand the intended conditions of use is a small price to pay for the better quality of design which should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his first task to write down his version of what he thinks is required . He will do this under headings such as the following : 1 . FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS Performance , environment , conditions of use , expected reliability , serviceability , maintainability , repairability. 2 . SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF DUTY Operating temperatures , vibration , shock , radiation ( as in space ) , corrosion , dust , humidity . 3 . SPECIAL DESIGN PROBLEMS High stress levels , materials stipulated by the customer , lubrication. 4 . MARGIN OF SAFETY Risk of overloads , capacity for uprating in the future . 5 . COST AND VALUE FACTORS Acceptable price , rate of production , total life cost , extension to other fields of application . 6 . POSSIBLE UNKNOWNS Anticipated hazards and their probable effects , causes , and avoidance . Such a list can be used as the basis for questions to be posed to the customer , in order to improve the specification of requirements . It can be used by the customer to improve the initial specification , and it can form a useful guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Design No matter what the level of sophistication of the product , the designer will approach his task in the same way . He will see in his mind 's eye possible ways of meeting the need , and he will usually start by setting down his ideas on paper , in the form of preliminary sketches . In many cases , the designer 's experience will enable him to decide appropriate proportions and dimensions . Provided that established practice is followed reasonably closely , it is highly probable that the product will be satisfactory . Because the designer is so often under pressure to complete his work too quickly , however , even with relatively simple products there is the risk that he will have been compelled to concentrate upon the more critical components . In consequence , it is often found that designs fail , not because a part has been stressed too highly , but because some relatively minor point has been overlooked . It has been the author 's experience that far more often than not trouble with a product in service has been found to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but to a simple cause such as inadequate tension on a limit switch spring causing arcing , or failure to provide a sufficient flow of oil to an apparently unimportant and lightly loaded bearing . Design Review Even when the new design follows stereotyped lines , but especially when it must of necessity be an advance beyond existing practice , the designer is strongly advised to follow a deliberate plan . This should take the form of a design review , a method which has been proposed by reliability engineers . It is no more than a detailed consideration of each section and each constituent part of the whole design , to contrast it with previous experience . Where there is no existing practice to draw upon , consideration must be given to the planning of tests to provide the knowledge which is necessary to ensure a sound design . This review should be carried out along formal lines . In a wellorganized design department there will be an accepted pattern , dividing the company 's typical product into major sections . These should be listed in the usual manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ components should be itemized . There should be a column indicating which previous model , if any , most closely resembles the new design . Another column should indicate that the new design incorporates all the design changes found necessary in the existing product . In another one , all points of difference should be stated . Finally , it should be stated against each item whether or not it can be accepted with confidence in its proposed form , and what action is proposed to acquire the necessary confidence . 133 This may appear to be an obvious step to take . Unfortunately , it is carried out all too rarely . Often , insufficient time is the excuse . Sometimes , the designer presumes that he knows best and resents the design review as a reflection upon his ability . Yet where this painstaking and detailed check is carried out , it is a continual source of surprise to those concerned that so often new factors are brought to light . It is always far cheaper to erase a pencil line from a drawing than it is to throw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Management should , therefore , be aware of the human problems involved , should ensure that the programme allows sufficient time for a proper review to be made , and should insist that it is in fact made . To be effective , such a review is heavily dependent upon the availability of information regarding the way in which previous products have performed . This is an important matter to which adequate discussion will be devoted later . The tests which will be found necessary to fill gaps in available knowledge are the joint responsibility of designer and development engineer . When the tests of new sub-systems and sub-assemblies have been concluded satisfactorily , the design of the complete product can be finalized . Finalizing the Design The stages so far completed should result in a final scheme representing the designer 's opinion of what he judges to be capable of meeting the customer 's requirements . No design should be cleared for manufacture , however , until it has been confirmed that it can be produced at minimum cost . Where the product is a one-off ' there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in large quantities , a number of prototypes will be made for test . This number may vary from one prototype in the majority of cases , to two as in the case of the Concorde , upwards of a dozen for aero engines , a hundred or more for a new model of motor car . There will be considerable pressure from management to start these tests as soon as possible . In the majority of firms these prototype models will be made in experimental establishments , and all too often experience will be gained on machines which will not accurately represent the final design for quantity production ( see page 151 ) . Nevertheless , at the earliest time practicable a thorough check should be made to ensure that the projected design will be economically producible . This requires close and effective collaboration with other departments in the organization . Since it is not unusual to find that a state of tension exists between these departments , it is a direct responsibility of management to see that a system exists which will ensure that there will 134 be close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality , value , purchasing , and servicing . The following list summarizes the aims of this collaboration . It will serve as a check list , enabling management to approach this hitherto sacrosanct area of design with a degree of confidence . Objects of Liaison between Design and Production , Quality , Value Engineering , and Purchasing Departments ( a ) To make cost comparisons of alternative designs . ( b ) To reduce the number of components . ( c ) To use standards ( domestic or trade or national ) where possible . ( d ) To reduce the number of production operations and processes . ( e ) To maximize material utilization . ( f ) To use new materials and processes which offer an advantage . ( g ) To keep within existing manufacturing capabilities . ( h ) To ensure that critical components can be properly inspected . ( i ) To confirm that standards of acceptable quality are defined . ( j ) To check that all instructions and drawings are clear , unambiguous , and understandable by all concerned with their implementation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a complete specification should be prepared . This should lay down the requirements which must be met by products which may be numbered in ones , tens , or hundreds of thousands . It should include a complete set of arrangement drawings , showing to scale the construction of the product . With complex products there may be hundreds of such drawings , covering all the sub-sections and sub-assemblies of the complete product . These drawings should be supplemented by a written specification , indicating the precise dimensions of components which must meet critical strength requirements . Vital working clearances should be specified , but these , and important dimensional tolerances , should be finalized only after discussion with the manufacturing engineers , to confirm that they can in fact be achieved without undue difficulty . A list should be prepared of the materials which are to be used , with the special properties , e.g. of strength or hardness , which are necessary to meet the stress conditions . Critical areas of the design should be indicated when necessary with a note that standards of quality will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience is gained in production . Special conditions of checking or test , e.g. of a welded structure , should be stipulated . Where proprietary articles are to be incorporated in the end-product , the required performance should be specified in full . 135 The foregoing amounts to no more than what is obviously necessary to enable those concerned to ensure that the end-product will in fact meet the design requirements . The sad truth is that only a minority of design departments recognize these responsibilities . All too often the interpretation of inadequate instructions is left to planning engineers , inspectors , buyers , and others . It is always quicker and cheaper to get every job right first time ' . Those who aver that there is not time to prepare the specifications can always find the time to put things right after they have gone wrong . Management has a distinct duty to see that the design function is properly discharged . The Detail Specification The next stage is concerned with the conversion of the design specification into a form which can be translated into working instructions by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different industries and in different firms . Much depends upon the size of the firm , the rate and scale of output , and the type of product . In small firms making one-off products which do not differ greatly from previous ones , it is not unusual for all the information to be recorded on the minimum of arrangement drawings , which carry dimensional sketches of detail parts . Sometimes existing drawings may be altered-up in blue pencil . In such cases , great dependence is placed upon the ability of the shop foremen and operatives to follow established practice , to decide for themselves the finish , the fillet radii , the heat treatment , and the bearing clearances required for the satisfactory functioning of the product . Indeed , within the past 25 years at least one large builder of steam turbines left it to the operative to turn a large shaft to the nominal diameters , and then to machine bearings and turbine disc bores to suit . Toleranced dimensions were not thought necessary , for real engineers ' . Today , it is better appreciated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valuable commodity . Even a one-off design may be so successful that a repeat order is won . In any event replacement parts might be required at some future date , and they must fit . In the case of large-scale production , it is quite usual for parts to be made in several different factories , and of course interchangeability is essential . It is now the general practice to prepare a separate detail drawing ' for each individual component . This drawing indicates the shape of the article , its dimensions , and the permissible variation in these dimensions , the material and its characteristics , details of finish , special conditions of inspection or test , and acceptable standards of quality . In the interests of consistency and to avoid overburdening the drawing with information , 136 it is preferred that information regarding materials , heat treatments , finishes , processes , inspection operations , and standards of acceptance should be conveyed by reference to standard documents , which should be listed on the drawing . The preparation of these detail drawings , specifications , and standards is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The draughtsmen may not have the creative ability required of the designer , but they do need to have a comprehensive knowledge of the practices and capabilities of the company 's production shops . This must be combined with an understanding of the technical requirements of the design , so that the detailing office comprises a link between the design and manufacturing activities , which should result in satisfaction to both parties . In many companies , the detail drawing office is given the responsibility of adjusting the design to the capabilities of manufacture . The extent to which this should be allowed will depend upon the degree of sophistication of the product . Some American companies meet this situation by having a production design department which productionizes ' the developed and proven design . While this results in end-products of a simplicity and cheapness which are the envy of their British competitors , there are disadvantages . There is the risk of loss of refinement of the design , while the designers proper tend to lose touch with modern developments in manufacturing processes . Where competition is intense , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i has presented in detail the phases of the design cycle from market need to finished product ( Fig. 10.1 ) . Making the Best of Specialization New materials and processes , new technical developments and requirements are appearing at a greater rate than ever before . A consequence is that it becomes increasingly difficult for the individual engineer/designer to keep abreast of the knowledge relevant to his work . At the same time technical education , in the United States as well as in Britain , is tending to become more narrowly specialized . Formerly , the training of an engineer maintained a careful balance between theory and practice . This enabled him to take fuller advantage of the capabilities of the men in the shops , whose aggregate experience of things practical inevitably greatly exceeded his own . Today 's emphasis upon the importance of a university degree , and the inability of most university teachers to communicate the intuition which is an essential part of engineering , are depriving industry of much of the art of the engineer . Until the engineering profession learns from the medical profession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must walk the wards of indus try ' , an additional burden must be shouldered by management . The disadvantages of narrow specialization must be minimized by insisting that specialists must work closely together in a common effort to evolve the best product of which the organization as a whole is capable . Management must meet the challenge posed by the problem of bringing together in amicable cooperation men and departments who , at the present time , are developing divergent attitudes . In some companies , a useful step has been taken in the direction of closer integration of design and manufacturing interests . A small number of experienced production engineers have been stationed in the design department , to help the designers to evolve more easily producible schemes from the earliest stages of conception . Of course this needs to be extended to include the quality , inspection , purchasing , and service activities as well . Not every firm has staff of the size to permit of interchange along these lines , but the need to achieve close collaboration is present all the time . 138 11 Proving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied his creative ability , his experience , and his technical knowledge to the task before him , management should never forget that he is human and , therefore , fallible . Often , he will be subjected to considerable pressure to complete his design quickly , by senior management not fully aware of the importance of the design phase . In consequence , he may be compelled to devote less time to some aspects of the total design than they deserve . In the effort to evolve a design in advance of those of competing firms , the designer may be faced with problems outside his experience . His technical knowledge may not be quite adequate , yet he may be encouraged to take a chance ? a leap , maybe ever so small , into the unknown . In addition , the product may require the preparation of hundreds or thousands , or more , of detail drawings . It would be an exceptional design department indeed which could guarantee that no mistakes would be made in such an extremely complex and often hurried situation . Even where management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there may be a failure to realize that the designer who works alone , without the contrapuntal challenge of the development engineer , is deprived of an aid of great value . It is unfortunate that ' up to the present time the development function has not found so vigorous a champion as has been the Feilden Report for design . Design is obviously the first essential step , but it needs to be supported , checked , and confirmed by test . There is no safe way of judging anything without experiment ' , wrote Henry Royce . Development Justified Failure to appreciate the importance of the proving phase is not confined to senior management . Some designers resent submitting their work to 139 independent check . Production engineers , already under considerable pressure to meet tight delivery dates , want to begin work as early as possible . The development engineer is under pressure from all sides to curtail his testing time . Examples come under notice daily of products which are failing to come up to expectations , and incurring heavy financial losses , because of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In general , this testing would have cost only a fraction of the consequential losses . The importance of proving the design is not confined to complex engineering products . Financial risks must be considered relative to the investment in the project . It must be realized that they can be as great with a relatively inexpensive item manufactured in large numbers as with a costly one-off installation whose purpose is to provide increased earnings by its efficient performance . A few examples will confirm the argument . A large retailer launched a new and attractive design of lady 's nightgown . It was styled , planned , tooled , produced , and distributed to hundreds of shops . Only when the first customer went to bed in one was it discovered that inadequate armholes pinched her when she lay down . The same retailer had to recall thousands of garments because the zip fastener jammed in the open position . In the interests of increased productivity a new method of insertion of the fastener had been adopted , which did not provide a positive stop . Defects in motor cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recall ' now imposed by the American Motor Car Safety Act , 1966 . The chafing of a flexible hydraulic brake hose , the risk of exhaust gas entering the passenger compartment , an insecure door lock , a steering column which does not comply with the crash requirements ? any of these can and has entailed the withdrawal of millions of cars from service , for rectification . These troubles have occurred with the products of firms enjoying a reputation for good design and reliability . They emphasize the importance of the development function . Sometimes a company may already have a sound policy of thorough testing . Even here it has been known for last minute changes , to correct a deficiency revealed by test , to be taken on trust . The changes have been thought to be insignificant , yet serious trouble has arisen from some cause which was not apparent , but which a test would have revealed . A zinc-based die-cast backing washer was substituted for a steel pressing , which was cutting into the cup-leather in a hydraulic 140 brake-system . As the zinc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fluid . Thousands of vehicles had to be campaigned to replace the washers and vent the system.l Nylon bushings were attractive for sewing machines . They were cheap to make , wore well , and were quiet . Unfortunately the nylon was slightly hygroscopic , and in time the bushings distorted . This was an example of failure to consider all conditions of environment , and all the properties of the material . Research has since produced a stable nylon , but in addition the engineers have evolved a more comprehensive test programme.2 Of much greater and direct effect upon the individuals concerned was the failure of a new type of artificial hip-joint , which also used nylon . Implanted enthusiastically into hundreds of arthritic hips , they all had to be replaced . It transpired that the nylon was in capable of withstanding body fluids for a worthwhile period of time . Failures of large capital equipment appear to be better publicized . They have precisely the same root cause as in the examples just described , a lack of sufficient testing to prove the design . This is almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to the impatience of all concerned to bring the project to practical ( albeit often ineffectual ) realization . In a land based steam turbine the absence of a programme of stiffness measurement in an entirely new design resulted in stresses being imposed in service which were many times greater than calculated . A shaft failed after a very short period of running . The commissioning of a power station was delayed by several months and heavy penalties were incurred by the contractor . An expensive and potentially dangerous failure on a newly electrified railway was due to the fact that neither the British Railways Board nor the contractor deemed it necessary to test the locomotives under conditions approximating to those in service . Examples such as the foregoing could be multiplied , in every country . That no country has a monopoly is shown by reports of trouble in the power supply industries in the United States , which parallel those being experienced concurrently in Britain . The largest American contractor in the business is reported to have lost $50m on one contract , due to a constructional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a source of continual surprise that management does not take the initiative . Far 141 more often than not the trouble is due to some minor component . The designer , knowing that he is not being allowed sufficient time , takes pains with the more novel or difficult problems . The less important details receive less attention , yet they are the commonest cause of trouble . As we have seen , and as we shall see again , a simple straightforward test on a single sample of product , continued until three or four different components had failed sequentially , would have been sufficient to reveal the major sources of weakness . In such cases as have been described , is it fair to blame the engineers , or the management which has not allowed them to do their job ? It is the present concern to convey to management a better understanding of the purpose of development testing , and of methods which development engineers can be encouraged to adopt in order to keep the cost of their work to a minimum . Research and Development It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their organizations because they have been confused by popular terminology . Seldom is development discussed in isolation . It is all too often coupled with research , as R &; D , as if the two were one and the same subject . There are cases where research merges imperceptibly into development . There are many more where research , in the true sense of the word , is not necessary , but where development testing of the simplest practical type is vital . To couple this latter activity with research ' is an almost certain way to encourage the senior managements of the firms concerned to take an antipathetic view . They have seen and heard of the large research establishments of large companies and of nationalized industries . They have heard and read the utterances of Government ministers , exhorting British industry to do more research to keep abreast of foreign competition . They feel instinctively , and often rightly , that this kind of research is not for them . But they fail to see the fundamental difference between research and development testing of the kind in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signify the engineering , technical , and testing activities necessary to confirm the assumptions of the designer , to provide him with information to enable him to amend his design when necessary , to establish the viability of the product as a whole , its ability to perform as expected by the customer , and to assist in the continuing process of product improvement . The Development Function The development engineer can be seen to have a fivefold function : 142 ( a ) To obtain and provide the designer with information regarding the strengths and weaknesses of new processes , new materials , new concepts . ( b ) To check the validity of essays by the designer into unknown fields , to confirm and to optimize the performance of new conceptual arrangements . ( c ) To prove the final design of the entire product as being suitable for manufacture to meet the user 's needs or expectations . ( d ) To draw attention to unusual difficulties which will require special care by the production department . ( e ) By providing a continuous flow of information based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and future designs . The emphasis which should be placed upon each of these areas of activity will differ with each type of product . The more extreme demands of functioning products which must meet high reliability requirements , such as motor cars and aircraft , will justify maximum effort in each of them . With less vital products such as household equipment it is rare for a new model to differ from existing types in more than a few details . There will be fewer problems , and the main development activity may be confined to the identification of the one or two components likely to cause trouble in use . Static or non-functioning products , such as clothes and furniture , will require effort mainly in the first category , little in the others , save perhaps for wear and/or laundering tests in the case of clothing and upholstery . The five points listed above provide convenient headings for a more detailed account of what is involved in development testing , and , in a general way , of how the development engineer approaches his task . Information for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance over previous ones . It may attempt to achieve something which has not been done before ; or to do something more quickly , or more cheaply than before ; or to give long life or more reliable service , or combinations of these desiderata . Whatever the aim , the designer will need information , about the capabilities of new materials , components , or processes . Seldom will the information available from those who evolve the new materials and processes be adequate for the designer who has a specific project in mind . Unless they have been developed with this precise purpose in view , the data will almost inevitably be too general . The information needed by the designer will often be provided by the 143 i development engineer . There is a somewhat hazy distinction here between research and development , but whatever work has to be done in the research laboratory , on materials or processes for instance , it will always be advisable to involve the development engineer as well . His task is to determine the capabilities , the strengths and weaknesses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the intended use . Often , the required information can be obtained quickly and cheaply . A simple method is to prepare a list of the available data , regarding the material , process , or proprietary article which the designer is considering using . This list should be set against the conditions of intended use , amplified by the development engineer from his experience of the way in which the products of his firm are actually used and abused at the customer 's hands . Any doubts about the shortfall of capability for duty should be resolved by appropriate tests . A good development engineer will be capable of judging by instinct what are the critical factors in a particular design . Simply dropping a piece of constructional material or a proprietary article on the floor may demonstrate its vulnerability to accidental damage . Examples have already been given showing how easy it is to overlook a time dependent condition which can lead to trouble ( e.g. the nylon bushes , hip joints , and de-gassified zinc alloy already described ) . Unless the material experts can give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the designer should use an alternative until the new material has been cleared . Often simple lash-ups ' will suffice to confirm the hopes of the designer . Sir Christopher Cockerell confirmed his hovercraft concept by means of a small model in balsa wood , which weighed only 44 ozs . It was capable of travelling over water at 13 knots . That was in 1955 . Thirteen years later hovercraft weighing 150 tons were travelling at nearly 40 knots . Such successful use of models demands engineering ability of a high order . Patents Offices are overloaded with inventions of prime movers which have worked on a model scale , but which have turned out to be quite impracticable when made in useful sizes . The inventors had failed to estimate the effects of size on heat capacity , heat transmission , rigidity , working clearances , and other factors . In 1610 an engineer putting forward proposals for water-driven machinery to pump water from coal-pits wrote : But small modles often fayle and soune prove defective when they cume to worcke upon heavye and continual ) weightes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme , it has been necessary to spend millions of pounds to bring the process for the production of a synthetic fibre to a realistic stage . The designer can be helped considerably by being provided with more accurate and comprehensive data regarding the loads imposed in the actual condition of use of a product . Design rules established by experience often lead to overdesign ' . Playing for safety , the resulting product is heavy and its performance is diminished . It is relatively easy with equipment which is available today to measure the frequency and intensity of loads applied during actual use . A producer of chain-saws measured the torque input when cutting different types of timber , the duration and frequency of use at the hands of the most vigorous lumberjack , the shock loads due to stones or nails buried in the trees . He was able to develop a design of much greater life and reliability than competing models . As a result he was able to raise his price while still providing his customer with better value . That great engineer , the late Dr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best work was done by those having inadequate facilities . This meant that people had to exercise their brains the more . Management should not , however , take this as an excuse for refusing to authorize the provision of facilities which may be essential . What should be realized is that lavish expenditure on test equipment is not a substitute for brains . Component and Rig Testing The second phase of development activity is applicable to design projects which embody novel features . It is unusual for a design to be wholly new , and this allows work to proceed , ahead of the completion of the whole project , to establish the soundness of the designer 's assumptions in those components and assemblies on which there is no previous experience . A great deal of useful work can be carried out on rigs which enable proposed arrangements and performance to be confirmed . Thus , an electric circuit can be approved by making a bread-board ' model , an arrangement of the detail components and the circuit , tacked on to a board , without regard to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The performance of a new design of turbine can be established first by tests on a model of the aerofoil , in a simple wind tunnel , and confirmed by building a complete stage of the turbine which resembles the final design only in respect of its aerodynamic characteristics . 145 New designs of wheels and suspensions , for vehicles and for aircraft , are investigated by building a single unit and subjecting it to drop tests and fatigue tests . The wheel is revolved against a large roller fitted with protuberances simulating bumps of varying intensity . Each gear train , and the complete gearbox of a new design can be tested on a back-to-back ' rig . One gear train drives another against an external load so applied that the only power input required is that necessary to overcome the power losses due to friction and churning of the oil . It must be realized that in carrying out such tests there is always the risk that some vital factor might be omitted . It is part of the art of the development engineer to minimize these risks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proving of the final design ? is as representative as it can possibly be of the conditions of use and environment . The importance which is accorded to the application of the right conditions of environment has led to the formation , in Great Britain and in the United States , of societies to promote enthusiastically the study and the application of environmental engineering ' . As firms enter new markets it becomes increasingly important to study the new conditions likely to be met . When those markets are overseas , it is all too easy to assume that what is good enough for home use will be good enough elsewhere . A manufacturer of a washing machine , which had been developed in collaboration with producers of washing powders to achieve good performance in Britain , encountered serious criticism from Swiss housewives . It had not been appreciated that different conditions prevail in the two countries . The polluted air in Britain so dirties a man 's shirt that it must be laundered daily . The clean air of Switzerland meant that laundering was necessary only every second or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooms resulted in the shirts becoming loaded with perspiration , with which the machines could not cope . We have considered the responsibilities of the designer and the customer in defining conditions of use and environment . However inadequate these definitions may have been , it is up to the development engineer to do his best to visualize what is likely to happen to the product in the user 's hands . Even when designer and user have tried conscientiously to define all foreseeable conditions , it can almost be guaranteed 146 that some enterprising individual , possibly imbued with a sincere desire to improve things , will think of some new way of doing something to the detriment of the product . Testing the Prototype Product It is an important part of the development engineer 's responsibility to draw up a programme of tests which will simulate as far as possible all the conditions likely to be encountered in service use . These will naturally take account of the intended periods and intensity of usage ? of power and time under load , for example . They will include tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impose all the conditions of abuse which can be imagined . In the usual case , it will be quite impracticable to carry out tests of the full duration for which the product has been designed . An ocean-going liner 's engines may be expected to last for many years , or until the ship has become obsolete . The engines of an aircraft in airline use may run for 3000 hours a year , and have a total life of 30,000 to 60,000 hours , at least as regards many of their major components . Motor cars are guaranteed by some makers for one year or 12,000 miles . by others for two years or 24,000 miles , by a minority for five years or 50,000 miles . Military trucks are expected to run for 20,000 miles between overhauls , or 1000 hours ; tanks and tracked vehicles for 4000 miles , or 400 hours . A guided missile must be capable of being stored for a considerable period of time , of functioning correctly when required , and of continuing to do so for the duration of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of durability is required . Before a new textile fabric can be adopted , for men 's shorts say , it must be established that it has good wearing properties , and that it can withstand many launderings with every kind of machine and detergent on the market . At least one large retailer carries out tests with his chosen fabrics to confirm that no new washing machine , no new washing powder , will diminish their life , or cause them to shrink . In the electronics and nuclear fields , it is the usual practice to make statistical estimates of the likely reliability of the complete product , throughout its life . This is done by determining the probability of failure , measured as the mean time between failures ( MTBF ) of each component , and combining these by the product rule to obtain the reliability of the whole complex system . If there are n components in a system , each having reliability r , the reliability of the whole system will be R = rn. 147 r will usually be less than unity ( a highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of survival , so that r 09999 ) . The more components there are in a system , the lower will be R. For example , a system having 100 components in series , each with a reliability of 99.5 per cent , would have an overall reliability of only 60 per cent . Since the early guided missiles were extremely unreliable , and as they were complex devices having as many as 300,000 components , what Dr Robert Lusser called the appalling arithmetic of unreliability 's gained considerable credence . An extensive literature emerged , and efforts were made to extend the statistical approach into the mechanical field . While anything which will lead to a detailed examination of a design must be beneficial , it was not realized that there are important differences between electronic and mechanical systems . Indeed , to take the statistical approach to extremes can be fallacious in any case . Briefly , mechanical components are much less unreliable than are electronic ones . Hence they produce smaller numbers of failures , which are far less statistically significant . Mechanical systems do not usually involve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long background of tradition and experience . A mechanical designer who evolved a washing machine in which every component was unreliable would receive short shrift from his employer . We know from experience that a switch or a hinge may give trouble , a belt may slip , or an electrical connection may be defective . But the great majority of the components will give no trouble at all . Fortunately , more balanced views are beginning to prevail , and management may feel reassured that the amount of testing required to establish reliability is usually much less than the statistical approach would suggest . Grinsted and Spurr6 of the Royal Aircraft Establishment support the author 's experience . A more practicable and worthwhile approach towards improving reliability is through thorough development testing that is aimed directly at bringing weaknesses to light at the earliest possible stage . The engineer 's approach is based upon the knowledge that a test which does not lead to failure of at least one component tells him little or nothing about the potential capability of the product . Such a test reveals the weakest links @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent to which it is possible to produce the kind of failure which is experienced in the field , by a simple test of short duration . Engineering judgement is required to determine the safe amount of 149                     