@@774123

txt perance reformation , in ragged schools , in endeavours to protect climbing boys , in inquiries concerning " labour and the poor , " in emigration funds , in the milder treatment of children , and so on , it also shows itself in societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals , in acts of parliament to put down the use of dogs for purpose of draught , in the condemnation of steeplechases and battues , in the late inquiry why the pursuers of a stag should not be punished as much as the carter who maltreats his horse , and lastly , in vegetarianism . Moreover , to make the evidence complete , we have the fact that men , partially adapted to the social state , retrograde on being placed in circumstances which call forth the old propensities . The barbarizing of colonists , who live under aboriginal conditions , is universally remarked . The back settlers of America , amongst whom unavenged murderers , rifle duels , and Lynch law prevail ? or , better still , the trappers , who leading a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and occasionally even to cannibalism ? sufficiently exemplify it . But why , it may be asked , has this adaptation gone on so slowly ? Judging from the rapidity with which habits are formed in the individual , and seeing how those habits , or rather the latent tendencies towards them , become hereditary , it would seem that the needful modification should have been completed long ago . How , then , are we to understand the delay ? The answer is that the new conditions to which adaptation has been taking place have themselves grown up but slowly . Only when a revolution in circumstances is at once both marked and permanent , does a decisive alteration of character follow . If the demand for increase of power in some particular faculty is great and unceasing , development will go on with proportionate speed . And conversely , there will be an appreciable dwindling in a faculty altogether deprived of exercise . But the conditions of human life have undergone no changes sudden enough to produce these immediate results . . . . Hitherto , then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been subject to two conflicting sets of conditions . On the one hand , the discipline of the social state has been deSocial//p21veloping it into the sympathetic form ; whilst on the other hand , the necessity for self-defence partly of man against brute , partly of man against man , and partly of societies against each other , has been maintaining the old unsympathetic form . And only where the influence of the first set of conditions has exceeded that of the last , and then only in proportion to the excess , has modification taken place . Amongst tribes who have kept each other 's anti-social characteristicsin full activity by constant conflict , no advance has been possible . But where warfare against man and beast has ceased to be continuous , or where it has become the employment of but a portion of the people , the effects of living in the associated state have become greater than the effects of barbarizing antagonisms , and progress has resulted . Regarded thus , civilization no longer appears to be a regular unfolding after a specific plan ; but seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of favourable circumstances ; which favourable circumstances , mark , were certain some time or other to occur ... . Whilst the continuance of the old predatory instinct after the fulfilment of its original purpose , has retarded civilization by giving rise to conditions at variance with those of social life , it has subserved civilization by clearing the earth of inferior races of men . The forces which are working out the great scheme of perfect happiness , taking no account of incidental suffering , exterminate such sections of mankind as stand in their way , with the same sternness that they exterminate beasts of prey and herds of useless ruminants . Be he human being , or be he brute , the hindrance must be got rid of . Just as the savage has taken the place of lower creatures , so must he , if he have remained too long a savage , give place to his superior . Evidently , therefore , from the very beginning , the conquest of one people over another has been , in the main , the conquest of the social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the more adapted over the less adapted . In another mode , too , the continuance of the unsympathetic character has indirectly aided civilization whilst it has directly hindered it ; namely , by giving rise to slavery . It has been observed and , as it seems , truly enough ? that only by such stringent coercion as is exercised over men held in bondage , could the needfulpower of continuous application have been developed . Devoid of this , as from his habits of life the aboriginal man necessarily was ( and as , indeed , existing specimens show ) , probably the severest discipline continued for many generations was required to make him submit contentedly to the necessities of his new state . And if so , the barbarous selfishness which maintained that discipline , must be considered as having worked a collateral benefit , though in itself so radically bad . Let not the reader be alarmed . Let him not fear that these admissions will excuse new invasions and new oppressions . Nor let any one who fancies himself called upon to take Nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idle negroes or others , suppose that these dealings of the past will serve for precedents . Rightly understood , they will do no such thing . That phase of civilization during which forcible supplantings of the weak by the strong , and systems of savage coercion , are on the whole advantageous , is a phase which spontaneously and necessarily gives birth to these things ... . The process by which a change of political arrangements is affected , when the incongruity between them and the popular character becomes sufficient , must be itself in keeping with that character , and must be violent or peaceful accordingly . There are not a few who exclaim against all revolutions wrought out by force of arms , forgetting that the quality of a revolution , like that of an institution , is determined by the natures of those who make it . Moral suasion is very admirable ; good for us ; good , indeed , for all who can be induced to use it . But to suppose that , in the earlier stages of social growth , moral suasion can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is to overlook the conditions . Stating the case mechanically , we may say that as , in proportion to their unfitnessfor associated life , the framework within which men are restrainedmust be strong , so must the efforts required to break up that framework , when it is no longer fit , be convulsive . The existenceof a government which does not bend to the popular will ? a//p23despotic government ? presupposes several circumstances which make any change but a violent one impossible . First , for coercive rule to have been practicable , implies in the people a predominanceof that awe of power ever indicative of still lingering savageness . Moreover , with a large amount of power-worship present , disaffection can take place only when the cumulative evils of misgovernmenthave generated great exasperation . Add to which , that as abundance of the sentiment upholding external rule , involveslack of the sentiments producing internal rule , no such check to excesses as that afforded by a due regard for the lives and claims of others , can be operative . And where there are comparativelyactive destructive propensities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable . Peaceful revolutions occur under quite different circumstances . They become possible only when society , no longer consisting of members so antagonistic , begins to cohere from its own internal organization , and needs not be kept together by unyielding external restraints ; and when , by consequence , the force required to effect change is less . They become possible only when men , having acquired greater adaptationto the social state , will neither inflict on each other , nor submit to , such extreme oppressions , and when , therefore , the causes of popular indignation are diminished . They become possible only when character has grown more sympathetic , and when , as a result of this , the tendency towards angry retaliation is partially neutralized . Indeed , the very idea that reforms may and ought to be effected peacefully implies a large endowment of the moral sense . Without this , such an idea can not even be conceived , much less carried out ; with this , it may be both . Hence , we must look upon social convulsions as upon other natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unalterable way . We may lament the bloodshed ? may wish it had been avoided ; but it is folly to suppose that , the popular character remaining the same , things could have been managed differently . If such and such events had not occurred , say you , the result would have been otherwise ; if this or that man had lived , he would have prevented the catastrophe . Do not be thus deceived . These changes are brought about by a power far above individual wills . Men who seem the prime movers , are merely the tools with which it works ; and were they absent , it would quickly find others , Incongruity between character and institutions is the disturbing force , and a revolution is the act of restoring equilibrium . Accidentalcircumstances modify the process , but do not perceptibly alter the effect . They precipitate ; they retard ; they intensify or ameliorate ; but , let a few years elapse , and the same end is arrived at , no matter what the special events passed through ... . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how what is termed in our artificial classifications of truth , morality , is essentially one with physical truth ? is , in fact , a species , of transcendental physiology . That condition of things dictated by the law of equal freedom ? that condition in which the individualityof each may be unfolded without limit , save the like individualitiesof others ? that condition towards which , as we have just seen , mankind are progressing , is a condition towards which the whole creation tends . Already it has been incidentally pointed out that only by entire fulfilment of the moral law can life become complete ; and now we shall find that all life whatever may be defined as a quality , of which aptitude to fulfil this law is the highest manifestation . A theory of life developed by Coleridge has prepared the way for this generalization . " By life , " says he , " I everywhere mean the true idea of life , or that most general form under which life manifests itself to us , which includes all other forms . This I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the degrees or intensities of life to consist in the progressive realizations of this tendency . " To make this definition intelligible , a few of the facts sought to be expressed by it must be specified ? facts exemplifying the contrast between low and high types of structure , and low and high degrees of vitality . . . . There follows a list of biological instances of this rule . And when the change at present going on is complete ? when each possesses an active instinct of freedom , together with an active sympathy ? then will all the still existing limitations to individuality , be they governmental restraints , or be they the aggressions of men on one another , cease . Then , none will//p25be hindered from duly unfolding their natures ; for whilst every one maintains his own claims , he will respect the like claims of others . Then , there will no longer be legislative restrictions and legislative burdens ; for by the same process these will have become both needless and impossible . Then , for the first time in the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be expanded to the full in all directions . And thus , as before said , in the ultimate man perfect morality , perfect individuation , and perfectlife will be simultaneously realized . Yet must this highest individuation be joined with the greatest mutual dependence . Paradoxical though the assertion looks , the progress is at once towards complete separateness and complete union . But the separateness is of a kind consistent with the most complex combinations for fulfilling social wants ; and the union is of a kind that does not hinder entire development of each personality . Civilization is evolving a state of things and a kind of character , in which two apparently conflicting requirements are reconciled . To achieve the creative purpose ? the greatest sum of happiness , there must on the one hand exist an amount of populationmaintainable only by the best possible system of production ; that is , by the most elaborate subdivision of labour ; that is , by the extremest mutual dependence : whilst on the other hand , each individualmust have the opportunity to do whatever his desires prompt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that adaptation humanity is undergoing that process duringwhich all desires inconsistent with the most perfect social organizationare dying out , and other desires corresponding to such an organization are being developed . How this will eventuate in producingat once perfect individuation and perfect mutual dependence , may not be at once obvious . But probably an illustration will sufficiently elucidate the matter . Here are certain domestic affections , which can be gratified only by the establishment of relationships with other beings . In the absence of those beings , and the consequent dormancy of the feelings with which they areregarded , life is incomplete the individuality is shorn of its fairproportions . Now as the normal unfolding of the conjugal andp26parental elements of the individuality depends on having a family , so , when civilization becomes complete , will the normal unfolding of all other elements of the individuality depend upon the existence of the civilized state . Just that kind of individuality will be acquired which finds in the most highly-organized community the fittest sphere for its manifestation ? which finds in each social arrangement a condition answering to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , expand at all , if otherwise circumstanced . The ultimate man will be one whose private requirements coincide with public ones . He will be that manner of man , who , in spontaneouslyfulfilling his own nature , incidentally performs the functions of a social unit ; and yet is only enabled so to fulfil his own nature , by all others doing the like ... . The admission that social arrangements can be conformed to the moral law only in as far as the people are themselves moral , will probably be thought a sufficient plea for claiming liberty to judge how far the moral law may safely be acted upon . For if congruity between political organization and popular character is necessary ; and if , by consequence , a political organization in advance of the age will need modification to make it fit the age ; and if this process of modification must be accompanied by great inconvenience , and even suffering ; then it would seem to follow that for the avoidance of these evils our endeavour should be to at first adapt such organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ambition to realize an ideal excellence must be checked by prudential considerations . " Progress , and at the same time resistance , " ? that celebrated saying of M. Guizot , with which the foregoing position is in substanceidentical ? no doubt expresses a truth ; but not at all the order of truth usually supposed . To look at society from afar off , and to perceive that such and such are the principles of its development , is one thing : to adopt these as rules for our daily government , will turn out on examination to be quite a different thing . Just as we saw that it is very possible for the attainment of greatest happiness to be from one point of view the recognised end of morality , and yet to be of no value for immediate guidance , so , //p27it is very possible for " progress , and at the same time resistance , " to be a law of social life , without being a law by which individual citizens may regulate their actions ... . That the aspiration after things as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things as they are , is fully admitted . The two feelings answer to the two sides of our present mixed nature ? the side on which we continue adapted to old conditions of existence , and the side on which we are becoming adapted to new ones . Conservatism defends those coercive arrangementswhich a still-lingering savageness makes requisite . Radicalism endeavours to realize a state more in harmony with the character of the ideal man . The strengths of these sentiments are proportionate to the necessity for the institutions they respond to . And the social organization proper for a given people at a given time , will be one bearing the impress of these sentiments in the ratio of their prevalence amongst that people at that time . Hence the necessity for a vigorous and constant manifestation of both of them . Whilst , on the one hand , love of what is abstractedly just , indignation against every species of aggression , and enthusiasmon behalf of reform , are to be rejoiced over ; we must , on the other hand , tolerate , as indispensable , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed opposition to every improvement , or in the puerile sentimentalisms of Young England , or even in some frantic effort to bring back the age of hero-worship . Of all these nature has need , so long as they representsincere beliefs . From time to time the struggle eventuates in change ; and by composition of forces there is produced a resultant , embodying the right amount of movement in the right direction . Thus understood , then , the theory of " progress , and at the same time resistance , " is correct . Mark now , however , that for this resistance to be beneficial , it must come from those who think the institutions they defend really the best , and the innovations proposed absolutely wrong . It must not come from those who secretly approve of change , but think a certain opposition to it expedient . For if the true end of this conflict of opinion is to keep social arrangements in harmony with the average character of the people ; and if ( rejecting that temporary kind of opinion generated by revolutionary passion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given state of things is not an intellectual accident , but indicates a preponderating fitness or unfitness of that state of things to his moral condition ; then it follows that only by a universal manifestation of honest opinions can harmony between social arrangements and the average popularcharacter be preserved . If , concealing their real sympathies , some of the movement party join the stationary party , merely with the view of preventing too rapid an advance , they must inevitably disturb the adaptation between the community and its institutions . So long as the natural conservatism ever present in society is left to restrain the progressive tendency , things will go right ; but add to this natural conservatism an artificial conservatism ? a conservatismnot founded on love of the old , but on a theory that conservatismis needful ? and the proper ratio between the two forces is destroyed ; the resultant is no longer in the right direction ; and the effect produced by it is more or less vitiated . Whilst , therefore , there is truth in the belief that " progress , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social change , there is a fatal error in the inference that resistance should be factitiously created . It is a mistake to suppose this the kind of resistance called for ; and , as M. Guizot 's own experience testifies , it is a further mistake to suppose that any one can say how far resistence should be carried . But , indeed , without entering upon a criticism like this , the man of moral insight sees clearly enough that no such **27;1004;TOOLONG can answer . Successful methods are always genuine , sincere . The affairs of the universe are not carried on after a system of benign double-dealing . In nature 's doings all things show their true qualities exert whatsoever of influence is really in them . It is manifest that a globe built up partly of semblancesinstead of facts , would not be long on this side chaos . And it is certain that a community composed of men whose acts are not in harmony with their innermost beliefs , will be equally unstable . To know in our hearts that some proposed measure is essentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not right , will never prove really beneficial . Society can not prosper by lies ... . //p29The candid reader may now see his way out of the dilemma in which he feels placed , between a conviction , on the one hand , that the perfect law is the only safe guide , and a consciousness , on the other , that the perfect law can not be fulfilled by imperfect men . Let him but duly realize the fact that opinion is the agency through which character adapts external arrangements to itself ? that his opinion rightly forms part of this agency ? is a unit of force , constituting , with other such units , the general power which works out social changes and he will then perceive that he may properly give full utterance to his innermost conviction ; leaving it to producewhat effect it may . It is not for nothing that he has in him these sympathies with some principles , and repugnance to others . He , with all his capacities , and desires , and beliefs , is not an accident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have acted upon preceding generations ; influences that have been brought to bear upon him ; the education that disciplined his childhood ; together with the circumstances in which he has since lived ; have conspired to make him what he is . And the result thus wrought out in him has a purpose . He must remember that whilst he is a child of the past , he is a parent of the future . The moral sentiment developed in him , was intended to be instrumental in producing further progress ; and to gag it , or to conceal the thoughts it generates , is to balk creative design . He , like every other man , may properly consider himself as an agent through whom nature works ; and when nature gives birth in him to a certain belief , she thereby authorizes him to profess and to act out that belief.  |p33SPENCER  has been arguing that throughout the animal kingdom fertility is inversely correlated with brain size , declining as the evolutionary scale is ascended , and that as the struggle for survival forces the latter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nervous centres is going on in mankind , is an ascertained fact . Not alone from a general survey of human progress not alone from the greater power of self-preservationshown by civilized races , are we left to infer such enlargement ; it is proved by actual measurement . The mean capacities of the crania in the leading divisions of the species have been found to beIn the Australian . 75 cubic inches . " African . . 82 " " Malayan .. . 86 " Englishmen .. . 96showing an increase in the course of the advance from the savage state of our present phase of civilization , amounting to nearly 30 per cent on the original size . That this increase will be continuous , might be reasonably assumed ; and to infer a future decreaseof fertility would be tolerably safe , were no further evidence forthcoming . But it may be shown why a greater development of the nervous system must take place , and why , consequently , therep34must be a diminution of the present excess of fertility ; and further , it may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change is ? the excess of fertility itself . For , as we all know , this excess of fertility entails a constant pressure of population upon the means of subsistence ; and , as long as it exists , must continue to do this . Looking only at the present and the immediate future , it is unquestionably true , that , if unchecked , the rate of increase of people would exceed the rate of increase of food . It is clear that the wants of their redundant numbers constitute the only stimulus mankind have to a greater production of the necessaries of life ; for , were not the demand beyond the supply , there would be no motive to increase the supply . Moreover , this excess of demand over supply , and this pressure of population , of which it is the index , can not be eluded . Though by the emigration that takes place when the pressure arrivesat a certain intensity , a partial and temporary relief may be obtained , yet , as by this process all habitable countries must graduallybecome peopled , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may then be , must be borne in full . But this inevitable redundancy of numbers this constant increaseof people beyond the means of subsistence ? involving as it does an increasing stimulus to better the modes of producing food and other necessaries ? involves also an increasing demand for skill , intelligence , and self-control involves , therefore , a constantexercise of these , that is ? involves a gradual growth of them . Every improvement is at once the product of a higher form of humanity , and demands that higher form of humanity to carry it into practice . The application of science to the arts is simply the bringing to bear greater intelligence for satisfying our wants ; and implies continued increase of that intelligence . To get moreproduce from the acre , the farmer must study chemistry mustadopt new mechanical appliances and must , by the multiplicationof tools and processes , cultivate both his own powers and the powers of his labourers . To meet the requirements of the market , the manufacturer is perpetually improving his old machines , and inventing new ones ; and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill . The daily-widening ramificationsp35of commerce entail upon the merchant a need for more knowledge and more complex calculations ; whilst the lessening profits of the ship-owner force him to employ greater science in building , to get captains of higher intelligence , and better crews . In all cases , increaseof numbers is the efficient cause . Were it not for the competitionthis entails , more thought would not daily be brought to bear upon the business of life ; greater activity of mind would not be called for ; and development of mental power would not take place . Difficulty in getting a living is alike the incentive to a higher education of children , and to a more intense and long-continued application in adults . In the mother it induces foresight , economy , and skilful housekeeping ; in the father , laborious days and constantself-denial . Nothing but necessity could make men submit to this discipline , and nothing but this discipline could produce a continued progression . The contrast between a Pacific Islander , all whose wants are supplied by Nature , and an Englishman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the satisfaction of his wants ever-increasing knowledge and skill , illustrates at once the need for , and the effects of , such discipline . And this being admitted , it can not be denied that a further continuance of such discipline , possibly under a yet more intense form , must produce a further progress in the same direction ? a further enlargement of the nervous centres , and a further decline of fertility . And here it must be remarked , that the effect of pressure of population , in increasing the ability to maintain life , and decreasingthe ability to multiply , is not a uniform effect , but an average one . In this case , as in many others , Nature secures each step in advance by a succession of trials , which are perpetually repeated , and can not fail to be repeated , until success is achieved . All mankindin turn subject themselves more or less to the discipline described ; they either may or may not advance under it ; but , in the nature of things , only those who do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families and races whom this increasing difficulty of getting a living which excess of fertility entails , does not stimulate to improvements in production ? that is , to greater mental activity ? are on the high road to extinction ; and must ultimately by supplanted by those whom the pressure does so stimulate . This truth we have recently seen exemplified in Ireland . And here , indeed , without further illustration , it will be seen that premature death , under all its forms , and from all its causes , cannotfail to work in the same direction . For as those prematurely carried off must , in the average of cases , be those in whom the power of self-preservation is the least , it unavoidably follows , that those left behind to continue the race must be those in whom the power of self-preservation is the greatest ? must be the select of their generation . So that , whether the dangers to existence be of the kind produced by excess of fertiltiy , or of any other kind , it is clear , that by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by the death of all men who fail to contend with them successfully , there is ensured a constant progress towards a higher degree of skill , intelligence , and self-regulationabetter co-ordination of actions a more complete life . There now remains but to inquire towards what limit this progress tends . Evidently , so long as the fertility of the race is more than sufficient to balance the diminution by deaths , populationmust continue to increase : so long as population continues to increase , there must be pressure on the means of subsistence : and so long as there is pressure on the means of subsistence , further mental development must go on , and further diminution of fertility must result . Hence , the change can never cease until the rate of multiplication is just equal to the rate of mortality ; that is ? can never cease until , on the average , each pair brings to maturity but two children . Probably this involves that each pair will rarely producemore than two offspring ; seeing that with the greatly-increasedability to preserve life , which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality must become very small . Be this as it may , however , it is manifest that , in the end , pressure of population and its accompanying evils will entirely disappear ; and will leave a state of things which will require from each individual no more than a normal and pleasurable activity . That this last inference is a legitimate corollary will become obviouson a little consideration . For , a cessation in the decrease of fertility implies a cessation in the development of the nervousp37system ; and this implies that the nervous system has become fully equal to all that is demanded of it ? has not to do more than is natural to it . But that exercise of faculties which does not exceed what is natural constitutes gratification . Consequently , in the end , the obtainment of subsistence will require just that kind and that amount of action needful to perfect health and happiness . Thus do we see how simple are the means by which the greatest and most complex results are worked out . From the point of view now reached , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproduction not only fulfils with precision the a priori law of maintenance of race , from the monad up to man , but ensures the final attainment of the highest form of this maintenance ? aform in which the amount of life shall be the greatest possible , and the births and deaths the fewest possible . In the nature of things , the antagonism could not fail to work out the results we see it working out . The gradual diminution and ultimatedisappearance of the original excess of fertility could take place only through the process of civilization ; and , at the same , time , the excess of fertility has itself rendered the process of civilizationinevitable . From the beginning , pressure of population has been the proximate cause of progress . It produced the original diffusion of the race . It compelled men to abandon predatory habits and take to agriculture . It led to the clearing of the earth 's surface . It forced men into the social state ; made social organizationinevitable ; and has developed the social sentiments . It has stimulated to progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is daily pressing us into closer contact and more mutually-dependent relationships . And after having caused , as it ultimately must , the due peopling of the globe , and the bringing of all its habitable parts into the highest state of culture ? after having brought all processes for the satisfaction of human wants to the greatest perfection ? after having , at the same time , developed the intellect into complete competencyfor its work , and the feelings into complete fitness for social life ? after having done all this , we see that the pressure of population , as it gradually finishes its work , must gradually bring itself to an end.  |p38PROGRESS  : ITS LAW AND CAUSETHE CURRENT conception of Progress is somewhat shifting and indefinite . Sometimes it comprehends that more than simple growth ? as of a nation in the number of its members and the extent of territory over which it has spread . Sometimes it has reference to quantity of material products ? as when the advance of agriculture and manufactures is the topic . Sometimes the superiorquality of these products is contemplated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are produced . When , again , we speak of moral or intellectual progress , we refer to the state of the individual or people exhibiting it ; while , when the progress of Knowledge , of Science , of Art , is commented upon , we have in view certain abstract results of human thought and action . Not only , however , is the current conception of Progress more or less vague , but it is in great measure erroneous . It takes in not so much the reality of Progress as its accompaniments ? not so much the substance as the shadow . That progress in intelligence seen during the growth of the child into the man , or the savage into the philosopher , is commonly regarded as consistingin the greater number of facts known and laws understood : whereas the actual progress consists in those internal modifications of which this increased knowledge is the expression . Social progress is supposed to consist in the produce of a greater quantity and variety of the articles required for satisfying man 's wants ; inp39the increasing security of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rightly understood , social progress consistsin those changes of structure in the social organism which have entailed these consequences . The current conception is a teleological one . The phenomena are contemplated solely as bearingon human happiness . Only those changes are held to constitute progress which directly or indirectly tend to heighten human happiness . And they are thought to constitute progress simply because they tend to heighten human happiness . But rightly to understand progress , we must inquire what is the nature of these changes , consideredapart from our interests . Ceasing , for example , to regard the successive geological modifications that have taken place in the Earth , as modifications that have gradually fitted it for the habitationof Man , and as therefore a geological progress , we must seek to determine the character common to these modifications thelaw to which they all conform . And similarly in every other case . Leaving out of sight concomitants and beneficial consequences , let us ask what Progress is in itself . In respect to that progress which individual organisms display in the course of their evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The investigations of Wolff , Goethe , and Von Baer , have established the truth that the series of changes gone through during the development of a seed into a tree , or an ovum into an animal , constitute an advance from homogeneity of structureto heterogeneity of structure . In its primary stage , every germ consists of a substance that is uniform throughout , both in texture and chemical composition . The first step is the appearance of a difference between two parts of this substance ; or , as the phenomenonis called in physiological language , a differentiation . Each of these differentiated divisions presently begins itself to exhibit some contrast of parts ; and by and by these secondary differentiationsbecome as definite as the original one . This process is continuouslyrepeated is simultaneously going on in all parts of thegrowing embryo ; and by endless such differentiations there is finally produced that complex combination of tissues and organs constituting the adult animal or plant . This is the history of all organisms whatever . It is settled beyond dispute that organicp40progress consists in a change from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first place to show , that this law of organic progress is the law of all progress . Whether it be in the development of the Earth , in the development of Life upon its surface , in the development of Society , of Government , of Manufactures , of Commerce , of Language , Literature , Science , Art , this same evolution of the simple into the complex , through successive differentiations , holds throughout . From the earliest traceable cosmical changes down to the latest results of civilization , we shall find that the transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous , is that in which Progress essentially consists ... . Whether an advance from the homogeneous to the heterogeneousis or is not displayed in the biological history of the globe , it is clearly enough displayed in the progress of the latest and most heterogeneous creature ? Man . It is alike true that , during the period in which the Earth has been peopled , the human organism has grown more heterogeneous among the civilized divisions of the species ; and that the species , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtue of the multiplication of races and the differentiation of these races from each other . In proof of the first of these positions , we may cite the fact that , in the relative development of the limbs , the civilized man departs more widely from the general type of the placental mammaliathan do the lower human races . While often possessing well-developed body and arms , the Papuan has extremely small legs : thus reminding us of the quadrumana , in which there is no great contrast in size between the hind and fore limbs . But in the European , the greater length and massiveness of the legs has become very marked the fore and hind limbs are relatively more heterogeneous . Again , the greater ratio which the cranial bones bear to the facial bones illustrates the same truth . Among the vertebratain general , progress is marked by an increasing heterogeneityin the vertebral column , and more especially in the vertebrae constituting the skull : the higher forms being distinguished by the relatively larger size of the bones which cover the brain , and the relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now , thisp41characteristic , which is stronger in Man than in any other creature , is stronger in the European than in the savage . Moreover , judging from the greater extent and variety of faculty he exhibits , we may infer that the civilized man has also a more complex or heterogeneousnervous system than the uncivilized man : and indeed the fact is in part visible in the increased ratio which his cerebrum bears to the subjacent ganglia . If further elucidation be needed , we may find it in every nursery . The infant European has sundry marked points of resemblance to the lower human races ; as in the flatness of the ahe of the nose , the depression of its bridge , the divergence and forward opening of the nostrils , the form of the lips , the absence of a frontalsinus , the width between the eyes , the smallness of the legs . Now , as the developmental process by which these traits are turned into those of the adult European , is a continuation of that change from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous displayed during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will admit ; it follows that the parallel development process by which the like traits of the barbarous races have been turned into those of the civilized races , has also been a continuation of the change from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous . The truth of the secondposition ? that Mankind , as a whole , have become more heterogeneous ? isso obvious as scarcely to need illustration . Every work on Ethnology , by its divisions and subdivisions of races , bears testimonyto it . Even were we to admit the hypothesis that Mankind originated from several separate stocks , it would still remain true , that as , from each of these stocks , there have sprung many now widely different tribes , which are proved by philological evidence to have had a common origin , the race as a whole is far less homogeneousthan it once was . Add to which , that we have , in the Anglo-Americans , an example of a new variety arising within these few generations ; and that , if we may trust to the description of observers , we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On passing from Humanity under its individual form , to Humanityas socially embodied , we find the general law still more variously exemplified . The change from the homogeneous to thep42heterogeneous is displayed equally in the progress of civilization as a whole , and in the progress of every tribe or nation ; and is still going on with increasing rapidity . As we see in existing barbaroustribes , society in its first and lowest form is a homogeneous aggregation of individuals having like powers and like functions : the only marked difference of function being that which accompaniesdifference of sex . Every man is warrior , hunter , fisherman , tool-maker , builder ; every woman performs the same drudgeries ; every family is self-sufficing , and save for purposes of aggression and defence , might as well live apart from the rest . Very early , however , in the process of social evolution , we find an incipient differentiation between the governing and the governed . Some kind of chieftainship seems coeval with the first advance from the state of separate wandering families to that of a nomadic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among a body of savages as in a herd of animals , or a posse of schoolboys . At first however , it is indefinite , uncertain ; is shared by others of scarcely inferior power ; and is unaccompanied by any difference in occupationor style of living : the first ruler kills his own game , makes his own weapons , builds his own hut , and economically considered , does not differ from others of his tribe . Gradually , as the tribe progresses , the contrast between the governing and the governed grows more decided . Supreme power becomes hereditaryin one family ; the head of that family , ceasing to provide for his own wants , is served by others ; and he begins to assume the sole office of ruling . At the same time there has been arising a co-ordinate species of government that of Religion . As all ancient records and traditionsprove , the earliest rulers are regarded as divine personages . The maxims and commands they uttered during their lives are held sacred after their deaths , and are enforced by their **27;1033;TOOLONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the race , there to be worshipped and propitiated along with their predecessors : the most ancient of whom is the supreme god , and the rest subordinate gods . For a long time these connate forms of government ? civil and religious ? continue closely associated . For many generations the king continues to be the chiefp43priest , and the priesthood to be members of the royal race . For many ages religious law continues to contain more or less of civil regulations , and civil law to possess more or less of religious sanction ; and even among the most advanced nations these two controllingagencies are by no means completely differentiated from each other . Having a common root with these , and gradually diverging from them , we find yet another controlling agency that ofManners or ceremonial usages . All titles of honour are originally the names of the god-king ; afterwards of God and the king ; still later of persons of high rank ; and finally come , some of them , to be used between man and man . All forms of complimentary address were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conqueror or from subjects to their ruler , either human or divine expressionsthat were afterwards used to propitiate subordinateauthorities , and slowly descended into ordinary intercourse . All models of salutation were once obeisances made before the monarch and used in worship of him after his death . Presently others of the god-descended race were similarly saluted ; and by degrees some of the salutations have become the due of all . Thus , no sooner does the originally homogeneous social mass differentiate into the governed and the governing parts , than this last exhibits an incipient differentiation into religious and secular ? Church and State ; while at the same time there begins to be differentiated from both , that less definite species of government which rulesour daily intercourse a species of government which , as we maysee in heralds ' colleges , in books of the peerage , in masters of ceremonies , is not without a certain embodiment of its own . Each of these is itself subject to successive differentiations . In the course of ages , there arises , as among ourselves , a highly complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with their subordinate administrative departments , courts of justice , revenue offices , &c.,; supplemented in the provinces by municipalgovernments , county governments , parish or union governments allof them more or less elaborated . By its side theregrows up a highly complex religious organization , with its various grades of officials , from archbishops down to sextons , its colleges ,  |p44convocations  , ecclesiastical courts , &c.; to all which must be added the ever multiplying independent sects , each with its general and local authorities . And at the same time there is developed a highly complex aggregation of customs , manners , and temporary fashions , enforced by society at large , and serving to control those minor transactions between man and man which are not regulated by civil and religious law . Moreover it is to be observed that this ever increasing heterogeneity in the government appliances of each nation , has been accompanied by an increasing heterogeneity in the governmental appliances of different nations ; all of which are more or less unlike in their political systems and legislation , in their creeds and religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been going on a second differentiationof a more familiar kind ; that , namely , by which the mass of the community has been segregated into distinct classes and orders of workers . While the governing part has undergone the complex development above detailed , the governed part has undergone an equally complex development , which has resulted in that minute division of labour characterizing advanced nations . It is needless to trace out this progress from its first stages , up through the caste divisions of the East and the incorporated guilds of Europe , to the elaborate producing and distributing organizationexisting among ourselves . Political economists have long since described the evolution which , beginning with a tribe whose membersseverally perform the same actions each for himself , ends with a civilized community whose members severally perform different actions for each other ; and they have further pointed out the changes through which the solitary producer of any one commodity is transformed into a combination of producers who , united under a master , take separate parts in the manufacture of such commodity . But there are yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the heterogeneous in the industrial organization of society . Long after considerable progress has been made in the divisionof labour among different classes of workers , there is still little or no division of labour among the widely separated parts ofp45the community ; the nation continues comparatively homogeneous in the respect that in each district the same occupations are pursued . But when roads and other means of transit become numerous and good , the different districts begin to assume different functions , and to become mutually dependent . The calico manufacture locates itself in this county , the woollen-cloth manufacture in that ; silks are produced here , lace there ; stockings in one place , shoes in another ; pottery , hardware , cutlery , come to have their special towns ; and ultimately every locality becomes more or less distinguishedfrom the rest by the leading occupation carried on in it . Nay , more , this subdivision of functions shows itself not only among the different parts of the same nation , but among different nations . That exchange of commodities which free-trade promises so greatly to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater or less degree , the industry of each people . So that beginning with a barbarous tribe , almost if not quite homogeneous in the functions of its members , the progress has been , and still is , towards an economic aggregation of the whole human race ; growingever more heterogeneous in respect of the separate functions assumed by separate nations , the separate functions assumed by the local sections of each nation , the separate functions assumed by the many kinds of makers and traders in each town , and the separatefunctions assumed by the workers united in producing each commodity . Not only is the law thus clearly exemplified in the evolution of the social organism , but it is exemplified with equal clearness in the evolution of all products of human thought and action , whether concrete or abstract , real or ideal . Let us take Language as our first illustration . . . . Spencer considers the evolution of language , painting , sculpture , poetry , music and musical instruments from their origin in religion . But doubtless the reader is already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fulfilled . We believe we have shown beyond question , that that which the German physiologists have found to be the law of organic development , is the law of all development . The advance from the simple to the complex , through a process of successive differentiations , is seen alike in the earliestp46changes of the Universe to which we can reason our way back ; and in the earliest changes which we can inductively establish ; it is seen in the geologic and climatic evolution of the Earth , and of every single organism on its surface ; it is seen in the evolution of Humanity , whether contemplated in the civilized individual , or in the aggregation of races ; it is seen in the evolution of Society in respect alike of its political , its religious , and its economical organization ; and it is seen in the evolution of all those endless concrete and abstract products of human activity which constitutethe environment of our daily life . From the remotest past which Science can fathom , up to the novelties of yesterday , that in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the heterogeneous . And now , from this uniformity of procedure , may we not infer some fundamental necessity whence it results ? May we not rationally seek for some all-pervading principle which determines this all-pervading process of things ? Does not the universality of the law imply a universal cause ? That we can fathom such cause , noumenally considered , is not to be supposed . To do this would be to solve that ultimate mystery which must ever transcend human intelligence . But it still may he possible for us to reduce the law of all Progress , above established , from the condition of an empirical generalization , to the condition of a rational generalization . Just as it was possible to interpret Kepler 's laws as necessary consequences of the law of gravitation ; so it may be possible to interpret this law of Progress , in its multiformmanifestations , as the necessary consequence of some similarly universal principle . As gravitation was assignable as the cause of each of the groups of phenomena which Kepler formulated ; so may some equally simple attribute of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups of phenomena formulated in the foregoing pages . We may be able to affiliate all these varied and complex evolutions of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous , upon certain simple facts of immediate experience , which , in virtue of endless repetition , we regard as necessary . The probability of a common cause , and the possibility ofp47formulating it , being granted , it will be well , before going further , to consider what must be the general characteristics of such cause , and in what direction we ought to look for it . We can with certainty predict that it has a high degree of generality ; seeing that it is common to such infinitely varied phenomena : just in proportion to the universality of its application must be the abstractness of its character . We need not expect to see in it an obvious solution of this or that form of Progress ; because it equally refers to forms of Progress bearing little apparent resemblance to them : its association with multi-form orders of facts , involves its dissociation from any particular order of facts . Being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organic , ethnologic , social , economic , artistic , &c.; it must be concerned with some fundamentalattribute possessed in common by these ; and must be expressiblein terms of this fundamental attribute . The only obvious respect in which all kinds of Progress are alike , is , that they are modes of change ; and hence , in some characteristic of changes in general , the desired solution will probably be found . We may suspect a priori that in some law of change lies the explanation of this universal transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous . Thus much premised , we pass at once to the statement of the law , which is this : ? Every active force produces more than one change ? every cause produces more than one . effect . Before this law can be duly comprehended , a few examples must be looked at . . . . Some examples from Chemistry follow . ... This multiplication of results , which is displayed in every event of to-day , has been going on from the beginning ; and is true of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From the law that every active force produces more than one change , it is an inevitable corollary that through all time there has been an ever-growing complication of things . Starting with the ultimate fact that every cause produces more than one effect , we may readily see that throughout creation there must have gone on , and must still go on , a never-ceasing transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous . But let us trace out this truth in detail . . . . Spencer applies it to cosmology and biology withp48tendencies to an increasing variety of species and to the internal differentiation of each one . Observe , now , however , a further consequence . There must arise not simply a tendency towards the differentiation of each race of organisms into several races ; but also a tendency to the occasional production of a somewhat higher organism . Taken in the mass these divergent varieties which have been caused by fresh physical conditions and habits of life , will exhibit changes quite indefinite in kind and degree ; and changes that do not necessarilyconstitute an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be neither more nor less heterogeneous than the original one . In some cases the habits of life adopted being simpler than before , a less heterogeneous structure will result : there will be a retrogradation . But it must now and then occur , that some division of a species , falling into circumstances which give it rather more complex experiences , and demand actions somewhat more involved , will have certain of its organs further differentiated in proportionately small degrees , ? will become slightly more heterogeneous . Thus , in the natural course of things , there will from time to time arise an increased heterogeneity both of the Earth 's flora and fauna , and of individual races included in them . Omitting detailed explanations , and allowing for the qualifications which can not here be specified , we think it is clear that geological mutations have all along tended to complicate the forms of life , whether regarded separately or collectively . The same causes which have led to the evolution of the Earth 's crust from the simple into the complex , have simultaneously led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this case , as in previous ones , we see that the transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous is consequentupon the universal principle , that every active force producesmore than one change ... . If the advance of Man towards greater heterogeneity is traceableto the production of many effects by one cause , still more clearly may the advance of Society towards greater heterogeneity be so explained . Consider the growth of an industrial organization . When , as must occasionally happen , some individual of a tribe dis/plays unusual aptitude for making an article of general use ? a weapon , for instance ? which was before made by each man for himself , there arises a tendency towards the differentiation of that individual into a maker of such weapons . His companions ? warriors and hunters all of them , severally feel the importance of having the best weapons that can be made ; and are therefore certainto offer strong inducements to this skilled individual to make weapons for them . He , on the other hand , having not only an unusualfaculty , but an unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desire for any occupation being commonly associated ) , is predisposed to fulfil these commissions on the offer of an adequate reward : especially as his love of distinction is also gratified . This first specialization of function , once commenced , tends ever to become more decided . On the side of the weapon-maker continued practice gives increased skill increased superiority tohis products : on the side of his clients , cessation of practice entails decreased skill . Thus the influences that determine this division of labour grow stronger in both ways ; and the incipient heterogeneity is , on the average of cases , likely to become permanent for that generation , if no longer . Observe now , however , that this process not only differentiates the social mass into two parts , the one monopolizing , or almost monopolizing , the performance of a certain function , and the other having lost the habit , and in some measure the power , of performingthat function ; but it tends to imitate other differentiations . The advance we have described implies the introduction of barter , ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be paid in such other articles as he agrees to take in exchange . But he will not habitually take in exchange one kind of article , but many kinds . He does not want mats only , or skins , or fishing gear , but he wants all these ; and on each occasion will bargain for the particular things he most needs . What follows ? If among the members of the tribe there exist any slight differences of skill in the manufacture of these various things , as there are almost sure to do , the weapon-maker will take from each one the thing which that one excels in making : he will exchange for mats with him whose mats are superior , and will bargainfor the fishing gear of whoever has the best . But he who hasp50bartered away his mats or his fishing gear , must make other mats or fishing gear for himself ; and in so doing must , in some degree , further develop his aptitude . Thus it results that the small specialtiesof faculty possessed by various members of the tribe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transactions are from time repeated , these specializations may become appreciable . And whether or not there ensue distinct differentiations of other individuals into makers of particular articles , it is clear that incipient differentiationstake place throughout the tribe : the one original cause producesnot only the first dual effect , but a number of secondary dual effects , like in kind , but minor in degree . This process , of which traces may be seen among groups of schoolboys , can not well produceany lasting effects in an unsettled tribe ; but where there grows up a fixed and multiplying community , these differentiations becomepermanent , and increase with each generation . A larger population , involving a greater demand for every commodity , intensifies the functional activity of each specialized person or class ; and this renders the specialization more definite where it already exists , and establishes it where it is nascent . By increasing the pressure on the means of subsistence , a larger population again augments these results ; seeing that each person is forced more and more to confine himself to that which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most . This industrial progress , by aiding future production , opens the way for a further growth of population , which reacts as before : in all which the multiplication of effects is manifest ... . Our limits will not allow us to follow out this process in its higher complications : else might we show how the localization of special industries in special parts of a kingdom , as well as the minute subdivision of labour in the making of each commodity , are similarly determined . Or , turning to a somewhat different order of illustrations , we might dwell on the multitudinous changes material , intellectual , moral , ? caused by printing ; or the further extensive series of changes wrought by gunpowder . But leaving the intermediate phases of social development , let us take a few illustrationsfrom its most recent and its passing phases . To trace the effects of steam-power , in its manifold applications to mining , navigation , and manufactures of all kinds , would carry us into unman/ageable detail . Let us confine ourselves to the latest embodiment of steam-power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of our railway system , has changed the face of the country , the course of trade , and the habits of the people . Consider , first , the complicated sets of changes that precede the making of every railway ? the provisional arrangements , the meetings , the registration , the trial section , the parliamentarysurvey , the lithographed plans , the books of reference , the local deposits and notices , the application to Parliament , the passing Standing-Orders Committee , the first , second , and third readings : each of which brief heads indicates a multiplicity of transactions , and the development of sundry occupations as thoseof engineers , surveyors , lithographers , parliamentary agents , sharebrokers ; and the creation of sundry others ? as those of traffictakers , reference-takers . Consider , next , the yet more marked changes implied in railway construction ? the cutting , embankings , tunnellings , diversions of roads ; the building of bridges and stations ; the laying down of ballast , sleepers , and rails ; the making of engines , tenders , carriages and waggons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importation of timber , the quarrying of stone , the manufacture of iron , the mining of coal , the burning of bricks : institute a variety of special manufactures weekly advertised in the Railway Times ; and , finally , open the way to sundry new occupations , as those of drivers , stokers , cleaners , plate-layers , &c.,; &c.; And then consider the changes , more numerousand involved still , which railways in action produce on the community at large . The organization of every business is more or less modified : ease of communication makes it better to do directly what was before done by proxy ; agencies are established where previously they would not have paid ; goods are obtained from remote wholesale houses instead of near retail ones ; and commoditiesare used which distance once rendered inaccessible . Again , the rapidity and small cost of carriage tend to specialize more than ever the industries of different districts ? to confine each manufacture to the parts in which , from local advantages , it can be best carried on . Further , the diminished cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also , on the average ,  |p52lowers  prices : thus bringing divers articles within the means of those before unable to buy them , and so increasing their comforts and improving their habits . At the same time the practice of travellingis immensely extended . Classes who never before thought of it , take annual trips to the sea ; visit their distant relations ; make tours ; and so we are benefited in body , feelings , and intellect . Moreover , the more prompt transmission of letters and of news produces further changes makes the pulse of the nation faster . Yet more , there arises a wide dissemination of cheap literature through railway book-stalls , and of advertisements in railway carriages : both of them aiding ulterior progress . And all the innumerable changes here briefly indicated are consequent on the invention of the locomotive engine . The social organism has been rendered more heterogeneous in virtue of the many new occupations introduced , and the many old ones further specialized ; prices in every place have been altered ; each trader has , more or less , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person has been affected in his actions , thoughts , emotions .... ... It will be seen that as in each event of to-day , so from the beginning , the decomposition of every expended force into several forces has been perpetually producing a higher complication ; that the increase of heterogeneity so brought about is still going on , and must continue to go on ; and that thus Progress is not an accident , not a thing within human control , but a beneficent necessity.  |p53THE  SOCIAL ORGANISMSIR JAMES MACINTOSH got great credit for the saying , that " constitutions are not made , but grow . " In our day , the most significantthing about this saying is , that it was ever thought so significant . As from the surprise displayed by a man at some familiar fact , you may judge of his general culture ; so from the admiration which an age accords to a new thought , its average degree of enlightenment may be inferred . That this apophthegm of Macintosh should have been quoted and re-quoted as it has , shows how profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ray of truth has seemed brilliant , as a distant rushlight looks like a star in the surrounding darkness . Such a conception could not , indeed , fail to be startling when let fall in the midst of a system of thought to which it was utterly alien . Universally in Macintosh 's day , things were explained on the hypothesis of manufacture , rather than that of growth : as indeedthey are , by the majority , in our own day . It was held that the planets were severally projected round the sun from the Creator 's hand ; with exactly the velocity required to balance the sun 's attraction . The formation of the Earth , the separation of sea from land , the production of animals , were mechanical works from which God rested as a labourer rests . Man was supposed to be moulded after a manner somewhat akin to that in which a modeller makes a clayfigure . And of course , in harmony with such ideas , societies werep54tacitly assumed to be arranged thus or thus by direct interposition of Providence ; or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet that societies are not artificially put together , is a truth so manifest , that it seems wonderful men should have ever overlooked it . Perhaps nothing more clearly shows the small value of historical studies , as they have been commonly pursued . You need but to look at the changes going on around , or observe social organization in its leading peculiarities , to see that these are neither supernatural , nor are determined by the wills of individual men , as by implication historians commonly teach ; but are consequent on general natural causes . The one case of the division of labour suffices to show this . It has not been by command of any ruler that some men have become manufacturers , while others have remained cultivators of the soil . In Lancashire , millions have devotedthemselves to the making of cotton-fabrics ; in Yorkshire , another million lives by producing woollens ; and the pottery of Staffordshire , the cutlery of Sheffield , the hardware of Birmingham , severally occupy their hundreds of thousands . These are large facts in the structure of English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor to legislation . It is not by " the hero as king , " any more than by " collective wisdom , " that men have been segregated into producers , wholesale distributors , and retail distributors . The whole of our industrial organization , from its main outlinesdown to its minutest details , has become what it is , not simply without legislative guidance , but , to a considerable extent , in spite of legislative hindrances . It has arisen under the pressure of human wants and activities . While each citizen has been pursuinghis individual welfare , and none taking thought about divisionof labour , or , indeed , conscious of the need for it , division of labour has yet been ever becoming more complete . It has been doing this slowly and silently : scarcely any having observed it until quite modern times . By steps so small , that year after year the industrial arrangements have seemed to men just what they were before ? by changes as insensible as those through which a seed passes into a tree ; society has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And this economic organization , mark , is the all-essential organization . Through the combination thus spontaneously evolved , every citizen is supplied with daily necessaries ; while he yields some product or aid to others . That we are severally alive to-day , we owe to the regular working of this combination during the past week ; and could it be suddenly abolished , a great proportion of us would be dead before another week ended . If these most conspicuous and vital arrangementsof our social structure , have arisen without the devising of any one , but through the individual efforts of citizens to satisfy their own wants ; we maybe tolerably certain that the less important arrangements have similarly arisen . " But surely , " it will be said , " the social changes directly produced by law , can not be classed as spontaneous growths . When parliaments or kings order this or that thing to be done , and appointofficials to do it , the process is clearly artificial ; and society to this extent becomes a manufacture rather than a growth . " No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be real and permanentchanges . The true sources of such changes lie deeper than the acts of legislators . To take first the simplest instance . We all know that the enactments of representative governments ultimately depend on the national will : they may for a time be out of harmony with it , but eventually they must conform to it . And to say that the national will finally determines them , is to say that they result from the average of individual desires ; or , in other words fromthe average of individual natures . A law so initiated , therefore , really grows out of the popular character . In the case of a Government representing a dominant class , the same thing holds , though not so manifestly . For the very existence of a class monopolizing all power , is due to certain sentiments in the commonalty . But for the feeling of loyalty on the part of retainers , a feudal system could not exist . We see in the protest of the Highlanders against the abolition of heritable jurisdictions , that they preferred that kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , must thus be ascribed the growth of an irresponsible ruling class ; then to the popular nature must be ascribed the social arrangements which that class creates in the pursuit of its own ends . Even where the Government is despotic , the doctrine still holds . The character of the people is , as before , the original source of this political form ; and , as we have abundant proof , other forms suddenly created will not act , but rapidly retrograde to the old form . Moreover , such regulations as a despot makes , if really operative , are so because of their fitness to the social state . His acts being very much swayed by general opinion by precedent , by the feeling of hisnobles , his priesthood , his army  --  are in part immediate results of the national character ; and when they are out of harmony with the national character , they are soon practically abrogated . The failure of Cromwell permanently to establish a new social condition , and the rapid revival of suppressed institutions and practices after his death , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the society he governs . He may disturb , he may retard , or he may aid the natural process of organization ; but the general course of this process is beyond his control . Nay , more than this is true . Those who regard the histories of societies as the historiesof their great men , and think that these great men shape the fates of their societies , overlook the truth that such great men are the products of their societies . Without certain antecedents ? without a certain average national character , they could neither have been generated nor could have had the culture which formed them . If their society is to some extent re-moulded by them , they were , both before and after birth , moulded by their society were theresults of all those influences which fostered the ancestral characterthey inherited , and gave their own early bias , their creed , morals , knowledge , aspirations . So that such social changes as are immediately traceable to individuals of unusual power , are still remotely traceable to the social causes which produced these individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such social changes also , are parts of the general developmental process . Thus that which is so obviously true of the industrial structure of society , is true of its whole structure . The fact that " constitutions are not made , but grow , " is simply a fragment of the much larger fact , that under all its aspects and through all its ramifications , society is a growth and not a manufacture.  |p57A  perception that there exists some analogy between the body politic and a living individual body , was early reached ; and from time to time re-appeared in literature . But this perception was necessarily vague and more or less fanciful . In the absence of physiological science , and especially of those comprehensive generalizationswhich it has but recently reached , it was impossible to discern the real parallelisms .... Spencer goes on to criticize Plato and Hobbes . Let us set out by succinctly stating the points of similarity and the points of difference . Societies agree with individual organismsin four conspicuous peculiarities : 1 . That commencing as small aggregations , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten thousand times what they originally were. 2 . That while at first so simple in structure as to be considered structureless , they assume , in the course of their growth , a **32;1062;TOOLONG of structure3 . That though in their early , undeveloped states , there exists in them scarcely any mutual dependence of parts , their parts graduallyacquire a mutual dependence ; which becomes at last so great , that the activity and life of each part is made possible only by the activity and life of the rest. 4 . That the life and development of a society is independent of , and far more prolonged than , the life and development of any of its component units ; who are severally born , grow , work reproduce , and die , while the body politic composed of them survives generation after generation , increasing in mass , completeness of structure , and functional activity . These four parallelisms will appear the more significant the more we contemplate them . While the points specified , are points in which societies agree with individual organisms , they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disagree with all things else . In the course of its existence , every plant and animal increases in mass , in a way not paralleled by inorganic objects : even such inorganic objects as crystals , which arise by growth , show us no such definite relation between growth and existence as organisms do . The orderly progress from simplicity to complexity , displayed by bodies politic in common with all living bodies , is a characteristic which distinguishes living bodies from the inanimate bodies amid which they move . That functional dependence of parts , which is scarcely more manifest in animals or plants than nations , has no counterpart elsewhere . And in no aggregateexcept an organic , or a social one , is there a perpetual removal and replacement of parts , joined with a continued integrity of the whole . Moreover , societies and organisms are not only alike in these peculiarities , in which they are unlike all other things ; but the highest societies , like the highest organisms , exhibit them in the greatest degree . We see that the lowest animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher ones ; and , similarly , we see that aboriginal societies , are comparatively limited in their growths . In complexity , our large civilized nations as much exceed primitive savage tribes , as a vertebrate animal does a zoophyte . Simple communities , like simple creatures , have so little mutual dependence of parts , that subdivision or mutilation causes but little inconvenience ; but from complex communities , as from complex creatures , you can not remove any considerable organ without producinggreat disturbance or death of the rest . And in societies of low type , as in inferior animals , the life of the aggregate , often cut short by division or dissolution , exceeds in length the lives of the component units , very far less than in civilized communities and superior animals ; which outlive many generations of their componentunits . On the other hand , the leading differences between societies and individual organisms are these : 1 . That societies have no specific external forms . This , however , is a point of contrast which loses much of its importance , when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some lower divisions of the animal kingdom , the forms are often very indefinite ? definiteness being rather the exception than the rule : and that they are manifestly in part determined by surroundingphysical circumstances , as the forms of societies are . If , too , it should eventually be shown , as we believe it will , that thep59form of every species of organism has resulted from the average play of the external forces to which it has been subject during its evolution as a species ; then , that the external forms of societies should depend , as they do , on surrounding conditions , will be a further point of community. 2 . That though the living tissue whereof an individual organismconsists , forms a continuous mass , the living elements of a society do not form a continuous mass ; but are more or less widely dispersed over some portion of the Earth 's surface . This , which at first sight appears to be a fundamental distinction , is one which yet to a great extent disappears when we contemplate all the facts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vegetal kingdoms , there are types of organization much more nearly allied , in this respect , to the organization of a society , than might be supposed ? types in which the living units essentially composing the mass , are dispersed through an inert substance , that can scarcely be called living in the full sense of the word ... . 3 . That while the ultimate living elements of an individual organism , are mostly fixed in their relative positions , those of the social organism are capable of moving from place to place , seems a marked disagreement . But here , too , the disagreement is much less than would be supposed . For while citizens are locomotive in their private capacities , they are fixed in their public capacities . As farmers , manufacturers , or traders , men carry on their business at the same spots , often throughout their whole lives ; and if they go away occasionally , they leave behind others to discharge their functions in their absence . Each great centre of production , each manufacturing town or district , continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firms in such town or district , are for generations carried on either by the descendants or successors of those who founded them . Just as in a living body , the cells that make up some important organ , severally perform their functions for a time and then disappear , leaving others to supply their places ; so , in each part of a society , the organ remains , though the persons who composeit change . Thus , in social life , as in the life of an animal , the units as well as the larger agencies formed of them , are in the main stationary as respects the places where they discharge their duties and obtain their sustenance . And hence the power of individual locomotion does not practically affect the analogy. 4 . The last and perhaps the most important distinction , is , that while in the body of an animal , only a special tissue is endowed with feeling ; in a society , all the members are endowed with feeling . Even this distinction , however , is by no means a complete one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the absenceof a nervous system , such sensitiveness as exists is possessed by all parts . It is only in the more organized forms that feeling is monopolized by one class of the vital elements . Moreover , we must remember that societies , too , are not without a certain differentiationof this kind . Though the units of a community are all sensitive , yet they are so in unequal degrees . The classes engaged in agricultureand laborious occupations in general , are much less susceptible , intellectually and emotionally , than the rest ; and especially less so than the classes of highest mental culture . Still , we have here a tolerably decided contrast between bodies politic and individualbodies . And it is one which we should keep constantly in view . For it reminds us that while in individual bodies , the welfare of all other parts is rightly subservient to the welfare of the nervous system , whose pleasurable or painful activities make up the good or evil of life ; in bodies politic , the same thing does not hold , or holds to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lives of all parts of an animal should be merged in the life of the whole ; because the whole has a corporate consciousness capable of happiness or misery . But it is not so with a society ; since its living units do not and can not lose individual consciousness ; and since the community as a whole has no corporate consciousness . And this is an everlastingreason why the welfare of citizens can not rightly be sacrificed to some supposed benefit of the State ; but why , on the other hand , the State is to be maintained solely for the benefit of citizens . The corporate life must here be subservient to the lives of the parts ; instead of the lives of the parts being subservient to the corporate life . Such , then , are the points of analogy and the points of difference . May we not say that the points of difference serve but top61bring into clearer light the points of analogy . . . . The principles of organization are the same ; and the differences are simply differencesof application . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the comparison of a society to a living body ; let us look at them in detail . We shall find that the parallelism becomes the more marked the more closely it is traced . . . . The structure of various Protozoa is described . ... But these little societies of monads , or cells , or whatever else we may call them , are societies only in the lowest sense : there is no subordination of parts among them no organization . Each of the component units lives by and for itself ; neither giving nor receiving aid . There is no mutual dependence , save that consequent on mere mechanical union . Now do we not here discern analogies to the first stages of human societies ? Among the lowest races , as the Bushmen , we find but incipient aggregation : sometimes single families : sometimes two or three families wandering about together . The number of associated units is small and variable ; and their union inconstant . No division of labour except between the sexes ; and the only kind of mutual aid is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undifferentiated group of individuals , forming the germ of a society ; just as in the homogeneous groups of cells above describedwe see only the initial stage of animal and vegetable organization . The comparison may now be carried a step higher . . . . More complex Polyps are described . Turning to societies , we find these stages parallel in the majority of aboriginal tribes . When , instead of such small variable groups as are formed by Bushmen , we come to the larger and more permanent groups formed by savages not quite so low , we begin to find traces of social structure . Though industrial organization scarcely shows itself , except in the different occupations of the sexes : yet there is always more or less of governmental organization . While all the men are warriors and hunters , only a part of them are included in the council of chiefs ; and in this council of chiefs some one has commonly supreme authority . There is thus a certain distinction of classes and powers ; and through this slight specialization of functions , is effected a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the society has to act in its corporate capacity . . . . Composite forms of the Hydra are described . Now in these various forms and degrees of aggregation , may we not see paralleled the union of groups of connate tribes into nations ? Though in regions where circumstances permit , the separate tribes descended from some original tribe , migrate in all directions , and become far removed and quite separate ; yet , in other cases , where the territory presents barriers to distant migration , this does not happen : the small kindred communities are held in closer contact , and eventually become more or less united into a nation . The contrast between the tribes of American Indians and the Scottish clans , illustrates this . And a glance at our own early history , or the early histories of continental nations , shows this fusion of small simple communities taking place in various ways and to various extents . . . . Instances of further complexifications in marine animals . Well , in the evolution of a society , we see a primary differentiationof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As already pointed out , the only manifest contrast of parts in primitive societies , is that between the governing and the governed . In the least organized tribes , the council of chiefs may be a body of men distinguished simply by greater courage or experience . In more organized tribes , the chief-class is definitely separated from the lower class , and often regarded as different in nature ? sometimes as god-descended . And later , we find these two becoming respectively freemen and slaves , or nobles and serfs . A glance at their respective functions , makes it obvious that the great divisions thus early formed , stand to each other in a relation similar to that in which the primary divisions of the embryo stand to each other . For , from its first appearance , the class of chiefs is that by which the external acts of the society are controlled : alike in war , in negotiation , and in migration . Afterwards , while the upper class grows distinct from the lower , and at the same time becomes more exclusively regulative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kings and subordinate rulers , priests , and military leaders ; the inferior class becomes more and more exclusively occupied in providing the necessaries of life for the community at large . From the soil , with which it comes in most direct contact , the mass of the people takes up and prepares for use , the food and such rude articles of manufacture as are known ; while the overlying mass of superior men , maintained by the working population , deals with circumstances external to the community ? circumstances with which , by position , it is more immediately concerned . Ceasing byand-byto have any knowledge of , or power over , the concerns of the society as a whole , the serf-class becomes devoted to the processesof alimentation ; while the noble class , ceasing to take any part in the processes of alimentation , becomes devoted to the coordinatedmovements of the entire body public . Equally remarkable is a further analogy of like kind . After the mucous and serous layers of the embryo have separated , there presently arises between the two , a third , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which are developed the chiefblood-vessels . . . . Well , may we not trace a parallel step in social progress ? Between the governing and the governed , there at first exists no intermediate class ; and even in some societies that have reached considerable sizes , there are scarcely any but the nobles and their kindred on the one hand , and the serfs on the other : the social structure being such , that the transfer of commodities takes place directly from slaves to their masters . But in societies of a higher type , there grows up between these two primitive classes , anotherthe trading or middle class . Equally , at first as now , we may see that , speaking generally , this middle class is the analogue of the middle layer in the embryo . For all traders are essentially distributors . . . . Another fact which should not be passed over , is that in the evolution of a large society out of an aggregation of small ones , there is a gradual obliteration of the original lines of separation ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analogies in living bodies . . . . Biological examples from the Annulosa and Crustacea . In feudal times , the minor communities governed by feudal lords , werep64severally organized in the same rude way ; and were held together only by the fealty of their respective rulers to some suzerain . But along with the growth of a central power , the demarcations of these local communities disappeared ; and their separate organizationsmerged into the general organization . The like is seen on a larger scale in the fusion of England , Wales , Scotland , and Ireland ; and , on the Continent , in the coalescence of provinces into kingdoms . Even in the disappearance of law-made divisions , the process is analogous . Among the Anglo-Saxons , England was divided into tithings , hundreds , and counties : there were county courts , courts of hundred , and courts of tithing . The courts of tithing disappearedfirst ; then the courts of hundred , which have , however , left traces ; while the county-jurisdiction still exists . But chiefly it is to he noted , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to these original divisions , but traverses them in various directions , as is the case in creatures belonging to the sub-kingdom just named ; and , further , that in both cases it is the sustaining organization which thus traverses old boundaries , while in both cases it is the governmental , or coordinatingorganization in which the original boundaries continue traceable . Thus , in the highest Annulosa , the exo-skeleton and the muscular system , never lose all traces of their primitive segmentation ; but throughout a great part of the body , the contained viscera do not in the least conform to the external divisions . Similarly , with a nation , we see that while , for governmental purposes , such divisions as counties and parishes still exist , the structure developed for carrying out the nutrition of society , wholly ignores these boundaries : our great cotton-manufacture spreads out of Lancashire into North Derbyshire ; Leicestershire and Nottinghamshirehave long divided the stocking-trade between them ; one great centre for the production of iron and iron-goods , includes parts of Warwickshire , Staffordshire , Worcestershire ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of England noted for different products , show no more respect to county-boundaries than do our growing towns to the boundaries of parishes . If , after contemplating these analogies of structure , we inquirep65whether there are any such analogies between the processes of organic change , the answer is yes . The causes which lead toincrease of bulk in any part of the body politic , are of like nature with those which lead to increase of bulk in any part of an individualbody . In both cases the antecedent is greater functional activity , consequent on greater demand . Each limb , viscus , gland , orother member of an animal , is developed by exercise by activelydischarging the duties which the body at large requires of it ; and similarly , any class of labourers or artisans , any manufacturing centre , or any official agency , begins to enlarge when the communitydevolves on it an increase of work . In each case , too , growth has its conditions and its limits . That any organ in a living being may grow by exercise , there needs a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood brings the materials for repair ; and before there can he growth , the quantity of blood supplied must be more than that requisite for repair . So is it in a society . If to some district which elaborates for the community particular commodities ? say the woollens of Yorkshire there comes an augmented demand ; and if , in fulfilment of thisdemand , a certain expenditure and wear of the manufacturing organization are incurred ; and if , in payment for the extra supply of woollens sent away , there comes back only such quantity of commodities as replaces the expenditure , and makes good the waste of life and machinery ; there can clearly be no growth . That there may be growth , the commodities obtained in return must be more than sufficient for these ends ; and just in proportion as the surplus is great will the growth be rapid . Whence it is manifest that what in commercial affairs we call profit , answers to the excess of nutrition over waste in a living body ... . The last few paragraphs introduce the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the analogy whichexists between the blood of a living body , and the circulating massof commodities in the body politic . We have now to trace out thisanalogy from its simplest to its most complex manifestations . . . . Thus far , we have considered the analogy between the blood ina living body and the consumable and circulating commodities inp66the body politic . Let us now compare the appliances by which they are respectively distributed . We shall find in the development of these appliances , parallelisms not less remarkable than those above set forth . Already we have shown that , as classes , wholesale and retail distributors discharge in a society , the office which the vascular system discharges in an individual creature ; that they come into existence later than the other two great classes , as the vascular layer appears later than the mucous and serous layers ; and that they occupy a like intermediate position . Here , however , it remains to be pointed out that a complete conception of the circulatingsystem in a society , includes not only the active human agents who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but includes , also , the channels of communication . It is the formation and arrangement of these , to which we now direct attention . Going back once more to those lower animals in which there is found nothing but a partial diffusion , not of blood , but only of crude nutritive fluids , it is to be remarked that the channels through which the diffusion takes place , are mere excavations through the half-organized substance of the body : they have no lining membranes , but are mere lacunce traversing a rude tissue . Now countries in which civilization is but commencing , display a like condition : there are no roads properly so called ; but the wilderness of vegetal life covering the earth 's surface , is pierced by tracks , through which the distribution of crude commodities takes place . And while in both cases , the acts of distribution occur only at long intervals ( the currents , after a pause , now setting towards a general centre , and now away from it ) , the transfer is in both cases slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common to animals and societies , comes the formation of more definite and complete channels of communication . Blood-vessels acquire distinct walls ; roads are fenced and gravelled . This advanceis first seen in those roads or vessels that are nearest to the chief centres of distribution ; while the peripheral roads and peripheralvessels , long continue in their primitive states . At a yet later stage of development , where comparative finish of structure is found throughout the system as well as near the chief centres , therep67remains in both cases the difference , that the main channels are comparatively broad and straight , while the subordinate ones are narrow and tortuous in proportion to their remoteness ... . These parallelisms in the evolutions and structures of the circulating systems , introduce us to others in the kinds and rates of the movements going on through them . In the lowest societies , as in the lowest creatures , the distribution of crude nutriment is by slow gurgitations and regurgitations . In creatures that have rude vascular systems , as in societies that are beginning to have roads and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulation in definite courses ; but instead , periodical changes of the currents ? now towards this point , and now towards that . Through each part of an inferior mollusk 's body , the blood flows for a while in one direction , then stops , and flows in the opposite direction ; just as through a rudely-organized society , the distribution of merchandise is slowly carried on by great fairs , occurring in different localities , to and from which the currents periodically set . Only animals of tolerably complete organizations , like advanced communities , are permeated by constant currents that are definitelydirected . In living bodies , the local and variable currents disappear when there grow up great centres of circulation , generatingmore powerful currents , by a rhythm which ends in a quick , regular pulsation . And when in social bodies , there arise great centres of commercial activity , producing and exchanging large quantities of commodities , the rapid and continuous streams drawn in and emitted by these centres , subdue all minor and local circulations : the slow rhythm of fairs merges into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centres of distribution , weekly markets merge into daily markets ; while in place of the languid transfer from place to place , taking place at first weekly , then twice or thrice a week , we by-and-by get daily transfer , and finally transfer many times a day ? the original sluggish , irregular rhythm , becomes a rapid , equable pulse ... . We come at length to the nervous system .... We have now to compare the appliances by which a society , as a whole , is regulated , with those by which the movements of an individual creature arep68regulated . We shall find here , parallelisms equally striking with those already detailed ... . Again , in the unmodified ectoderm , as we see it in the Hydra , the units are all endowed both with impressibility and contractility ; but as we ascend to higher types of organization , the ectoderm differentiates into classes of units which divide those two functions between them : some , becoming exclusively impressible , cease to be contractile ; while some , becoming exclusively contractile , cease to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the directive and executive functions are diffused in a mingled form throughout the whole governing class . Each minor chief commands those under him , and if need be , himself coerces them into obedience . The council of chiefs itself carries out on the battlefieldits own decisions . The head chief not only makes laws , but administers justice with his own hands . In larger and more settled communities , however , the directive and executive agencies begin to grow distinct from each other . As fast as his duties accumulate , the head chief or king confines himself more and more to directing public affairs , and leaves the execution of his will to others : he deputes others to enforce submission , to inflict punsihments , or to carry out minor acts of offence and defence ; and only on occasionswhen , perhaps , the safety of the society and his own supremacyare at stake , does he begin to act as well as direct . As this differentiation establishes itself , the characteristics of the ruler begin to change . No longer , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the tendency is for him to become the man of greatest cunning , foresight , and skill in the management of others ; for in societies that have advanced beyond the first stage , it is chiefly such qualities that insure success in gaining supreme power , and holding it , against internal and external enemies . Thus that member of the governing class who comes to be the chief directingagent , and so plays the same part that a rudimentary nervous centre does in an unfolding organism , is usually one endowed with some superiorities of nervous organization . . . . Spencer now considers more complex systems of control . The cerebrum co-ordinates the countless heterogeneous considerationswhich affect the present and future welfare of thep69individual as a whole ; and the legislature co-ordinates the countlessheterogeneous considerations which affect the immediate and remote welfare of the whole community . We may describe the office of the brain as that of averaging the interests of life , physical , intellectual , moral , social ; and a good brain is one in which the desires answering to these respective interests are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifices none of them . Similarly , we may describe the office of a Parliament as that of averaging the interests of the various classes in a community ; and a good Parliament is one in which the parties answering to these respective interests are so balanced , that their united legislation concedes to each class as much as consists with the claims of the rest . Besides being comparable in their duties , these great directive centres , social and individual , are comparable in the processes by which their duties are discharged . It is now an acknowledged truth in psychology , that the cerebrum is not occupied with direct impressions from without , but with the ideas of such impressions : instead of the actual sensations produced in the body , and directly appreciated by the sensory ganglia or primitvie nervous centres , the cerebrum receives only the representations of these sensations ; and its consciousness is called representative consciousness , to distinguish it from the originalor presentative consciousness . Is it not significant that we have hit on the same word to distinguish the function of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because the interestswith which it deals the pains and pleasures about which it consults arenot directly presented to it , but represented to it by itsvarious members ; and a debate is a conflict of representations of the evils or benefits likely to follow from a proposed course ? a description which applies with equal truth to a debate in the individualconsciousness . In both cases , too , these great governing masses take no part in the executive functions . As , after a conflict in the cerebrum , those desires which finally predominate , act on the subjacent ganglia , and through their instrumentality determine the bodily actions ; so the parties which , after a parliamentary struggle , gain the victory , do not themselves carry out their wishes , but get them carried out by the executive divisions of the Government . Thep70fulfilment of all legislative decisions still devolves on the original directive centres ? the impulse passing from the Parliament to the Ministers , and from the Ministers to the King , in whose name everything is done ; just as those smaller , first-developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlling agents , are still , in the brains of the higher vertebrata , the agents through which the dictates of the cerebrum are worked out . Moreover , in both cases these original centres become increasinglyautomatic . In the developed vertebrate animal , they have little function beyond that of conveying impressions to , and executingthe determinations of , the larger centres . In our highly organizedgovernment , the monarch has long been lapsing into a passive agent of Parliament ; and now , ministers are rapidly falling into the same position.  |p71EVOLUTION  DEFINEDIT IS TRUE that Evolution , under its primary aspect , is a change from a less coherent state to a more coherent state , consequenton the dissipation of motion and integration of matter ; but this is far from being the whole truth . Along with a passage from the incoherent , there goes on a passage from the uniform to the multiform . Such , at least , is the fact wherever Evolution is compound ; which it is in the immense majority of cases . While there is a progressing concentration of the aggregate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its limits , or by the drawing in of further matter , or by both ; and while the more or less distinct parts into which the aggregate divides and subdivides are also severally concentrating ; these parts are simultaneously becoming unlike ? unlike in size , or in form , or in texture , or in composition , or in several or all of these . The same process is exhibited by the whole and by its members . The entire mass is integrating and at the same time differentiating from other masses ; while each member of it is also integrating and at the same time differentiating from other members . Our conception , then , must unite these characters . As we now understand it , Evolution is definable as a change from an incoherenthomogeneity to a coherent heterogeneity , accompanying the dissipation of motion and integration of matter . . . .  |p72The  law of Evolution has been thus far contemplated as holdingtrue of each order of existences , considered as a separate order . But the induction as so presented falls short of that completeness which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forming together one natural whole . While we think of Evolution as divided into astronomic , geologic , biologic , psychologic , sociologic , &c.,; it may seem to some extent a coincidence that the same law of metamorphosis holds throughout all its divisions . But when we recognize these divisions as mere conventional groupings , made to facilitate the arrangement and acquisition of knowledge ? whenwe remember that the different existences with which they severally deal are component parts of one Cosmos ; we see at once that there are not several kinds of Evolution having certain traits in common , but one Evolution going on everywhere after the same manner.  |p75THE  NEED FOR SOCIOLOGYOVER HIS PIPE in the village ale-house , the labourer says very positively what Parliament should do about the " foot and mouth disease . " At the farmer 's market-table , his master makes the glasses jingle as , with his fist , he emphasizes the assertion that he did not get half enough compensation for his slaughtered beasts during the cattle-plague . These are not hesitating opinions . On a matter affecting the agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Anti-Corn-Law agitation , when , in every rural circle , you heard that the nation would be ruined if the lightly-taxed foreigner was allowed to compete in our markets with the heavily-taxed Englishman : a proposition held to be so selfevidentthat dissent from it implied either stupidity or knavery . Now , as then , may be daily heard among other classes , opinions just as decided and just as unwarranted . By men called educated , the old plea for extravagant expenditure , that " it is good for trade , " is still continually urged with full belief in its sufficiency . Scarcely any decrease is observable in the fallacy that whatever gives employmentis beneficial : no regard being had to the value for ulterior purposes of that which the labour produces ; no question being asked what would have resulted had the capital which paid for the labour taken some other channel and paid for some other labour . Neither criticism nor explanation appreciably modifies these beliefs . When there is again an opening for them they are expressedp76with undiminished confidence . Along with delusions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think that the relations betweenexpenditure and production are so simple , naturally assume simplicity in other relations among social phenomena . Is there distress somewhere ? They suppose nothing more is required than to subscribe money for relieving it . On the one hand , they never trace the reactive effects which charitable donations work on bank accounts , on the surplus-capital bankers have to lend , on the productiveactivity which the capital now abstracted would have set up , on the number of labourers who would have received wages and who now go without wages they do not perceive that certain necessaries of life have been withheld from one man who would have exchanged useful work for them , and given to another who perhaps persistently evades working . Nor , on the other hand , do they look beyond the immediate mitigation of misery . They deliberately shut their eyes to the fact that as fast as they increase the provision for those who live without labour , so fast do they increase the number of those who live without labour ; and that with an ever-increasing distribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Similarly throughout all their political thinking . Proximate causes and proximate results are alone contemplated . There is scarcely any consciousness that the original causes are often numerous and widely different from the apparent cause ; and that beyond each immediate result there will be multitudinous remote results , most of them quite incalculable . Minds in which the conceptions of social actions are thus rudimentary , are also minds ready to harbour wild hopes of benefits to be achieved by administrative agencies . In each such mind there seems to be the unexpressed postulate that every evil in a society admits of cure ; and that the cure lies within the reach of law ... . Just as the perpetual-motion schemer hopes , by a cunning arrangement of parts , to get from one end of his machine more energy than he puts in at the other ; so the ordinary political schemer is convinced that out of a legislative apparatus , properly devised and worked with due dexterity , may be had beneficial State-action without any detrimental reaction . He expects to get out of a stupid people the effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  |p77But  while the prevalence of crude political opinions among those whose conceptions about simple matters are so crude , might be anticipated , it is surprising that the class disciplined by scientificculture should bring to the interpretation of social phenomena , methods but little in advance of those used by others . Now that the transformation and equivalence of forces is seen by men of science to hold not only throughout all inorganic actions , but throughout all organic actions ; now that even mental changes are recognized as the correlatives of cerebral changes , which also conform to this principle ; and now , that there must be admitted the corollary , that all actions going on in a society are measured by certain antecedent energies , which disappear in effecting them , while they themselves become actual or potential energies from which subsequent actions arise ; it is strange that there should not have arisen the consciousnessthat these highest phenomena are to be studied as lower phenomena have been studied ? not , of course , after the same physical methods , but in conformity with the same principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... . This immense incongruity between the attitude in which the most disciplined minds approach other orders of natural phenomenapresented by societies , will be best illustrated by a series of antitheses thus : The material media through which we see things , always more or less falsify the facts : making , for example , the apparent direction of a star slightly different from its real direction , and sometimes , as when a fish is seen in the water , the apparent place is so far from the real place , that great misconception results unless large allowance is made for refraction ; but sociological observations are not thus falsified : through the daily press light comes without any bending of its rays , and in studying past ages it is easy to make allowance for the refraction due to the historic medium . The motionsof gases , though they conform to mechanical laws which are well understood , are nevertheless so involved , that the art of controllingcurrents of air in a house is not yet mastered ; but the waves and currents of feeling running through a society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be readily known beforehand . Though molecules of inorganic substances are very simple , yet prolonged study is required to understand theirp78modes of behavior to one another , and even the most instructed frequently meet with interactions of them producing consequences they never anticipated ; but where the interacting bodies are not molecules but living beings of highly-complex natures , it is easy to foresee all results which will arise . Physical phenomena are so connectedthat between seeming probability and actual truth , there is apt to be a wide difference , even where but two bodies are acting : instance the natural supposition that during our northern summer the Earth is nearer to the Sun than during the winter , which is just the reverse of the fact ; but among sociological phenomena , where the bodies are so multitudinous , and the forces by which they act on one another so many , and so multiform , and so variable , the probability and the actuality will of course correspond . Matter often behaves paradoxically , as when two cold liquids added together become boiling hot , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opaque mud , or as when water immersed in sulphurous acid freezes on a hot iron plate ; but what we distinguish as Mind , especially when massed together in the way which causes social action , evolves no paradoxical results ? always such results come from it as seem likely to come . The acceptance of contradictions like these , tacitly implied in the beliefs of the scientifically cultivated , is the more remarkable when we consider how abundant are the proofs that human nature is difficult to manipulate ; that methods apparently the most rationaldisappoint expectation ; and that the best results frequently arise from courses which common sense thinks unpractical ... . How obvious it appears that when minds go deranged , there is no remedy but replacing the weak internal control by a strong external control . Yet the " non-restraint system " has had far more success than the system of strait-waistcoats . Dr. Batty Tuke , a physician of much experience in treating the insane , has lately testified that the desire to escape is great when locks and keys are used , but almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doors has had 95 per cent . of success and 5 per cent . of failure . And in further evidence of the mischief often done by measures supposedto be curative , here is Dr. Maudsley , also an authority on such questions , speaking of " asylum-made lunatics . " Again , is itp79not clear that the repression of crime will be effectual in proportion as the punishment is severe ? Yet the great amelioration in our penal code , initiated by Romilly , has not been followed by increasedcriminality but by decreased criminality ; and the testimoniesof those who have had most experience ? Maconochie in Norfolk Island , Dickson in Western Australia , Obermier in Germany , Montesinos in Spain unite to show that in proportion asthe criminal is left to suffer no other penalty than that of maintaininghimself under such restraints only as are needful for social safety , the reformation is great : exceeding , indeed , all anticipation ... . ... We habitually assume that only by legal restraints are men to be kept from aggressing on their neighbours ; and yet there are facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts of honour , for the non-payment of which there is no legal penalty , are held more sacred than debts that can be legally enforced ; and on the Stock-Exchange , where only pencil memorandain the respective note-books of two brokers guarantee the sale and purchase of many thousands , contracts are safer than those which , in the outside world , are formally registered in signed and sealed parchments . Multitudes of cases might be accumulated showing how , in other directions , men 's thoughts and feelings produce kinds of conduct which , a priori , would be judged very improbable . And if , going beyond our own society and our own time , we observe what has happened among other races , and among the earlier generations of our own race , we meet , at every step , workings-out of human nature utterly unlike those which we assume when makingpolitical forecasts . Who , generalizing the experiences of his daily life , would suppose that men , to please their gods , would swing for hours from hooks drawn through the muscles of their backs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their clenched hands , or roll over and over hundreds of miles to visit a shrine ? Who would have thought it possible that a public sentiment and a private feeling might be as in China , where a criminal can buy a substitute to be executed in his stead : the substitute 's family having the money ? Or , to take hsitorical cases more nearly concerningp80ourselves Who foresaw that the beliefs in purgatory and priestly intercession would cause one-half of England to lapse into the hands of the Church ? or who foresaw that a defect in the law of mortmain would lead to bequests of large estates consecrated as graveyards ? Who could have imagined that robber-kings and bandit-barons , with vassals to match , would , generation after generation , have traversed all Europe through hardships and dangers to risk their lives in getting possession of the reputed burial place of one whose injunction was to turn the left cheek when the right was smitten ? Or who , again , would have anticipated that when , in Jerusalem , this same teacher disclaimed political aims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by and by become rulers dominating over all the kings of Europe ? Such a result could be as little foreseen as it could be foreseen that an instrument of torture used by the Pagans would give the ground-plans to Christian temples throughout Europe ; and as little as it could be foreseen that the process of this torture , recountedin Christian narratives , might come to be mistaken for a Christian institution , as it was by the Malay chief who , being expostulated with for crucifying some rebels , replied that he was following " the English practice , " which he read in " their sacred books . " Look where we will at the genesis of social phenomena , we shall similarly find that while the particular ends contemplated and arranged for have commonly not been more than temporarily attainedif attained at all , the changes actually brought about have arisen from causes of which the very existence was unknown . To such considerations as these , set down to show the inconsistencyof those who think that prevision of social phenomena is possible without much study , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will doubtless be replied that time does not allow of systematic inquiry . From the scientific , as from the unscientific , there will come the plea that , in his capacity of citizen , each man has to act ? must vote , and must decide before he votes ? must conclude to the best of his ability on such information as he has.  |p81In  this plea there is some truth , mingled with a good deal more that looks like truth . It is a product of that " must-do-something " impulse which is the origin of much mischief , individual and social . An amiable anxiety to undo or neutralize an evil , often prompts to rash courses , as you may see in the hurry with which one who has fallen is snatched up by those at hand ; just as though there were danger in letting him lie , which there is not , and no danger in incautiously raising him , which there is . Always you find among people in proportion as they are ignorant , a belief in specifics , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ... But as fast as crude conceptions of diseases and remedial measures grow up into Pathology and Therapeutics , we find increasingcaution , along with increasing proof that evil is often done instead of good . This contrast is traceable not only as we pass from popular ignorance to professional knowledge , but as we pass from the smaller professional knowledge of early times to the greater professional knowledge of our own . The question with the modern physician is not as with the ancient ? shall the treatment be bloodletting ? shall cathartics , or shall diaphoretics be given ? or shall mercurials be administered ? But there rises the previous question ? shall there be any treatment beyond a wholesome regimen ? And even among existing physicians it happens that in proportion as the judgment is most cultivated , there is the least yielding to the " must-do-something " impulse . Is it not possible , then is it not even probable , that this supposednecessity for immediate action , which is put in as an excuse for drawing quick conclusions from few data , is the concomitant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Biology so in Sociology , the accumulation of more facts , the more critical comparisonof them , and the drawing of conclusions on scientific methods , will be accompanied by increasing doubt about the benefitsto be secured , and increasing fear of the mischiefs which may be worked ? Is it not probable that what in the individual organism is improperly , though conveniently , called the vis medicatrix naturce , may be found to have its analogue in the social organism ? and will there not very likely come along with the recognition of this , the consciousness that in both cases the one thing needful is top82maintain the conditions under which the natural actions have fair play ? Such a consciousness , to be anticipated from increased knowledge , will diminish the force of this plea for prompt decision after little inquiry ; since it will check this tendency to think of a remedial measure as one that may do good and can not do harm . Nay more , the study of Sociology , scientifically carried on by tracing back proximate causes to remote ones , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multiply as they diffuse , will dissipate the current illusion that social evils admit of radical cures . Given an average defect of nature among the units of a society , and no skilful manipulation of them will preventthat defect from producing its equivalent of bad results . It is possible to change the form of these bad results ; it is possible to change the places at which they are manifested ; but it is not possible to get rid of them . The belief that faulty character can so organize itself socially , as to get out of itself a conduct which is not proportionately faulty , is an utterly-baseless belief . You may alter the incidence of the mischief , but the amount of it must inevitably be borne somewhere ... .  |p83SOCIOLOGY  AGAINST HISTORYMY POSITION , stated briefly , is that until you have got a true theory of humanity , you can not interpret history ; and when you have got a true theory of humanity you do not want history . You can draw no inference from the facts and alleged facts of history without your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless your conceptions of human nature are true your inference will be vicious . But if your conceptions of human nature he true you need none of the inferences drawn from history for your guidance . If you ask how is one to get a true theory of humanity , I reply study it in the facts you see around you and in the general laws of life . For myself , looking as I do at humanity as the highest result yet of the evolution of life on the earth , I prefer to take in the whole series of phenomena from the beginning as far as they are ascertainable . I , too , am a lover of history ; but it is the history of the Cosmos as a whole . I believe that you might as reasonablyexpect to understand the nature of an adult man by watching him for an hour ( being in ignorance of all his antecedents ) , as to suppose that you can fathom humanity by studying the last few thousand years of its evolution . Spencer has been criticizing the vulgar attribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top84interpret sociological phenomena scientifically , is the class which sees in the course of civilization little else than a record of remarkablepersons and their doings . One who is conspicuous as the exponentof this view writes : ? " As I take it , universal history , the history of what man has accomplished in this world , is at bottom the history of the great men who have worked here . " And this , not perhaps distinctly formulated , but everywhere implied , is the belief in which nearly all are brought up . Let us glance at the genesis of it . Round their camp-fire assembled savages tell the events of the day 's chase ; and he among them who has done some feat of skill or agility is duly lauded . On a return from the war-path , the sagacity of the chief and the strength or courage of this or that warrior , are the all-absorbing themes . When the day , or the immediate past , affords no remarkable deed , the topic is the achievement of some noted leader lately dead , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be , with a dance dramatically representing those victories which the chant recites . Such narratives , concerning , as they do , the prosperity and indeed the very existence of the tribe , are of the intensest interest ; and in them we have the commonroot of music , of the drama , of poetry , of biography , of history , and of literature in general . Savage life furnishes little else worthy of note ; and the chronicles of tribes contain scarcely anything more to be remembered . Early historic races show us the same thing . Instances from Egypt , Assyria and Greece . The lessons given to every civilized child tacitly imply , like the traditionsof the uncivilized and semi-civilized , that throughout the past of the human race , the doings of conspicuous persons have been the only things worthy of remembrance . . . . " Arms and the man " form the end of the story as they form its beginning . After the mythology , which of course is all-essential , come the achievements of rulers and soldiers from Agamemnon down to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manners , ideas , morals , being little more than the biographical statements involve . And the value of the knowledge is so ranked that while it would be a disgraceto be wrong about the amours of Zeus , and while inability to name the commander at Marathon would be discreditable , it is excusable to know nothing of the social condition that preceded Lycurgus or of the origin and functions of the Areopagus.  |p85Thus  the great-man-theory of History finds everywhere a readypreparedconception ? is , indeed , but the definite expression of that which is latent in the thoughts of the savage , tacitly asserted in all early traditions , and taught to every child by multitudinous illustrations . The glad acceptance it meets with has sundry more special causes . There is , first , this universal love of personalities , which , active in the aboriginal man , dominates still ? a love seen in the urchin who asks you to tell him a story , meaning , thereby , somebody 's adventures ; a love gratified in adults by police-reports , court-news , divorce-cases , accounts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaths ; a love displayed even by conversations in the streets , where fragments of dialogue , heard in passing , show that mostly between men , and always between women , the personal pronouns recur every instant . If you want roughly to estimate any one 's mental calibre , you can not do it better than by observing the ratio of generalities to personalities in his talk ? how far simple truths about individuals are replaced by truths abstracted from numerous experiences of men and things . And when you have thus measured many , you find but a scattered few likely to take anything more than a biographical view of human affairs . In the secondplace , this great-man-theory commends itself as promising instruction along with amusement . Being already fond of hearing about people 's sayings and doings , it is pleasant news that , to understand the course of civilization , you have only to read diligentlythe lives of distinguished men . . . . And then , in the third place , the interpretation of things thus given is so beautifully simple ? seems so easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are out of focus , as most people 's conceptions are , the solutions it yields appear quite satisfactory ... . But now , if , dissatisfied with vagueness , we demand that our ideas shall be brought into focus and exactly defined , we discover the hypothesis to be utterly incoherent . If , not stopping at the explanation of social progress as due to the great man , we go back a step and ask whence comes the great man , we find that the theory breaks down completely . The question has two conceivable answers : his origin is supernatural , or it is natural . Is his origin supernatural ? Then he is a deputy-god , and we have Theocracy once removed ? or , rather , not removed at all ; for we must thenp86agree with Mr. Schomberg , quoted above , that " the determination of Caesar to invade Britain " was divinely inspired , and that from him , down to " George III , the GREAT and the Goon , " the successiverulers were appointed to carry out successive designs . Is this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man is natural ; and immediately this is recognized he must be classed with all other phenomena in the society that gave him birth , as a product of its antecedents . Along with the whole generation of which he forms a minute part ? along with its institutions , language , knowledge , manners , and its multitudinous arts and appliances , he is a resultant of an enormous aggregate of forces that have been co-operating for ages . . . . If it be a fact that the great man may modify his nation in its structure and actions , it is also a fact that there must have been those antecedent modifications constituting national progress before he could be evolved . Before he can re-make his society , his society must make him . So that all those changes of which he is the proximate initiator have their chief causes in the generations he descended from . If there is to be anything like a real explanation of these changes , it must be sought in that aggregate of conditions out of which both he and they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nominally at least , bear upon political and social duties . Of these the only one that occupies a prominent place is History . But , as already hinted , the information commonly given under this head , is almost valueless for purposes of guidance . Scarcely any of the facts set down in our school-histories , and very few of those contained in the more elaborate works written for adults , illustrate the right principles of political action . The biographies of monarchs ( and our children learn little else ) throw scarcely any light upon the science of society . Familiarity with court intrigues , plots , usurpations , or the like , and with all the personalities accompanying them , aids very little in elucidating the causes of national progress . We read of some squabble for power , that it led to a pitched battle ; that such and such were the names of the generalsand their leading subordinates ; that they had each so manyp87thousand infantry and cavalry , and so many cannon ; that they arrangedtheir forces in this and that order ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways ; that at this part of the day such disasters were sustained , and at that such advantages gained ; that in one particular movement some leading officer fell , while in another a certain regiment was decimated ; that after all the changingfortunes of the fight , the victory was gained by this or that army ; and that so many were killed and wounded on each side , and so many captured by the conquerors . And now , out of the accumulated details making up the narrative , say which it is that helps you in deciding on your conduct as a citizen . Supposing even that you diligently read , not only The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World , but accounts of all other battles that history mentions ; how much more judicious would your vote be at the next election ? " But these are facts ? interesting facts , " you say . Without doubt they are facts ( such , at least , as are not wholly or partially fictions ) ; and to many they may he interesting facts . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . They are facts from which no conclusions can be drawn unorganizable facts ; andtherefore facts of no service in establishing principles of conduct , which is the chief use of facts . Read them , if you like , for amusement ; but do not flatter yourself they are instructive . That which constitutes History , properly so called , is in great part omitted from works on the subject . Only of late years have historians commenced giving us , in any considerable quantity , the truly valuable information . As in past ages the king was everything and the people nothing ; so , in past histories the doings of the king fill the entire picture , to which the national life forms but an obscure background . While only now , when the welfare of nations rather than the rulers is becoming the dominant idea , are historiansbeginning to occupy themselves with the phenomena of social progress . The thing it really concerns us to know is the natural history of society . We want all facts which help us to understand how a nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us of course have an account of its government ; with as little as may be of gossip about the men who officered it , and as much as possible about the structure , principles , methods , prejudices , corruptions ,  |p88etc.  , which it exhibited ; and let this account include not only the nature and actions of the central government , but also those of local governments , down to their minutest ramifications . Let us of course also have a parallel description of the ecclesiastical government its organization , its conduct , its power , its relations to the State ; and accompanying this , the ceremonial , creed , and religious ideas ? not only those nominally believed , but those really believed and acted upon . Let us at the same time be informed of the control exercised by class over class , as displayed in social observances ? in titles , salutations , and forms of address . Let us know , too , what were all the other customs which regulated the popular life out of doors and indoors : including those concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parents to children . The superstitions , also , from the more important myths down to the charms in common use , should be indicated . Next should come a delineation of the industrial system : showing to what extent the division of labour was carried ; how trades were regulated , whether by caste , guilds , or otherwise ; what was the connection between employers and employed ; what were the agencies for distributing commodities ; what were the means of communication ; what was the circulatingmedium . Accompanying all which should be given an account of the industrial arts technically considered : stating the processes in use , and the quality of the products . Further , the intellectual condition of the nation in its various grades should be depicted ; not only with respect to the kind and amount of education , but with respect to the progress made in science , and the prevailingmanner of thinking . The degree of aesthetic culture , as displayedin architecture , sculpture , painting , dress , music , poetry , and fiction , should be described . Nor should there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their food , their homes , and their amusements . And lastly , to connect the whole , should be exhibitedthe morals , theoretical and practical , of all classes as indicatedin their laws , habits , proverbs , deeds . These facts , given with as much brevity as consists with clearness and accuracy , should be so grouped and arranged that they may be comprehendedin their ensemble , and contemplated as mutually-dependent parts of one great whole . The aim should be so to present them thatp89men may readily trace the consensus subsisting among them ; with the view of learning what social phenomena coexist with what others . And then the corresponding delineations of succeeding ages should be so managed as to show how each belief , institution , custom , and arrangement was modified ; and how the consensus of preceding structures and functions was developed into the consensusof succeeding ones . Such alone is the kind of information respecting past times , which can be of service to the citizen for the regulation of his conduct . The only history that is of practical value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest office which the historian can discharge , is that of so narrating the lives of nations , as to furnish materials for a Comparative Sociology ; and for the subsequent determination of the ultimate laws to which social phenomena conform . But now mark , that even supposing an adequate stock of this truly valuable historical knowledge has been acquired , it is of comparatively little use without the key . And the key is to be found only in Science . In the absence of the generalizations of biology and psychology , rational interpretation of social phenomena is impossible ... . In addition to that passive denial of a Social Science implied by these two allied doctrines , one or other of which is held by nine men out of ten , there comes from some an active denial of it ? either entire or partial . Reasons are given for the belief that no such thing is possible . The invalidity of these reasons can be shown only after the essential nature of Social Science , overlooked by those who give them , has been pointed out ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the argument . Some minor criticisms may , however , fitly precede the major criticism . Let us consider first the positions taken up by Mr. Froude : When natural causes are liable to be set aside and neutralized by what is called volition , the word Science is out of place . If it is free to a man to choose what he will do or not do , there is no adequate science of him . If there is a science of him , there is no free choice , and the praise or blame with which we regard one another are impertinent and out of place.  |p90It  is in this marvellous power in men to do wrong . . . that the impossibilitystands of forming scientific calculations of what men will do before the fact , or scientific explanations of what they have done after the fact . Mr. Buckle would deliver himself from the eccentricities of this and that individual by a doctrine of averages . . . . Unfortunately the average of one generation need not be the average of the next : . . . no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never repeat themselves . There we are dependent wholly on the record of things said to have happened once , but which never happen or can happen a second time . There no experiment is possible ; we can watch for no recurring fact to test the worth of our conjectures.lHere Mr. Froude changes the venue , and joins issue on the old battle-ground of free will versus necessity : declaring a Social Science to be incompatible with free will . The first extract implies , not simply that indivdual volition is incalculable ? that " there is no adequate science of " man ( no Science of Psychology ) ; but it also asserts , by implication , that there are no causal relations among his states of mind : the volition by which " natural causes are liable to be set aside , " being put in antithesis to natural , must be supernatural . Hence we are , in fact , carried back to that primitive form of interpretation contemplated at the outset . A further comment is , that because volitions of some kinds can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be foreseen : ignoring the fact that the simple volitions determining the ordinary conduct , are so regular that prevision having a high degree of probability is easy . If , in crossing a street , a man sees a carriage coming upon him , you may safely assert that , in nine hundred and ninety-nine cases out of a thousand , he will try to get out of the way . If , being pressed to catch a train , he knows that by one route it is a mile to the station and by another two miles , you may conclude with considerableconfidence that he will take the one-mile route ; andp91should he be aware that losing the train will lose him a fortune , it is pretty certain that , if he has but ten minutes to do the mile in , he will either run or call a cab . If he can buy next door a commodity of daily consumption better and cheaper than at the other end of the town , we may affirm that , if he does not buy next door , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong reason for taking a worse commodity at greater cost of money and trouble . And though , if he has an estate to dispose of , it is within the limits of possibility that he will sell it to A for ? 1,000 , though B has offered ? 2,000 for it ; yet the unusual motives leading to such an act need scarcely be taken into account as qualifying the generalization that a man will sell to the highest bidder . Now , since the predominant activities of citizens are determined by motives of this degree of regularity , there must be resulting social phenomenathat have corresponding degrees of regularity greater degrees , indeed , since in them the effects of exceptional motives become lost in the effects of the aggregate of ordinary motives . Another comment may be added . Mr. Froude exaggerates the antithesishe draws by using a conception of science which is too narrow : he speaks as though there were no science but exact science . Scientific previsions , both qualitative and quantitative , have various degrees of definiteness ; and because among certain classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , to be said that there is no science of those phenomena : if there is some prevision , there is some science . Take , for example , Meteorology . The Derby has been run in a snow-storm , and you may occasionally want a fire in July ; but such anomalies do not prevent us from being perfectly certain that the coming summer will be warmer than the past winter . Our south-westerly gales in the autumn may come early or may come late , may be violent or moderate , at one time or at intervals ; but that there will be an excess of wind from the south-west at that part of the year we maybe sure . The like holds with the relations of rain and dry weather to the quantity of water in the air and the weight of the atmospheric column : though exactly-truepredictions can not be made , approximately-true ones can . So that , even were there not among social phenomena more definite relations than these ( and the all-important ones are farp92more definite ) , there would still be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the facts presented in history do not furnishsubject-matter for science , because they " never repeat themselves , " ? because " we can watch for no recurring fact to test the worth of our conjectures . " I will not meet this assertion by the counter-assertion often made , that historic phenomena do repeat themselves ; but , admitting that Mr. Froude here touches on one of the great difficulties of the Social Science ( that social phenomena are in so considerable a degree different in each case from what they were in preceding cases ) , I still find a sufficient reply . For in no concrete science is there absolute repetition ; and in some concretesciences the repetition is no more specific than in Sociology . Even in the most exact of them , Astronomy , the combinations are never the same twice over : the repetitions are but approximate . And on turning to Geology , we find that , though the processes of denudation , deposition , upheaval , subsidence , have been ever going on in conformity with laws more or less clearly generalized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and arrangements ; though not so completely new as to forbid comparisons , consequent deductions , and approximate previsions based on them . Were there no such replies as these to Mr. Froude 's reasons , there would still be the reply furnished by his own interpretations of history ; which make it clear that his denial must be understood as but a qualified one . Against his professed theory may be set his actual practice , which , as it seems to me , tacitly asserts that explanationsof some social phenomena in terms of cause and effect are possible , if not explanations of all social phenomena . Thus , respecting the Vagrancy Act of 1547 , which made a slave of a confirmedvagrant , Mr. Froude says : ? " In the condition of things which was now commencing . . . neither this nor any other penal act against idleness could be practically enforced . " That is to say , the operation of an agency brought into play was neutralized by the operation of natural causes coexisting . . . . And elsewhere he says that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Empire are the direct and organic results of the moral profligacy of its inhabitants . " Each of these statements tacitly asserts that certain social relations , and actions of certain kinds ,  |p93are  inevitably beneficial , and others inevitably detrimental ? an historic induction furnishing a basis for positive deduction . So that we must not interpret Mr. Froude too literally when he alleges the " impossibility of forming scientific calculations of what men will do before the fact , or scientific explanations of what they have done after the fact . " Another writer who denies the possibility of a Social Science , or who , at any rate , admits it only as a science which has its relations of phenomena so traversed by providential influences that it does not come within the proper definition of a science , is Canon Kingsley . ' In his address on The Limits of Exact Science as applied to History , he says : You say that as the laws of matter are inevitable , so probably are the laws of human life ? Be it so : but in what sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Even in the seemingly most uniform and universal law , where do we find the inevitable or the irresistable ? Is there not in nature a perpetual competition of law against law , force against force , producing the most endless and unexpectedvariety of results ? Can not each law be interfered with at any moment by some other law , so that the first law , though it may struggle for the mastery , shall be for an indefinite time utterly defeated ? The law of gravity is immutable enough : but do all stones veritably fall to the ground ? Certainly not , if I choose to catch one , and keep it in my hand . It remains there by laws ; and the law of gravity is there , too , making it feel heavy in my hand : but it has not fallen to the ground , and will not , till I let it . So much for the inevitable action of the laws of gravity , as of others . Potentially , it is immutable ; but actually , it can be conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if I remember rightly , when the address was originally published , it would be scarcely fair to quotep94were it not that Canon Kingsley has repeated it at a later date in his work , The Roman and the Teuton . The very unusual renderings of scientific ideas which it contains , need here be only enumerated . Mr. Kingsley differs profoundly from philosophers and men of science , in regarding a law as itself a power or force , and so in thinking of one law as " conquered by other laws " ; whereas the accepted conception of law is that of an established order , to which the manifestations of a power or force conform . He enunciates , too , a quite-exceptional view of gravitation . As conceived by astronomersand physicists , gravitation is a universal and ever-acting force , which portions of matter exercise on one another when at sensible distances ; and the law of this force is that it varies directly as the mass and inversely as the square of the distance . Mr. Kingsley'sview , is that the law of gravitation is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground ? that the law " struggles " ( not the force ) , and that because it no longer produces motion , the " inevitable action of the laws of gravity " ( not of gravity ) is suspended : the truth being that neither the force nor its law is in the slightest degree modified . Further , the theory of natural processes which Mr. Kingsley has arrived at , seems to be that when two or more forces ( or laws , if he prefers it ) come into play , there is a partial or complete suspension of one by another . Whereas the doctrine held by men of science is , that the forces are all in full operation , and the effect is their resultant ; so that , for example , when a shot is fired horizontally from a cannon , the force impressed on it produces in a given time just the same amount of horizontal motion as though gravity were absent , while gravity produces in that same time a fall just equal to that which it would have producedhad the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , holding these peculiar views of causation as displayed among simple physical phenomena , Canon Kingsley is consistent in denying historical sequence ; and in saying that " as long as man has the mysterious power of breaking the laws of his own being , such a sequence not only can not be discovered , but it can not exist . " At the same time it is manifest that until he comes to some agreement with men of science respecting conceptions of forces , of their laws , and of the modes in which phenomena produced by composi/tions of forces are interpretable in terms of compound laws , no discussionof the question at issue can be carried on with profit ... . Reduced to a more concrete form , the case may be put thus : ? Mr. Froude and Canon Kingsley both believe to a considerable extent in the efficiency of legislation ? probably to a greater extent than it is believed in by some of those who assert the existence of a Social Science . To believe in the efficiency of legislation is to believe that certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? will modify individual conduct , and therefore modify social action . Though it may be possible to say that a given law will produce a foreseen effect on a particular person , yet no doubt is felt that it will produce a foreseen effect on the mass of persons . Though Mr. Froude , when arguing against Mr. Buckle , says that he " would deliver himself from the eccentricities of this and that individual by a doctrine of averages , " but that " unfortunately , the average of one generation need not be the average of the next " ; yet Mr. Froude himself so far believes in the doctrine of averages as to hold that legislative interdicts , with threats of death or imprisonment behind them , will restrain the great majority of men in ways which can be predicted . While he contends that the results of individual will are incalculable , yet , by approving certain laws and condemning others , he tacitly affirms that the results of the aggregate of wills are calculable . And if this be asserted of the aggregate of wills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aggregate of wills as affected by social influencesat large . If it be held that the desire to avoid punishment will so act on the average of men as to produce an average foreseen result ; then it must also be held that on the average of men , the desire to get the greatest return for labour , the desire to rise into a higher rank of life , the desire to gain applause , and so forth , will each of them produce a certain average result . And to hold this is to hold that there can be prevision of social phenomena , and thereforeSocial Science . In brief , then , the alternative positions are these . On the one hand , if there is no natural causation throughout the actions of incorporated humanity , government and legislation are absurd . Acts of Parliament may , as well as not , be made to depend on thep96drawing of lots or the tossing of a coin ; or , rather , there may as well be none at all : social sequences having no ascertainable order , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other hand , if there is natural causation , then the combination of forces by which every combination of effects is produced , produces that combination of effects in conformity with the laws of the forces . And if so , it behoves us to use all diligence in ascertaining what the forces are , what are their laws , and what are the ways in which they co-operate.  |p97METHODOLOGICAL  INDIVIDUALISMGIVEN THE natures of the units , and the nature of the aggregate they form is pre-determined . I say the nature , meaning , of course , the essential traits , and not including the incidental . By the characters of the units are necessitated certain limits within which the characters of the aggregate must fall . The circumstances attending aggregation greatly modify the results ; but the truth here to be recognized is , that these circumstances , in some cases perhaps preventing aggregation altogether , in other cases impending it , in other cases facilitating it more or less , can never give to the aggregate , characters that do not consist with the characters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power to pile cannon-shot into a vertical wall ; no favouring conditions will make it possible for common salt , which crystallizes on the regular system , to crystallize , like sulphate of soda , on the oblique prismaticsystem ; no favouring conditions will enable the fragment of a polype to take on the structure of a mollusk . Among such social aggregates as inferior creatures fall into , more or less definitely , the same truth holds . Whether they live in a mere assemblage , or whether they live in something like an organizedunion with division of labour among its members , as happensin many cases , is unquestionably determined by the properties of the units . Given the structures and consequent instincts of the individuals as we find them , and the community they form willp98inevitably present certain traits ; and no community having such traits can be formed out of individuals having other structures and instincts . Those who have been brought up in the belief that there is one law for the rest of the Universe and another law for mankind , will doubtless be astonished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generalization . And yet that the properties of the units determine the properties of the whole they make up , evidently holds of societies as of other things . A general survey of tribes and nations , past and present , shows clearly enough that it is so ; and a brief consideration of the conditions shows , with no less clearness , that it must be so . Ignoring for the moment the special traits of races and individuals , observe the traits common to members of the species at large ; and consider how these must affect their relations when associated . They have all needs for food , and have corresponding desires . To all of them exertion is physiological expense ; must bring a certain return in nutriment , if it is not to be detrimental ; and is accompanied by repugnance when pushed to excess , or even before reaching it . They are all of them liable to bodily injury , with accompanying pain , from various extreme physical actions , and they are liable to emotional pains , of positive and negative kinds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as is this possession of certain fundamentalqualities by all individuals , there is no adequate recognition of the truth that from these individual qualities must result certain qualities in an assemblage of individuals ; that in proportion as the individuals forming one assemblage are like in their qualities to the individuals forming another assemblage , the two assem blages will have likenesses ; and that the assemblages will differ in their characters in proportion as the component individuals of the one differ from those of the other . Yet when this , which is almost a truism , has been admitted , it can not be denied that in every community there is a group of phenomena growing naturally out of the phenomena presented by its members ? a set of properties inp99the aggregate determined by the sets of properties in the units ; and that the relations of the two sets form the subject-matter of a science . It needs but to ask what would happen if men avoided one another , as various inferior creatures do , to see that the very possibility of a society depends on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ask what would happen if each man liked best the men who gave him most pain , to perceive that social relations , supposing them to be possible , would be utterly unlike the social relations resultingfrom the greater liking which men individually have for others who give them pleasure . It needs but to ask what would happen if , instead of ordinarily preferring the easiest ways of achieving their ends , men preferred to achieve their ends in the most troublesomeways , to infer that then , a society , if one could exist , would be a widely-different society from any we know . And if , as these extremecases show us , cardinal traits in societies are determined by cardinal traits in men , it can not be questioned that less-marked traits in societies are determined by less-marked traits in men ; and that there must everywhere be a consensus between the special structures and actions of the one and the special structures and actions of the other . Setting out , then , with this general principle , that the properties of the units determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be a Social Science expressing the relations between the two , with as much definiteness as the natures of the phenomena permit . Beginning with types of men who form but small and incoherent social aggregates , such a science has to show in what ways the individual qualities , intellectual and emotional , negative further aggregation . It has to explain how slight modificationsof individual nature , arising under modified conditions of life , make somewhat larger aggregates possible . It has to trace out , in aggregates of some size , the genesis of the social relations , regulative and operative , into which the members fall . It has to exhibit the stronger and more prolonged social influences which , by further modifying the characters of the units , facilitate further aggregation with consequent further complexity of social structure . Among societies of all orders and sizes , from the smallest and rudest up to the largest and most civilized , it has to ascertain what traits there are in common , determined by the common traits of human beings ; what less-general traits , distinguishing certain groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men ; and what peculiarities in each society are traceable to the peculiarities of its members . In every case it has for its subjectmatterthe growth , development , structure , and functions of the social aggregate , as brought about by the mutual actions of individualswhose natures are partly like those of all men , partly like those of kindred races , partly distinctive . These phenomena of social evolution have , of course , to be explained with due reference to the conditions each society is exposed to the conditions furnished by its locality and by its relations to neighbouring societies . . . . What Biography is to Anthropology , History is to Sociology ? History , I mean , as commonly conceived . The kind of relation which the sayings and doings that make up the ordinary account of a man 's life , bear to an account of his bodily and mental evolution , structural and functional , is like the kind of relation borne by that narrative of a nation 's actions and fortunes its historian gives us , to a description of its institutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structures and functions have gradually established themselves . And if it is an error to say that there is no Science of Man , because the events of a man 's life can not be foreseen , it is equally an error to say that there is no Science of Society , because there can be no prevision of the occurrences which make up ordinaryhistory . Of course , I do not say that the parallel between an individual organism and a social organism is so close , that the distinction to be clearly drawn in the one case may be drawn with like clearness in the other . The structures and functions of the social organism are obviously far less specific , far more modifiable , far more dependent on conditions that are variable and never twice alike . All I mean is that , as in the one case so in the other , there lie underneaththe phenomena of conduct , not forming subject-matter for science , certain vital phenomena , which do form subject-matter for science . Just as in the man there are structures and functions which make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nationP101there are structures and functions which make possible the doings its historian tells of ; and in both cases it is with these structures and functions , in their origin , development , and decline , that science is concerned . To make better the parallel , and further to explain the nature of the Social Science , we must say that the morphology and physiologyof Society , instead of corresponding to the morphology and physiology of Man , correspond rather to morphology and physiologyin general . Social organisms , like individual organisms , are to be arranged into classes and sub-classes ? not , indeed , into classes and sub-classes having anything like the same definiteness or the same constancy , but nevertheless having likenesses and differences which justify the putting of them into major groups most-markedly contrasted , and , within these , arranging them in minor groups less-markedly contrasted . And just as Biology discoverscertain general traits of development , structure , and function , holding throughout all organisms , others holding throughout certain great groups , others throughout certain sub-groups these contain ; so Sociology has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function , that are some of them universal , some of them general , some of them special . P102DIFFICULTIES OF THE SOCIAL SCIENCEFROM THE INTRINSIC natures of its facts , from our own natures as observers of its facts , and from the peculiar relation in which we stand towards the facts to be observed , there arise impedimentsin the way of Sociology greater than those in the way of any other scienceThe phenomena to be generalized are not of a directly-perceptiblekind ? can not be noted by telescope and clock , like those of Astronomy ; can not be measured by dynamometer and thermometer , like those off , Physics ; can not be elucidated by scales and test-papers , like those of Chemistry ; are not to be got at by scalpel and microscope , like the less obvious biological phenomena ; nor are to be recognized by introspection , like the phenomenaPsychology deals with , They have severally to be established by putting together many details , no one of which is simple , and which are dispersed , both in Space and Time , in ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why even cardinal truths in Sociology , such as the division of labour , remain long unrecognized . That in advanced societies men follow different occupations , was indeed a generalization easy to make ; but that this form of social arrangement had neither been specially created , nor enacted by a king , but had grown up without forethought of any one , was a conclusion which could be reached only after many transactions of many kinds between men had been noted , remembered , andP103accounted for , and only after comparisons had been made between these transactions and those taking place between men in simpler societies and in earlier times . And when it is remembered that the data for the inference that a our becomes specialized , are far more accessible than the data for most other sociological inferences , it will be seen how greatly the advance of Sociology is hinderedby the nature of its subject-matterThe characters of men as observers , add to this first difficulty a second that is perhaps equally great . Necessarily men take with them into sociological inquiries , the modes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other inquiries those of them , at least , who make any inquiries worthy to be so called . Passing over the great majority of the educated , and limitingourselves to the very few who consciously collect data , compare them , and deliberately draw conclusions ; we may see that even these have to struggle with the difficulty that the habits of thought generated by converse with relatively-simple phenomena , partially unfit them for converse with these highly-complex phenomena . Faculty of every kind tends always to adjust itself to its work . Special adjustment to one kind of work involves more or less nonadjustmentto other kinds . And hence , intellects disciplined in dealing with less-involved classes of facts , can not successfully deal with this most-involved class of facts without partially unlearning the methods they have learnt . From the emotional nature , too , there arise great obstacles . Scarcely any one can contemplate social arrangements and actions with the unconcern felt when **25;1096;TOOLONG and actions of other kinds For correct observation and correct drawing of inferences , there nee s the calmness that is ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Buz. it is next to impossible thus to deal with the truths of Sociology . In the search for them , each is moved by feelings , more or less strong , which make him eager to find this evidence , oblivious of that which is at variance with it , reluctant to draw any conclusion but that already drawn . And though perhaps one in ten among those who think , is conscious that his judgment is being warped by prejudice , yet even in him the warp is not adequately allowed for . Doubtless in nearly every field of inquiry emotion is a perturbingP104intruder : mostly there is some preconception , and some amour propre that resists disproof of it . But a peculiarity of Sociology is , that the emotions with which its facts and conclusions are regarded , have unusual strength . The personal interests are directly affected ; or there is gratification or offence to sentiments that have grown out of them ; or else other sentiments which have relation to the existing form of society , are excited , agreeably or disagreeably . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that caused by the position occupied , in respect to the phenomena to be generalized . In no other case has the inquirer to investigate the properties of an aggregate in which he is himself included . His relation towards the facts he here studies , we may figure to ourselvesby comparing it to the relation between a single cell forming part of a living body , and the facts which that living body presents as a whole . Speaking generally , the citizen 's life is made possible only by due performance of his function in the place he fills ; and he can not wholly free himself from the beliefs and sentiments generated by the vital connexions hence arising between himself and his society . Here , then , is a difficulty to which no other science presents anything analogous . To cut himself off in thought from all his relationships of race , and country , and citizenship ? to get rid of all those interests , prejudices , likings , superstitions , generatedin him by the life of his own society and his own time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergoing , without reference to nationality , or creed , or personal welfare ; is what the average man can not do at all , and what the exceptional man can do very imperfectly . . . A further great difficulty to which we are thus introduced is , that the comparisons by which alone we can finally establish relations of cause and effect among social phenomena , can rarely be made between cases in all respects fit for comparison . Every society differs specifically , if not generically , from every other . Hence it is a peculiarity of the Social Science that parallels drawn between different societies , do not afford grounds for decided conclusions ? will not , for instance , show us with certainty , what is an essentialP105phenomenon in a given society and what is a non-essential one . Biologydeals with numerous individuals of a species , and with many species of a genus , and by comparing them can see what traits are specifically constant and what generically constant ; and the like holds more or less with the other concrete sciences . But comparisionsbetween societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a species by itself , yield much less definite results : the necessary characters are not thus readily distinguishable from the accidental characters ... . ( In a society living , growing , changing , every new factor becomes a permanent force ; modifying more or less the direction of movement determined by the aggregate of forces . Never simple and direct , but , by the co-operation of so many causes , made irregular , involved , and always rhythmical , the course of social change can not be judged of in its general direction by inspecting any small portion of it . Each action will inevitably be followed , after a while , by some direct or indirect reaction , and this again by a re-action ; and until the successive effects have shown themselves , no one can say how the total motion will be modified . You must compare positionsat great distances from one another in time , before you can perceive rightly whither things are tending . Even so simple a thing as a curve of single curvature can not have its nature determined unless there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four points close together . The curve passing through them may be a circle , an ellipse , a parabola , an hyperbola ; or it may be a catenarian , a cycloid , a spiral . Let the points be further apart , and it becomes possible to form some opinion of the nature of the curve ? it is obviously not a circle . Let them be more remote still , and it may be seen that it is neither an elipse nor a parabola . And when the distances are relatively great , the mathematician can say with certainty what curve alone will pass through them all . Surely , then , in such complex and slowly-evolving movements as those of a nation 's life , all the smaller and greater rhythms of which fall within certain general directions , it is impossible that such general directions can be traced by looking at stages that are close together ? itis impossible that the effect wrought on any generalP106direction by some additional force , can be truly computed from observations extending over but a few years , or but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these most-involved of all movements , there is the difficulty , paralleled in no other movements ( being only approachedin those of individual evolution ) that each new factor , besides modifying in an immediate way the course of a movement , modifies it also in a remote way , by changing the amounts and directions of all other factors . A fresh influence brought into play on a society , not only affects its members directly in their acts , but also indirectly in their characters . Continuing to work on their characters generation after generation , and altering by inheritancethe feelings which they bring into social life at large , this influencealters the intensities and bearings of all other influences throughout the society . By slowly initiating modifications of nature , it brings into play forces of many kinds , incalculable in their strengths and tendencies , that act without regard to the original influence , and may cause quite opposite effects ... . I recall this and kindred cases to the reader 's mind , for the purpose of exemplifying a necessity and a difficulty . The necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions , we must represent their thoughts and feelings in terms of our own . The difficulty is that in so representing them we can never be more than partially right , and are frequently very wrong . The conception which any one frames of another 's mind , is inevitably more or less after the pattern of his own mind ? is automorphic ; and in proportionas the mind of which he has to frame a conception differs from his own , his automorphic interpretation is likely to be wide of the truth . That measuring other person 's actions by the standards our own thoughts and feelings furnish , often causes misconstruction , is a remark familiar even to the vulgar . But while among members of the same society , having natures nearly akin , it is seen that automorphicexplanations are often erroneous , it is not seen with due clearness how much more erroneous such explanations commonly are , when the actions are those of men of another race , to whomp107the kinship in nature is comparatively remote . We do , indeed , perceive this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the interpreters and the interpreted are mentally alien to us . When , as in early English literature , we find Greek history conceived in terms of feudal institutions , and the heroes of antiquity spoken of as princes , knights , and squires , it becomes clear that the ideas concerning ancient civilization must have been utterly wrong . When we find Virgil named in religious stories of the middle ages as one among the prophets who visited the cradle of Christ ? when an illustrated psalter gives scenes from the life of Christ in which there repeatedly figures a castle with a portcullis ? when even the crucifixion is described by Langland in the language of chivalry , so that the man who pierced Christ 's side with a spear is considered as a knight who disgraced his knighthood ? when we read of the Crusaders calling themselves " vassals of Christ " ; we need no further proof that by carrying their own sentiments and ideas to the interpretation of social arrangements and transactions among the Jews , our ancestors were led into absurd misconceptions . But we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same tendency , we are ever framing conceptions which , if not so grotesquely untrue , are yet very wide of the truth . How difficult it is to imagine mental states remote from our own so correctly that we can understand how they issue in individual actions , and consequently in social actions , an instance will make manifest . The feeling of vague wonder with which he received his first lessons in the Greek mythology , will most likely be dimly remembered by every reader .... He interpreted them automorphically ? carrying with him not simply his own faculties developed to a stage of complexity considerably beyond that reached by the faculties of the savage , but also the modes of thinking in which he was brought up , and the stock of information he had acquired . Probably it has never since occurred to him to do otherwise . Even if he now attempts to see things from the savage 's point of view , he most likely fails entirely ; and if he succeeds at all , it is but partially . Yet only by seeing things as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behaviour accounted for , and the resultingsocial phenomena explained . These **35;1123;TOOLONG are quite natural ? quite rational , in a certain sense , in their respective times and places . The laws of intellectual action are the same for civilized and uncivilized . The difference between civilized and uncivilized is in complexity of faculty and in amount of knowledge accumulated and generalized . Given , reflective powers developed only to that lower degree in which they are possessed by the aboriginal man given , his small stock of ideas , collected in a narrow area of space , and not added to by records extending through time ? given , his impulsive nature incapable of patient inquiry ; and these seemingly-monstrous stories of his become in reality the most feasible explanations he can find of surrounding things . Yet even after concluding that this must be so , it is not easy to think from the savage 's stand-point , clearly enough to follow the effects of his ideas on his acts , through all the relations of life , social and other ... . ... I have here to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similarly appear unlikely to co-exist , and which yet do habitually co-exist . I refer to the belief which , even while I write , I find repeated in the leading journal , that " the deeper a studentof history goes , the more does he find man the same in all time " ; and to the opposite belief embodied in current politics , that human nature may be readily altered . These two beliefs , which ought to cancel one another but do not , originate two classes of errors in sociological speculation ; and nothing like correct conclusions in Sociology can be drawn until they have been rejected and replaced by a belief which reconciles them ? the belief that human nature is indefinitely modifiable , but that no modification of it can be brought about rapidly . We will glance at the errors to which each of these beliefs leads . While it was held that the stars are fixed and that the hills are everlasting , there was a certain congruity in the notion that man continues unchanged from age to age ; but now when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are no such things as everlasting hills ? now when we find all things throughout the Universe to be in a ceaseless flux , it is time for this crude conception of human nature to disappear out of our social con-P109ceptions ; or rather ? it is time for its disappearance to be followed by that of the many narrow notions respecting the past and the future of society , which have grown out of it , and which linger notwithstanding the loss of their root . For , avowedly by some and tacitly by others , it continues to be thought that the human heart is as " desperately wicked " as it ever was , and that the state of society hereafter will be very much like the state of society now . If , when the evidence has been piled mass upon mass , there comes a reluctant admission that aboriginal man , of troglodyte or kindred habits , differed somewhat from man as he was during feudal times , and that the customs and sentiments and beliefs he had in feudal times , imply a character appreciably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this , there is a recognition of the truth that along with these changes in man there have gone still more conspicuous changes in society ; there is , nevertheless , an ignoring of the implication that hereafter man and society will continue to change , until they have diverged as widely from their existingtypes as their existing types have diverged from those of the earliest recorded ages . It is true that among the more cultured the probability , or even the certainty , that such transformations will go on , may be granted ; but the granting is but nominal ? the admissiondoes not become a factor in the conclusions drawn . The first discussion on a political or social topic , reveals the tacit assumption that , in times to come , society will have a structure substantially like its existing structure . If , for instance , the question of domestic service is raised , it mostly happens that its bearings are considered wholly in reference to those social arrangements which exist around us : only a few proceed on the supposition that these arrangements are probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject industrial organization , or class-relations , or rule by fashion , the thought which practically moulds the conclusions , if not the thought theoretically professed , is , that whatever changes they may undergo , our institutions will not cease to be recognizably the same . Even those who have , as they think , deliberately freed themselves from this perverting tendency ? even M. Comte and his disciples , believing in an entire transformation of society , nevertheless betray an incomplete emancipation ; for the ideal society expected byP110them , is one under regulation by a hierarchy essentially akin to hierarchies such as mankind have known . So that everywhere sociological thinking is more or less impeded by the difficulty of bearing in mind that the social states towards which our race is being carried , are probably as little conceivable by us as our presentsocial state was conceivable by a Norse pirate and his followers . Note , now , the opposite difficulty , which appears to be surmountableby scarcely any of our parties , political or philanthropic , thedifficulty of understanding that human nature , though indefinitely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that all laws and institutions and appliances which count on getting from it , within a short time , much better results than present ones , will inevitably fail . If we glance over the programmes of societies , and sects , and schools of all kinds , from Rousseau 's disciples in the French Convention up to the members of the United Kingdom Alliance , from the adherents of the Ultramontane propagandaup to the enthusiastic advocates of an education exclusively secular , we find in them one common trait . They are all pervaded by the conviction , now definitely expressed and now taken as a selfevidenttruth , that there needs but this kind of instruction or that kind of discipline , this mode of repression or that system of culture , to bring society into a very much better state . Here we read that " it is necessary completely to re-fashion the people whom one wishes to make free " : the implication being that a re-fashioning is practicable . There it is taken as undeniable that when you have taught children what they ought to do to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elsewhere it is held to be a truth beyond question , that if by law temptations to drink are removed from men , they will not only cease to drink , but thereafter cease to commitcrimes . And yet the delusiveness of all such hopes is obvious enough to any one not blinded by a hypothesis , or carried away by an enthusiasm . The fact , often pointed out to temperance-fanatics , that some of the soberest nations in Europe yield a proportion of crime higher than our own , might suffice to show them that England would not be suddenly moralized if they carried their proposed restrictions into effect . The superstition that good behaviour is to be forthwith produced by lessons learnt out of school-books , whichp111was long ago statistically disproved , would , but for preconceptions , be utterly dissipated by observing to what a slight extent knowledge affects conduct ? by observing that the dishonesty impliedin the adulterations of tradesmen and manufacturers , in fraudulent bankruptcies , in bubble-companies , in " cooking " of railway accounts and financial prospectuses , differs only in form , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uneducated ? by observing how amazingly little the teachings given to medical students affect their lives , and how even the most experienced medical men have their prudence scarcely at all increased by their information . Similarly , the Utopian ideas which come out afresh along with every new political scheme , from the " paper-constitutions " of the Abbe Sieyes down to the lately-published programme of M. Louis Blanc , and from agitations for vote-by-ballot up to those which have a Republic for their aim , might , but for this tacit belief we are contemplating , be extinguished by the facts perpetuallyand startlingly thrust on our attention . Again and again for three generations has France been showing to the world how impossibleit is essentially to change the type of a social structure by any re-arrangement wrought out through a revolution . However great the transformation may for a time seem , the original thing re-appears in disguise . Out of the nominally-free government set up a new despotism arises , differing from the old by having a new shibboleth and new men to utter it ; but identical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the means used to this end . Liberty , when obtained , is forthwith surrendered to an avowed autocrat ; or , as we have seen within this year , is allowed to lapse into the hands of one who claims the reality of autocracy without its title . Nay , the change is , in fact , even less ; for the regulativeorganization which ramifies throughout French society , continuesunaltered by these changes at the governmental centre . The bureaucratic system persists equally under Imperialist , Constitutional , and Republican arrangements . As the Duc **26;1160;TOOLONG out , " Empires fall , Ministries pass away , but Bureaux remain . " The aggregate of forces and tendencies embodied , not only in the structural arrangements holding the nation together , but in the ideas and sentiments of its units , is so powerful , P112that the excision of a part , even though it be the government , is quickly followed by the substitution of a like part . It needs but to recall the truth exemplified some chapters back , that the properties of the aggregate are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once that so long as the characters of citizens remain substantiallyunchanged , there can be no substantial change in the political organization which has slowly been evolved by them . This double difficulty of thought , with the double set of delusionsfallen into by those who do not surmount it , is , indeed , naturally associated with the once-universal , and still-general , belief that societies arise by manufacture , instead of arising , as they do , by evolution . Recognize the truth that incorporated masses of men grow , and acquire their structural characters through modification upon modification , and there are excluded these antithetical errors that humanity remains the same and that humanity is readily alterable ; and along with exclusion of these errors comes admissionof the inference , that the changes which have brought social arrangements to a form so different from past forms , will in future carry them on to forms as different from those now existing . Once become habituated to the thought of a continuous unfolding of the whole and of each part , and these misleading ideas disappear ... . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex beyond all others . In the absence of faculty having a corresponding complexity , they can not be grasped . Here , however , as in other cases , the absence of an adequately-complex faculty is not accompanied by any consciousness of incapacity . Rather do we find that deficiency in the required kind of mental grasp , is accompanied by extreme confidence of judgment on sociological questions , and a ridicule of those who , after long discipline , begin to perceive what there is to be understood , and how difficult is the right understanding of it . A simple illustration of this will prepare the way for more-involved illustrations . A few months ago the Times gave us an account of the last achievement in automatic printing ? the " Walter-Press , " by which its own immense edition is thrown off in a few hours every morning . Suppose a reader of the description , adequately familiar withP113mechanical details , follows what he reads step by step with full comprehension : perhaps making his ideas more definite by going to see the apparatus at work and questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all about it . Possibly , under its aspect as a feat in mechanical engineering , he does so . Possibly also , under its biographical aspect , as implying in Mr. Walter and those who co-operated with him certain traits , moral and intellectual , he does so . But under its sociological aspect he probably has no notion of its meaning ; and does not even suspect that it has a sociological aspect . Yet if he begins to look into the genesis of the thing , he will find that he is but on the threshold of the full explanation . On asking not what is its proximate but what is its remote origin , he finds , in the first place , that this automatic printing-machine is lineally descended from other automatic printing-machines , which have undergone successive developments ? each pre-supposing others that went before : without cylinder printing-machines long previously used and improved , there would have been no " Walter-Press . " He inquires a step further , and discoversthat this last improvement became possible only by the help of papier-mache stereotyping , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of making cyclindrical plates . And tracing this back , he finds that plaster-of-paris stereotyping came before it , and that there was another process before that . Again , he learns that this highest form of automatic printing , like the many less-developed forms preceding it , depended for its practicabilityon the introduction of rollers for distributing ink , instead of the hand-implements used by " printer's-devils " fifty years ago ; which rollers , again , could never have been made fit for their presentpurposes , without the discovery of that curious elastic compoundout of which they are cast . And then , on tracing the more remote antecedents , he finds an ancestry of hand printing-presses , which , through generations , had been successively improved . Now , perhaps , he thinks he understands the apparatus , considered as a sociological fact . Far from it . Its multitudinous parts , which will work together only when highly finished and exactly adjusted , came from machine-shops ; where there are varieties of complicated , highly-finished engines for turning cylinders , cutting outP114wheels , planing bars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of this printing-machine depended . If he inquiresinto the history of these complex automatic tools , he finds they have severally been , in the slow course of mechanical progress , brought to their present perfection by the help of preceding complexautomatic tools of various kinds , that co-operated to make their component parts ? each larger , or more accurate , lathe or planing-machine having been made possible by pre-existing lathes and planing-machines , inferior in size or exactness . And so if he traces back the whole contents of the machine-shop , with its many different instruments , he comes in course of time to the blacksmith'shammer and anvil ; and even , eventually , to still ruder appliances . The explanation is now completed , he thinks . Not at all . No such process as that which the " Walter-Press " shows us , was possible until there had been invented , and slowly perfected , a paper-machine capable of making miles of paper without break . Thus there is the genesis of the paper-machine involved , and that of the multitudinous appliances and devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Have we now got to the end of the matter ? No ; we have just glanced at one group of the antecedents . All this development of mechanical appliances ? this growth of the iron-manufacture , this extensive use of machinery made from iron , this production of so many machines for making machines ? has had for one of its causes the abundance of the raw materials , coal and iron ; has had for another of its causes the insular position which has favoured peace and the increase of industrial activity . There have been moral causes at work too . Without that readiness to sacrifice present ease to future benefit , which is implied by enterprise , there would never have arisen the machine in question , ? nay , there would never have arisen the multitudinous improved instruments and processes that have made it possible . And beyond the moral traits which enterprise pre-supposes , there are those presupposedby efficient co-operation . Without mechanical engineers who fulfilled their contracts tolerably well , by executing work accurately , neither this machine itself nor the machines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without artizans having **29;1188;TOOLONG , no master could insure accurate work . Tryp115to get such products out of an inferior race , and you will find defectivecharacter an insuperable obstacle . So , too , will you find defectiveintelligence an insuperable obstacle . The skilled artizan is not an accidental product , either morally or intellectually . The intelligenceneeded for making a new thing is not everywhere to be found ; nor is there everywhere to be found the accuracy of perceptionand nicety of execution without which no complex machine can be so made that it will act . Exactness of finish in machines has developed part passu with exactness of perception in artizans . Inspectsome mechanical appliance made a century ago , and you may see that , even had all other requisite conditions been fulfilled , want of the requisite skill in workmen would have been a fatal obstacle to the production of an engine requiring so many delicate adjustments . So that there are implied in this mechanical achievement , not only our slowly-generated industrial state , with its innumerable products and processes , but also the slowly-moulded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now been forgotten ? Yes , we have left out a whole division of all-important social phenomena ? those which we group as the progress of knowledge . Along with the many other developments that have been necessary antecedents to this machine , there has been the development of Science . The growing and improving arts of all kinds , have been helped up , step after step , by those generalized experiences , becoming ever wider , more complete , more exact , which make up what we call Mathematics , Physics , Chemistry , &c.; Without a considerably-developed Geometry , there could never have been the machines for making machines ; still less this machine that has proceededfrom them . Without a developed Physics , there would have been no steam-engine to move these various automatic appliances , primary and secondary ; nor would the many implied metallurgic processes have been brought to the needful perfection . And in the absence of a developed Chemistry , many other requirements , direct and indirect , could not have been adequately fulfilled . So that , in fact , this organization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like its present stage before such a machine could come into existence ; supposing all other pre-requisites to be satisfied . Surely we have now got to the end of the history . Notp116quite : there yet remains an essential factor . No one goes on year after year spending thousands of pounds and much time , and perseveringthrough disappointment and anxiety , without a strong motive : the " Walter-Press " was not a mere tour de force . Why , then , was it produced ? To meet an immense demand with great promptness to print , with one machine , 16,000 copies per hour . Whence arises this demand ? From an extensive reading public , brought in the course of generations to have a keen morningappetitefor news of all kinds ? merchants who need to know the latest prices at home and the latest telegrams from abroad ; politicianswho must learn the result of last night 's division , be informedof the new diplomatic move , and read the speeches at a meeting ; sporting men who look for the odds and the result of yesterday 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages , and deaths . And on asking the origin of these many desires to be satisfied , they prove to be concomitants of our social state in general ? its trading , political , philanthropic , and other activities ; for in societieswhere these are not dominant , the demand for news of various kinds rises to no such intensity . See , then , how enormously involved is the genesis of this machine , as a sociological phenomenon . A whole encyclopaedia of mechanical inventions ? some dating from the earliest times ? go to the explanation of it . Thousands of years of discipline , by which the impulsive improvident nature of the savage has been evolved into a comparatively self-controlling nature , capable of sacrificing present ease to future good , are presupposed . There is pre-supposed the equally-long discipline by which the inventive faculty , almost wholly absent in the savage , has been evolved ; and by which accuracy , not even conceived by the savage , has been cultivated . And there is further pre-supposed the slow political and social progress , at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to a state in which such a machine finds a function to fulfil . The complexity of a sociological fact , and the difficulty of adequately grasping it , will now perhaps be more apparent . For as in this case there has been a genesis , so has there been in every other case , be it of institution , arrangement , custom , belief , &c.; but while in this case the genesis is comparatively easy to trace , P117because of the comparatively-concrete character of process and product , it is in other cases difficult to trace , because the factors are mostly not of sensible kinds . And yet only when the genesis has been traced ? only when the antecedents of all orders have been observed in their co-operation , generation after generation , through past social states ? is there reached that interpretation of a fact which makes it a part of sociological science , properly understood . P121THE FACTORS OF SOCIAL EVOLUTIONTHE BEHAVIOUR of a single inanimate object depends on the co-operation between its own forces and the forces to which it is exposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which keep the solid state or assume the liquid state , according partly to their natures and partly to the heat-waves falling on them . Similarly with any group of inanimate objects . Be it a cart-load of bricks shot down , a barrowful of gravel turned over , or a boy 's bag of marbles emptied , the behaviour of the assembled masses ? here standing in a heap with steep sides , here forming one with sides much less inclined , and here spreading out and rolling in all directions ? is in each case determined partly by the properties of the individual members of the group , and partly by the forces of gravitation , impact , and friction , they are jointly and individually subjected to . It is equally so when the discrete aggregate consists of organic bodies , such as the members of a species . For a species increases or decreases in numbers , widens or contracts its habitat , migrates or remains stationary , continues an old mode of life or falls into a new one , under the combined influences of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is thus , too , with aggregates of men . Be it rudimentary or be it advanced , every society displays phenomena that are ascribable to the characters of its units and to the conditions under which they exist . Here , then , are the factors as primarily divided . P122These factors are re-divisible . Within each there are groups of factors that stand in marked contrasts . Beginning with the extrinsic factors , we see that from the outsetseveral kinds of them are variously operative . They need but barely enumerating . We have climate , hot , cold , or temperate , moist or dry , constant or variable . We have surface , much or little of which is available , and the available part of which is fertile in greater or less degree ; and we have configuration of surface , as uniform or multiform . Next we have the vegetal productions , here abundant in quantities and kinds , and there deficient in one or both . And besides the Flora of the region we have its Fauna , which is highly influential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its species and individuals , but by the proportion between those that are useful and those that are injurious . On these sets of conditions , inorganic and organic , characterizing the environment , primarily depends the possibility of social evolution . When we turn to the intrinsic factors we have to note , first , that , considered as a social unit , the individual man has physical characters which are potent in determining the growth and structureof the society . He is in every case more or less distinguished by emotional characters which aid , or hinder , or modify , the activities of the society , and the developments accompanying them . Always , too , his degree of intelligence and the tendencies of thought peculiar to him , become co-operating causes of social quiescence or social change . Such being the original sets of factors , we have now to note the secondary or derived sets of factors , which social evolution itself brings into play . First may be set down the progressive modifications of the environment , inorganic and organic , which the actions of societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by clearing and by drainage . Such alterations may be favourable to social growth , as where a rainy region is made less rainy by cutting down forests , or a swampy surface rendered more salubrious and fertile by carrying off water ; or they may be unfavourable , as where , byP123destroying the forests , a region already dry is made arid : witness the seat of the old Semitic civilizations , and , in a less degree , Spain . Next come the changes wrought in the kind and quantity of plant-life over the surface occupied . These changes are three-fold . There is the increasing substitution of plants conducive to social growth , for plants not conducive to it ; there is the gradual productionof better varieties of these useful plants , causing , in time , extremedivergences from their originals ; and there is , eventually , the introduction of new useful plants . Simultaneously go on the kindred changes which social progress works in the Fauna of the region . We have the diminution or destruction of some or many injurious species . We have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of increasing their numbers and making their qualities more advantageous to society . Further , we have the naturalization of desirable species , brought from abroad . It needs but to think of the immense contrast between a wolfhauntedforest or a boggy moor peopled with wild birds , and the fields covered with crops and flocks which eventually occupy the same area , to be reminded that the environment , inorganic and organic , of a society , undergoes a continuous transformation of a remarkable kind during the progress of the society ; and that this transformation becomes an all-important secondary factor in socialevolution . Another secondary factor which must not be overlooked , is the increasing size of the social aggregate , accompanied , generally , by increasing density . Apart from social changes otherwise produced , there are social changes produced by simple growth . Mass is both a condition to , and a result of , organization in a society . It is clear that heterogeneityof structure is made possible only by multiplicity of units . Division of labour can not be carried far where there are but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no differentiation into classes in the absence of numbers . Complex co-operations , governmentaland industrial , are impossible without a population large enough to supply many kinds and gradations of agents . And sundryp124developed forms of activity , both predatory and peaceful , are made practicable only by the power which large masses of men furnish . Hence , then , a derivative factor which , like the rest , is at once a consequence and a cause of social progress , is social growth , consideredsimply as accumulation of numbers . Other factors cooperateto produce this , and this joins other factors in working further changes . The next secondary or derivative factor to be noted , is the reciprocal influence of the society and its units ? the influence of the whole on the parts , and of the parts on the whole . As soon as a social combination acquires some permanence , there begin actions and reactions between the society as a whole and each member of it , such that either affects the nature of the other . The control exercised by the aggregate over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities and sentiments and ideas into congruity with social requirements ; and these activities , sentiments , and ideas , in so far as they are changed by changing circumstances , tend to re-mould the society into congruity with themselves . In addition , therefore , to the original nature of the individuals and the original nature of the society they form , we have to take into account the induced natures of the two . Superposed modificationsare continually undergone by the units ; and the altered units are ever superposing modifications of social structure on the previous modifications . Eventually this co-operation becomes a potent cause of transformation in both . Yet a further derivative factor of extreme importance remains . I mean the influence of the super-organic environment ? the action and reaction between a society and neighbouring societies . While there exist nothing but small , wandering assemblages of men , devoid of organization , the conflicts of these assemblages with one another can not work changes of structure . But when once there have arisen the definite chieftainships which these conflicts themselvestend to initiate , and especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rudiments of political organization ; and , as at first , so afterwards , the wars of societies with one another have all-important effects in developing the socialstructure , or rather , one moiety of it . For I may here , in passing , briefly indicate the fact to be hereafter exhibited in full , that while the industrial organization of a society is mainly determined by its inorganic and organic environments , its governmental organizationis mainly determined by its super-organic environment ? by the actions of those adjacent societies with which it carries on the struggle for existence . There remains in the group of derived factors one more , the potency of which can scarcely be over-estimated . I mean that accumulationof super-organic products which we commonly distinguishas artificial , but which , philosophically considered , are no less natural than all others resulting from evolution . There are severalorders of these . First come the material appliances , which , beginning with roughly-chipped flints , end in the complex automatic tools of an engine-factory driven by steam ; which from boomerangs rise to thirty-five ton guns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities with their palaces and cathedrals . Then we have language , able at first only to eke out gestures in communicating simple ideas , but eventually becoming capable of expressing highly-complex conceptions with precision . While from that stage in which it conveysthoughts only by sounds to one or a few other persons , we pass through picture-writing up to steam-printing : multiplying indefinitely the numbers communicated with , and making accessiblein voluminous literatures the ideas and feelings of innumerablemen in various places and times . Concomitantly there goes on the development of knowledge , ending in science . Counting on the fingers grows into far-reaching mathematics ; observation of the moon 's changes leads at length to a theory of the solar system ; and at successive stages there arise sciences of which not even the germs can at first be detected . Meanwhile the once few and simple customs , becoming more numerous , definite , and fixed , end in systems of laws . From a few rude superstitions there grow up elaboratep126mythologies , theologies , cosmogonies . Opinion getting embodied in creeds , gets embodied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ceremony , and in established social sentiments . And then there gradually evolve also the products we call aesthetic ; which of themselves form a highly-complex group . From necklaces of fishboneswe advance to dresses elaborate , gorgeous , and infinitely varied ; out of discordant war-chants come symphonies and operas ; cairns develop into magnificent temples ; in place of caves with rude markings there arise at length galleries of paintings ; and the recital of a chief 's deeds with mimetic accompaniment gives origin to epics , dramas , lyrics , and the vast mass of poetry , fiction , biography , and history . All these various orders of super-organic products , each evolving within itself new genera and species while daily growing into a larger whole , and each acting upon the other orders while reacted upon by them , form together an immensely-voluminous , immensely-complicated , and immensely-powerful set of influences . During social evolution these influences are ever modifying individualsand modifying society , while being modified by both . They gradually form what we may consider either as a non-vital part of the society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually becomes even more important than the original environments ? so much more important that there arises the possibility of carrying on a high type of social life under inorganic and organic conditions which originally would have prevented it .... The following passage recapitulates Part I of the Principles and introduces the remainder . After recognizing the truth that the phenomena of social evolution are determined partly by the externalactions to which the social aggregate is exposed , and partly by the natures of its units ; and after observing that these two sets of factors are themselves progressively changed as the society evolves ; we glanced at these two sets of factors in their original forms . A sketch was given of the conditions , inorganic and organic , on various parts of the earth 's surface ; showing the effects of coldp127and heat , of humidity and dryness , of surface , contour , soil , minerals , of floras and faunas . After seeing how social evolution in its earlier stages depends entirely on a favourable combination of circumstances ; and after seeing that though , along with advancingdevelopment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain important factors ; it was pointed out that while dealing with principles of evolution which are common to all societies , we might neglect those special external factors which determine some of their special characters . Our attention was then directed to the internal factors as primitivesocieties display them . An account was given of " The PrimitiveMan ? Physical " : showing that by stature , structure , strength , as well as by callousness and lack of energy . he was ill fitted for overcoming the difficulties in the way of advance . Examination of " The Primitive Man ? Emotional , " led us to see that his improvidenceand his explosiveness , restrained but little by sociality and by the altruistic sentiments , rendered him unfit for co-operation . And then , in the chapter on " The Primitive Man ? Intellectual , " we saw that while adapted by its active and acute perceptions to primitive needs , his type of mind is deficient in the faculties requiredfor progress in knowledge . After recognizing these as the general traits of the primitive social unit , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traits , implied by his ideas and their accompanying sentiments . This led us to trace the genesis of those beliefs concerning his own nature and the nature of surrounding things , which were summed up in the last chapter . And now observe the general conclusion reached . It is that while the conduct of the primitive man is in part determined by the feelings with which he regards men around him , it is in part determined by the feelings with which he regards men who have passed away . From these two sets of feelings , result two all-important sets of social factors . While the fear of the living becomes the root of the political control , the fear of the dead becomes the root of the religious control . On rememberinghow large a share the resulting ancestor-worship had in regulatinglife among the people who , in the Nile-valley , first reached a high civilization ? on remembering that the ancient Peruvians were subject to a rigid social system rooted in an ancestor-worship so elaborate that the living might truly be called slaves of the dead ? on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and still continues , a kindred worship generating kindred restraints ; we shall perceive , in the fear of the dead , a social factor which is , at first , not less important , if indeed it is not more important , than the fear of the living . And thus is made manifest the need for the foregoing account of the origin and development of this trait in the social units , by which co-ordination of their actions is rendered possible . Setting out with social units as thus conditioned , as thus constitutedphysically , emotionally , and intellectually , and as thus possessed of certain early-acquired ideas and correlative feelings , the Science of Sociology has to give an account of all the phenomenathat result from their combined actions . The simplest of such combined actions are those by which the successive generations of units are produced , reared , and brought into fitness for co-operation . The development of the family thus stands first in order . The respective ways in which the fostering of offspring is influenced by promiscuity , by polyandry , by polygyny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as have also the results of exogamous marriage and endogamous marriage . These , considered first as affecting the maintenance of the race in number and quality , have also to be considered as affecting the domestic lives of adults . Moreover , beyond observing how the several forms of the sexual relations modify family-life , they have to be treated in connexion with public life ; on which they act and which reacts on them . And then , after the sexual relations , have to be similarly dealt with the parental and filial relations . Sociology has next to describe and explain the rise and developmentof that political organization which in several ways regulatesaffairs ? which combines the actions of individuals for purposes of tribal or national offence and defence ; which restrains them in certain of their dealings with one another ; and which also restrains them in certain of their dealings with themselves . It has to trace the relations of this co-ordinating and controlling appa/ratus to the area occupied , to the amount and distribution of population , to the means of communication . It has to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different social types , nomadic and settled , military and industrial . It has to describe the changing relations between this regulative structure which is unproductive , and those structures which carry on productionand make national life possible . It has also to set forth the connexions between , and reciprocal influences of , the institutions carrying on civil government , and the other governmental **26;1219;TOOLONG developing ? the ecclesiastical and the ceremonial . And then it has to take account of those modifications which persistent political restraints are ever working in the charactersof the social units , as well as the modifications worked by the reactions of the changed characters of the units on the political organization . There has to be similarly described the evolution of the ecclesiasticalstructures and functions . Commencing with these as united to , and often scarcely distinguishable from , the political structures and functions , their divergent developments must be traced . How the share of ecclesiastical agencies in political actions becomes gradually less ; how , reciprocally , political agencies play a decreasingpart in ecclesiastical actions ; are phenomena to be set forth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrating as the society grows , stands related in type to the co-existing organizations , political and other ; and how changes of structure in it are connected with changes of structure in them ; are also subjects to be dealt with . Further , there has to be shown the progressive divergence between the set of rules gradually framed into civil law , and the set of rules which the ecclesiastical organization enforces ; and in this second set of rules there has to be traced the divergence between those which become a code of religious ceremonial and those which become a code of ethical precepts . Once more , the science has to note how the ecclesiastical agency in its structure , functions , laws , creed , and morals , stands related to the mental nature of the citizens ; and how the actions and reactions of the two mutually modify them . The simultaneously-evolving system of restraints whereby the minor actions of citizens are regulated in daily life , has next to be dealt with . Ancillary to the political and ecclesiastical controls , and at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; which , beginning with rules of class-subordination , grow into rules of intercourse between man and man . The mutilations which mark conquest and become badges of servitude ; the obeisances which are originally signs of submission made by the conquered ; the titles which are words directly or **25;1247;TOOLONG mastery over those who utter them ; the salutations which are also the flattering professions of subjection and implied inferiority ? these , and some others , have to be traced in their genesis and development as a supplementary regulative agency . The growth of the structure which maintains observances ; the accumulation , complication , and increasing definition of observances ; and the resulting code of bye-laws of conduct which comes to be added to the civil and religious codes ; have to be severally delineated . These regulative arrangements , too , must be consideredin their relations to co-existing regulative arrangements ; with which they all along maintain a certain congruity in respect of coerciveness . And the reciprocal influences exercised by these restraints on men 's natures , and by men 's natures on them , need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with , there have to be dealt with the structures and functions co-ordinated . The regulative and the operative are the two most generally contrasted divisions of every society ; and the inquiries of highest importance in social science concern the relations between them . The stages through which the industrial part passes , from its original union with the governmental part to its ultimate separateness , have to be studied . An allied subject of study is the growth of those regulative structures which the industrial part develops within itself . For purposes of production the actions of its units have to be directed ; and the various forms of the directive apparatushave to be dealt with the kinds of government under which separate groups of workers act ; the kinds of government under which workers in the same business and of the same class are combined ( eventually differentiating into guilds and into unions ) ; andp131the kind of government which keeps in balance the activities of the various industrial structures . The relations between the forms of these industrial governments and the forms of the co-existing political and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage ; as have also the relations between each of these successive forms and the natures of the citizens : there being here , too , a reciprocity of influences . After the regulative part of the industrial organization comes the operative part ; also presentingits successive stages of differentiation and integration . The separation of the distributive system from the productive system having been first traced , there has to be traced the growing division of labour within each the rise of grades and kinds of distributorsas well as grades and kinds of producers . And then there have to be added the effects which the developing and differentiating industriesproduce on one another ? the advances of the industrial arts themselves , caused by the help received from one another 's improvements . After these structures and functions which make up the organizationand life of each society , have to be treated certain associateddevelopments which aid , and are aided by , social evolution ? the developments of language , knowledge , morals , aesthetics . Linguistic progress has to be considered first as displayed in languageitself , while passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to states that are successively more coherent , definite , and heterogeneous . We have to note how increasing social complexity conduces to increasing complexity of language ; and how , as a society becomes settled , it becomes possible for its languageto acquire permanence . The connexion between the developmentsof words and sentences and the correlative developments of thought which they aid , and which are aided by them , has to be observed : the reciprocity being traced in the increasing multiplicity , variety , exactness , which each helps the other to gain . Progress in intelligence , thus associated with progress in language , has also to be treated as an accompaniment of social progress ; which , while furthering it , is furthered by it . From experienceswhich accumulate and are recorded , come comparisons leading to generalizations of simple kinds . Gradually the ideas of uniformity , order , cause , becoming nascent , gain clearness with each fresh truth established . And while there have to be noted the connexion between each phase of science and the concomitant phase of social life , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the body of science itself , there is an advance from a few , simple , incoherent truths , to a number of specialized sciences forming a body of truths that are multitudinous , varied , exact , coherent . The emotional modifications which , as indicated above , accompanysocial modifications , both as causes and as consequences , also demand separate attention . Besides observing the inter-actions of the social state and the moral state , we have to observe the associatedmodifications of those moral codes in which moral feelings get their intellectual expression . The kind of behaviour which each kind of regime necessitates , finds for itself a justification which acquires an ethical character ; and hence ethics must be dealt with in their social dependences . Then come the groups of phenomena we call aesthetic ; which , as exhibited in art-products and in the correlative sentiments , have to be studied in their respective evolutions internally considered , and in the relations of those evolutions to accompanying social phenomena . Diverging as they do from a common root , architecture , sculpture , painting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be severally treated as connected with the political and ecclesiastical stages , with the co-existing phases of moral sentiment , and with the degrees of intellectual advance . Finally we have to consider the inter-dependence of structures , and functions , and products , taken in their totality . Not only do all the above-enumerated organizations , domestic , political , ecclesiastical , ceremonial , industrial , influence one another through their respective activities ; and not only are they all daily influenced by the states of language , knowledge , morals , arts ; but the last are severally influenced by them , and are severally influenced by one another . Among these many groups of phenomena there is a consensus ; and the highest achievement in Sociology is so to grasp the vast heterogeneous aggregate , as to see how each group is at eachp133stage determined partly by its own antecedents and partly by the past and present actions of the rest upon it ... . Like other kinds of progress , social progress is not linear but divergent and re-divergent . Each differentiated product gives origin to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Earth mankind have found environments of various characters , and in each case the social life fallen into , partly determined by the social life previously led , has been partly determined by the influencesof the new environment ; so that the multiplying groups have tended ever to acquire differences , now major and now minor : there have arisen genera and species of societies.  |p134THE  ORGANIC ANALOGY RECONSIDEREDWhat is a Society ? THIS QUESTION has to be asked and answered at the outset . Until we have decided whether or not to regard a society as an entity ; and until we have decided whether , if regarded as an entity , a society is to be classed as absolutely unlike all other entities or as like some others ; our conception of the subject-matter before us remains vague . It may be said that a society is but a collective name for a numberof individuals . Carrying the controversy between nominalism and realism into another sphere , a nominalist might affirm that just as there exist only the members of a species , while the species consideredapart from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society alone exist , while the existence of the society is but verbal . Instancinga lecturer 's audience as an aggregate which by disappearingat the close of the lecture , proves itself to be not a thing but only a certain arrangement of persons , he might argue that the like holds of the citizens forming a nation . But without disputing the other steps of his argument , the last step may be denied . The arrangement , temporary in the one case , is lasting in the other ; and it is the permanence of the relations among component parts which constitutes the individuality of aP135whole as distinguished from the individualities of its parts . A coherentmass broken into fragments ceases to be a thing ; while , conversely , the stones , bricks , and wood , previously separate , become the thing called a house if connected in fixed ways . Thus we consistently regard a society as an entity , because , though formed of discrete units , a certain concreteness in the aggregateof them is implied by the maintenance , for generations and centuries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And it is this trait which yields our idea of a society . For , withholding the name from an ever-changing cluster such as primitivemen form , we apply it only where some constancy in the distribution of parts has resulted from settled life . But now , regarding a society as a thing , what kind of thing must we call it ? It seems totally unlike every object with which our senses acquaint us . Any likeness it may possibly have to other objects , can not be manifest to perception , but can be discerned only by reason . If the constant relations among its parts make it an entity ; the question arises whether these constant relations among its parts are akin to the constant relations among the parts of other entities . Between a society and anything else , the only conceivable resemblance must be one due to parallelism of principle in the arrangement of components . There are two great classes of aggregates with which the social aggregate may be compared ? the inorganic and the organic . Are the attributes of a society , considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of a not-living body ? or are they in any way like those of a living body ? or are they entirely unlike those of both ? The first of these questions needs only to be asked to be answered in the negative . A whole of which the parts are alive , can not , in its general characters , be like lifeless wholes . The second question , not to be thus promptly answered , is to be answered in the affirmative . The reasons for asserting that the permanent relations among the parts of a society , are analogous to the permanent relationsamong the parts of a living body , we have now to consider .   A Society Is an OrganismWhen we say that growth is common to social aggregates and organic aggregates , we do not thus entirely exclude community with inorganic aggregates : some of these , as crystals , grow in a visible manner ; and all of them , on the hypothesis of evolution , are concluded to have arisen by integration at some time or other . Nevertheless , compared with things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibit augmentation of mass , that we may fairly regard this as characteristic of them both . Many organisms grow throughout their lives ; and the rest grow throughout considerable parts of their lives . Social growth usually continues either up to times when the societies divide , or up to times when they are overwhelmed . Here , then , is the first trait by which societies ally themselves with the organic world and substantially distinguish themselves from the inorganic world . It is also a character of social bodies , as of living bodies , that while they increase in size they increase in structure . A low animal , or the embryo of a high one , has few distinguishable parts ; but along with its acquirement of greater mass , its parts multiply and simultaneously differentiate . It is thus with a society . At first the unlikenesses among its groups of units are inconspicuous in numberand degree ; but as it becomes more populous , divisions and sub-divisions become more numerous and more decided . Further , in the social organism as in the individual organism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks maturity and precedes decay . Though in inorganic aggregates also , as in the entire solar system and in each of its members , structural differentiations accompanythe integrations ; yet these are so relatively slow , and so relatively simple , that they may be disregarded . The multiplication of contrasted parts in bodies politic and in living bodies , is so great that it substantially constitutes another common character which marks them off from inorganic bodies . P137This community will be more fully appreciated on observing that progressive differentiation of structures is accompanied by progressive differentiation of functions . The multiplying divisions , primary , secondary , and tertiary , which arise in a developing animal , do not assume their major and minor unlikenesses to no purpose . Along with diversities in their shapes and compositions there go diversities in the actions they perform : they grow into unlike organs having unlike duties . Assuming the entire function of absorbing nutriment at the same time that it takes on its structural characters , the alimentary systembecomes gradually marked off into contrasted portions ; each of which has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limb , instrumental to locomotion or prehension , acquires divisions and sub-divisions which perform their leading and their subsidiary shares in this office . So is it with the parts into which a society divides . A dominant class arising does not simply become unlike the rest , but assumes control over the rest ; and when this class separates into the more and the less dominant , these , again , begin to discharge distinct parts of the entire control . With the classes whose actions are controlled it is the same . The various groups into which they fall have various occupations : each of such groups also , within itself , acquiring minor contrasts of parts along with minor contrasts of duties . And here we see more clearly how the two classes of things we are comparing distinguish themselves from things of other classes ; for such differences of structure as slowly arise in inorganic aggregates , are not accompanied by what we can fairly call differences of function . Why in a body politic and in a living body , these unlike actions of unlike parts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so regard the unlike actions of unlike parts in an inorganic body , we shall perceive on turning to the next and the most distinctivecommon trait . Evolution establishes in them both , not differences simply , but definitely-connected differences differences such that each makesP138the others possible . The parts of an inorganic aggregate are so relatedthat one may change greatly without appreciably affecting the rest . It is otherwise with the parts of an organic aggregate or of a social aggregate . In either of these the changes in the parts are mutually determined , and the changed actions of the parts are mutually dependent . In both , too , this mutuality increases as the evolution advances . The lowest type of animal is all stomach , all respiratory surface , all limb . Development of a type having appendagesby which to move about or lay hold of food , can take place only if these appendages , losing power to absorb nutriment directly from surrounding bodies , are supplied with nutriment by parts which retain the power of absorption . A respiratory surface to which the circulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only on condition that the concomitant loss of ability to supply itself with materials for repair and growth , is made good by the development of a structure bringing these materials . So is it in a society . What we call with perfect propriety its organization , has a necessary implication of the same kind ... . Here let it once more be pointed out that there exist no analogiesbetween the body politic and a living body , save those necessitatedby that mutual dependence of parts which they display in common . Though , in foregoing chapters , comparisons of social structures and functions to structures and functions in the human body , have in many cases been made , they have been made only because structures and functions in the human body furnish the most familiar illustrations of structures and functions in general . The social organism , discrete instead of concrete , asymmetrical instead of symmetrcial , sensitive in all its units instead of having a single sensitive centre , is not comparable to any particular type of individual organism , animal or vegetal . All kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-operation among its componentsfor the benefit of the whole ; and this trait , common to them , is a trait common also to communities . Further , among the many types of individual organisms , the degree of this co-operation measures the degree of evolution ; and this general truth , too , is exhibited among social organisms . Once more , to effect **26;1274;TOOLONG , creatures of every order show us **30;1302;TOOLONG for transfer and mutual influence ; and to this general characteristic , societies of every order furnish a **27;1334;TOOLONG . Community in the fundamental principles of organization is thus the only community asserted . But now let us drop this alleged parallelism between individual organizations and social organizations . I have used the analogies elaborated , but as a scaffolding to help in building up a coherent body of sociological inductions . Let us take away the scaffolding : the inductions will stand by themselves . We saw that societies are aggregates which grow ; that in varioustypes of them there are great varieties in the degrees of growth reached ; that types of successively larger sizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that this increase by coalescence , joined with interstitial increase , is the process through which have been formed the vast civilized nations . Along with increase of size in societies goes increase of structure . Primitive wandering hordes are without established unlikenessesof parts . With growth of them into tribes habitually come some differences ; both in the powers and occupations of their members . Unions of tribes are followed by more differences , governmentaland industrial ? social grades running through the whole mass , and contrasts between the differently-occupied parts in differentlocalities . Such differentiations multiply as the compounding progresses . They proceed from the general to the special : first the broad division between ruling and ruled ; then within the ruling part divisions into political , religious , military , and within the ruled part divisions into food-producing classes and handi-craftsmen ; then within each of these divisions minor ones , and so on . Passing from the structural aspect to the functional aspect , we note that while all parts of a society have like natures and activities there is hardly any mutual dependence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As its parts assume different functions they become dependent on one another , so that injury to one hurts others ; until in highly-evolved societies , general perturbation is caused by derangement of any portion . This contrast between undeveloped and developed societies , is due to the fact that , with increasing specialization of functions comes increasing inability in each part to perform the functions of other parts . The organization of every society begins with a contrast between the division which carries on relations , habitually hostile , with environing societies , and the division which is devoted to procuring necessaries of life ; and during the earlier stages of developmentthese two divisions constitute the whole . Eventually there arises an intermediate division serving to transfer products and influences from part to part . And in all subsequent stages , evolution to the two earlier systems of structures depends on evolutionof this additional system . While the society as a whole has the character of its sustaining system determined by the general character of its environment , inorganic and organic , the respective parts of this system differentiatein adaptation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries have been thus localized and specialized , secondary industries dependent upon them arise in conformity with the same principle . Further , as fast as societies become cornpoundedand recompounded and the distributing system develops , the parts devoted to each kind of industry , originally scattered , aggregate in the most favourable localities ; and the localized industrialstructures , unlike the governmental structures , grow regardless of the original lines of division . Increase of size , resulting from the massing of groups , necessitatesmeans of communication ; both for achieving combined offensive and defensive actions , and for exchange of products . Scarcely traceable tracks , paths , rude roads , finished roads , successivelyarise ; and as fast as intercourse is thus facilitated , there is a transition from direct barter to trading carried on by a separate class ; out of which evolves , in course of time , a complex mercantile agency of wholesale and retail distributors . The movement of commoditieseffected by this agency , beginning as a slow flux to and reflux from certain places at long intervals , passes into rhythmical , regular , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thither , from being few and crude become numerous and elaborated . Growing efficiency of transfer with greater variety of transferred products , increases the mutual dependence of parts atp141the same time that it enables each part to fulfil its function better . Unlike the sustaining system , evolved by converse with the organic and inorganic environments , the regulating system is evolved by converse , offensive and defensive , with environing societies . In primitive headless groups temporary chieftainship resultsfrom temporary war ; chronic hostilities generate permanent chieftainship ; and gradually from the military control results the civil control . Habitual war , requiring prompt combination in the actions of parts , necessitates subordination . Societies in which there is little subordination disappear , and leave outstanding those in which subordination is great ; and so there are established societiesin which the habit fostered by war and surviving in peace , brings about permanent submission to a government . The centralizedregulating system thus evolved is in early stages the sole regulatingsystem . But in large societies that become predominantly industrial , there is added a decentralized regulating system for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every way to the original system , acquires at length substantial independence . Finally there arises for the distributing structures also , an independentcontrolling agency . P142SOCIETAL TYPOLOGIESA GLANCE at the respective antecedents of individual organismsand social organisms , shows why the last admit of no such definite classification as the first . Through a thousand generations a species of plant or animal leads substantially the same kind of life ; and its successive members inherit the acquired adaptations . When changed conditions cause divergences of forms once alike , the accumulating differences arising in descendants only superficiallydisguise the original identity do not prevent the grouping of the several species into a genus ; nor do wider divergences that began earlier , prevent the grouping of genera into orders and orders into classes . It is otherwise with societies . Hordes of primitivemen , dividing and subdividing , do , indeed , show us successionsof small social aggregates leading like lives , inheriting such low structures as had resulted , and repeating those structures . But higher social aggregates propagate their respective types in much less decided ways . Though colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies are so comparatively plastic , and the influencesof new habitats on the derived societies are so great , that divergences of structure are inevitable . In the absence of definite organizations established during the similar lives of many societies descending one from another , there can not be the precise distinctionsimplied by complete classification . Two cardinal kinds of differences there are , however , of whichP143we may avail ourselves for grouping societies in a natural manner . Primarily we may arrange them according to their degrees of composition , as simple , compound , doubly-compound , trebly-compound ; and secondarily , though in a less specific way , we may dividethem into the predominantly militant and the predominantly industrial ? those in which the organization for offence and defenceis most largely developed , and those in which the sustaining organization is most largely developed . We have seen that social evolution begins with small simple aggregates ; that it progresses by the clustering of these into larger aggregates ; and that after consolidating , such clusters are united with others like themselves into still larger aggregates . Our classification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or simplest order . We can not in all cases say with precision what constitutes a simple society ; for , in common with products of evolution generally , societies present transitional stages which negative sharp divisions . As the multiplying members of a group spread and divergegradually , it is not always easy to decide when the groups into which they fall become distinct . Here the descendants of commonancestors inhabiting a barren region , have to divide while yet the constituent families are near akin ; and there , in a more fertile region , the group may hold together until clusters of families remotely akin are formed : clusters which , diffusing slowly , are held by a common bond that slowly weakens . By and by comes the complication arising from the presence of slaves not of the same ancestry , or of an ancestry but distantly allied ; and these , though they may not be political units , must be recognized as units sociologicallyconsidered . Then there is the kindred complication arising where an invading tribe becomes a dominant class . Our only course is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single working whole unsubjected to any other , and of which the parts cooperate , with or without a regulating centre , for certain public ends . Here is a table , presenting with as much definiteness as may be , the chief divisions and sub-divisions of such simple societies . P144On contemplating these uncivilized societies which , though alike as being uncompounded , differ in their sizes and structures , certain generally-associated traits may be noted . Of the groups without political organization , or with but the vaguest traces of it , the lowest are those small wandering ones which live on the wild food sparsely distributed in forests , over barren tracts , or along seashores . Where small simple societies remain without chiefs though settled , it is where circumstances allow them to be habitually peaceful . Glancing down the table we find reason for inferring that the changes from the hunting life to the pastoral , and from the pastoral to the agricultural , favour increase of population , the development of political organizations , of industrial organization , and of theP145arts ; though these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second table , given above on this page , contains societieswhich have passed to a slight extent , or considerably , or wholly , into a state in which the simple groups have their several governing heads subordinated to a general head . The stability or instability alleged of the headship in these cases , refers to the headship of the composite group , and not to the headships of the simple groups . As might be expected , stability of this compound headship becomesmore marked as the original unsettled state passes into the completely settled state : the nomadic life obviously making it difficult to keep the heads of groups subordinate to a general head . Though not in all cases accompanied by considerable organization , this coalescence evidently conduces to organization . The corn-P146pletely-settled compound societies are mostly characterized by division into ranks , four , five , or six , clearly marked off ; by **25;1363;TOOLONG arrangements ; by industrial structures that show advancing division of labour , general and local ; by buildings of some permanence clustered into places of some size ; and by improved appliances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed by the recompoundingof these compound groups , or in which many governmentsof the types tabulated above have become subject to a still higher government . ' The first notable fact is that these doublycompoundsocieties are all completely settled . Along with their greater integration we see in many cases , though not uniformly , a more elaborate and stringent political organization . Where completestability of political headship over these doubly-compound societies has been established , there is mostly , too , a developed ecclesiastical hierarchy . While becoming more complex by division of labour , the industrial organization has in many cases assumed a caste structure . To a greater or less extent , custom has passed into positive law ; and religious observances have grown definite , rigid , and complex . Towns and roads have become general ; and considerableprogress in knowledge and the arts has taken place . P147There remain to be added the great civilized nations which need no tabular form , since they mostly fall under one head ? trebly compound . Ancient Mexico , the Assyrian Empire , the Egyptian Empire , The Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Russia , may severally be regarded as having reached this stage of composition , or perhaps , in some cases , a still higher stage . Only in respect of the stabilities of their governments may they possibly require classing apart ? not their political stabilities in the ordinary sense , but their stabilities in the sense of continuing to be the supreme centres of these great aggregates . So defining this trait , the ancient trebly-compound societies have mostly to be classed as unstable ; and of the modern , the Kingdom of Italy and the German Empire have to be tested by time . As already indicated , this classification must not be taken as more than a rough approximation to the truth . In some cases the data furnished by travellers and others are inadequate ; in some cases their accounts are conflicting ; in some cases the composition is so far transitional that it is difficult to say under which of two heads it should come . Here the gens or the phratry may be distinguishedas a local community ; and here these groups of near or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practicallyto form parts of one community . Evidently the like combinationof several such small communities , passing through stages of increasing cohesion , leaves it sometimes doubtful whether they are to be regarded as many or as one . And when , as with the larger social aggregates , there have been successive conquests , resulting unions , subsequent dissolutions , and re-unions otherwise composed , the original lines of structure become so confused or lost that it is difficult to class the ultimate product . But there emerge certain generalizations which we may safely accept . The stages of compounding and re-compounding have to be passed through in succession . No tribe becomes a nation by simple growth ; and no great society is formed by the direct union of the smallest societies . Above the simple group the first stage is a compoundgroup inconsiderable in size . The mutual dependence of parts which constitutes it a working whole , can not exist without some development of lines of intercourse and appliances for corn-P148bined action ; and this must be achieved over a narrow area before it can be achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been consolidated by the co-operation of its component groups in war under a single head when it has simultaneously differentiatedsomewhat its social ranks and industries , and proportionately developed its arts , which all of them conduce in some way to better co-operation , the compound society becomes practically a single one . Other societies of the same order , each having similarly reached a stage of organization alike required and made possible by this co-ordination of actions throughout a larger mass , now form bodies from which , by conquest or by federation in war , may be formed societies of the doubly-compound type . The consolidation of these has again an accompanying advance of organization distinctiveof it ? an organization for which it affords the scope andwhich makes it practicable an organization having a higher complexityin its regulative , distributive , and industrial systems . And at later stages , by kindred steps , arise the still larger aggregates havingstill more complex structures . In this order has social evolution gone on , and only in this order does it appear to be possible . Whateverimperfections and incongruities the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that there are societies of these different grades of composition ; that those of the same grade have general resemblances in their structures ; and that they arise in the order shown . P149MILITANCY AND INDUSTRIALISMWE PASS NOW to the classification based on unlikenesses between the kinds of social activity which predominate , and on the resulting unlikenesses of organization . The two social types thus essentially contrasted are the militant and the industrial . It is doubtless true that no definite separation of these can be made . Excluding a few simple groups such as the Esquimaux , inhabiting places where they are safe from invasion , all societies , simple and compound , are occasionally or habitually in antagonism with other societies ; and , as we have seen , tend to evolve structures for carrying on offensive and defensive actions . At the same time sustentation is necessary ; and there is always an organization , slight or decided , for achieving it . But while the two systems in social organisms , as in individual organisms , co-exist in all but the rudimentary forms , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In some cases the structures carrying on external actions are largely developed ; the sustaining system exists solely for their benefit ; and the activities are militant . In other cases there is predominance of the structures carrying on sustentation ; offensiveand defensive structures are maintained only to protect them ; and the activities are industrial . At the one extreme we have those warlike tribes which , subsisting mainly by the chase , make the appliances for dealing with enemies serve also for procuring food , and have sustaining systems represented only by their women , who are their slave-classes ; while , at the other extreme we have the type , as yet only partially evolved , in which the agricultural , manufacturing , and commercial organizations form the chief part of the society , and , in the absence of external enemies , the appliances for offence and defence are either rudimentary or absent . Transitional as are nearly all the societies we have to study , we may yet clearly distinguish the constitutional traits of these opposite types , characterized by predominance of the outer and inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in contrast , it will be most convenient to contemplate each by itself . As before pointed out , the militant type is one in which the army is the nation mobilized while the nation is the quiescent army , and which , therefore , acquires a structure common to army and nation . We shall most clearly understand its nature by observingin detail this parallelism between the military organization and the social organization at large . Already we have had ample proof that centralized control is the primary trait acquired by every body of fighting men , be it horde of savages , group of brigands , or mass of soldiers . And this centralizedcontrol , necessitated during war , characterizes the governmentduring peace . Among the uncivilized there is a marked tendencyfor the military chief to become also the political head ( the medicine man being his only competitor ) ; and in a conquering race of savages his political headship becomes fixed . Among semicivilizedthe conquering commander and the despotic king are the same ; and they remain the same among the civilized down to late times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we find a contrast in the habitual activities and in the forms of government . Thus the powers of ' the patriarchal chiefs of Kaffir tribes are not great ; but the Zulus , who have become a conquering division of the Kaffirs , are under an absolute monarch . Of advanced savages the Fijians may be named as well showing this relation between habitual war and despotic rule : the persons and property of subjectsare entirely at the king 's or chief 's disposal . We have seen that it is the same in the warlike African states , Dahomey andp151Ashantee . The Ancient Mexicans , again , whose highest profession was that of arms , and whose eligible prince became king only by feats in war , had an autocratic government , which , according to Clavigero , became more stringent as the territory was enlarged by conquest . Similarly , the unmitigated despotism under which the Peruvians lived , had been established during the spread of the Ynca conquests . And that race is not the cause , we are shown by this recurrence in Ancient America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Old World . The absoluteness of a commander-in-chief goes along with absolute control exercised by his generals over their subordinates , and by their subordinates over the men under them : all are slaves to those above and despots to those below . This structure repeats itself in the accompanying social arrangements . There are precise gradations of rank in the community and complete submission of each rank to the ranks above it . We see this in the society already instanced as showing among advanced savages the development of the militant type . In Fiji six classes are enumerated , from king down to slaves , as sharply marked off . Similarly in Madagascar , where despotism has been in late times established by war , there are several grades and castes . Among the Dahomans , given in so great a degree to bloodshed of all kinds , " the army , or , what is nearly synonymous , the nation , " says Burton , " is divided , both male and female , into two wings " ; and then , of the various ranks enumerated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Ashantee , too , where his officers are required to die when the king dies , we have a kindred condition . Of old , among the aggressive Persians , grades were strongly marked . So was it in warlike Ancient Mexico : besides three classes of nobility , and besides the mercantileclasses , there were three agricultural classes down to the serfs ? all in precise subordination . In Peru , also , below the Ynca , there were grades of nobility  --  - lords over lords . Moreover , according to Garcilasso , in each town the inhabitants were registered in decades under a decurion , five of these under a superior , two such under a higher one , five of these centurions under a head , two of these under one who thus ruled a thousand men , and for every ten thousandthere was a governor of Ynca race : the political rule being thus completely regimental . Till lately , another illustration was furnishedby Japan . That there were kindred , if less elaborate , structuresin ancient militant states of the Old World , scarcely needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times , when a large nation like France had under the monarch several grades of feudal lords , vassals to those above and suzerains to those below , with serfs under the lowest , again shows us that everywhere the militant type has sharply-marked social gradations as it has sharply-marked military gradations . Corresponding to this natural government there is a like form of supernatural government . I do not mean merely that in the ideal other-worlds of militant societies , the ranks and powers are conceivedas like those of the real world around , though this also is to be noted ; but I refer to the militant character of the religion . Ever in antagonism with other societies , the life is a life of enmity and the religion a religion of enmity . The duty of blood-revenge , most sacred of all with the savage , continues to be the dominant duty as the militant type of society evolves . The chief , baulked of his vengeance , dies enjoining his successors to avenge him ; his ghost is propitiated by fulfilment of his commands ; the slaying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to his grave in token of fulfilment ; and , as tradition grows , he becomes the god worshipped with bloody sacrifices . Everywhere we find evidence . The Fijians offer the bodies of their victims killed in war to the gods before cooking them . In Dahomey , where the militant type is so far developed that women are warriors , men are almost daily sacrificed by the monarch to please his dead father ; and the ghosts of old kings are invoked for aid in war by blood sprinkled on their tombs . The war-god of the Mexicans ( originally a conqueror ) , the most revered of their gods , had his idol fed with human flesh : wars being undertaken to supply him with victims . And similarly in Peru , where there were habitual human sacrifices , men taken captive were immolated to the father of the Yncas , the Sun . How militant societies of old in the East similarly evolved deities who were similarly propitiated by bloody rites , needs merely indicating . Habitually their mythologies represent gods as conquerors ; habitually their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theP153destroyer , " " the avenger , " " god of battles , " " lord of hosts , " " man of war , " and so forth . As we read in Assyrian inscriptions , wars were commenced by their alleged will ; and , as we read elsewhere , peoples were massacred wholesale in professed obedience to them . How its theological government , like its political government , is essentially military , we see even in late and qualified forms of the militant type ; for down to the present time absolute subordination , like that of soldier to commander , is the supreme virtue , and disobediencethe crime for which eternal torture is threatened . Similarly with the accompanying ecclesiastical organization . Very generally where the militant type is highly developed , the political head and ecclesiastical head are identical the king , chiefdescendant of his ancestor who has become a god , is also chief propitiator of him . It was so in Ancient Peru ; and in Tezcuco and Tlacopan ( Mexico ) the high-priest was the king 's second son . The Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assyrian . Babylonian records harmonize with Hebrew traditions in telling us of priest-kings . In Lydia it was the same : Crcesus was king and priest . In Sparta , too , the kings , while militarychiefs , were also high priests ; and a trace of the like original relation existed in Rome . A system of subordination essentially akin to the military , has habitually characterized the accompanying priesthoods . The Fijians have an hereditary priesthood forming a hierarchy . In Tahiti , where the high-priest was royal , there were grades of hereditary priests belonging to each social rank . In Ancient Mexico the priesthoods of different gods had different ranks , and there were three ranks within each priesthood ; and in Ancient Peru , besides the royal chief priest , there were priests of the conquering race set over various classes of inferior priests . A like type of structure , with subjection of rank to rank , has characterizedpriesthoods in the ancient and modern belligerent societies of the Old World . The like mode of government is traceable throughout the sustaining organization also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with simple societies in which the slave-class furnishes the warrior-class with necessaries of life , we have already seen that during subsequent stages of evolution the industrial part of the society continues to be essentially a permanentcommissariat , existing solely to supply the needs of the **31;1390;TOOLONG , and having left over for itself only enough for bare maintenance . Hence the development of political regulation over its activities , has been in fact the extension throughoutit of that military rule which , as a permanent commissariat , it naturally had . An extreme instance is furnished us by the Ancient Peruvians , whose political and industrial governments were identical ? whosekinds and quantities of labour for every class in every locality , were prescribed by laws enforced by state officers ? who had work legally dictated even for their young children , their blind , and their lame , and who were publicly chastised for idleness : regimentaldiscipline being applied to industry just as our modern advocate of strong government would have it now . The late Japanesesystem , completely military in origin and nature , similarly permeated industry : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to mats ? were prescribed in their structures . In the warlike monarchy of Madagascar the artizan classes are all in the employ of government , and no man can change his occupation or locality , under pain of death . Without multiplication of cases , these typical ones , reminding the reader of the extent to which even in modern fighting states industrial activities are officially regulated , will sufficientlyshow the principle . Not industry only , but life at large , is , in militant societies , subject to kindred discipline . Before its recent collapse the governmentof Japan enforced sumptuary laws on each class , mercantile and other , up to the provincial governors , who must rise , dine , go out , give audience , and retire to rest at prescribed hours ; and the native literature specifies regulations of a scarcely credible minuteness . In Ancient Peru , officers " minutely inspected the houses , to see that the man , as well as his wife , kept the household in proper order , and preserved a due state of discipline among their children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the Egyptians each person had , at fixed intervals , to report to a local officer his name , abode , and mode of living . Sparta , too , yields an example of a society specially organized for offence and defence , in which the private conduct of citizens in all its detailsP155was under public control enforced by spies and censors . Though regulations so stringent have not characterized the militant type in more recent ages , yet we need but recall the laws regulating food and dress , the restraints on locomotion , the prohibitions of some games and dictation of others , to indicate the parallelism of principle . Even now where the military organization has been kept in vigour by military activities , as in France , we are shown by the peremptory control of journals and suppression of meetings , by the regimental uniformity of education , by the official administration of the fine arts , the way in which its characteristic regulating systemramifies everywhere . And then , lastly , is to be noted the theory concerning the relationbetween the State and the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a society for combined action against other societies , is associated with the belief that its members exist for the benefit of the whole and not the whole for the benefit of its members . As in an army the liberty of the soldier is denied and only his duty as a member of the mass insisted on ; as in a permanently encamped army like the Spartan nation , the laws recognized no personal interests , but patriotic ones only ; so in the militant type throughout , the claims of the unit are nothing and the claims of the aggregate everything . Absolute subjection of authorityis the supreme virtue and resistance to it a crime . Other offences may be condoned , but disloyalty is an unpardonable offence . If we take the sentiments of the sanguinary Fijians , among whom loyalty is so intense that a man stands unbound to be knocked on the head , himself saying that what the king wills must be done ; or those of the Dahomans , among whom the highest officials are the king 's slaves , and on his decease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ; or those of the Ancient Peruvians , among whom with a dead Ynca , or great curaca , were buried alive his favouriteattendants and wives that they might go to serve him in the other world ; or those of the Ancient Persians , among whom a father , seeing his innocent son shot by the king in pure wantonness , " felicitated " the king " on the excellence of his archery , " and among whom bastinadoed subjects " declared themselves delightedbecause his majesty had condescended to recollect them " ;                     