@@773938

txt 8o The New Army : 1949 ? 53 special military curricula for future officers , but this proposal ran counter to the egalitarianism then still strong in the country , and was opposed by educators and many politicians . In the end there emerged a much watered down programme . Boarding students at two high schools , the Reali in Haifa and the Herzlia in Tel Aviv , could elect to take special military courses , but only as a supplement to the regular curriculum . Moreover , they were not automatically commissioned on graduation , but entered the Army as conscripts and underwent the common selection process . Overall , though the programmes survived , they had but little impact on the officer corps . At the same time , Yadin also had the problem of providing uniform instruction for officers of all grades . The IDF had fought the War of Independence with commanders from diverse backgrounds ? Haganah , Palmach , British , Canadian , American , and other training , and it was vital that all be taught the same procedures and basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop courses for junior officers and battalion commanders , and by 1951 even senior officers were required to take the standard course . There were objections . Dayan , for one , refused to accept the idea that there were standard solutions for tactical problems and argued that operations could not be conducted by the book . The same feeling was expressed by senior officers who were sent abroad for more advanced training . Most of them went to British or French staff schools where they found the reception correct but cold ' and the doctrines taught altogether too rigid and not suited to Israel 's special circumstances . Weizman , sent to attend the RAF Staff and Command College , departed with great expectations , but came back convinced that we must not learn from others . ' Dayan 's experience at the British Army Senior Officers ' School at Devizes was very similar and he too concluded that correct ' school solutions were not applicable to IDF problems.13 A distinct preference for doing things their own way , for originality , inventiveness , and improvisation , remained characteristic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major preoccupation , perhaps even more serious than with the officers , was the condition of the rank and file . The new recruit intake often lacked motivation and the desirable standard of education ; many could speak but little Hebrew . The technical corps and services , above all the air force and the navy , but also the signals and engineers , received the pick of recruits , usually of native or European origins , while the infantry battalions , still the bulk of the army and its main fighting element , had to make do with conscripts coming in large part from the squalor of the immigrant camps . Leaving behind their families in shanties , tin huts , and tents , these men had difficulty in accepting military service . Pay was nominal . Between 1950 and 1953 the estimated annual outlay for a soldier 's maintenance was shoo , inadequate for them to assist their impoverished families and it was not uncommon to find // rifle companies where almost 70 per cent of the troops qualified as welfare cases . Not surprisingly , morale was low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To turn these men into good fighting material was difficult , though in time it was done . For the moment , however , standards declined even further when during the harsh winter of 1950 , the Army was called upon to deal with tasks that the civilian agencies could no longer handle . Ben Gurion called upon the military to administer and maintain the immigrant camps . While the investment of manpower and equipment to this effort produced long-range benefits , it placed another burden on an already strained military establishment . NAHAL units presented different kinds of problems . Highly selected and motivated volunteers , they were regarded by some as successors to the Palmach and sometimes have been described as a commando force . In reality , however , NAHAL groups were supposed to be nuclei for agrarian collectives , and also used to reinforce exposed settlements , and therefore more closely related to territorial defence units than to mobile shock troops . Only their political consciousness was similar to the Palmach and this did not make them necessarily more combat effective . During the early years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Mapam youth movements displayed an overt pro-Soviet ideology which , in one case at least , forced GHQ to disband the unit . Critics of the organization , including Dayan , claimed that NAHAL merely provided an opportunity for middle-class youths to avoid regular military service , giving them false glamour and the illusion of pioneering . Few of its members , he charged , had any intention to become permanent settlers and meanwhile NAHAL drained off the cream of the recruits from other units.14 The indictment was too strong . To be sure , NAHAL did not come even close to the goal of founding 200 new settlements set by Ben Gurion in 1949 . Yet , it performed some useful duties . When civilian contractors baulked at building a road along the western shore of the Dead Sea , NAHAL troops , undeterred by climate , distance , and Arab marauders , constructed this strategic link . Other NAHAL units established the first settlement at Eilat and cultivated the arid ha-Arava region between the Dead Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba . In all , it founded some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priorities to conform with the changing needs of the Army . Although still entering the service as a group , NAHAL units spent less time on agricultural training and more on military duties , on occasion sending their members to serve in regular combat formations . In 1956 and again in 1967 , NAHAL units fought very well . By accommodating itself to changing circumstances , NAI IAL managed to survive as a separate corps , providing special opportunities for volunteers from // the various Zionist youth movements and constituting a living link with old traditions . It did not , however , as some had hoped , become a major element in the Israeli Army . On the other hand , the reserve components were the most essential part of Israel 's military establishment and the organization of a highly effective reserve system must be considered Yadin 's major accomplishment in the post-war period . While in other countries reserves were used to bring first line active units up to war strength , or when serving as independent second-line formations , would be ready for action only weeks or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take the field within 72 hours , a vital component of the IDF , in fact the flesh and muscle around the bare bones of the active Army . During the debate concerning the Defence Service Law and even after its passage , critics warned that the entire concept was faulty . The extended reserve obligation would place too great a burden on the economy while at the same time the reserves would neither be able to mobilize nor be combat ready . Yet , given the overall situation , both Ben Gurion and Yadin , supported by Makleff and Laskov , felt that it was the only possible way in which a force of adequate size could be maintained and they looked for ways to make the scheme work . From the outset Yadin and his staff discarded the idea of organizing the reserves according to age groups , except that the older veterans in the already existing reserve pool would be used to reinforce the static defences . The younger men and women , between 20 and 39 , and those coming into the reserves from active duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services . After visiting Switzerland in 1949 , Yadin and Makleff opted to adopt the Swiss system of forming these brigades on a proximity basis , permitting faster mobilization . Unlike the Swiss , however , the Israeli reservist did not keep his weapon at home . Instead , mobilization stores were dispersed and special depots for each reserve formation created . Initially there were doubts whether reservists could adequately fill the more complicated command and staff positions , but with career officers in short supply , formations entirely composed of reserves became the rule . These formations were not disbanded , but maintained on a reduced level at all times , becoming fully operational when their reservists were called up for their annual tours of duty . Yadin once declared that he regarded the Israeli reservist as a regular soldier who happened to be on leave 11 months of the year . The statement aroused an immediate negative reaction . The average Israeli remained a fierce individualist and a determined civilian , who , facing a clearly perceived threat , would submit to military discipline . Far from being an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closer to the truth that // Makleff and I ) ayan did not make a good team . I ) cyan did support Makleff in his efforts to get rid of inefficient officers and to reduce non-fighting units . ' Better bayonets than stoves ' , he remarked . On the other hand , however , 1 ) ayan delegated all administrative responsibilities to Colonel Meir Amit and he did not support Makleff 's efforts to make the Army look more military ' . While Makleff was a stickler for order , discipline and a smart turnout , Dayan cared little about appearance . He never bothered to check if soldiers were properly dressed or smartly turned out , as long as their weapons and equipment were in good order . Relations between the two men , never cordial , soon soured . In addition to having serious differences with his senior officer , Makleff also had trouble with his civilian superior , acting defence minister Pinhas Lavon . In late August 1953 , Ben Gurion , tired out and in need of rest , decided to retire for a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months ' leave of absence . Pinhas Lavon , a labour organizer and Ben Gurion 's picked choice , acted as defence minister throughout the later part of 1953 . Lavon had been a. dove , scornful of the military , and reluctant to provide funds for the Army , but as defence minister he changed completely . He proposed a much more activist policy regarding the increasing number of Arab incursions and also wanted to reorganize the military establishment by making the Ministry of Defence responsible for manpower and supply , functions it now shared with the Army . Makleff , who disliked Lavon from previous encounters , regarded this as an attempt to undermine the Army , while Dayan approved the scheme because it would free the Army for its major purpose ? to wage war . Increasingly isolated , Makleff decided to retire and when Ben Gurion actually stepped down , he too handed in his resignation . On 6 October 1953 , as his last act before leaving office , Ben Gurion appointed Dayan as the IDF 's fourth chief of staff . Force Structure , Arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gurion told the Knesset that if necessary Israel could field 200,000 armed combatants . I ' This figure , however , was exaggerated and perhaps designed for external consumption . It represented the total mobilization of all man and woman-power , excepting only a few key workers in essential services , and even in the dire circumstances of 1973 Israel did not resort to this extreme . A more accurate estimate for that time would place the active Army at about 30,000 career soldiers and conscripts , backed by 70,000 to 8o,000 reservists . With less than some 5,000 in the air force and the navy , the overwhelming majority belonged to the ground forces , where the main fighting formations consisted of 11 brigades . The active Army comprised of one armoured and two // infantry brigades , and there were 8 reserve infantry brigades . In addition , GIIQdisposed of one active paratroop battalion . The infantry brigades werr heavy , formed according to Laskov 's doctrines as independent brigade group . Each was organized into three rifle battalions , a jeep-mounted scout compam , and headquarters and support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional combat elements attached . All possessed one heavy , 120mm mort:o battalion , sometimes supported by a field artillery or anti-tank artillery unit . Laskov had hoped to assign some armour to each of the brigade groups , brit limited funds and even more limited access to equipment had made this impossible . Arms and equipment were another worry for the IDF in the early 1950s . The British ? French ? American Tripartite Declaration of 25 May 1950 , aiming to maintain an arms balance in the Middle East , was interpreted by each power according to its own interest . While Great Britain , declaring herself bound by treaty , continued to supply Iraq and to a lesser degree Egypt , the United States was maintaining a modest flow of arms to Saudi Arabia . None of the three powers was willing to supply the IDF . We have turned ' , Ben Gurion reported to the Knesset at the end of 1951 , to all countries from whom it is possible to obtain our requirements . Not from a single country did we receive all our needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mixture of what had been and still was available . Infantry was equipped with Czech or British bolt-action rifles , supplemented by locally made submachine-guns . By 1953 the unreliable Stens were replaced by the Israeli-designed and manufactured Uzi , a most effective short-range weapon . Mortars also were available in sufficient quantity ; medium machine-guns , however , dated primarily from the War of Independence and more were needed . Artillery , finally , was definitely obsolete , inadequate in number and lacking hitting power . Israel was forced to shop in many places to obtain a modest amount of more up-to-date weaponry . When Deputy Defence Minister Shimon Peres tried to purchase medium machine-guns in Great Britain he was refused , and then turned to Canada . The Canadian cabinet , largely composed of men with World War I experience , regarded machine-guns as offensive weapons and also refused to permit their export . To Peres 's surprise , however , the cabinet was willing to authorize the sale of war-surplus 25-pounder gun-howitzers to replace the pre-1914 vintage IDF field guns . It 's your luck ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go over the top carrying 25-pounders. " 9 At about the same time the United States , though both the State and the Defense Department were still ambivalent about supporting Israel , was willing to sell a few ' 30 calibre Browning machine-guns and a few bazookas . Acquisition of armour was even more difficult . To maintain its modest inventory of some 50 plus Sherman M-4 tanks in running order , vehicles had // to be bought as scrap from as far away as the Philippines . Purchased as demilitarized scrap , they were refitted with assorted guns of dubious quality , the best being some 76mm rifles taken off 1943 US M-io tank destroyers . Laskov originally had planned for a force composed of armoured and mechanized infantry brigades , but the small number of tanks and the 200 M-3 half-tracks available permitted only the partial mechanization of three brigades . Engineer , ordnance , and supply units were short on specialized equipment and in the event of mobilization had to rely on requisitioned civilian vehicles . Material shortcomings also hamstrung the air force and the navy . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the motley array of bombers , fighters , and fighter-bombers in favour of one all-purpose type . fie and the air staff favoured fighter-bombers . But it was impossible to obtain up-to-date planes , especially jets . Until 1955 , the IAF had to rely on its ageing Spitfires , supplemented by P-5 is and Mosquitoes , many of which were rebuilt from scrap . The navy , finally , was perhaps the worst off . Its few ships were of World War II vintage , but their armament was even older . All had been acquired without guns and fire-control equipment and during the War of Independence they had been armed with field guns lashed to their decks . Unable to purchase modern naval weapon systems , Israel finally found a source of naval arms supplies . The Italian Navy was only too glad to clear out its ordnance depots and sold Israel some 12o and 102mm guns dating from World War I with firecontrol instruments of the same vintage . Rearmed with these old pieces , the frigates were somewhat more potent , though they still lacked all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type . Considering Israel 's armament , it probably was just as well that the Army was not called upon to fight a major action during this period . Given the geostrategic situation , IDF strategic planning remained committed to the rapid counter-strike , carrying operations as soon as possible into the enemy 's territory to gain a convincing victory before outside pressures compelled a halt . This strategy required highly mobile , armoured or at least mechanized , formations , supported by strong tactical air arm , but neither of these was available at this time . Even so , in working out its tactical doctrines the new IDF stressed the offensive , fighting on the move with a combination of the aimed fire taught by the British and the supprevsive moving fire embodied in German and Soviet doctrine . Both the state of armament and the training of the troops were inadequate to carry out such tactics during Yadin 's and Maklefl 's terms as chief of staff , but with the Arab armies operating under similar constraints this did not become a threat to Israel 's immediate security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until the Czech ? Egyptian arms agreement of " 955 upset the halancc of farrc ( ti , the actual threat to Israel 's security came from a renewal of Arab raids and she patent decline in the effectiveness and morale of her Army . In i95o , ah-cadN , Dayan had been very unhappy with the performance of the 7th ( Armoured ) Brigade in the Southern Command . On this occasion the Jordanians , clain ) Ing that the road to Eilat infringed on their territory , had blocked it for several days . Dayan had given orders to clear the road and though this was done , he was not at all pleased with the dithering , indecisive way ' the task had been carried out . ' O And as head of the General Staff Branch he witnessed even worse failures . In early May 1951 units of the Golani Brigade failed to drive Syrian intruders off a hill , Tel Mutilla , near Lake Kinneret and only succeeded after being reinforced by elements of a Druze volunteer battalion . The Golan ) commander , Major Zeevi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bulgarian immigrants , had shown stamina and determination , but GHQ considered the affair a grave setback . ' a Less serious but demonstrating poor morale , was an incident in December 1952 when a group of soldiers carrying supplies to Mount Scopus was fired on , dropped their loads , and ran . But the worst failure was the Falama affair . On 22 January 1953 , a conscript infantry company , employed in a retaliatory action , crossed the armistice line to demolish some houses in Falama , a small hamlet north east of Tel Aviv . When engaged by the local militia , the unit , having suffered only one fatality , retreated without carrying out its mission . Dayan , present on the scene , was furious . He relieved the company commander on the spot and directed that in the future any officer whose unit failed to carry its objectives would be dismissed unless his troops had suffered over 50 per cent casualties . " But Dayan also realized that it was not just the failure of individual commanders . The malaise went deeper . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too much engaged in social action and too little in realistic training . Too many infantry companies were composed of new immigrants and these units , where officers often did not understand the mentality of their men , could not cope with actual fighting . A solution to this problem was vital . The Falama incident highlighted the issue of the Arab incursions which had never ceased entirely . At the outset many of these incidents were trivial , involving the theft of livestock or irrigation pipe , but before the end of 1950 , they had escalated to sabotage and the murder of civilians , becoming ever more brutal and bloody . In 1950 , Israel had i9 citizens killed and 31 wounded by these acts ; 48 were killed and 49 wounded the next year , and in 1952 casualties rose to a combined total of 182 . All of the victims were civilians , many women and children . Altogether incidents numbered in the thousands , 1,751 in 1952. // Protests to the Mixed Armistice Commission were ofno avail . The 50-0dd UN observers compiled reports , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Clearly , the government of Israel had to protect its citizens and , failing to achieve this by diplomatic means , it resolved to use force , short of'war . Armed reprisals seemed the answer , both for military and psychological reasons . As Ben Gurion stated , the Jews in this land will not be like lambs led unto the slaughter . ' In 1952 he authorized retaliatory raids . Small active Army units went across the armistice lines , mainly into Jordanian-occupied Palestine , to blow up houses suspected of being infiltrator bases . Many of these missions failed , Falama was just one example . By 1953 out of 85 such actions only 15 were considered successful . Many times the raiders returned unable to find their objective ; on occasion they were repulsed . In the summer of 1953 , Makleff decided that drastic action was needed and , overriding Dayan 's objections that all Army units ought to be capable of carrying out such raids , he established a special unit for such missions ? Unit 1o1 . Never numbering more than 45 volunteers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit carried out a number of raids with surgical precision . Still , actions could backfire . After Arab raiders murdered a mother and her two children near Tel Aviv , Lavon and Makleff authorized a major raid against the village of Kibya . On 12 October 1953 , Unit ioi and elements of the 89oth ( Independent ) Paratroop Battalion struck . Despite standing orders to safeguard civilian lives , the action resulted in the death of 69 Jordanians , about half of them women and children . Although international reaction to the killing of Israeli civilians had been remarkably muted , the world press reacted angrily to Kibya . The Israeli government promptly disclaimed all responsibility and stated that the raid had been carried out by outraged private citizens ' . Few believed the story . Nonetheless , the government decided that it had no choice but to continue retaliatory actions , though instructions were issued that all future raids would be against military targets only . Attacking military bases raised the stakes in future confrontations . Yet by 1953 it appeared necessary . Up to this time neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance to the infiltrators , but since 1952 there was a new situation . That year King Farouk of Egypt was overthrown by the military and the new government , at first under Colonel Naguib , but actually directed by Gamul Abdel Nasser , embarked on a programme of escalating the ongoing hostilities with Israel . In late 1953 and early 1954 the Egyptians formed the infiltrators , mainly Palestinian refugees , into paramilitary units , fedayeen or self-sacrificers , and actively aided their incursions from the Gaza Strip . In Jordan , meanwhile , King Hussein , uneasy on the throne of his murdered father , could do no less . yo The New Army : 1949 53 Arab hostility began to assume a more active and menacing stage . In Israel many felt that the ring was closing and that a second round was becoming unavoidable . A few days after becoming chief of staff , Dayan expressed this siege mentality in an address to the graduates of an officers ' training course . World opinion , he told the graduates , always was only too ready to condenin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight for the capital of Israel ... you alone will bear this responsibility . ' 13 And Dayan was resolved to prepare the Army for the coming challenge . 4 Moshe Dayan and the Suez War : 1953 ? 57 Hear oh Israel , this day ye are approaching the war against your foes . Do not let your hearts grow faint ' Deuteronomy 20 : 3 Any leader who wishes to impress his own spirit on a whole army faces a formidable task . In the case of General Dayan , however , there is no doubt that he made an impression on the Israeli Army out of all proportion to his actual ability , considerable as it was , as a strategist . Unlike his two predecessors , Chief of Staff Dayan concerned himself less with organizing a ' regular ' military establishment , but with moulding a tough and aggressive-minded fighting force . He divested the IDF of most of its civilian functions , reduced its tail elements , and revived the combat spirit of ' 48 . To do this he de-emphasized outward appearance , ceremony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its combat mission . He enlarged the raiding force to set the style for the rest of the Army . Following the largescale acquisition of Soviet arms by Egypt in 1955 , he oversaw the transformation of the IDF from predominantly individual to crew-served weaponry and directed it during Operation Kadesh ' , the Israeli part of the Suez War , the first of the Arab ? Israeli conflicts featuring major air battles , armoured encounters , and massive firepower . The Paratroopers and the Revival of the Army Dayan was 38 years old when he became chief of staff . He had held a number of appointments with competence and distinction and had gained a reputation as a determined pragmatist , a quality that recommended him to Ben Gurion . Even so , he did not reveal his remarkable gifts of leadership , eventually coming to exemplify the bold follow me ' type of Israeli commander , until he assumed the highest post in the Army . He was an inspiring combat leader , convinced 91 // that boldness usually paid offin battle , and boldness required that officers set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he told a graduating cadet class , do not send their men into battle . They lead them into battle . " Commanders did not have to be insured against becoming casualties ; the most important thing for any unit was to attain its combat objective . Up to 1953 , however , this primary objective had not always been achieved . On the contrary , Dayan was troubled by the evident decline in the Army 's fighting spirit for which he blamed changes in officers ' conceptions of their role and a general reluctance to suffer casualties in a time of supposed peace .2 ' l'o improve performance , he issued instructions to assign better qualified and motivated conscripts to the infantry . This , in time , would produce results , meanwhile , however , there remained the problem of dealing with the Arab incursions , escalating in number and intensity . Dayan favoured continuing reprisal raids , but realized that the new policy initiated after Kibya of striking only at military targets required a larger force than Unit io1 . Such a force was created by combining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of a special raiding force had first been proposed , Dayan had not been enthusiastic . He was sceptical about the creation of a private army ' as he saw it and feared that it would raise all the special problems barely laid to rest with the dissolution of the Palmach . The exploits of the raiders had changed his mind and he now believed that the unit not only could carry out its specialized missions , but also had the potential to set an example for the faltering Army . As constituted , however , Unit 101 was too small to execute the new policy of military targets only , while essentially a small partisan band rather than a military formation , it could not provide a model for the rest of the Army . By contrast the paratroopers lacked fighting experience , but were a thoroughly professional ' unit , excelling in smart turnout , drill , and hand-to-hand combat demonstrations . Dayan decided to combine the best qualities of both units by merging the raiders with the paratroopers . Amalgamation , carried out in January 1954 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style , while many of the paratroopers objected to the loss of professionalism ' as they saw it . Feelings did not improve when Dayan passed over Lieutenant-Colonel Yehuda Harari , the Paratroop Battalion 's commanding officer , and instead appointed Major Ariel ( Arik ) Sharon , the 25-year-old leader of the raiders to head the new formation , designated Unit 202.3 If the merger nonetheless succeeded beyond all expectations , credit belonged to Sharon and his inspired band of young officers , including Majors Rafael Eytan , Aharon Davidi , and above all 21-year-old Captain Meir Har Zion , a daring leader of small units and a legend in his own time . Their enthusiasm , battle skills , and gallantry forged Unit 202 into a fighting // brotherhood consciously emulating the mystique of the tough paras of ' the I rcnch Army . l ? veryone was a volunteer and all took jump training , though normally the paratroopers fought as assault infantry going into action on armoured personnel carriers or on foot . For almost two years they monopolized retaliatory actions and almost invariably succeeded . Within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular esteem and their red berets and silver jump wings became coveted badges of honour . Qualified volunteers came forward in large enough numbers to expand the unit into a three-battalion brigade . To identify the Army at large with the new fighting spirit , basic parachute training became a prerequisite for all senior officers in the combat branches . Dayan took the course in 1954 and even Rabbi Goren , the chief chaplain , earned his jump wings . The paratroopers practised a special style of night fighting , abandoning the traditional fire and movement sequence in favour of closing rapidly with the enemy . Hesitation , Sharon drummed into them , was fatal and until detected , the assault should be carried out silently . Once on the objective , the paratroopers would split up into teams and fight the enemy with submachine guns , grenades , and knives . These tactics were well suited to night attacks , producing a maximum of surprise and psychological shock . Coming to close quarters with the enemy also obviated the need for artillery support which , severely restricted in an effort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceptional circumstances . Officers , of course , were expected to lead the assaults and their casualties were severe . I do not think ' , Dayan recorded in 1956 , that there is a single veteran officer in the paratroopers who has not been wounded in one of their actions . 14 Retaliatory actions , both along the armistice line with Jordanian-occupied Palestine , in Sinai , and the Gaza Strip normally were carried out by small forces , platoons and companies ; even the largest operations did not involve more than a battalion . Despite the small numbers involved , these exploits signalled the revival of the Israeli Army 's martial spirit . They provided combat experience and restored confidence . Dayan had expected this , though he must have been aware of the risk that the rest of the ground forces , left out of the action , might come to feel that they could never match the paratroopers and deteriorate even further . As it turned out , however , the 202nd Brigade became an example for others . By the end of 1955 , when hostilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units join the paratroopers in action . The first such joint operation took place on 2 November 1955 ? In October , regular Egyptian forces had established themselves in the demilitarized zone around El Auja in northern Sinai . Their presence there , in violation of the armistice agreement , could not be tolerated and when UN protests proved unavailing , Ben Gurion , who had returned as defence minister in February // 1955 , gave orders to evict them . The operation was carried out by a joint forre of paratroopers , infantry of the Golani Brigade , and NAllA1 , units . ( hu ? month later , on 5 December , Ben Gurion , who now had also reassumed the post of prime minister , authorized an operation to silence Syrian guns that had fired on Israeli fishermen on Lake Kinneret . Once again Golani infantry fought alongside the paratroopers , demonstrating a new spirit . ' Even so , until the Suez campaign , there remained the question whether reservists , the bulk of the Israeli fighting force , would manifest the same high level of combat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last two actions evidence of the failure of the'reprisal-raid policy . Their purpose had been twofold . Long range , they were to project the image of a Jewish state determined to defend itself , while immediately , with Israel 's long frontiers quite indefensible against infiltration , the reprisals were to exact a price so high that the various Arab governments would decide not to pay it . By 1955 , however , the fedayeen had come under the official sponsorship of various Arab governments , primarily Egypt , and increasingly regular troops were stationed close to their bases to counter the expected Israeli reprisals . And this , of course , turned minor forays into ever larger encounters . Between September 1955 and October 1956 the fedayeen raids intensified . There were almost daily incidents and in 1956 the death toll of Israeli civilians approached 400 with many more seriously wounded . At the same time , reprisal raids were met with increasingly better prepared resistance , escalating into battalionsized engagements.6 With the UN hopelessly deadlocked between the United States and Russia , little could be done in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Dag Hammarskj6ld paid a surprise visit to the Middle East and arranged a border truce . Conditionally accepted by Israel , the arrangements collapsed when Egyptian-sponsored fedayeen renewed their incursions from the Gaza Strip . In July fighting flared up again along the Jordanian line and after some particularly serious incidents Ben Gurion personally authorized large-scale reprisals . Between 12 September and io October the IDF mounted four major attacks against fortified Jordanian positions . The last , an attack on the Kalkilya police fort , resulted in heavy casualties on both sides . The Jordanians , familiar with the now stereotyped night-raiding tactics , trapped the Israeli blocking force positioned too far out . Efforts to extricate it lasted into the next day and required medium artillery support . When it was all over , Israeli losses stood at 18 killed , including 8 officers , and 50 wounded , including 14 officers . Raids were becoming too costly and Dayan concluded that the Army had reached the // end of the chapter of night reprisal actions ' . ' For sonic time now Israeli critics , headed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gurion 's leave , had argued that the raids were counter-productive and that Israel should instead seek to negotiate with her Arab adversaries , rely on the UN and the great powers . Unfortunately these suggestions had little base in reality . The Arab governments , following the Egyptian lead , assumed a more aggressive stance , broadened their economic war against Israel and openly supported the fedayeen proclaimed as national heroes . The UN , of course , remained powerless , and the great powers either hostile or at best indifferent . The Soviet Union now espoused the Arab cause , while Great Britain , though no longer on cordial terms with Egypt , still was allied with Jordan and Iraq and busy sponsoring schemes to placate the Arabs by forcing Israel to cede the Negev . And United States policy , as revealed in State Department documents published in 1977 , was dominated by pro-Arabists and the oil lobby . The Lavon Affair Recognizing that her freedom of action was drastically limited , fear and frustration led Israel into some desperate expedients , notably an attempt in 1954 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices in Alexandria and Cairo . Poorly conceived and executed , with suspicions that the Israeli operator in charge was a double agent , the attempts failed . There were bitter charges and counter-charges regarding responsibility for this fiasco . Defence Minister Lavon charged that the whole affair had been deliberately rigged by certain senior officers to discredit him , while Military Intelligence claimed that the minister had acted on his own . A commission of inquiry , consisting of former Chief of Staff Dori and Chief Justice Yitzhak Olshan , concluded that it was not possible to assign blame . When Sharett refused to back Lavon , the minister resigned in anger . It was at this point that Ben Gurion had returned as defence minister . The unfortunate affair ' , which would continue to haunt Israeli domestic politics for several years , illustrated the difficulties inherent in the unstructured relationship between the IDF and the defence minister . Ben Gurion had the prestige and the knowledge to control all defence matters , while Lavon lacked his expertise and status . Regardless of his involvement in the Egyptian sabotage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of a mixed military ? civilian national security authority . A throwback to the political National Command of Haganah days , such a body would have turned the IDF into a battleground for the various parties and endangered the unified and depoliticized Army . Ultimately , Lavon 's ouster // was the outcome ofthis clash . Still , relationships betwl'CII the chief of ShIll'and the defence minister remained basically unresolved and would again reach it crisis point after October 1973 . Beyond this , the Lavon alfair highlighted the growing apprehensions and fears in Tel Aviv , where frustrations about the state 's diplomatic isolation were reinforced by the steady growth of Arab military power . The Arab Build-up In the final analysis , Israeli defence planners were most directly concerned with the steady build-up of the Arab armies and military capabilities . While they recognized that , seen from the Arab side , the growth of the IDF , coupled with the tough reprisal policy , projected an equally threatening image , they held that Arab military preparations were not , as Nasser once claimed , a direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Arab rhetoric seemed to confirm it , that the Arabs had not given up hopes of reversing the verdict of 1948 . The raids contributed incentive to the Arab build-up , but revenge was the most important motivating factor , followed by inter-Arab rivalries , and internal security problems . Finally , both Great Britain , and to a lesser degree the United States , supported this development by supplying arms to Egypt , Iraq , and Jordan , hoping to reduce the intrusion of Russian influence into the Middle East . Between 1949 and 1956 Iraq 's armed forces increased from 38,00o to about 50,000 , organized in five understrength divisions , including one armoured , r equipped with 42 British Centurion tanks and 30 M-8 Greyhound armoured cars from the United States . Her air force gradually was re-equipped with British jets : 36 Venoms , Vampires , and Sea Furies . Much of the Iraqi Army , however , was absorbed in the perennial war against the Kurdish minority and Israel considered its combat effectiveness low . Still , Iraq had never signed an armistice with Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces into Jordan would constitute a casus Belli . Israel also had relatively low regard for Syria , perhaps the most belligerent of her immediate neighbours . Although Syrian forces tripled from 15,000 to 45,000 between 195o and 1956 , constant internal turmoil , poor equipment , and low levels of supply reduced their potential . By contrast , Israeli soldiers held a high opinion of the British-trained and officered Jordanians . Until 1956 Jordanian forces comprised two distinct and separate elements . Considered potentially unreliable , the newly acquired Palestinian subjects formed a loosely organized and poorly equipped National Guard , designed for local defence duties only . Its maximum strength was 30,000 , with about one-third on active duty . More important was the // expansion of the Arab Legion , now designated the Arab Army . By 1956 it comprised 25,000 long-service soldiers , organized in three motorized and one armoured brigades . In 1955 Jordan had received a number of the newest British tank-destroyers , Charioteers , 2o-pounder guns on Cromwell tank chassis , augmented by 15o armoured cars . Artillery was re-equipped and organized in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one battalion anti-tank and one of anti-air artillery . Finally , Jordan acquired a modest air strength , a squadron of Vampire jets . Political turmoil , disputes between Bedouin and Palestinian elements , and between factions favouring Syria against Egypt , and between dynastic loyalists and radicals , hampered the effectiveness of the Jordanian forces . Dayan and the Israeli general staff did not consider the Jordanian armed forces alone as a major threat . They were , however , concerned about Jordan 's geostrategic position , menacing Israel 's heartland and about possible joint operations with the Egyptians . Then as now Egypt was the largest and the most important of the Arab countries . Since the military coup of 1952 , she had steadily improved her armed forces . Nasser repeatedly proclaimed that the destruction of Israel remained his major objective and in pursuit of this aim Egypt had acquired arms and military equipment from every possible source . Some had come from Italy and France , though even after being expelled from the Suez Canal Zone , Britain continued to supply arms ? 41 Centurion tanks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Valentine tank chassis , Vampire and Meteor jets , some heavy bombers , and two Z-class destroyers . The latter , sold in 1955 , were , however , matched by the same number sold to Israel . These arms acquisitions were of course nothing compared with those received by Egypt under the Czechoslovak ? Egyptian arms purchase treaty announced by Nasser on 27 September 1955 ? Since the spring Egypt had got , or was getting , some 300 medium and heavy tanks , T-34/85 and JS-3s , 200 armoured personnel carriers , BTR-152s , loo SU-loo assault guns , 500 medium field guns and howitzers , 200 57mm anti-tank guns , 134 anti-aircraftguns , 1,000 recoilless rifles , together with large quantities of scout cars , smallarms , trucks , and other military equipment . To provide air power , there were 50 twin-engined IL-28 jet bombers and 120 Mig-15 fighters , as well as 20 transport planes . In addition , the Soviets sent two Skory-class destroyers , 15 fast mine-sweepers , several submarines and scores of torpedo boats . All this equipped an Egyptian military establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 9o,000 regulars and io , 000 reservists , and a ioo , 000 strong National Guard by 1956 , forming five infantry divisions , three armoured brigades , and a number of independent formations . ' With the Russian gR Moshe Dayan and the Sues War : t9S3-67 equipment , of course , there came numerous Russian experts , instructors , and technicians to augment the German instructors who had been at work on the Egyptian Army for some years . For Israel , Egypt 's Soviet connection , and the arms build-up and intensification of pressure , presented a palpable threat . The build-up was especially worrisome when seen in the light of the deployment of her armed forces in the Sinai Peninsula . The German advisers had proposed that Egypt 's major defences should be sited in the western part of the peninsula , some 25 miles east of the canal on the hills that run north to south in the Bir Gafgafa area controlling the major east ? west axes and the Mitla and Giddi passes . The recommendations were sound . Nasser , however , rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He wanted his main positions and bases as close as possible to the Israeli frontier to serve as a springboard for a future offensive and to defend the fedayeen camps in the Gaza Strip . Accordingly the major Egyptian bases were located in the Rafah ? El Arish ? Abu Ageila triangle , with a strong blocking position east of Abu Ageila at Um Katef . Further south , Kusseima , hard on the Israeli border , guarded an important road junction and was strongly fortified , while in the centre and south there were fortifications and garrisons at Kuntilla , Thamad , Nakhl and at Ras Nasrani and Sharm el Sheik on the Gulf of Aqaba . Israel 's general staff and intelligence assumed that the Egyptian deployment in the Rafa approaches could only be intended for a large-scale conventional offensive , though its exact timing remained a matter of speculation and discussion . The date would depend both on Egypt 's relations with the great powers and on her ability to assimilate the new war materiel . As Nasser 's policy unfolded , he allowed guerrillas to operate against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase its strident rhetoric for war . In this context , the closing of the Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping , combined with the continued denial of peaceful transit through the Suez Canal , was taken in Israel as the final straw in a cumulative process which would culminate in full-scale attack unless it was promptly scotched . From November 1955 on , Dayan and his senior officers started to make plans for a pre-emptive strike into Sinai and exerted every effort to acquire arms abroad . The Rise of Israeli Armour and the Reorganization of the Ground Forces It had always been recognized that reprisals could at best provide only temporary security . Long-range security , Ben Gurion and the military leadership realized , could be provided only by a combination of diplomacy , industrial development , and military power . Diplomacy , however , had failed , military industries were still primitive , and the massive Soviet arms shipments // to Egypt , introducing new and sophisticated weaponry , made improvizations no longer feasible . Israel 's security rested on the actual capability of her army to wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tactically , although infantry-oriented , Israeli commanders realized that tanks , combining mobility , firepower , and protection , were ideal for her defensive ? offensive strategy . But there were few Israelis with armour experience , no technical manuals in Hebrew , and no accepted doctrine . Moreover , there still was the feeling that the rigid discipline , conformity , and technology required for armoured warfare ran counter to the socialistegalitarian ideals of Israeli society . Nevertheless , the formation of true armoured units had already begun under Yadin and continued under Makleff and Dayan . Training courses conducted with translated manuals and much experimentation , produced tankers and mechanics who regarded tanks no longer as mysterious machines imported from abroad , but as vehicles to be used , repaired , and even modified . There remained , however , the problem of actually acquiring tanks . As of 1953 the IDF still had but one armoured brigade , the infantry heavy 7th , consisting of one battalion of 50 Sherman M-4 tanks , one infantry battalion on half-tracks and two battalions on trucks . This undersized and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel would have liked to purchase British or American tanks , but was refused . On the other hand , relations with the French military , if not the diplomats , remained cordial and late in 1952 talks were conducted regarding the sale of AMX-13 tank-destroyers . Although agreement was reached the ever-cautious French Foreign Ministry , still hoping to mend relations with the Arabs , delayed deliveries until 1954 . A total of loo AMX-13s , light mobile tanks with a medium-velocity 75mm cannon , were acquired , together with some 15o extra guns , 15o renovated US M-3 half-tracks , and 6o French M-50 105mm howitzers . The additional equipment enabled the IDF to activate two new armoured brigades , the 27th and the 37th , both reserve formations . In 1955 , when even the Foreign Ministry realized that Nasser was actively promoting the Algerian revolt , France sold Israel another 6o Shermans and in 1956 , just before the Sinai Campaign , additional tanks were delivered in French naval tank-landing ships to deserted Israeli beaches . The last shipments were composed of modified Shermans M-4A3 E8s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long US 76.2mm tank gun . The Israelis , meanwhile , had cannibalized some of their old tanks to install the new 75mm cannons , though this required extensive reworking of the turrets to accommodate the long breech and recoil mechanism . In 1956 , therefore , IDF armour consisted of four types of Sherman : the French modification designated as M50 , the Israeli modification , known as the M-51 , together with various older // the mobilized IDF was a host of civilians temporarily putting on uniforms . To speed up mobilization and make it more flexible , two types of call-up were introduced . The first , silent mobilization , summoned officers and key personnel by telephone or messenger and they in turn contacted their men . The second type utilized the radio . Code names such as Open Window ' , Eternal Spring ' , Men of Work ' , Lovers of Zion ' , would mobilize the men of a particular unit , each soldier responding only to his own unit 's designation . Mobilization could be carried out in various stages . Key personnel could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general mobilization could be ordered . When broadcasts read out the code names , youths and men rushed to pre-arranged assembly points where buses would take them to their depots . Gradually refined and tested by partial call-ups , the system could by 1951 provide over 100,00o men and women , combat-ready active and reserve soldiers in less than three days . Sceptics still remained dubious whether the system would function during total mobilization and some predicted that it would break down in utter confusion . To test the scheme , Yadin , overcoming powerful opposition of the Finance Ministry , which claimed that the economy could not stand the expense , obtained Ben Gurion 's permission to hold three large-scale manoeuvres involving over ioo , 000 soldiers . The first , Manoeuvre A , in 1950 tested the call-up system , while Manoeuvres B and C , held in 1951 , actually deployed reserve formations in the field . Manoeuvre B tested the system under the assumption that Israel had suffered a surprise attack , while C assumed that the state had launched a pre-emptive strike . The manoeuvres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that reserve formations performed as well as active force units . To be sure , there were complaints that the manoeuvre rules were too schematic and paid too little attention to armour and air capabilities , but there was consensus that mobilization had been fast and effective . By 1952 , Yadin was able to make refinements . As the reserves pool grew , additional units were formed and older reservists shifted to non-combat tasks . Reserve obligations imposed , and still do , considerable hardships on individuals . To provide some relief , in 1952 the Knesset passed the Reserve Compensation Law giving pay to all persons serving for more than three consecutive days on active duty . It was , however , only a small relief . Yet , reserve duty did not cause much resentment . For many it was a distinct and perhaps welcome break from the stresses of everyday civilian life ; it brought together men and women from different social classes and origins , and within a few years reserve units began to develop their own corporate spirit . With the establishment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple and effective organization , but at the same time there were // pressures on the government to shift priorities . The continuing unrest and disunity in the neighbouring Arab states made a massive attack , though not small incursions , unlikely and critics now argued that by cutting defence spending much needed social programmes could be implemented . 1 n response , Ben Gurion ordered a slash in IDF strength and a reduction of the defence budget from 5o to 40 million Israeli pounds . Yadin accepted the decision . I le insisted , however , on making the necessary savings by a selective reduction in force rather than by disbanding entire units as the prime minister demanded . When no agreement could be reached , Yadin resigned on 22 November 1952 . Makleff and Dayan Yadin 's successor was his 33-year-old deputy , Mordechai Makleff . Born in the small village of Moza near Jerusalem , where his entire family had been killed during the 1929 riots , Makleff had joined the Haganah at an early age , served with Wingate 's SNS , and during World War II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the time of Yadin 's resignation Makleff was studying political science and economics in London , preparing for his retirement . A studious and reserved man , he agreed with Ben Gurion about the need to reduce military expenditures . A weak economy and a . dispirited civilian population , he believed , would endanger an effective military posture . A determined disciplinarian and a staunch advocate of professionalism on the British model , Makleff was quite prepared to settle for a smaller but more efficient force . He carried out the cutbacks ordered by Ben Gurion , eliminating many administrative and support units , and ruthlessly weeded out officers who did not measure up . Because of the haste in which the new Army had been created , he wrote , we had absorbed a high proportion of incompetents ' and these were discharged.1e Makleff , however , differed with Ben Gurion regarding the selection of a deputy chief of staff and head of the General Staff Branch . His personal preference was Rabin , but Ben Gurion , who had not forgotten Rabin for being one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palmach , refused to countenance this . Instead the prime minister insisted on Dayan , his personal protege , a member of the Labour Party , but with no strong political ties . Dayan even then had the reputation of being extremely bold and venturesome , but by the same token a wilful commander.16 He had no interest in administration and accepted the post with the proviso that he would act as Makleff 's deputy only when the chief of staff was out of the country . Moreover , he insisted that the General Staff Branch would assume the senior position at GHQ Surprisingly , Ben Gurion and Makleff accepted these terms and Dayan now entered into the decision-making circle . too Moshe / ) ayan and the Suez War : 195. f 57 models of the M-4 , some still with the original short 75mm guns and others with the short 76mm cannon . In addition , there were about too AMX-13s and between 400 and 500 half-tracks . It remained an open question , however , how well the modified Shermans could stand up to the heavier-gunned Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corps , actually an inspectorate on the same level as infantry , was established in 1953 and two additional brigades , the 27th and the 37th , both reserve formations , were activated . During the Sinai Campaign none of these formations had the same table of organization and all fielded an astonishing variety of vehicles . The 7th comprised of two armoured battalions , one with Shermans and the other with AMX- , 3s , one mechanized and one motorized infantry battalion , a towed field-artillery battery , and supporting elements . The 37th Brigade had a similar organization , except that it had only one company of AMX-13s instead of a full battalion , while instead of a towed battery it had a troop of self-propelled M-5o howitzers . Finally , the 37th Brigade had a total of only four tank companies , one mechanized and one motorized infantry battalion , and a jeep-mounted reconnaissance company equipped with recoilless rifles . Moreover , before going into action , the brigade had to detach 25 of its Shermans to reinforce the 11th Infantry Brigade . In fact , many Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violating the cardinal principle of massed armour . These curious dispositions in part were field expedients , tailored to specific mission requirements , but they also reflected the unresolved dispute over the proper role of armour in the IDF . During the immediate post-war period the handful of ageing and poorly maintained tanks were widely considered to be inferior instruments to mechanized infantry . This belief was challenged by armour enthusiasts . As early as 1952 , Lieutenant-Colonel Uri Ben Ari , operating his 7th Brigade as part of the blue ' forces directed by Dayan in Manoeuvre B , penetrated to the rear of the opposing green ' forces disrupting their communications . Yadin , who had planned an orderly infantry-based exercise was much put out . The armoured brigade was ruled out of action and in the post-manoeuvre critique Ben Ari was told in no uncertain terms that the proper role of armour was to support infantry . Unabashed , Ben Ari repeated his manoeuvre the next year and this time the umpires did not rule against him . Moreover , Ben Gurion , present during the exercise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantry , sending it flying to the rear , and thereafter he supported the acquisition of additional tanks . ' ? But even Ben Gurion 's very considerable leverage could not budge thinking at GHQor provide sufficient funds in a time of austerity . Although Dayan had backed his subordinate in 1952 and favoured swift penetrations into the Moshe Dayan and the Suez War : 1953-57 tot enemy 's rear , he belonged to the mechanized infantry school . Tanks , he believed , were too expensive and mechanically unreliable for extended operations . Deep penetrations could be carried out cheaper and more efficiently by armed jeeps , half-tracks , and armoured cars . Tanks should be carried forward on their transporters and unloaded only at the last possible moment to provide suppressive fire . General Laskov , who at Ben Gurion 's insistence had become head of the General Staff Branch in 1955 and , disliked by Dayan , had then been shunted to command the Armoured Corps in the summer of 1956 , had opposed this fragmentation . Tanks , he asserted , were not merely infantry support vehicles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their primary role was to fight massed against enemy armour . The dispute between Dayan and Laskov continued until September 1956 when Ben Gurion was called in . The issue was complicated because the Egyptian deployment in the Sinai did not feature heavy armour concentrations . Instead , there were a number of strong hedgehog defences , with armour either dug in as anti-tank artillery or held back in reserve . Dayan , backed by Ben Gurion , held that armour should not assault these positions directly . The typical assault formation , he ordered , would consist of an infantry battalion , plus a tank company , plus artillery support ' . Armour was to act as part of a combined arms team to breach the defences and enemy armour would not necessarily be its main objective . " In the end , however , Dayan modified his original instructions . One armoured brigade , the 7th , was allowed to remain concentrated , though assigned a subordinate role . There also was expansion , reorganization , and a limited amount of reequipment in the other branches of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces , the active Army in the mid-1950s comprised 45,000 men and women , constituting on mobilization 16 brigades , including 1 paratroop , 3 armoured , and 13 infantry brigades . The increase in the overall number of brigades was partly the result of a larger number of reservists entering the system and to the streamlining of the brigade structure . Dayan cut the size of these units to about 3,500 all ranks for armour , 4,000 for paratroop , and 4,500 for infantry brigades . Organization , however , remained flexible . The Jerusalem Brigade , for instance , holding an exposed sector and largely composed of local residents and students from the Hebrew University , had a larger establishment than normal . Infantry brigades were organized on a triangular basis , three rifle battalions providing the main strength . Supporting elements included a heavy mortar company , a reconnaissance company , a signal platoon , an engineer platoon , and usually an anti-aircraft platoon . With Israel as yet unable to manufacture heavy weapons and with artillery difficult to procure , normally artillery was not // integral to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanded to a full battalion , was the main support weapon . After 1954 France provided some self-propelled to5mm howitzers as well as a small number of 155mm field guns , but artillery did not catch up with the rapid development of the other IDF corps for some time . At a lower level each rifle battalion was organized into three companies with three platoons each , with company fire support furnished by a medium mortar section , a number of light mortars , and medium machine-guns . Individual weapons remained a mix of submachine-guns , rifles , and light machine-guns . Purchase orders had been placed in Belgium for automatic FN rifles chambered for the NATO cartridge , but few had been received by the time of the Sinai Campaign . The majority of Israeli infantry fought with bolt-action Czech and British rifles , supplemented by submachine-guns . Suitable transport remained in short supply . As late as September 1956 , Dayan noted that a check of our logistic material makes us more aware than ever what paupers we are ' and among his most urgent requests to Paris was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even so , on mobilization , the IDF went to war with some 13,000 civilian vehicles pressed hastily into service , ranging from farm trucks to buses , delivery vans , jeeps , and taxis.I2 Israel 's Air Force : 1953-56 Following the initial clash between Yadin and Remez over the status of the air force , Laskov had managed to smooth out many of the difficulties . During his tenure as commanding officer of the IAF the basic concept of a single-type force was accepted and the personnel situation stabilized . At the end of 1953 he was succeeded by Dan Tolkowsky , a pilot officer , who remained in office until 1958 . Building on foundations already laid , Tolkowsky achieved a considerable degree of autonomy for the air force , a compromise between the complete independence demanded by Remez and the subordinate corps status advocated by Yadin . The IAF maintained its own operational headquarters , air staff , and , except for basic training , its own instructional system . Its major problem was access to up-to-date equipment to replace the mix of ageing and obsolescent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a jet force . Jets were expensive and difficult to obtain . Only a few countries produced such aircraft and even when Israel could come up with the money , political considerations interfered with sales . As early as 1950 there were intimations that the French Ouragan fighter , a first generation jet , might be available . Actual acquisition , however , was delayed by the French Foreign Ministry . Even after Israel and France signed a purchase agreement in June 1952 , involving the sale of three Nord-2500 transporters and 25 Ouragans , the jets // did not reach the IA I ' until October 1954 . Meanwhile , Israel had succeeded in obtaining small quantities of jets from Britain and Belgium . In 1953 the British sold Israel three Meteor T-7 jet trainers and three more were bought from Belgium . The next year a total of 24 Meteor M-8s were acquired . But the Meteors were inferior to the Mig-15s and used primarily as trainers . Only 15 remained operational in 1956 . Israel continued to negotiate for more sophisticated jets , especially for a multi-purpose fighter-bomber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but deliveries were delayed . This time it was not merely the result of French diplomatic waffling . There was a dispute within the IAF . Fighter pilots like Weizman argued that the Mystere II , basically a pure fighter , should be bought because it was available , while Tolkowsky held out for the far more advanced Mystere IV which had some bombing capabilities . The first eight Mystere IVs arrived in Israel in April ? May 1956 . Airmen rejoiced , but Levi Eshkol , the finance minister , present with other dignitaries to welcome the new planes , was less impressed . He considered them a poor buy : $36,000 and only one seat ' , he complained . ' 3 The Mysteres , together with the Ouragan 6s and the remaining Meteors , provided a jet force of some 6o planes by October 1956 , the balance of Israeli fighters consisting of Mustangs and a few Mosquitoes . Israel remained outnumbered in the air and both Tolkowsky and Weizman accepted this as a fact of life . Quality had to make up the difference . Pilot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high , and Weizman , heading the fighter command , insisted that only pilots signing on for extended tours of duty would be allowed to fly the new jets . Short-termers would pilot the remaining propeller-driven fighters and utility aircraft . " At the same time , the IAF realized that the all-important question was not how many planes were in the inventory , but how many were operational . Maintenance and turn-around time became major preoccupations . With manpower short , the IAF had a much smaller ground crew-to-plane ratio than other air forces ? about 25 to 1 ? and efficiency in maintenance , repair , refuelling , and rearming were considered vital . As the opening of its first major campaign approached , the IAF felt confident that it could carry out its assigned mission , though Ben Gurion remained apprehensive about the threat to Israel 's cities posed by the new Egyptian jet bombers . Towards Operation Kadesh ' Ever since the large-scale transfer of Soviet arms to Egypt , coupled with the closing of the Straits of Tiran , Israel had considered that the situation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was contemplating // an operation to break the blockade and to guarantee Israel 's access to the Red Sea by capturing the coastal strip at Sharm el Sheik . Dayan believed that such an operation would be far easier if launched before Egypt had assimilated the new Soviet equipment , but Ben Gurion refused to authorize such action . The prime minister agreed that Nasser 's major objective in procuring such a formidable arms supply , exceeding in volume the cumulative total of previous arms transfers to all the Middle Eastern countries , was the destruction of Israel . At the same time , however , he recognized that the contest between the United States and the Soviet Union for influence in the Arab world , complicated by last-ditch British attempts to hold on to her shrinking influence in the region , had placed Israel in an isolated position and in accordance with his doctrine , formulated in 1949 , Israel should take the initiative only when assured of major power support . In the event , France came to be that power . Leading members of her defence establishment had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings were not shared by the Foreign Ministry , which had opposed Israel 's admission to the UN and had not established full diplomatic relations until September 1952 . After 1954 , however , France was at odds with the Arabs over control of the north Sahara states and fighting a bitter insurrection in Algeria . The Egyptian refusal to desist from assisting the Algerian rebellion finally turned the scales . There was an increased supply of French armaments and some exchange of intelligence between Paris and Tel Aviv . By the summer of 1956 , France felt pushed beyond endurance by Egyptian policy and plans to co-operate with Israel to obtain redress of the several and quite different grievances by force emerged in seminal form . During the summer of 1956 , finally , the French diplomats approached the British with proposals for joint action . On 27 July 1956 Nasser seized the Suez Canal . This constituted the point of no return for France and even moved the British to consider the use of force . French military supplies reached Israel in increasing quantity , while Paris tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The French government , still dominated by leaders whose thinking had been shaped in the wartime resistance , established intimate relations with Israel , but the partnership with Britain was difficult and beset with mutual misgivings . Just as negotiations got underway , the Kalkilya raid brought Israel and Britain into an open confrontation . Jordan appealed to Iraq to send troops under a defence treaty of 1947 , while Israel warned that entry of Iraqi troops would constitute a casus belli . In turn , the British declared that they would then be obliged to come to the aid of their Jordanian ally . On 15 October 1956 , however , the Iraqis decided not to dispatch troops and the crisis passed . Ben Gurion was furious about the possible predicament in which Israel would find herself allied with Moshe I ) ayan and the Suez War : 1953-57 toy France in an attack on Egypt , while England was allied with Jordan and Iraq in a war against Israel . This danger passed , though Anglo ? Israeli relations remained strained . To salvage the prospects of joint action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sevres on 22 October . Ben Gurion , accompanied by Dayan and Shimon Peres left for France amid great secrecy . At first the meeting was bilateral between Israel and France , joined later by British Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd who , according to Dayan , expressed distaste ? for the place , the company , and the topic ' . In view of the British record and attitude , and also worried about the Egyptian air threat , Ben Gurion insisted on French air and sea cover for Israel 's major urban centres and a formal British commitment . Moreover Dayan declined to divulge details of his operational plans . The main British concern , Dayan wrote later , was to get a real act of war ' not a raid , so that British intervention could be justified . When the conference appeared headed for collapse , Dayan disclosed his intentions . The IDF would provide the necessary pretext for Anglo ? French action by dropping paratroops close enough to the Suez Canal to pose a realistic threat , though he cautioned that there would be no major operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this did not happen within 48 hours after the initial Israeli drop , set for afternoon of 29 October , then the paratroops would be withdrawn and the action represented as another reprisal raid . This satisfied the British and agreement on principles was reached . There also was talk about post-campaign diplomatic co-operation , though in view of the past record of the French and British diplomats the Israelis expected little . On 26 October Israel began to mobilize . I s Operation Kadesh ' The Israeli war plan had been elaborated by Dayan and Colonel Meir Amit , Laskov 's successor as the head of the General Staff Branch . Its execution was entrusted to Major-General Assaf Simhoni of the Southern Command . There were three major objectives : ( I ) the destruction of the fedayeen bases in the Gaza Strip and along the Sinai frontier ; ( 2 ) elimination of Egyptian offensive potential by the demolition of her advanced bases and logistics infrastructure in the Sinai ; and ( 3 ) the opening of the Gulf of Aqaba to Israeli shipping . Because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was considered absolutely vital that the scope of the operation be concealed as long as possible and that the objectives be attained within the shortest possible time . These considerations induced Dayan to prohibit , much to the disappointment of the airmen , the IAF from opening the campaign with a classic strike against the Egyptian air force on the ground and also led him to // order that armour should he employed only after the second day when , according to the Sevres agreement , Anglo-French operations had begun . As he pointed out , the most difficult problem was not how to defeat the enemy , but how to achieve this within the constraints imposed by the international political situation . Patterned on Liddell Hart 's principles , the plan envisaged swift penetrations and manoeuvres against the rear of the enemy . During the opening phase the paratroop drop would serve both as a diversion and as the trigger for AngloFrench action , while other units would seize starting positions just across the frontier . Then , if the operation continued , the advance would isolate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dayan ordered , were to be avoided if possible and units were to proceed ignoring orthodox tactical preoccupations with the security of their flanks or communications . There was no need , Dayan wrote , to fear that Egyptian units who will be bypassed will launch a counter-attack or cut our supply lines ' . ' 6 In fact , he expected that once isolated , the Egyptian defences would collapse and the final objectives be reached with a minimum of fighting during the last stage . Dayan 's predictions were based on the fact that the Egyptian deployment had become unbalanced . Expecting an Anglo ? French reaction to the seizure of the canal , the Egyptian high command had returned one armoured brigade and two infantry positions from their forward positions and lacked capability to respond offensively . Still , in October 1956 forward Egyptian forces amounted to six reinforced infantry brigades with attached armour and artillery located in the triangle , two reinforced battalions at Sharm el Sheik , and some garrison and patrol units in the central region . " The nine Israeli brigades allocated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attacker over the defender called for by conventional military doctrine and Dayan had difficulty convincing French officers that the attack could be accomplished against such numerical odds . Dayan , however , hoped that superior leadership , training and morale , coupled with mobility would compensate for numbers . Israeli forces detailed for Operation Kadesh ' included one armoured brigade , the 7th with two tank battalions , two mechanized ( armoured ) brigades , the 27th and the 37th , one paratroop brigade , the 202nd , and the six infantry brigades , the 1st , 4th , 9th , loth , 11th , and 12th . Except for the 7th and the 202nd , all were reserve formations , reinforced with attached artillery , engineer , NAHAL , and local territorial defence units . ' 8 In accordance with established Israeli command practices , brigade commanders were given wide latitude in attaining their objectives . On the two northern axes , Rafah ? El Arish ? Kantara and from Nitzana to Abu Ageila and then on towards Ismailia , provisional divisional task forces headquarters , ugdot in Hebrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1st and the 27th // brigades commanded by Laskov ; the second was constituted of the loth and the 37th brigades , directly under Simhoni . Also in this region , instructed not to enter combat until the second phase of operations , was the 7th Brigade . The remaining brigades had independent assignments . After its initial drop , the 202nd was to exploit towards the western shore of the peninsula ; the 4th was to take the important road junction at Kusseima on the first day , opening a passage into Sinai south of the Um Katef position , while the 9th was to make its way down the roadless eastern shore to Sharm el Sheik . Finally , the i ith and 12th brigades , supported by a battalion combat team of the 37th , were to attack the Gaza Strip after it had been cut off from the triangle . The attack was to be covered by the IAF , whose mission was to establish control over the battle area , interdict hostile movement , and provide close ground support . With two French squadrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lod respectively , the IAF could concentrate on the battle area , putting some too jets and 5o piston-engined planes into the air . ' 9 At the same time , a French squadron , including the cruiser GeorgesLeyges , took up station off the Israeli coast . Their task was to prevent sorties by Egypt 's superior navy , four destroyers against two Israeli , and it also provided some ship-to-shore fire support during the battle for Rafah . To maintain security Dayan delayed mobilization for most units until the last possible moment . Initial mobilization , begun on 26 October , was by messenger and only on the 28th did the system move into the radio call-up phase . The short time allowed for preparation created difficulties for the reserve brigades . Vehicles , hastily collected , were not always well maintained or properly equipped ; certain items never reached units from mobilization stores , and senior officers , transferred from staff and instructional duties to combat assignments , did not always have time to familiarize themselves with their men . Dayan , however , considered these problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Actual operations took only too hours and all major fighting was over by t November . Although brief , the campaign can be divided into three distinct phases . The opening phase , 29 ? 30 October ; the breakthrough phase , 31 October tot November ; and the exploitation phase , 2 ? 5 November . Action began in the afternoon of 29 October when four IAF Mustangs cut telephone lines throughout the Sinai , followed at 16.2o hours by the drop of one weak paratroop battalion , 395 men , at Parker 's Memorial just east of the Mitla Pass . While the battalion dug in , the remaining units of the brigade , mounted on half-tracks and supported by an AMX-13 squadron , moved 190 miles across the central Sinai towards Mitla , overrunning defended positions at Kuntilla , Thamad , and Nakhl , and linked up with the parachuted battalion late the next day . Also during the night of 29 ? 30 October the 4th Brigade captured to8 Moshe Dayan and the Suez War : tgcj . S7 Kusseima and by the morning of 30 October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian defence complex in the triangle . On the morning of the 3oth Simhoni discovered that the Deika Pass leading to the rear of the Abu Ageila defences was open , permitting the 7th Armoured to fall on this key position from the rear . He decided that a tactical opportunity of such magnitude had precedence over the politically motivated instructions not to engage armour until the 31st and ordered the tanks forward . At first Dayan , moving around the battle area by light plane , command car , and jeep , wanted to countermand the order , but realizing that it was too late to halt the 7th , already engaged against the outer rim of the Egyptian defences , he told its commander , Ben Ari , to continue the action with one combat team and send his other two west along the road towards Ismailia . Late in the evening , the loth and 37th brigades advanced against Um Katef , but their attacks stalled and , when resumed the next day , failed to break into the defences . The commander of the 37th , personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commander of the loth was relieved on the spot . The attacks , Dayan concluded , had been poorly planned and pushed without adequate resolve . Returning to GHQ late on the 3oth , Dayan had been informed that the Anglo ? French air strikes scheduled to start at dawn on the 31st had been postponed . Although Ben Gurion was worried , Dayan convinced him that the IDF could continue the campaign even if the French and British failed to honour their commitments . During the 3oth and 31st , the IAF had gained air superiority over Sinai , downing a number of hostile jets , while in the decisive battle at Abu Ageila the 7th Armoured battalion combat team took a number of fortified positions . Meanwhile , on the 31st , after fighting some sharp engagements against Egyptian armour , two of its three battalion combat teams reached the Jebel Libni area where they prepared to ambush an Egyptian armoured column reportedly advancing from the canal . That column , however , was intercepted and stopped by air attacks between Bir Gafgafa and Bir Hamma , leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task force breached the Rafah approaches and on 1 November the 27th reached El Arish and maintained its advance towards Kantara . Fighting continued around Urn Katef where the Egyptians , though cut off , put up a stout defence . Other major fighting on the 31st included an unauthorized advance by Sharon and elements of the 202nd through the Mitla Pass , a fiercely contested action . Although Dayan was miffed and several senior staff officers urged him to crack down on Sharon , he decided , perhaps remembering his own exploits , that while there had been disobedience , this was critical only when a unit fails to-fulfill its battle task not when it goes beyond the bounds of duty and does more than is demanded of it ' .2 ? // ( hi the evening of 30 October Britain and France had issued their ultimatum calling on both Egypt and Israel to withdraw to a distance of 10 miles from the canal and permit a temporary Anglo ? French occupation . As agreed beforehand , Israel accepted while Egypt rejected the demand . Late on the 31St , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , designed to neutralize the Egyptian air force , commenced and continued the next day . Under orders to withdraw west , Egyptian resistance in the Um Katef region disintegrated on 1 November . Decision in the Sinai had been achieved and Dayan now issued orders for taking the Gaza Strip and for the advance on Sharm el Sheik . Finally that day an Egyptian destroyer , the Ibrahim el Anmal , attempting to shell Haifa , was intercepted by what appears to have been a joint French ? Israeli force and captured . During the next 72 hours , 2 ? 5 November , Israeli spearheads reached the 10-mile limit on all roads leading to the canal and halted their advance . On 2 November a paratroop detachment was dropped on the last remaining Egyptian airfield at Tor on the western shore of the peninsula and on the following day a battalion of the 202nd moved overland to Ras Suder and the Abu Rudeis oil field , while the parachute detachment moved on to Sharm el Sheik . Meanwhile the 9th Brigade , 1,200 men and 200 vehicles , supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ras Nasrani defences on 4 November and , following a spectacular air attack , speedily overcame the last Egyptian resistance . On 5 November it was all over . The IDF had conquered the Sinai and destroyed the Egyptian forces there at a cost of 172 killed and some 700 wounded , losing four prisoners and taking 5,581 , and capturing great quantities of war materiel.21 Despite the set-backs suffered by the loth and 27th it had been a most spectacular victory , fought by an army of hastily mobilized reservists . Reflections on the Sinai Campaign and its Aftermath Dayan had good reason to be satisfied with the performance of the Army he had forged . The decisive battles already had been fought before the Anglo ? French air attacks commenced and the entire operation had been completed before the first British and French landings on 5 November . Before Operation Kadesh ' , Dayan had misgivings about how well conscripts and reservists would fight against an enemy with heavy firepower and strongly entrenched positions . In the event , except for the loth and 27th brigades , all had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Overall , the informal discipline and the insistence on the primacy of combat had paid off . A veteran English observer confessed that he did not know how it worked . All my own experience in the British and American Armies had taught me that first-class discipline in battle Ito Moshe ! ) cyan and the Suez War : 19S3 57 depends on good discipline in barracks . Israel 's Army seems to refute that lesson . ' 22 The price , of course , had been high . Over 50 per cent of all Israeli casualties were officers . There had also been shortcomings . The decision to enter combat without preparation and following a hasty mobilization had created problems . During the silent ' mobilization phase many reservists had failed to respond , though once the radio call-up was used units rapidly filled up and in some cases were over establishment . The lack of preparation also was manifested in poor maintenance , a high rate of vehicle breakdowns , and the shortage of certain equipment . Command and control had been too loose . With Dayan insisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacked out or failing , there had been some confusion . Finally , artillery had failed to keep up with the rapid movement and fighter-bombers had served as flying artillery ' . Bravery and individual initiative , so highly prized by Dayan , had righted all , though against an enemy less rigid and less tied to static defences there might have been trouble . There had also been shortcomings . The decision to enter combat without and light armour had failed to dent enemy strongholds that continued to resist even when cut off , and the tanks of the 7th Armoured had made the decisive breaches . It had been Israeli doctrine , an American expert wrote , that tanks should not be used in direct assault ' but , he continued , war 's necessity decreed otherwise . And so the book came to be rewritten . ' 23 Dayan conceded that the armour officers had been right and from now on armour , together with the air force , received the highest priority in Israeli military thinking . Increased emphasis on air and armour was also the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been fought under special , and most likely non-recurring conditions . Effective Egyptian opposition was compromised by the Anglo ? French threat and later by the Anglo ? French air activities , and Egypt received no help from the other Arab states . In any future war , however , Israeli military thinkers had to take into account that Israel would no longer enjoy the luxury of fighting on only one front , and very likely would have to do so unaided . In addition , Israel lacked a natural defence frontier capable of blocking an efficient attack and space to retreat . Finally , the international situation made it appear likely that great power intervention would stop any Israeli military undertaking within a short time . All these considerations led in one direction ? a rapid and decisive campaign , leaving both strategic and tactical initiative in Israeli hands and achieving its goal with maximum speed . Only thus could the military power of a potential enemy be broken on one front before the enemy on a second front could pierce Israeli defences . And all this required emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moshe Dayan and the Suez War : 1953-57 1 1 1 At the same time , however , the final outcome of the Sinai Campaign demonstrated that there were severe limitations on Israel 's ability to achieve decisive advantages . Israel had been victorious in 1948 ? 9 and again in 1956 , but twice she failed in the true purpose of any war : to force the enemy into submission and put an end to the war itself . Therefore the Israeli military doctrine of a Blitzkrieg was not a means to achieve an ultimate military decision , it used the strategic and tactical offensive for defensive purposes . Ultimately , peace and security for Israel would have to be found by diplomatic means . And diplomatically the Sinai war failed to achieve its objectives . The aims of the Anglo ? French invasion of Egypt , coupled with the Israeli Sinai campaign , were frustrated when Washington and Moscow agreed to impose a cease-fire on the British and French , followed by Russian threats of open intervention . At the same time the United States put enormous economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ben Gurion was compelled to declare Israel 's intention to withdraw , though he still hoped to retain a presence in the Gaza Strip . Anglo ? French forces evacuated the Canal Zone on 22 December , while the Israeli pace was slower . The Army retreated slowly , destroying military roads and air fields as it left . Assailed from many sides , Ben Gurion told the Knesset early in 1957 that Israel had not gone to war for conquest but for salvation from what had been perceived as a mortal danger . Israel 's main objectives , he asserted , had been achieved . Still , it was clear that Israel 's policy-makers had been harshly reminded that their freedom of action was severely circumscribed and behind Ben Gurion 's statements there was his realistic appreciation that Israel could not afford a confrontation with one , let alone both super powers . All this , however , did not make the withdrawal more palatable to the soldiers . As in 1949 they complied with the orders of the government , though the mood was bitter . Weizman recorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left El Arish , riding on the last half-track.24 Yet , all had not been in vain . Israel had defeated Egyptian forces that in many cases had fought bravely and well , and inflicted a severe set-back to its offensive potential . Moreover , before Israel withdrew its forces to the armistice demarcation lines , it obtained a number of assurances : that Israel 's right of peaceful passage through the Suez Canal and the Straits of Tiran would be respected ; that Egypt would prevent guerrilla attacks on Israel ; and that peace would be made in due course . The placement of a United Nations Emergency Force on the Egyptian side of the border and at Sharm el Sheik was to provide further security and it was also agreed that if Egypt should demand the removal of these forces , the UN Secretary General would undertake negotiations to prevent this occurrence . These international understandings were embodied in a series of mem112 Moshe / ) cyan and the Suez War : 195j .57 oranda , statements , and letters at the UN and in the several capitals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States guaranteed the international status of and the free access through the Straits of ' I'iran . Israel 's basic claims against Egypt were upheld and buttressed by international agreements and understandings , though between 1957 and 1967 every term was eventually violated . More important than all these undertakings , however , was the fact that Operation Kadesh ' , executed with courage and resolution , had gained new respect for the Israeli Army and its ability to preserve the homeland . Who traineth my hands for war , so that mine arms do bend a bow of brass . ' Psalms i8 : 19 Victory in the Sinai had eliminated an immediate danger , but it did not resolve Israel 's fundamental security problem . Though often at loggerheads , the Arab states remained united in their determination to eradicate the western abscess ' in their midst . Despite the defeat of his army , Nasser 's prestige soared when he succeeded in expelling the Anglo ? French expedition and compelling Israeli withdrawal . The ambivalent character of US Middle-East policy , the demonstrated British and French inability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and support to radical Arab movements and states , resulted in dangerous shifts in Jordan and Lebanon and in the overthrow of the Western-oriented Iraqi regime . The threat to Israel 's existence remained grave and actually became even more alarming . Only after Sinai did it become an axiom in Israeli military thinking that a pre-emptive blow would have to be launched whenever the concentration of Arab forces near her border created a threatening situation . During this decade of precarious peace , the IDF was restructured and reequipped . The lessons of the Sinai demonstrated that major decisions could be gained only by means of mobile formations with tanks as their backbone , provided that the enemy 's air forces could be eliminated first . In this new force structure the Armoured Corps and the IAF received the highest priority , producing an army with greatly increased striking power . The Israeli Soldier The new force structure necessitated a slight increase in the career service , especially in the air force , but the IDF retained its basic character ? a large reserve 5 The Israeli Army between Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active duty contingent of conscripts and a small nucleus of career soldiers , an army , Chief of Staff Yitzhak Rabin proclaimed in July 1967 , which came from the people and returns to the people ' . To some this pattern of a nation in arms recalled Prussia , another small state having to maximize its resources against more powerful hostile neighbours , but the Prussian system had militarized society while the Israeli system civilianized the Army . Foreign observers continued to marvel at the absence of parade-ground discipline and military ceremonial , and noticed at the same time that the part-time soldiers often showed greater proficiency than regulars in many advanced countries . A former British brigadier wrote that every Israeli soldier knew the main elements of his job which he carried out with dispatch , rigorous self-discipline and amazing efficiency ' . The Israelis , he asserted , were the toughest , most reliable , most aggressive , most indefatigable ' fighters in the world . ' Perhaps this was an overstatement , written in the euphoria following the Six Day War . Then too , the Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere . The Israeli pattern was close to the Swiss citizen army , Yadin 's original model , which also practised a simple utilitarian style and had traits similar to the Australian troops in both world wars . General Sir John Monash , a Jewish reserve officer and one of the outstanding commanders of World War I , observed that his troops rejected obsequious homage to superiors ' , but rendered unquestioning obedience in battle because their intellect told them that this was necessary ' . It was the same in Israel . Realizing that attempts to enforce formal military discipline would only create resentments among the bulk of the reservists , and these in practice constituted the Army , no effort was made to more than the absolute necessary minimum of outward conformity . Instead , the Army relied on the corporate spirit as the reserve units became veteran formations , as good as and sometimes better than active units . While reserve duty was , and remains , a heavy burden , there were compensations . During the annual tours of duty relations between workers and managers , students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and men of various backgrounds met and came to understand one another . ' This common experience was especially important as the state was rapidly changing after 1956 into an industrialized and urban society and the traditional image of the highly motivated , politically conscious fighter of kibbutz and collective farm background no longer fitted the overwhelming number of conscripts and reservists . No longer embattled farmers , officers and men came from the many occupations of a modern society , many of them less than physically fit , and all of them highly individualistic . The total Jewish population from which the Army was drawn stood at about 2,500,000 throughout the decade , and about half were of Oriental origin with Arabic or French as their first language . The new urban life styles and the educational 1 16 The Israeli Army bet wren Two Wars : lgs7 67 and social gap between Western and Oriental Jews caused some fears among old-timers about how well the new generation would perform when push cane to shove , but these apprehensions proved unfounded in 1967 and again in 1973 . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zionist rhetoric of their elders and even simple nationalism was not their main motivation . Allon 's injunction , reminiscent of Cromwell , that all Israeli soldiers should understand why they were recruited and for what they must fight ' , just did not hold true . ' Personal leadership , growing unit cohesion , and determined personal initiative all contributed to the fighting spirit , though the morale and efficiency of the Israelis were not primarily the product of military training and indoctrination . Rightly or wrongly , most Israelis were convinced that the Arabs were bent on destroying their state and that they were fighting with their backs to the wall . For them there could be no retreat because there was no place to retreat to and in every war the individual soldier believed that he was fighting for the life of his family , his home , and his nation . Such men make formidable fighters . At the same time there existed , and still does , a curious ambivalence towards the enemy . Basically the Israeli soldier regarded himself as a humane , even charitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his adversaries . Still , even in combat , it never became the objective to inflict maximum casualties and prisoners were treated with consideration . During the Sinai Campaign Dayan was relieved to find captives well treated and that possible revenge takes only one form ? the prisoners are being fed Israel Army rations . ' He admitted that there had been looting , but no wanton killings , rapes , or despoilation . In 1967 , too , Israeli units entering Arab towns were sternly warned not to shoot at surrendering or fleeing enemies and to respect civilian life and property.4 As always , there was an exception , though it remained just that , and led to stern punishment and preventive measures for the future . The exception was the affair at Kfar Kassem , an Arab village near the Jordanian border , where , on 29 October 1956 , 43 peasants returning to their village after curfew , were summarily shot by a Border Police unit . Although most of the unit was Druze , and only temporarily part of the Army , the killings shocked the IDF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to long prison terms and in confirming the sentences , the Supreme Military Appellate Court ruled that soldiers not only had the right but the duty to disobey manifestly inhumane orders . This decision was widely publicized throughout the Army and incorporated into standing orders . ' Conscription continued to be applied to women , though regulations governing service were more liberal in regard to age limits , deferments , and exemptions . Almost 40 per cent of females subject to conscription were // exempted . Since 1948 , when women had fought in the ranks of the Palmach , stood in the trenches of the settlements , and died in the assaults on Latrun , the role of the Women 's Army Corps ( CHEN ) had changed . Women no longer participated in combat , though they provided an important element in the administrative and communications sections at the brigade level . In 1956 , and again in 1967 , they moved forward with their units and served in combat areas . Throughout their service girls , never permitted to serve in groups fewer than 15 , remained under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by female officers . There was little promiscuity ? normally it led to an immediate administrative discharge ? and also from the early 196os the Army adopted the policy of stationing girls close to home , enabling them to return to their families at night . The policy was not universally appreciated . Many women soldiers would apply for the job of company clerk , a position providing greater social opportunity and the chance to get away from home . Altogether , women contributed much to the spirit of the Army , providing an important socializing influence and alleviating manpower shortages . Despite the many safeguards and the provision of religious exemptions , the conscription of women remained a point of contention between the government and ultra-orthodox factions , provoking angry exchanges in the Knesset , public protests and demonstrations . It should be noted , however , that the orthodox were by no means united in their opposition . The orthodox kibbutzim , to be sure , constituting only a tiny minority within the kibbutz movement , itself a minority in the total population , continued to take pride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Officer ? enlisted men relations remained close and informal . Within units all ranks commonly addressed their officers by their first or nicknames and , except for general officers , titles were rarely used . Dayan had reconfirmed the ideal of the officer as a heroic combat leader and had succeeded in implanting this concept . Israeli officers at the brigade and battalion levels always led out in front , achieving extraordinary results by this follow me ' style . Casualty figures showed the price . In every war and in every action officer losses were heavy , amounting to 20 per cent of unit commanders , compared to an international average of around to per cent . Technology and the inevitable increase in bureaucracy incidental to the growing size and complexity of the military establishment did produce a number of military managers , but as a group their prestige fell far short of the combat officers and many managers had begun their careers in fighting units . The Israeli officer was not a gentleman ' in the old English sense of the word . There were , and still are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officer corps was through the enlisted ranks . Selection and training stressed leadership , bravery , endurance , initiative , and teamwork , basically the 1 18 The Israeli Army between Two Wars : 195 ' 7 - 67 values developed by the Palmach . An officer was to serve as a model on and off duty and the code was rigorously applied . Uri Ben Ari , whose 7th Brigade had played a decisive role in the Sinai , was dismissed because he had covered up for a subordinate who had misappropriated a few sacks of sugar . Retention , promotion , and assignments were by merit alone and officers who did not measure up , even if their conduct was passable , found their careers short-lived . Conscripts or volunteers selected for officer training normally would be commissioned at 20 , and if they signed a regular service contract for five years , would reach company command within three years . Battalion commanders ranged between 26 and 31 years of age and even at the very top the IDF was young . During its first two decades , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all but two under 40 when appointed . Other senior ranks showed a similar range . Brigadiers were between 40 and 44 , colonels 35 to 40 , and lieutenant-colonels were 30 to 35 years of age . Bearing greater responsibilities and taking heavier risks had considerable appeal to members of the kibbutz movement , now a distinct ideological elite comprising only 4 per cent of the population . Kibbutz members provided a disproportionately high number of officers , especially in combat units , and suffered 25 per cent of all officer losses . If kibbutzim were over-represented in the officer corps , Israelis of Oriental background remained under-represented in the 196os and even then there were few senior officers from the Sephardic community . The situation , though worrisome to many , did not evoke much resentment . The feeling that in matters of national security one could not afford to take chances , combined with the realization that merit alone determined selection and promotion , did much to defuse a potentially explosive issue . Another reason for the small number of Sephardic senior officers was the small number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Compared to the United States , and adjusted for the respective size of the two military establishments , Israel 's generals numbered only one-third the number of their American counterparts ? and the same was true in the field grades . Four-fifths of the Israeli officer corps consisted of captains and lieutenants . Until after the 1967 war , rav aluf , equivalent to major-general , was the highest rank , held only by the chief of staff ; the Northern , Central , and Southern Commands were headed by brigadier-generals , while brigades were normally commanded by colonels . Many senior officers served in dual roles and heads of branches , corps , as well as senior service school instructors had mobilization assignments to combat formations . Most senior officers , that is officers above the rank of lieutenant-colonel , had served together for a long time , beginning in the Haganah and the Palmach , some in the British Army , and continued through the War of Independence , the retaliatory raids , and into Sinai . This made for considerable intimacy . The // strengths and weaknesses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive side this permitted informality and give and take among commanders ; on the negative side it could , and did , lead to friction and the formation of cliques . Yet the negative effects were neutralized by the rapid turn-over at the senior levels . Dayan already had institutionalized the concept that officers should regard their active service as a first career ' only . All senior officers , he insisted , should retire at 40 and pensions were set to permit early retirement , while a generous leave policy enabled them to obtain degrees before discharge . Although retirement at 40 was never fully implemented , the concept of a second career ' became firmly embedded . Turnover was rapid enough so that by 1967 men who had been junior officers during the Sinai Campaign had advanced to senior rank . Many high-ranking officers with academic credentials and proven managerial talents found prominent positions in the fast-developing Israeli industrial complex , others entered government service , and a few , like Dayan , remained active in politics . Age limits did not apply to reserve service and many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distinguished themselves in 1967 . Finally , the introduction of increasingly high technology into the IDF led to the retention of specialist officers well above the statutory age limit.6 During their active service career and reserve , officers attended a variety of schools . The most important , a requirement for promotion , was the Command and Staff School ( POUM ) , established in 1954 . Competition here was stiff . Only about 20 per cent of those eligible were selected to attend and had to agree to extend their service for five years following graduation . There was no differentiation among courses between career and reserve officers ; all courses were open to both . Beyond the Command and Staff School there existed for some time a National Defence College which , structured along the lines of the US Army War College , enrolled both military and civilian students . Lavon , already , had advocated such a college , but the idea had been resisted . It opened in 1963 and operated for four years . When it closed it had graduated 102 students , though only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrate political , economic , and sociological considerations with military thinking once again became important and in the autumn of 1977 a new National Defence Academy opened . Ground and Naval Forces : 1957 ? 67 Between the end of the Sinai Campaign and the Six Day War the Israeli Army grew in size and striking power . By 1967 , the fully mobilized Army mustered over 250,000 effectives , some 11 to 12 per cent of the population . It was                     