@@773823

txt History-of-Science Explanation those , more solid ? and dearer , more easily imaginable ? of motor force on the one hand and trajectory on the other . P. 119 Despite the argument it is not clear what Descartes 's pure mathematicism has to do with his incomprehension of Beeckman 's " motion . " In fact , any plausibility that Koyre 's argument may have is due entirely to his apparently parenthetical mention of the superior imaginability of Descartes 's concepts to Beeckman 's . But then what leads Descartes to his incomprehension is the fact , mentioned by Koyre himself in a footnote to the word imaginable in the above quoted passage , that " Descartes ' physics is , alas , an imaginative physics , and often , in physics , a clear concept is for him only one clearly imagined " ( p. 119 , n. 1 ) . But then the connection is between Descartes 's geometricism and his incomprehension , which is stated in ( D6 ) and ( D7 ) and which we shall examine later . Thus any connection between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be used to explain anything . However , as we have mentioned above , Descartes did fail to understand Beeckman . Whatever accounts for this incomprehension , the possibility remains that it produced Descartes 's error , which is what Koyre claims in ( D2 ) and ( D5 ) . The possibility will not remain open for long , however ; in particular it will not survive the following considerations , made by Koyre himself , who does not seem to realize their consequences , namely , the refutation of ( D2 ) and ( D5 ) . In fact , the Cartesian error is an error which , curiously , even with his physics of force , lie could have , in principle , avoided . ( All he had to do was to maintain strictly the parallelism between force and velocity and to continue to think causally , that is as a function of time . ) If he falls into the error , it is because , by substituting the trajectory for the motion , he makes the trajectory ? and not the time ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallen back , once again , into geometricism as the source of Descartes 's error . He has done this by pointing out that the new concept of motion is irrelevant to that error . Since Descartes talks about forces instead of velocity , he could have integrated the forces over time . If he had correctly done this , he would have found the " sum of the forces " to vary as the square of the time . And since for him velocity is proportional to force , he could have taken the " sum of the Koyre on Galileo and Descartes forces " to be a measure of the " motion " accomplished ; so that the mo tion ( distance ) would have been seen to vary as the square of the time . Thus Descartes 's incomprehension of Beeckman 's concept could not , on the evidence , have produced the error . It is perhaps easy to see how a pure mathematician 's attitude would result in a mathematics-physics dichotomy . What is unclear , in fact untenable and unlikely , is that Descartes 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims in ( D5 ) . We may begin by accepting Koyre 's claim that Descartes did divorce mathematics and physics ( D4 ) . This claim Koyre supports by his analysis of the formal reply to Beeckman quoted above . What Koyre wants to note about that reply is that it is difficult to imagine a text which , like this one , would com bine a supreme mathematical elegance with the most irretrieva ble physical confusion . . . . Yet he succeeds brilliantly in his mathematical deduction . . . . It is when he tries to translate the results of his integration in terms of space . . . that he falls into the error . Pp. 118 ? 19 Koyre seems to be saying that there are two main elements in Des cartes 's formal reply , the successful solution of a pure mathematical problem of integration , and the unsuccessful application of the mathe matical results to a physical situation . The mathematical problem that Descartes seems to have successfully solved is that the sum of the area of rectangles of the type ALED , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the triangle ACB as the rectangles become narrower and narrower . History-of-Science Explanation He is unable to apply this result correctly to the problem of falling bodies . If we accept Koyre 's interpretation it is true that when Descartes attempts to cross the gap from mathematics into physics he fails . But does he fail because he dissociates mathematical from physical analysis , as Koyre also claims ( p. 115 , and ( D5 ) above ) ? Not on Koyre 's own evidence , for when Descartes applies mathematics to physics what happens is that he is " carried away by the elan of imaginative representation and of his tendency to geometrize to excess " ( p. 119 ) . Once more , instead of actually connecting Descartes 's error to some other identifiable aspect of his mental attitude , Koyre falls back on geometricism . The only source of the Cartesian error left is then geometricism . Can Koyre explain Descartes 's error by geometricism as he says in ( D6 ) and ( D7 ) ? The only argument he gives in support of these claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recording Descartes 's private thoughts quoted above ( pp. 96-97 ) . The line ADB ? which for Beeckman represents the time elapsed ? represents for him Descartes , naturally , the traversed trajectory . And the problem is transformed : a trajectory is traversed with a uniformly variable velocity ; the problem is then to determine the velocity at each point of the way . The triangles ADE , and ABC , which for Beeckman represent the space passed over ( the distance ) , represent for Descartes the motion of the movable body , that is the " sum of the velocities " realized . And , very plausibly , he concludes : the " sum of the velocities " being triple , the distance DB will be passed over three times faster . Time is recovered , but too late ; excessive geometrization , spatialization , elimination of time ? where one can not eliminate it ? , neglect of the physical , causal aspect of the process lead Descartes ? like Galileo previously and Benedetti and Michel Varron before him ? to conceive uniformly accelerated motion as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distance covered and not proportionally to the time elapsed . P. 115 Now , both Koyre 's translation of the original Latin text , and his interpretation of his own translation are puzzling enough ; his conclusion is completely wrong . It accounts , in fact , for an error that Descartes did not make , " to conceive uniformly accelerated motion as a motion in which the speed increases proportionally to the distance covered and not proportionally to the time elapsed . " Koyre gives no evidence that Descartes made this error . Nor can it be found either in the previously mentioned note or in any of the three other docu-102 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes ments in which Descartes derives the wrong time-distance relation . Descartes 's thinking is in fact far too confused for him to be able to make Galileo 's physical error . Insofar as there is any indication of Descartes 's thinking on the matter , Descartes " imagines that at each instant which instants he seems to have numbered in his diagram ( p. 117 , and p. 98 above ) is added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bottom . . . and that this force increases in the same way in which increase the transversal lines de , fg , hi , and the infinitely many other transversals which can be imagined between them " ( p. 116 , my italics ) . If Descartes is conceiving the velocity to be proportional to anything , he is conceiving it to be proportional to the force and in turn to the time , since the force is for him proportional to the time . The evidence of , Descartes 's second letter to Mersenne is even more compelling : the velocity is impressed by gravity as one in the first moment , and again as one in the second moment by the same gravity , etc . Now , one at the first moment , and one at the second make two , and one at the third make three , and so the velocity increases in an arithmetical proportion . P. 126 The velocity increases in an arithmetical proportion : in arithmetical proportion relative to what ? Obviously relative to the " moments " or time that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having made the error , Descartes could not have been led to it by geometricism . Just as in the explanation of Galileo 's " error , " Koyre has again been careless about what the error is that he is trying to explain . In particular , Descartes and Galileo made no common error as Koyre claims in the introduction ; there was no " coincidence . . . in error " ( p. 84 ) . We have just shown that even if geometricism had characterized Descartes 's attitude it certainly would not have led him to an error he did not make . It is also questionable to say that Descartes had a geometricist attitude in this context . Koyre supports his attribution of this attitude to Descartes by his interpretation of Descartes 's note . Unfortunately , Koyre 's interpretation of the note completely distorts it . First of all , Koyre misinterprets his own translation of it at the crucial point where temporal considerations are in question . Descartes , in his statement of the solution to the problem , says that " AD will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly implying that the triangle ADE represents time ; whereas Koyre " interprets " this by saying that " the triangles ADE and ABC . . . represent for 103 History-of-Science Explanation Descartes the motion of the moving body , that is the sum of the velocities ' realized " ( p. 115 , and p. 102 above ) . No wonder that Descartes " eliminates time . " Koyre has eliminated it for him . Unquestionably , Descartes is confused and even incoherent in his thinking about time . But it is one thing to think unclearly and incoherently about time , and it is another to eliminate it , in accordance with a geometricist attitude . This statement should be sufficient proof of Descartes 's confusion and incoherence : " Consequently , AD will be passed over in the time represented by ADE , and DB in the time represented by DEBC : where it is necessary to note that the smaller space represents the slower motion " ( p. 114 ) . Koyre 's translation has Descartes saying in the same sentence that ADE and DEBC represent two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corresponding to the distances AD and DB respectively . Moreover , if Descartes is saying that ADE and DEBC represent the respective times , since he also says that ADE is a third of DEBC , he could not have failed to conclude that AD , the first half of the distance , is covered three times as fast as DB , the second half . And this conclusion flatly contradicts Descartes 's main explicit conclusion . One begins to suspect that the confusion is in Koyre 's mind rather than Descartes 's ; and one is led to look at the original text to see whether the translation is faithful . All the more so since Koyre 's translation of the passage involves a semantical ambiguity in the term space , the French espace . In his translation Koyre uses this term to refer both to " motion , " and to " space " in the sense of " geometrical space enclosed by the figures drawn in the diagram , " ( p. 115 , and p. 97 above ) . The semantic inconsistency is easier to correct than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ text accompanying the diagram is as follows : Solvi quaestionem . In triangulo isoscelo rectangulo , ABC spatium ( motum ) sic repraesentat ; inaequalitas spatii a puncto A ad basim BC , motus inaequalitatem . Igitur AD percurritur tempore , quod ADE repraesentat ; BD vero tempore quod DEBC repraesentat : ubi est notandum minus spatium tardiorem motum repraesentare . Est autem AED tertia pars DEBC : ergo triplo tardius percurret AD quam DB.5 In translating the second sentence of this passage as " In the right isosceles triangle , ABC represents the space ( the motion ) , " Koyre is 104 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes taking the word spatium to be the object of the verb repraesentat and the word motum as synonymous with spatium . However , if the word spatium is to be regarded as used in ' the same sense there as in the rest of the passage , then it must be the subject of the sentence , while motum becomes the only object of the verb . Thus we get " in the right isosceles triangle , the space ABC represents the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so easy ; it does not involve such an obvious correction of Koyre 's translation . The following translation of mine does , however , remove the logical in-consistency : I have solved the problem . In the right isosceles triangle , the space ABC represents the motion : the variation in the space from point A to the base BC the variation in the motion . Therefore , AD is passed over in a certain time , and this motion from A to D is represented by ADE ; so also is DB , and this motion from D to B is represented by DEBC : where it must be noted that the smaller space represents the slower motion . But ADE is a third of DEBC : thus AD is covered three times as slowly as DB . Thus Koyre 's claim that geometricism led Descartes to commit Galileo 's physical error ( D6 ) is doubly false , first because Descartes did not commit that error and then because geometricism or neglect of time does not characterize Descartes 's attitude in this context . The error that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deriving and not assuming a wrong velocity-distance relation . This relation is expressed by saying that the average velocity increases by a factor of 3 in the second and final half of the distance fallen by the body ; and this relation is very different from the principle , also wrong , that the instantaneous velocity is directly proportional to the distance fallen . And the immediate source of the error is that Descartes represents the motion ( speed ) of the body by the area of a surface , the figures in the diagrams . The collapse of ( D6 ) and ( D7 ) means the collapse of Koyre 's explanation of Descartes 's error . Finally , this explanation is incomplete in that it generates the problem of why Beeckman misinterpreted Descartes 's reply in such a way as to give a correct derivation of the time-distance law , without detecting Descartes 's error . Koyre does account for Beeckman 's success by saying that " 13ceckman , good physicist no doubt , is a very mediocre mathematician " ( p. 122 ) . This explanation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Koyre 's approach , outlined in his introduction , of attempting to give a rational explanation of errors . Galileo 's Success . Galileo succeeded in formulating the correct principle of temporal acceleration and in deriving from it the time-distance law . What led Galileo to this success was , according to Koyre , his physico-mathematical attitude . The evaluation of this part of Koyre 's explanation is somewhat complicated in that support for it does not consist of specific arguments or evidence for each of the claims ( G ' 1 ) ? ( G ' 9 ) constituting the statement of the explanation . Rather , the support consists of an account of Galileo 's formulation of the principle of acceleration and derivation from it of the time-distance law , an account emphasizing the aspects relevant to the relation between theory and experience . Then by way of general conclusion Koyre states , without direct or explicit argumentative justification , what he judges to be the reasons for Galileo 's success ( pp. 156-57 ) . In ( G ' 3 ) , Koyre states the first element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Descartes and he himself had previously failed : " Galileo does not put forth hypotheses on the possible modes of accelerated motion : what he is looking for is the real mode , the way that nature uses " ( p. 156 ) . First of all , however , Galileo does put forth hypotheses on the possible modes of accelerated motion . Galileo 's own definition of uniformly accelerated motion ( as motion whose instantaneous velocity increases directly with time ) is an hypothesis about a possible mode of accelerated motion which Galileo is convinced corresponds to the essence of the naturally accelerated motion of falling bodies . Second , Koyre clearly needs a contrast in attitudes since he is trying to contrast the reasons for Galileo 's success and those for Descartes 's failure . But the contrast described by him in ( G ' 3 ) is spurious because there is no conflict between putting forth hypotheses about possibilities and looking for what is real . Far from conflicting , these two elements are probably related as means and end , respectively . In particular , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude as well . Koyre is trying to characterize a contrast between Descartes 's pure mathematical and Galileo 's physicomathematical attitudes . And the obvious implication is that Galileo does not , like Descartes , put forth hypotheses , and what he ( Galileo ) is looking for , unlike Descartes , is the real . But Descartes , no less than Galileo , is looking for the real properties of the motion of falling 106 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes bodies . In fact , he is constantly aware of the need to correct Galileo 's results , which at best hold only for ideal conditions ( perfect vacuum , mass points , etc. ) if one is to consider the real case . For example , Descartes writes to Mersenne : Regarding what you send me of Galileo 's calculation of the velocity with which falling bodies move , it does not in the least agree with my philosophy , according to which two lead globes , for example , one of one pound and the other of one hundred pounds , will not have the same ratio of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one pound and the other of one hundred pounds , nor the same as two other lead ones , one of two pounds and the other of two hundred pounds . All these are things which he does not distinguish at all , which fact makes me think that he can not have attained the truth . Pp. 133 ? 34 And it is not only Galileo 's results that Descartes judges to be in need of appropriate corrections , but his own as well . On a previous occasion , he wrote to Mersenne that " if you let fall a ball in vacuo from a height of 50 feet , regardless of the substance of which it is made , it will take always exactly three times as long for the first 25 feet as for the last 25 . But in the air it is an altogether different affair . . . " ( pp. 126-27 , my italics ) . Indeed , Descartes 's aim is " to determine the velocity of a falling stone , not at all in vacuo , but in the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's claim is misleading in that it suggests a positivist interpretation of Galileo 's general attitude , namely , that Galileo " frames no hypotheses " but is just after the facts . Such an interpretation is both false and incompatible with Koyre 's . But if Koyre 's claim is misleading in the above sense , should not one find a charitable interpretation of it which is not misleading and preserves the intended contrast ? One such interpretation would be : Galileo is not , like Descartes , dealing with speculative possibilities ( " feigning " hypotheses ) but is interested , unlike Descartes , in the actual physical problem . Unfortunately , even this interpretation would not be a correct characterization of Descartes 's attitude . For though Descartes was dealing with speculative-mathematical possibilities at the time of his private thoughts about , and formal reply to , Beeckman 's question in 1618 , he is clearly not doing that in his 1629 letters to Mersenne ( pp. 123-27 ) . And these letters are prior to what Koyre regards as Descartes 's intellectual revolution in 1630 , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct . That is , it would presumably be accurate to say that after 1630 Descartes was dealing with speculative possibilities and was uninterested in the actual physical problem to the extent that he had lost interest in the physical problem . He had done so , in fact , because of the astronomical complexity of the problem from his new point of view , namely , " to proceed ' according to the order of reasons ' and not according to that of the subject matter " ( p. 127 ) . Thus whether literally or charitably interpreted , Koyre 's claim ( G ' 3 ) must be rejected . Koyre 's claim concerning the second element of Galileo 's physicomathematical attitude ( G ' 4 ) may be accepted as a characterization of that attitude , but the contrast with Descartes 's does not hold . In particular it is not clear why Descartes 's causal mechanism is regarded as a purely geometrical or intemporal framework if , as Koyre claims in his explanation of Galileo 's error , " it is causal considerations which in the analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in particular ) bring into the foreground the concept of time " ( p. 103 ) , so much so that Koyre seems to be saying that to think causally is to think temporally . As for the third element of Galileo 's attitude mentioned in ( G ' 5 ) , Koyre 's characterization of it may be accepted . But this attitude of Galileo 's contrasts not to anything that Koyre has attributed to Descartes but to the traditional Aristotelian attitude . In fact , in Koyre 's narrative account , if one looks for what might serve as evidence for ( G ' 5 ) one finds the Aristotelian and the Galilean points of view contrasted . After Galileo has derived , in the Discourse , the special properties of uniformly accelerated motion from the basic definition of uniform acceleration , the Aristotelian Simplicio asks whether such is the acceleration that nature actually uses in the case of falling bodies . " Very reasonable demand , " Galileo thinks , " and in accordance with custom in the sciences which apply mathematical demonstrations to conclusions concerning nature ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective , astronomy , mechanics , music , etc. ) ; in these subjects the authors ask for a correspondence with experience as the confirmation of their principles , which are the foundation of all their subsequent construction . " The agreement between the Galilean and the Aristotelian seems complete . But , in fact , the same words have a profoundly different meaning . What Aristotelian empiricism requires is " experience " which may serve as a basis and foundation for the 108 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes theory ; what Galileo 's epistemology , apriorist and experimentalist at the same time ( one could even say : the one because of the other ) , offers to him is experiments constructed from the point of view of a theory and whose role is to confirm or disconfirm the application to reality of laws deduced from principles the foundation of which is elsewhere . P. 153 But if the present aspect of Galileo 's attitude offers no contrast to Descartes 's , it is not clear how it can contribute to the explanation of Galileo 's success as contrasted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( G ' 6 ) and ( G ' 7 ) , in which he states that Galileo tells us that one should begin with experience and be guided by the idea of simplicity , Koyre abandons completely the attempt to contrast Galileo 's attitude to Descartes 's . With it we may take Koyre to have abandoned the attempt to explain Galileo 's eventual success in contrast to Descartes 's error . Let us then take Koyre to be trying to explain Galileo 's success per se and ask whether Koyre 's characterization of Galileo 's mental attitude , which may be accepted , can account for that success . Our answer must be a categorical negative . Galileo 's practical success of having achieved certain scientific results can not have been produced by his mental attitude but only by his practical attitude . It must be due primarily to what Galileo actually does and not to what he says or believes . In fact , the elements of the mental attitude attributed by Koyre to Galileo are elements of Galileo 's theory of scientific method , and not elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mathematical character of nature , the relation between theory and experience , and the importance of simplicity . I think it makes little sense to claim that someone succeeded in doing x because he had certain ideas or said certain things about how and why things like x should be attained . At best this someone succeeded in doing x because he had certain ideas about how and why things like x should be attained , and behaved accordingly . Practical success , even intellectual practical success , can not be achieved without practical effort , or practical intellectual effort , as the case may be . It is Galileo 's intellectual practice that must be examined if one wants to find the sources of his success . That Koyre is not entirely unaware of this is shown in his narrative account ( in his own practice ) , where , before he states his conclusion , it is Galileo 's methodological practice that he examines primarily . 109 History-of-Science Explanation Moreover , he states a conclusion about it ( G ' 9 ) though he thinks it to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " mental attitude . " ( G ' 9 ) attributes to Galileo a constant and sustained attention to the real character of the phenomenon of fall . Koyre 's evidence for ( G ' 9 ) is the alleged care Galileo shows in attributing to real falling bodies the properties which he has derived in his geometrical demon strations . For example : The demonstration in the Dialogue is based on the continuity of acceleration and makes use of the notion of " instantaneous velocity " ( degree of velocity ) and of " sum of velocities , " which is identified with the space traversed . " In accelerated motion , " Galileo tells us , " the velocity increase is continuous and . . . the degrees of velocity , changing from moment to moment ... are infinite ; also we will be able to illustrate our conception better by drawing a triangle ABC , marking on its side AC as many equal parts as one wishes , AD , DE , EF , FG , and drawing through points D , E , F , G straight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that one imagine that the parts of the line AC are equal times ; that the parallels drawn through points D , E , F , G represent the degrees of velocity , which are accelerated and growing equally in equal times ; that point A is the state of rest from which the body starts falling , which in time AD will have acquired the degree of velocity DH ; that in the next period the velocity will have increased from the degree DH to the degree EJ and afterwards in the successive periods will become greater according to the increase of the lines FK , GL , etc . Now , since the acceleration takes place in a continuous manner from mo-110 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes ment to moment , and not discretely from one period to the other , and since the origin A represents the moment of minimum velocity , that is to say , the state of rest and the first instant of the subsequent time AD , it is clear that before the attainment of the degree of velocity DH , which occurs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an infinity of other still smaller degrees , attained during the infinite number of instants which are in the period DA and which correspond to the infinite number of points which are on the line DA ; moreover , in order to represent the infinity of degrees of velocity which precede the degree DH , one must imagine an infinity of smaller and smaller lines drawn from the infinity of points of the line DA and parallel to DH ; and this infinity of lines will finally represent the surface of the triangle ADH . It is thus that we will represent the whole distance traversed by the falling body with a motion which , beginning from rest and being accelerated uniformly , will have attained an infinity of degrees of increasing velocity , corresponding to the infinity of lines which , beginning at point A , are supposed to be drawn parallel to HD and to JE , KF , LG , and BC ; and the motion may be continued for as long as one wishes . Now , let us complete the parallelogram AMBC and extend to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also the infinitely many that can be imagined as being drawn from all points of AC . Then BC will be the longest of the infinitely many lines of the triangle and will represent the greatest degree of velocity acquired by the falling body in its accelerated motion , and the surface of the triangle will be the sum-total of all the velocities with which it will traverse a certain space in the time AC ; similarly the parallelogram will represent a sum-total of as many degrees of velocity , but equal each to the maximum velocity BC ; and this sum-total of velocities will be double the sum-total of the increasing velocities of the triangle , just as the parallelogram is twice ( the area of ) the triangle ; thus , if the falling body , which has employed the degrees of accelerated velocity corresponding to the triangle ABC , has passed over a certain distance in a certain time , it is rather verisimilar and probable that , in employing the uniform velocity corresponding to the parallelogram , it will cover in the same time and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by it in its accelerated motion . " Pp. 147 ? 48 8 Koyre takes Galileo 's qualification " it is rather verisimilar and probable , " which occurs in the last sentence , as evidence of Galileo 's " sustained and constant attention to the real character of the phenomenon " ( p. 157 ) of fall . But Koyre 's interpretation is seriously inaccurate . For what Galileo is qualifying is not his conclusion per se 111 History-of-Science Explanation but his process of reasoning . For the proposition which follows the final adverb thus is actually an unqualified hypothetical of the form " If A , then it is probable that B. " What is being qualified is the consequent of the conclusion . What Galileo is uncertain about is whether , even if the falling body has employed the degrees of accelerated velocity corresponding to the triangle and has passed over a certain distance in a certain time , it really follows that in employing the uniform velocity corresponding to the parallelogram the body will cover in the same time double that distance . Galileo 's procedure does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrelevant for his purposes , that Galileo paid constant and sustained attention to the validity of his reasonings . Our interpretation would remain unaffected were we to say that Galileo 's qualification does apply to his conclusion , because his conclusion is really the proposition that " it is rather verisimilar and probable that , in employing the uniform velocity corresponding to the parallelogram , it the movable body will cover in the same time and with a uniform motion a distance double that which was covered by it in its accelerated motion " ( p. 148 ) . And this proposition is the " real " conclusion because the antecedent of the hypothetical is being tacitly affirmed , so that the " thus , if A , then it is probable that B " really means " thus , since A , probably B. " Our interpretation would remain unaffected because Galileo 's reason ( his present , though perhaps not his only , reason ) for the " probably " is that he thinks that B follows only probably from his assumptions and not that he thinks it applies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached from an examination of Koyre 's own argument and evidence , is supported by Galileo 's original text , which states unmistakably that the qualification applied to the reasoning . In fact , in a passage which immediately follows , Galileo has Sagredo , the intelligent layman and neutral thinker in the Dialogue , say that Galileo is over-cautious in calling his own reasoning probable . Sagredo finds the argument necessarily valid : " I am entirely persuaded . But if you call this a probable argument , what sort of thing would rigorous proofs be ? I wish to Heaven that in the whole of ordinary philosophy there could be found even one proof this conclusive . " Y The original text , besides confirming our interpretation , provides us with further evidence for criticism of Koyre 's claim . In fact , we find 112 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes that , besides misusing the evidence , Koyre has even changed it . He has done this by smuggling into the Galilean conclusion being considered the qualification " verisimilar , " the French vraisemblable , which is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his objective of interpreting the qualification as one about the conclusion 's empirical truth or correspondence to reality since this is exactly what the term verisimilitude suggests . What we find in the original is the qualification " reasonable " in addition to " probable . " Translated by Stillman Drake , it reads : And therefore if the falling body makes use of the accelerated degrees of speed conforming to the triangle ABC and has passed over a certain space in a certain time , it is indeed reasonable and probable that by making use of the uniform velocities corresponding to the parallelogram it would pass with uniform motion during the same time through double the space which it passed with the accelerated motion.8 Thus insofar as the term real in Koyre 's claim ( G ' 9 ) refers to a correspondence to reality , the characteristic being attributed to Galileo 's practice is unjustified on the given evidence . But for Koyre , in this context , the term real also connotes " temporal " or " pertaining to time , " by contrast with the purely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( G ' 9 ) , Koyre is claiming that Galileo 's constant and sustained attention to the temporal character of the phenomenon of fall led him to his success . But did it ? If one looks in Koyre 's account for evidence at all relevant to this aspect of his explanation , one finds two items . The first is Galileo 's argument supporting his definition of acceleration . Opening his discussion of naturally accelerated motion in the " Third Day " of the Discourse , Galileo writes : If we examine the matter ATTENTIVELY , we will find no increase simpler than that which occurs always in the same manner . Now , what this manner is , we will easily comprehend provided we fix our ATTENTION on the supreme affinity ( which exists ) between motion and time . Indeed , as the uniformity and regularity of motion are defined and conceived by the equality of times and distances ( in fact , we call uniform a translation in which equal distances are traversed in equal times ) , so we can conceive the regularity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by understanding with the mind that 113 History-of-Science Explanation uniformly and , consequently , continuously accelerated motion is that in which during arbitrary equal times it acquires equal increments of velocity . P. 137 , Koyre 's italics , my capitals The second piece of evidence Koyre cites is that Galileo , in addition to giving a proof of the so-called mean-speed theorem gives one for the time-distance law . The mean-speed theorem is the proposition that " the time in which a given distance is traversed with a uniformly accelerated motion by a moving body starting from rest is equal to the time in which the same distance will be traversed by the same body moving with a uniform motion and whose velocity is the mean between the maximum and the minimum for the said uniformly accelerated motion " ( pp. 149-50 ) . According to Koyre , " what is lacking to this Galilean demonstration is precisely to show the supreme affinity between motion and time , ' the preponderant role of time . That is why to this first theorem ( the only one which had been proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If a moving body falls from rest with a uniformly accelerated motion , the spaces traversed in arbitrary times are to each other in a ratio double that of the times , that is as the square of the times ' " ( p. 151 ) . Koyre 's evidence here does indeed indicate that Galileo paid constant and sustained attention to the temporal character of fall . But does it also indicate that this attention enabled him to avoid the error or errors committed by Descartes and formerly by himself ? It is difficult to see how that attention could have enabled Galileo to avoid Descartes 's error since , as I argued above , Descartes 's and Galileo 's errors have virtually nothing in common . And Galileo never underestimated the importance of the time-distance law , either at the time of his error or at the time of his success . Indeed it was for him the starting point and raison d'etre of the investigations being considered by Koyre . Since Galileo 's former error was not that of neglecting the time-distance law , it could hardly have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later to avoid the error . Hence the present aspect of Koyre 's claim ( G ' 9 ) is not supported by the second piece of evidence . Is Koyre 's first evidential item any more conclusive ? Part of Galileo 's former error was his assumption of the wrong principle of spatial acceleration . To avoid this error Galileo must avoid this assumption . Attention to time might have led Galileo to the formulation of the correct principle of temporal acceleration , but to account for the 114 Koyre on Galileo and Descartes rejection of the wrong principle , it is more plausible , as Koyre says elsewhere , " to suppose that his error became apparent to him more directly : by the very fact that his axiomatic principle ' could not play the role which he wanted to assign to it ; it was obviously impossible to deduce from it the descriptive formulas " ( p. 107 ) . The correctly deduced formula would have been an exponential function . But did attention to time really lead Galileo to the successful formulation of the principle ? By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it not more likely that Galileo succeeded because he saw that the principle of temporal acceleration could serve the required function , namely , that the descriptive formulas could be derived from it , thus " demonstrating " them and defining the essence of naturally accelerated motion ? True , Galileo tries to justify the principle by appealing to the " supreme affinity between motion and time . " He justifies it , but this he does in order to exhibit its simplicity . Attention to the temporal aspect of the phenomenon is important only insofar as it is an instance of the attention to be paid to simplicity . Moreover , the appeal to simplicity is not even the primary aspect of Galileo 's justification . For , in the same discussion , he tells us , and the rest of the " Third Day " of the Discourse shows , that the correctness of his definition of acceleration is " confirmed mainly by the consideration that experimental results are seen to agree with and exactly correspond with the properties which have been , one after another , demonstrated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any aspect of Galileo 's justification practice could account for his success in formulating the correct principle of acceleration . That is , it is impossible , or mysterious at best , that Galileo could have been led to a successful definition of acceleration by the way in which he justified that definition . Rather it must be the way in which he went about trying to find that definition , that is , some aspect of what we may call his investigation practice which is both undeniably present and adequate to produce his result . This aspect , not unknown to Koyre but unappreciated by him ( p. 155 ) is the so-called analytical , regressive , or resolutive method . It consists of Galileo 's proceeding from the experimental data , the descriptive formulas , to the principles underlying them . Thus virtually every aspect of Koyre 's claim ( G ' 9 ) must be rejected . Nor is there any other claim constituting Koyre 's explanation which is still standing ; the explanation has collapsed entirely . 115 History-of-Science Explanation A Modest Alternative The following alternative explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning , ? one sees it readily ? is faithful to itself . In the Dialogue and in the Discourse it is the same as in the letter to Paolo Sarpi which we have quoted at the beginning of this study . There , as here , it is , if one may say so , regressive , " resolutive " , analytical in the most profound sense of this term . From the fact , from the experimental data , from the " symptoms " of accelerated motion , Galileo ascends ? or descends ? to its essential definition . There , as here , he looks for the principle , that is to say , the essence of this notion , essence , which when translated into acceleration will allow one to deduce and to demonstrate its " accidents " and " symptoms " . P. 155 Galileo initially chose the wrong principle of spatial acceleration because " it is easier ? and more natural ? to see , that is to say , to imagine in space than to think in time " ( p. 96 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to derive the formulas he knew from the principle as well as to the sheer mathematical difficulty of so deriving them . He then discovered these errors and saw that the principle of spatial acceleration could not serve to derive the formulas . He then considered the more difficult principle of temporal acceleration which was the only obvious alternative . Seeing that he could without fallacy derive the accidents of motion from this principle , he accepted it . Descartes 's method was at no time resolutive . But this is to say , partly , that he faced a greater task , for he was not in clear possession of either the correct descriptive formulas or the correct principle . He was never particularly interested in the problem . When he did give some thought to it , as a result of Beeckman 's and Mersenne 's questions , his reasoning was altogether confused . It is difficult to see what errors he is making , let alone what their sources are . When he did formulate clear physical principles and consciously adopted a synthetic , or compositive , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , especially because of the complexity of its solution . To summarize : Galilco 's success is due to his resolutive methodological practice , his initial error to a choice of an easier principle . Descartes 's error remains a mystery . 116 chapter 7 Explaining the Rise of Modern Science THE EXPLANATION OF the rise of modern science is an activity whose problems , unlike those of Guerlac 's and Koyre 's explanations , are well known . My discussion of them will thus not need the extensive documentation and analysis required in the two previous chapters . A critique of recent literature on the subject is necessary , however , to focus attention on the pertinent issues . I shall first state the conflicting explanations of the rise of modern science and the dissatisfaction felt by historians themselves with the explanations . My critique will show that one is faced with a confusion rather than a conflict of opinion because there are important similarities between presumably different views and important differences between presumably similar ones . I shall then examine critically a leading historian 's attempt to sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 117 History-of-Science Explanation simple logical analysis based on the concepts prevailing in the controversy ? sociology of science , intellectual history of science , externalism , and internalism ? showing that they can not provide a satisfactory framework for explaining the rise of modern science . The Conflict of Explanations The conflicting explanations of the rise of modern science are well illustrated , though not so well discussed , in The Rise of Modern Science : External or Internal Factors ( 1968 ) , a volume in the " Problems in European Civilization " series ) . The editor , George Basalla , sums up the problem , as he sees it , in his introduction : Modern science is a product of Western civilization . It first appeared in Europe during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries and then slowly spread to North and South America , Australia , Asia , and Africa . In this way the fruits of modern science were made more widely available to the world . These fruits included novel and fundamental insights into the operations of nature , a high-level of material well-being , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on earth . How did this vast enterprise get its start ? What were the unique elements in the Western tradition that stimulated its creation and rapid growth ? Did science emerge because of a mutation in the intellectual life of Europe or through a long developmental process ? Does its origin and growth depend upon external factors ? e.g. social and economic conditions ? or upon factors within science itself ? These questions have perplexed historians for over a century . In attempting to answer them historians have turned to the histories of science , economics , religion , intellectualism , psychoanalysis , political ideology , art and the occult , and sociology.2 After briefly reviewing the articles included in his collection , Basalla documents the conflict of opinion : The traditional explanation stressed the sterility of the Middle Ages and the sudden appearance of modern science in the Ren-aissance : " We have now to consider more especially a long and barren period , which intervened between the scientific activity of ancient Greece and that of modern Europe ; and which we may therefore , call the Stationary Period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 118 Rise of Modern Science To which the medievalists replied : " The mechanical and physical science of which modern times are justly proud unfolds , through an uninterrupted series of barely imperceptible improvements , from the doctrines taught in the medieval schools . " ? Pierre Duhem And the Renaissance scholars countered : " When Duhem , the arch-opponent of Burckhardt , reached a vantage point from which he could look back over his beloved fourteenth century and forward to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , to all intents and purposes he withdrew his objections to Burckhardt 's thesis of a Renaissance in science and gave it his valuable though grudging support . " ? Edward Rosen Various explanations were offered to account for the rise of modern science in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries : " Science flourished step by step with the development and flourishing of the bourgeoisie . " ? Boris M. Hessen " A number of studies have shown that the Protestant ethos exerted a stimulative effect upon capitalism . Since science and technology play such dominant roles in modern capitalist culture , it is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puritanism . " ? Robert K. Merton " Ancient science failed to develop not because of its own immanent shortcomings but because those who did scientific work did not see themselves , nor were they seen by others , as scientists , but primarily as philosophers , medical practitioners , and astrologers . . . . ? Joseph Ben-David " The scientist of the seventeenth century was a philosophical optimist ; delight and joy in man 's status pervaded his theory of knowledge and of the universe . And it was this revolution in man 's emotions which was the basis for the change in his ideas . " ? Lewis S. Feuer " . . . this investigation seems to suggest that two of the major features of the Scientific Renaissance , namely the change-over from Form to Function , and the rise of a natural law ' unconnected with the affairs of human society have their origin in a specific transformation in the arts . . . . ? Giorgio De Santillana 119 History-of-Science Explanation " One can not deny that a careful analysis of the alchemical texts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their actual chemical content is of profound importance for our knowledge of the growth of science as we know it , but the blanket dismissal of other supposedly non-scientific ' aspects of early chemistry to the realm of occultism , mysticism , and magical hocus-pocus does nothing to add to our knowledge of the birth of modern science . " ? Allen G. Debus But all explanations based on external factors have been challenged by the internalists : " Clearly , externalist explanations of the history of science have lost their interest as well as their interpretative capacity . One reason for this may be that such explanations tell us very little about science itself . . . . Social and economic relations are rather concerned with the scientific movement than with science as a system of knowledge of nature ( theoretical and practical ) ; they help us to understand the public face of science and the public reaction to scientists ; to evaluate the propaganda that scientists distribute among themselves , and occasionally ? but only occasionally ? to see why the subject of science takes a new turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not necessarily a sign of an unsatisfactory state of affairs . But this conflict is so characterized by historians of science themselves . For example , Thomas Kuhn , enough of an authority and spokesman for the profession to have written the article on " History of Science " in the entry " Science " in the International Encyclopedia for the Social Sciences , 4 thinks that conflict of opinion is an unsatisfactory state because it is a sign of the " pre-scientific " state of research when the given practice has not reached " maturity . " He regrets that : there seem at times to be two distinct sorts of history of science , occasionally appearing between the same cover but rarely making firm or fruitful contact . The still dominant form , often called the " internal approach " , is concerned with the substance of science as knowledge . Its newer rival , often called the " external approach " , is concerned with the activity of scientists as a social group within a larger culture . Putting the two together is perhaps the greatest challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of a response . Nevertheless any survey of the field 's present state must unfortunately still treat the two as virtually separate enterprises.5 120 Rise of Modern Science However , what we actually have is not , or not merely , a conflict of opinion about the rise of modern science but primarily a confusion of opinion . Suppose we adopt an empirical approach and interpret the conflict to be the one between historians like A. Koyre , H. Butterfield , A. R. Hall , A. C. Crombie , Marshall Claggett , E. A. Moody , J. H. Randall , and E. A. Burtt on the one hand , and " sociologists " like B. M. Hessen , R. K. Merton , E. Zilsel , and G. N. Clark on the other . A survey of the relevant literature shows this division to be the one most readily mentioned ; it is the one explicitly suggested , in part , by both Basalla0 and Hall.7 This division , however , is only apparent ; in reality , we have a confusion . First , suppose we examine the relevant works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marxist Hessen , the most extreme and uncompromising externalist , about whom Basalla claims " there is general agreement that he distorted historical facts to fit his ideological mold . " 8 In Hessen 's essay " The Social and Economic Roots of Newton 's Principia , " one of his major claims is that " Newton 's appeal to a divine mind as the highest element , creator , and prime motive power of the universe , is not in the least accidental , but is the essential consequence of his conception of the principles of mechanics , " 9 and more generally that " the idealistic views of Newton are not accidental but organically bound up with his conception of the universe . " 10 While one of Koyre 's major theses in his essay " Newton and Descartes , " is that Newton 's " preoccupation with philosophical problems was not an external additamentum but an integral part of his thinking . " 11 Not only do Hessen and Koyre agree on this central thesis , but they give analogous arguments to support it ; their arguments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some of Newton 's writings . Koyre , of course , uses an additional document , the recently discovered and published early paper by Newton , De gravitatione et aequipondio fluidorum , but this does not change the general form of his argument . Moreover , we find G. N. Clark , a " sociologist of science , " giving what is in effect a defense of the importance of the primary motive used by the " intellectual historian " : The disinterested desire to know , the impulse of the mind to exercise itself methodically and without any practical purpose , is an independent and unique motive . We might examine it by 121 History-of-Science Explanation tracing through the thought of the sixteenth and seventeenth century the distinction between pure and applied science which is what the intellectual historians of science might do ; but the quickest and clearest way of disentangling it is to abandon the biographical point of view and take that of history . . . . To do this means realizing that the scientific movement was not the mere aggregate of the efforts of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of his social position . It was a common enterprise , partially incarnated in each of them , but having its own existence and nature , not to be explained except as a whole greater than its parts . . . . For example the pursuit of knowledge in the universities is a self-perpetuating tradition . . . so that it was the social function of the universities thus to set free from the pressure of other motives men who had the desire to know . The changing social and economic conditions of Newton 's time did something to increase this social provision , especially for mathematics and science ; but the universities had their own laws of growth . At their heart was the disinterested love of truth . This we must add as a sixth , and greatest , to the five motives which we have distinguished as actuating the scientific movement i.e. , the influences " from economic life , from war , from medicine , from the arts , and from religion " . The others helped to clear the way for it , they could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well known that the intellectual historians are divided among themselves on the question of the connection between seventeenth century science and medieval science . Koyre emphasizes the differences between the two , whereas most of the other intellectual historians emphasize various kinds of similarities . And this internal conflict among intellectual historians is rather basic since it centers around the question of whether , as a matter of principle , one should look for similarities or for differences in historical developments . In the fundamental idea of contrasting seventeenth century and medieval science , most externalists would agree with Koyre . Hall 's Analysis What are we to make of the conflict between the so-called internalists and externalists when we find such important cross-group similarities and intra-group differences ? A. R. Hall attempts to sort out the supposed issues between them in his article " Merton Revisited , or Science and Society in the Seventeenth Century " : 13 122 Rise of Modern Science one issue between the externalist and internalist interpretation is this : was the beginning of modern science the outstanding feature of early modem civilization , or must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reformation or the development of capitalism ? 14 But this can not , or at least should not , be one of the main issues since , if anything is clear , it is that the dispute is one about the causes of the rise of modern science , not about the importance of a historical development , which is a dispute about effects rather than causes . In fact , the relative importance of various historical developments should be judged by their independent effects . Given two events E and E ' , the effects of E independent of E ' are those events which are effects of E but which could not have been effects of E ' unless E ' were itself an effect of E. Therefore , in judging the relative importance of the rise of modem science , the rise of capitalism , and the Protestant Reformation , even if the former had been caused by either or both of the latter , so that indirectly all the effects of the rise of modem science would also be effects of the rise of capitalism and/or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the more important event . The reason for this is that the important determining effects , such as the material progress of modem Western civilization , the spread of science throughout the earth , and the threat of the bomb , are consequences of the rise of modem science irrespective of what its causes were . Hall also regards as an issue the nature of the connection between religion and science in the seventeenth century . He believes that the externalist-sociologists would affirm , and the internalist-intellectual historians deny that the connection , besides being a correlation , is causal . But who , intellectual historian or not , has ever denied or could deny that the Inquisition had an effect on science in Italy and France ? Can there be any doubt that to bum a Bruno , to imprison a Galileo , or to discourage a Descartes from publishing Le Monde is to have a causal influence on science ? The influence here is detrimental to be sure , but it is nonetheless causal . As for the more restricted question of the connection between Puritanism and science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not draw the conclusion about their causal connection . But this is probably due to his being really interested in sociological-theoretical conclusions and no such conclusions really follow from the historical material he presents . But if it is a historical thesis that we are interested in , that is if we are interested 123 History-of-Science Explanation in the claim that in seventeenth century England it was the rise of the Puritan ethic which caused the increase of interest in science , then it is not clear why " massive proof and argument is required in demonstration , " 15 as Hall says . Why is it not sufficient to do what is often done in history in order to establish a causal claim , 16 namely , to establish that : ( 1 ) the event E occurred , ( 2 ) condition C could have caused E , ( 3 ) nothing else was present which could have caused E , and that ( 4 ) therefore ( since every event must have a cause ) C must have caused E. It is true that Merton has established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in science in the latter part of the seventeenth century in England , and ( 2 ' ) that the rise of the Puritan ethic could have caused such a development . And this latter thesis is nontrivial especially in view of the usual beliefs about the enmity between science and religion . But Merton has not argued in support of ( 3 ' ) the idea that none of the other conditions present in England at the time could have caused the increase of interest in science . It is for this reason that the causal conclusion can not be drawn from Merton 's work . To question the need of ( 3 ) , in addition to ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , for the inference of ( 4 ) would raise a genuine issue , but that would not allow us to make the desired historiographical distinction ; in fact , Merton , an externalist-sociologist , does not , in the absence of the analog of ( 3 ) , i.e. , in the absence of the elimination of other possible causes , infer the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Descartes " does draw the causal conclusion from the possibility claim that Newton 's philosophical anti-Cartesianism could have caused him to write the Principia.17 Is the issue that of distinguishing properly between seventeenthcentury science and technology ? Hall suggests this when he criticizes Merton on the grounds that " an analysis that confuses mathematical physics with mathematical technology in this way bewilders rather than assists the historian of science . " 18 But this can not be one of the main issues between the two schools for the following reason . The **25;705;TOOLONG actually do distinguish between technology and science ; they make the distinction when they put forth their externalist explanations , for those explanations could not even seem externalist unless technology were being regarded as something different from 124 Rise of Modern Science science . It is quite another matter , of course , to say that the externalistssociologists have shown that there was a causal claim that they have established , or are trying to establish , a causal claim , : Hessen , that Newton wrote the Principia in order to provide a systematic and theoretical solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the rise of modem science was caused by the transposition of the methods of technology ( arts and crafts ) to natural philosophy . I think that both have succeeded in establishing the weaker possibility claim that the given event could have been caused by the correlative factor . And only in the absence of other possibly causal factors can one assert the actual causal claim . In the case of Newton 's Principia it is obvious that other determining reasons ( e.g. , the one adduced by Koyre ) were present ; whereas I am inclined to think that other than those factors adduced by Zilsel , none were present which would account for the pioneering work of Gilbert , Bacon , and Galileo . From what I have said above , possibility causal claims may seem easy to establish . This is not so ; e.g. , no one has been able to establish that the rise of capitalism could have had a causal influence on seventeenth-century science . It may appear that this is what Hessen has established ; but that is only what he wanted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalism qua capitalism , i.e. , qua economic system , could have determined Newton 's work . He succeeds in showing only that capitalism , qua technology , may have determined Newton 's work . That is , the technological problems would have been present , and could have caused Newton 's work , even in a system of socialism . Is one of the main issues the question of how the large-scale outline of the science of a given epoch is to be accounted for , as Hall also suggests ? 19 Here the **25;732;TOOLONG would presumably say that it is to be explained on the basis of external social factors influencing the science ; whereas the **25;759;TOOLONG historians would claim that the large-scale outline , as well as the smaller and more specific details , should be accounted for in terms of the internal intellectual state of the science . But this can not really be an issue since , pace Clark , the gross characteristics of the science of a given epoch are the sum-total of the small-scale characteristics , and , if these latter are determined by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former . Only by changing the kind of description when we move from small-scale to 125 History-of-Science Explanation large-scale characteristics , which amounts to changing one 's point of view , can we change the kind of determining factor . For example , by changing from an intellectual description of a small-scale development to an institutional description of a large-scale development can one change the kind of explanatory factor . But the change is due to the change from intellectual to institutional considerations and not to the change from small to large scale . Through this sort of change-ofdescription subterfuge most **25;786;TOOLONG bring in their social " factors . " But there is no good reason why nonintellectual descriptions of large-scale developments should be considered , or , if they are considered , why one should eliminate nonintellectual descriptions of small-scale developments , which would then have to be explained by " external " factors . To cite an example : an intellectual description of a large-scale development would be " the transition from the geostatic to the heliostatic astronomical theory " ; a description of a small-scale nonintellectual development would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to be accounted for **32;813;TOOLONG , the latter sociologically . Thus even if we abandon the " heroic view of history , " as Merton urges us to do , or the " method of biography , " as Clark calls it , we need not necessarily take the point of view of " externalism-sociology of science . " The issue under consideration therefore can not represent a meaningful disagreement between the two schools since it originates from different initial points of view and thus reflects different interests . Hall 's suggestions render the conflict of explanations of the rise of modern science no less confused . He is right , however , in concluding that the resolution of the conflict-confusion " will require a fine analysis , a scrupulous drawing of distinctions . " 20 Unproductiveness of One Conceptual Analysis So far I have followed an empirical approach in beginning with a widely accepted empirical division of historians of science into two groups and then showed that no such division was justifiable . Second , I located a set of claims believed by many historians to define certain differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I shall now apply a more conceptual method to the problem . Let us consider what the real differences are between what might properly be called " sociology of science " and what might properly be called " intellectual history of science . " Intellectual history of science 126 Rise of Modern Science should concern itself with the intellectual developments constituting the history of science . The sociology of science should concern itself with events , phenomena , and developments involving social institutions and large numbers of individuals . Hence there is no conflict between the two : an intellectual development might involve directly and primarily one individual ( e.g. , Newton 's discovery of the law of gravitation ) or a large number of individuals ( e.g. , the rise of modern science ) ; and a development involving many individuals may be either intellectual ( e.g. , the transition from geostatic to heliostatic astronomy ) or not ( e.g. , the increase in the relative number of scientists in the latter part of the seventeenth century in England ) . Consequently , a socialintellectual history of science is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historiographical disagreement between the sociologists and the intellectual historians . If there is a disagreement , and it is a real one , then we have hereby been unable to discern it . On the other hand , if we use the concepts of internalism and externalism to define the difference , then the issue becomes ambiguous and inapplicable to the historiographical situation . The ambiguity is due to the different things with respect to which internalism and externalism can be internal and external . For example , since scientific thinking can not be equated with all of intellectual activity , an intellectual internalist approach could be externalist with respect to developments in scientific thinking . The question could arise whether modern scientific ideas originated from previous scientific ideas or from previous philosophical ideas . This question acquires interest and importance in Kuhn 's theory of scientific change , but it has not been explicitly or frequently discussed in the recent controversies . Koyre would turn out to be an externalist on such an issue . Things that could be regarded as external to all ideas , scientific or nonscientific , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things are more external to ( unlike ) scientific ideas than philosophical or metaphysical ideas are . Yet are not scientific practices more internal to science than metaphysical ideas ? Whatever the case , Koyre 's work , once more , would have externalist tendencies . I am referring to the possibility of ideas originating from certain procedures . For example , Galileo 's law of falling bodies is alleged by Koyre to result from certain practices . It may be objected that these practices are , however , intellectual or mental practices . But then we are distinguishing between intellectual ideas and intellectual practices . And the question arises whether in-127 History-of-Science Explanation tellectual practices are more like ( internal to ) other kinds of practices or more like intellectual things of other kinds . Would religion , economy , and technology be external to science if one dealt with religious , economic , and technological ideas ? The externalism-internalism distinction does not seem too helpful . Thus the fine analysis and scrupulous drawing of distinctions that Hall urges , can not be the present ones . // Philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Explanationism SO FAR I have argued that the concept of history-of-science explanation is anomalous from the point of view of predictiveness , lawcoverability , and the why ' principle . I have also argued that the practice of explanation is unsatisfactory in the sense that the most obvious characteristic of historical accounts which are explicitly explanatory is that they are highly unsatisfactory . Several questions come to mind as a result of this anomaly and deficiency : Are these two things connected ; if so , how ; and , how is one to understand the causes of this unsatisfactory situation ? Such queries constitute what I shall call " the problem of explanation in historiography of science . " The first step toward its solution will be an examination of previous attempts to solve it . The single investigation most relevant to the problem so far is that undertaken by Joseph Agassi in Towards an Historiography of Science . 131 Philosophy of the History of Science Agassi 's most pertinent thesis is his claim that " historical explanation of any value is rare in the annals of the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophical principles " ( pp. viii , 74-79 ) . Since he is rather brief about this claim , and since this claim is a special case of his main thesis , I shall begin by examining his main thesis , which he summarizes : The history of science is a most rational and fascinating story ; yet the study of the history of science is in a lamentable state : the literature of the field is often pseudo-scholarly and largely unreadable . The faults which have given rise to this situation , I shall argue , stem from the uncritical acceptance , on the part of historians of science , of two incorrect philosophies of science . These are , on the one hand , the inductive philosophy of science , according to which scientific theories emerge from facts , and , on the other hand , the conventionalist philosophy of science , according to which scientific theories are mathematical pigeonholes for classifying facts . The second , although some improvement over the first remains unsatisfactory . A third , contemporary theory of science , Popper 's critical philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , scientific theories explain known facts and are refutable by new facts . P. v The Inductivist Interpretation In order to extract a coherent view from Agassi 's essay , his main thesis may be analyzed into four parts : the first is an evaluative claim , the second is a causal one , and the last two are methodological claims . The evaluative claim is the assertion that " the study of the history of science is in a lamentable state " ( p. v ) . The causal claim is the assertion that " the faults which have given rise to this situation , I shall argue , stem from the uncritical acceptance , on the part of historians of science , of two incorrect philosophies of science " ( p. v ) . The first methodological claim is the general prescription that the historian of science ought to be ( more ) critical about the philosophy of science he accepts ( pp. 14 , 29 , 45 ) . The second methodological claim is the specific proposal that the historian of science ought to try to apply Popper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of science ( pp. v , 78 ) . Perhaps the most obvious relation among the first three claims is that they form an argument of which the methodological claim would be the conclusion . This form of argument is popular among methodolo-132 inductivism , Conventionalism , and Explanationism gists , and may be regarded as " the " methodological argument . Its structure is : Condition E is bad ( in some respect ) . The cause of E is condition C. Therefore , eliminate or try to prevent the occurrence of C. Agassi is thus grounding his general methodological claim on his evaluative and causal ones . Hence the question of whether or not to accept the general prescription partially reduces to the question of his evaluative and causal claims ' acceptability . But how does Agassi support his specific methodological claim that the historian of science ought to apply Popper 's philosophy of science to the history of science ? One way is by arguing that it is a special case of the general claim . In fact , Popper 's philosophy of science , so the argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it hardly has been applied to the history of science , the historian of science will necessarily accept it self-consciously . This does not mean that he would be adopting it " on faith " ; for philosophically it easily can be seen to be superior to inductivism or conventionalism . On the other hand , the willingness to test Popper 's philosophy of science would be identical with the attempt to apply it , which is what the prescription under consideration enjoins one to do . Thus for the historian of science to try to apply Popper 's philosophy of science is to be critical about the philosophy of science he accepts , and is what the general methodological claim prescribes . Thus the acceptability of both of Agassi 's methodological claims depends on the acceptability of the evaluative and causal ones . Let us see therefore whether these claims are acceptable . The evaluative claim is grounded on a series of specific evaluations which fall into five main categories . Two of these are mentioned in the " Introductory Note " ( p. v ) : the literature in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b ) largely unreadable . The other categories are what Agassi calls ( c ) the " cancerous growth of continuity " ( pp. 33-40 ) , ( d ) " wisdom after the event , " and ( e ) the rarity of historical explanations of any value ( p. viii , and pp. 74-79 ) . If the main causal claim is to be tenable , the uncritical acceptance of inductivism or conventionalism must be the operative cause in each of the cases falling under each of the above five categories . A full examination of Agassi 's thesis would then require the examination of 133 Philosophy of the History of Science such a series of pairs of evaluative and causal claims . We shall not undertake such a full examination , for it must be admitted that to reconstruct Agassi 's general argument in the manner indicated is to make him look like an inductivist . For Agassi , the inductive philosophy of science claims that scientific theories emerge from the facts ( p. v ) ; and more generally the inductivist philosophy claims that theories or ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in speaking of " emergence , " Agassi refers to logical grounding or to historical-psychological emergence ; but , whichever he means , the above reconstruction of his argument would make his thesis " emerge " from the facts of the historiography of science . And in order to give a fair characterization of his argument one should not portray him as an inductivist , however natural such a portrayal may seem , as it is the case in the above reconstruction . Of course the possibility remains that Agassi is being inconsistent , but one should try to avoid interpretations which attribute obvious inconsistencies to an author . The Conventionalist Interpretation The curious thing is that we can also find grounds for a conventionalist interpretation of his thesis and argument . According to him , the central doctrine of conventionalism is that scientific theories are neither true nor false , that their general frameworks are mathematical systems which serve as pigeon-holes within which to store empirical information . Which pigeon-hole system to adopt is a question of choice for which simplicity provides the criterion . We can rearrange a pigeon-hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or unscientific character , or badness . Theories can fit facts with greater or smaller degrees of simplicity . Hence simplicity is a criterion not of absolute , but only of relative merit ; it is a substitute for the absolute criterion of merit of the inductivist . P. 29 The first trace of conventionalism is found in the " Introductory Note " itself , where Agassi claims that both the inductivist and the conventionalist philosophies are incorrect , not false but " incorrect . " Second , he claims that though they are both incorrect , the conventionalist philosophy is better than , " some improvement over , " the inductivist philosophy . Third , he claims both in the note and in the last section ( sec. 18 , p. viii , pp. 74 ? 79 ) that the main fault in the historiography of science is not the incorrectness or untenability of those philosophies , but the 134 Inductivism , Conventionalism , and Explanationism uncritical or naive acceptance of them . Fourth , we are told in section 8 not that the " conventionalist view " has led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has proved a useful tool in the hand of the historian of science " ( p. 29 , my italics ) . Finally , in the descriptive title of section 12 , conventionalism is called a " framework " ( p. viii ) . This verbal evidence merely suggests Agassi 's conventionalism . That his main argument can be given a conventionalist interpretation shows that his practice also is conventionalist . This argument maintains that the facts of the development of science can be classified in various ways , of which one is to classify them by their relation to the latest science textbook . Thus ideas are classified as scientific or unscientific depending on whether or not they are found in the up-to-date textbook ; individuals , all and only those whose ideas agree with the textbook are scientists . Finally , events and developments are regarded as being part of the history of science , i.e. , as " scientific , " if and only if they have left a trace in the textbook ; otherwise they are part of the history of magic , superstition , error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simplest formula for an inductivist history of science is to arrange the up-to-date science textbook in chronological order , to describe some of the circumstances surrounding the occurrence of an important event in the history of science , and say something about the chief actors involved in that event " ( p. 2 ) . The inductivist philosophy of science is indeed the simplest way of classifying the facts of the development of science when little is known about the causal relations between scientific and nonscientific or " unscientific " events , ideas , and thinkers . And such was the case during what Agassi calls the " golden age of inductivism , " approximately from Bacon to Duhem . That is why the work of those historians of science is , in general , unobjectionable . Not even the " black-and-white categorizing , " as Agassi calls it , is objectionable , for it is a necessary consequence of the criterion of classification : the item to be classified either is or is not related to the textbook and there is no third alternative . Inductivism is unhelpful , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some such facts were known even ( luring the golden age of inductivism ( p. 30 ) ; but as long as there were not too many , they could be simply ignored . But " Duhem has shown that such cases arc numerous " ( p. 31 ) . The simplest way of making the classification is now to use a relative criterion , to replace the absolute one of the textbook : the simplicity of the idea or theory is such a criterion . ' 1'hns a history of science is no longer an account of the 135 Philosophy of the History of Science temporal evolution of the latest textbook , but an account of the evolution of simpler and simpler theories for the classification of the facts known at the time ( p. 30 ) . Conventionalism remains the simplest framework as long as one ignores either the existence or importance of struggles , conflicts , controversies , and dissent . That is , in fact , what the conventionalists do . For example , Whittaker , a leading conventionalist , " has entirely ignored the conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 25 ) . Moreover , " nowhere in the literature on the history of physics has Agassi found discussed the fact that methodological disagreements have been as common in science as in philosophy " ( p. 25 ) . There is also the fact that " Priestley 's dissent from the French school of chemistry is historically important , yet it does not fit the conventionalist framework because conventionalism too leaves little room for controversy " ( p. viii , p. 45-48 ) . As another example , the conventionalist " ignores the fact that , historically , Lavoisier 's behavior can be understood as an attempt to examine critically the doctrines of Stahl and Black " ( p. 50 ) ; he also ignores " the logical conflict between Aristotle and Archimedes in the history of Renaissance mechanics " ( p. 57 ) or that between " Galileo 's terrestrial mechanics and Kepler 's celestial model " ( p. 58 ) . Finally , though Duhem describes Oersted 's discovery of electromagnetism as " ' the point of departure of all researches which constitute electrodynamics and electromagnetics ' " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Oersted 's discovery . . . conflicted with Newton 's theory of force " ( p. viii ) . But , continues Agassi , such facts are too numerous and important to be ignored , especially now that Koyre has promoted studies for the discovery of such facts ( pp. 24 , 57 ) . And it is no accident that the conventionalist ignores such facts ; for conventionalism is an in toto , post mortem ( p. 48 ) criterion . In saying that it is an in toto criterion , Agassi means , I think , that it is a criterion for the classification of large scale facts , that is , facts involving wholes , collectives , or " communities " of scientists ; in other words , it is a collectivist or holist criterion . And this criterion , like all such criteria , " misses a main driving force of science , the thinker 's problems and his sleepless nights " ( p. 41 , my italics ) , and the " intellectual obstinacy , dissatisfaction , so characteristic of scientific research , even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( p. 48 ) . In saying that the conventionalist criterion of simplicity is post mortem , Agassi means that it " is useless when it comes to reconstruct-138 Inductivism , Conventionalism , and Explanationism ing the struggle between schools , and weighing the merit of the criticisms levelled by each school against each other " ( p. 49 , my italics ) . The reason is that , " assuming that sooner or later the simplicity of one of the competing doctrines becomes obviously greater than that of the other , the conventionalist has to dismiss one school even before it ceases to be scientifically important and interesting " ( p. 45 ) . What criterion shall we then choose for the classification of the facts of the history of science ? As a good conventionalist in the field of the history of science , Agassi realizes that the reason why " the conventionalist view that we prefer the simple theory to the less simple one , not a true theory to a false one , has proved a useful tool in the hand of the historian of science . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of simplicity i.e. , not the , perhaps approximate , truth of the conventionalist view , as an inductivist might say , but the introduction of a new criterion of graded valuation to replace the old inductivist criterion which divides theories into the good and the bad " ( p. 29 ) . Thus the new criterion that we need now , to replace simplicity , is one which retains the continuum of evaluations but allows one to classify the known and soon to be discovered facts about controversies ; the new criterion will have to admit both that scientific theories may be false and that they are criticizable ( p. 49 ) . Explanatory power is such a criterion . On this view , scientific theories are supposed to explain known facts and are criticizable by new facts ( p. v ) . Under this new classification of the facts of the history of science , the history of science becomes the never-ending struggle among the various schools of scientific thought ( p. 23 ) for the attainment of a true explanatory theory , the achievement of which is regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would support two conclusions . First it would substantiate the Popperian philosophy of science , whose central doctrine is that scientific theories are explanations of facts , on the grounds that this philosophy is the simplest classification of the facts of the development of science . More generally , it would support the view that philosophies of science , that is , views like inductivism , conventionalism , and Popperianism , are neither true nor false but classifications , more or less adequate or " simple " classifications , but classificatory frameworks nonetheless , of the facts of the development of science . According to this conventionalist interpretation we would then be attributing to Agassi a Popperianism in the field of the philosophy of science , i.e. , for him , in the domain of the facts of the development 137 Philosophy of the History of Science of science ; we would also be attributing to Agassi conventionalism in the field of the philosophy of the historiography of science , i.e. , for him , in the domain of the facts of the development of the historiography of science . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least of all in the domain of facts of the development of the historiography of science . For example , he gives a Popperian interpretation of the rise of the conventionalist historiography of science : not only is the conventionalist philosophy of science made to emerge prior to conventionalist historiography , but also he explicitly refuses to apply the " emergence technique " when giving an account of the origin of Duhem 's philosophy ; Duhem is alleged to have developed his philosophy , primarily , though not exclusively , in order to criticize inductivism ( pp. 32-33 ) . And , in general , it is Agassi 's " frank intention to advocate Popper 's methodology as a means of improving the present lamentable state of affairs in the field of the history of science " ( p. 78 ) , that is , to apply Popper 's philosophy to the historiography of science . The Popperian Interpretation of Agassi 's Essay It seems then that a fair interpretation of Agassi 's main thesis and argument can neither ground that thesis on the facts of the historiography of science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerge " from them , nor by arguing that the simplest classification of the facts of the development of science is now the Popperian philosophy of science . This does not mean , however , that our two previous efforts for inductivist and conventionalist interpretation of Agassi will have been wasted . For the possibility of such interpretations , which should be beyond dispute from the above arguments , is significant and can be used to acquire some insight into inductivism , conventionalism , and Popperianism ( hypothetico-deductivism ) . The Popperian interpretation obviously will have to attribute to Agassi , as an important element of his thesis , Popper 's so-called " critical " philosophy of science , the idea that scientific theories are explanations of facts . And the argument in favor of this philosophy will have to be that it is the only explanation , or at any rate the only explanation of many or some of the important facts of the development of science . Hence another element of Agassi 's thesis is the idea that philosophies of science are explanations of the facts of the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to explain ? Let us remember that , in speaking of philosophies of science , Agassi is here referring pri-138 Inductivism , Conventionalism , and Explanationism marily to inductivism , conventionalism , and " Popper 's critical philosophy of science " ; but then it is obvious that he is using the idea just mentioned in his interpretation of the development of the historiography of science . Thus that idea , which may be regarded as the central tenet of Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science , is supposed to explain the facts of the development of the historiography of science . We now see why the Popperian " critical philosophy of science " is not and can not be , for Agassi , the " panacea " ; for the panacea is Agassi 's own philosophy of the historiography of science . And we also see why " Popper 's critical philosophy of science " is just " a possible remedy . " For , as we have already seen , what both the inductivists and conventionalists are urged to do is not necessarily to accept Popper 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of science ( only an inductivist or conventionalist philosopher of the historiography of science would advocate such a change ) . Rather they are being urged to accept Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science , which in fact provides a justification why they should continue to be either inductivists or conventionalists in the domain of the facts of the development of science , provided they are willing to articulate their own philosophies of science which now happen to have less explanatory power than Popper 's philosophy of science . Of course the latter alleged fact would be , for someone without prior commitment or other inclination , a sufficient reason to accept Popper 's critical philosophy of science . But why should the inductivist or conventionalist historian of science , or in fact anybody else , accept Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science ? Agassi 's argument , as we have seen , would have to be that this philosophy has great explanatory power , perhaps more than any of its alternatives . The alternatives would be what might be called the inductivist and the conventionalist philosophies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case , Agassi 's argument , even if valid , could not , and should not by his own criteria , convince someone who had prior commitment or other inclination to accept either one of the two alternative philosophies mentioned . But such people are usually , and naturally enough , the inductivist and conventionalist historians of science themselves . For they , like Agassi , as he himself notes in the case of inductivism ( p. 1 ) , do have the implicit and explicit inclination to extend the inductive and conventionalist philosophies of science , which they perhaps uncritically accept , first 139 Philosophy of the History of Science from the domain of natural phenomena into the domain of facts of the development of science , and then into the domain of facts of the development of the historiography of science . Most likely , then , they accept either the inductivist philosophy of the historiography of science , according to which philosophies of science emerge from the facts of the development of science , or the conventionalist philosophy of the historiography of science , according to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the development of science . Thus inductivist and conventionalist historians of science can not be forced to accept Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science by the argument that this philosophy has more explanatory power than either of its alternatives . Thus , to convince inductivists and conventionalists may be the , perhaps unconscious , reason why there are traces , and indeed more than traces , of both inductivist and conventionalist arguments in support of Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science . For the inductivist argument tries to show that , by extending inductivism into the domain of facts of the development of the historiography of science , there " emerges " Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science and , as a conditional consequence , " Popper 's critical philosophy of science . " And the conventionalist argument tries to show that , by extending conventionalism into the domain of the facts of the development of science , the simplest classification of these facts is the Popperian critical philosophy of science . And once we have the Popperian philosophy of science , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science . Thus , if the two arguments mentioned in our two previous interpretations of Agassi are sound , even the inductivist and conventionalist have to accept Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science , though not necessarily Popper 's critical philosophy of science . But my aim is not to preach Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science to the inductivist and conventionalist historians ; indeed I do not think that those arguments are sound . Therefore I shall not give an explicit analysis and evaluation of the two previous reconstructions ; but since I wish to criticize Agassi 's thesis , I shall concentrate on the Popperian interpretation of Agassi 's thesis and argument . The point of view that I shall take is that of someone who accepts Popper 's philosophy of science . The evaluation of Agassi 's essay then reduces to the determination of whether someone who accepts Popper 's phi-140 Inductivism , Conventionalism , and Explanationism losophy of science should accept Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science . My own views inductivistically emerged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument in favor of his philosophy of the historiography of science is without force because all of his explanations of facts of the development of the historiography of science are highly unsatisfactory by his own standards , which in this case are the so-called deductive model of explanation . Second , the views to which he is referring in his statement of his philosophy of the historiography of science , namely , inductivism , conventionalism , and " Popper 's critical philosophy of science , " are not explanations of the facts of the development of science ; rather , inductivism is the common method of exposition , presentation , or justification ; conventionalism is the externalist point of view about science ; and the hypothetico-deductivism of Popper 's philosophy of science is a common method of discovery ; a partial justification of this claim can be found in my solution to the problem of explanation . Third , what Agassi really means by " philosophies of science , " namely , " philosophies of the history of science " or " theoretical histories of science , " are not explanations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of science , but " emerge " from those facts ( this may be called my " inductivist philosophy of the historiography of science " ) . Agassi 's argument in favor of Popper 's philosophy of science is also without force because his explanations of the facts thereby explained would be highly unsatisfactory , especially by his own standards ; I shall not explicitly argue for this , but my argument in chapter 12 against philosophies of the history of science will provide a partial justification . Finally , though I do not accept Agassi 's argument for the thesis that scientific theories are explanations of facts , I accept that thesis as a correct claim about the logical structure of scientific theories . The claim may be called the explanationist epistemology of science and may be supported on inductivist grounds . Ill chaPter Agassi 's Philosophy of the Historiography of Science AGASSI 'S MAIN ARGUMENT in favor of his philosophy of the historiography of science , according to which philosophies of science are explanations of the facts of the development of science , is that it explains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of the historiography of science : ( 1 ) " the study of the history of science is in a lamentable state " ( p. v ) ; ( 2 ) " historical explanation of any value is rare in the annals of the history of science " ( p. viii ) ; ( 3 ) " in the field of the history of science , divers efforts to study one and the same topic are not to be found anywhere , to my knowledge , with the exception of the studies of the history of Renaissance mechanics from those of Duhem and Mach to those of Koyre and his followers " ( p. 75 ) ; ( 4 ) there is a " low standard of work on the history of science " ( p. 77 ) ; ( 5 ) " a mediocre political history is 142 Agassi 's Philosophy less boring than a mediocre history of science ? even for a person like myself who is much more interested in the history of science " ( p. 77 ) ; ( 6 ) " Bacon 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ( p. 77 ) is accepted as trivially true by so many historians of science " ( p. 77 ) ; ( 7 ) " their histories i.e. , the histories of inductivist historians of science as well as histories based on obviously inconsistent mixtures of inductivist and conventionalist views ( see section 10 ) are so patiently tolerated by a rather enlightened public " ( p. 77 ) . Agassi 's explanation of these supposed facts constitutes the argument supporting his philosophy of the historiography of science . For the argument to succeed , the explanations must be acceptable in themselves and appropriately related to the philosophy . To determine the acceptability of the explanations and the appropriateness of the relation , a logical analysis of the explanations is necessary . This analysis ' shall be conducted by using Agassi 's own standards . The relevant standards are here what he calls " Popper 's so-called deductive model of explanation , and . . . its application to history " ( p. 75 ) , which Agassi accepts , expounds , and uses in the last section of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Popper 's deductive model , 2 which is somewhat similar to Hempel 's , may be briefly stated : An explanation is a set of statements one of which , the explicandum , describes the state of affairs to be explained , while the other statements , the explicans , do the explaining . Assuming the explicandum to be true , the satisfactoriness of the explanation reduces to that of the explicans . The explicans may or may not logically entail the explicandum ; if it does , then the explicans is satisfactory if and only if it contains universal statements and is true . If the explicans does not logically entail the explicandum , then the explicans may be either fully stated or merely sketched ; if it is fully stated ( since it does not entail the explicandum ) , it is unsatisfactory ; if it is merely sketched , then its satisfactoriness depends on whether what has been omitted is trivially true or not ; if it is not , then the explanation is not satisfactory , otherwise it is . The following are then necessary conditions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be true , ( 2 ) when fully stated it must logically entail the explicandum , ( 3 ) when fully stated it must be testable independently of the explicandum by containing universal statements ( otherwise the explicans is ad hoc or circular ) , and ( 4 ) when sketched , what is omitted must be trivial . The universal statements are often called " universal laws , " though 143 Philosophy of the History of Science perhaps they should be so called only if they are true . The singular statements in the explicans are called " initial conditions . " Since some of my critical analysis depends on what Agassi explicitly says or does not say , I shall have to quote the explanations as he gives them . When Agassi explicitly describes a set of statements of his as an explanation , as he does in the case of explicanda ( 3 ) through ( 7 ) quoted above , there is little problem . But Agassi does not do so in cases ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . Hence I shall examine ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being given in the last section of Agassi 's essay . Agassi 's first explanation there is the following : In the field of the history of science , diverse efforts to study one and the same topic are not to be found anywhere , to my knowledge , with the exception of the studies of the history of Renaissance mechanics from those of Duhem and Mach to those of Koyre and his followers . I wish to explain this defect by the following hypothesis : although the laws used in historical explanation are usually very simple , where the history of science is concerned they are highly problematic and complicated . P. 75 The first step in a Popperian analysis is to separate what is being explained from what does the explaining . The explicandum is the first of the two statements in the set . The explicans is the " hypothesis " that : ( ICI ) Although the laws used in historical explanation are usually very simple , where the history of science is concerned they are highly problematic and complicated . This seems to be a singular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of explanation . There is , however , no universal law in sight . The explanation is , then , not fully stated but merely sketched . Following Popper 's theory , this is no criticism of that explanation . Agassi may or may not be justified in merely sketching his explanation , depending on whether or not the universal statement ( s ) he uses is ( are ) trivial . To evaluate Agassi 's first explanation by his own standards we must determine what universal statement ( s ) he uses . Leaving aside the problem of what is or could be the sense in which Agassi is " using " the universal statements , the question of which ones he is using is answered as follows . Agassi is using those universals which are contained in the " fully stated explanation " ( p. 76 ) . Frorn Agassi 's sketch one must construct the fully stated explanation . But 144 Agassi 's Philosophy what is such an entity ? It is doubtful that there could really be fully stated explanations , and perhaps this notion does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be given a sense , and this is what Popper 's deductive model does . A fully stated explanation is one in accordance with the model , that is , one in which the explicandum deductively follows from a set of statements containing universal as well as singular statements ( p. 75 ) . We now know how to recognize fully stated explanations ; the question remains , " How do we reconstruct them from the sketch ? " And this construction is our present problem . This crucial question the model does not ask and , unfortunately , does not even seem to raise . In general there is no reason why there should be a one-to-one correspondence between sketches and fully stated explanations ; there may very well be several ways of filling the sketch . This is admitted , implicitly , by Popper himself when he claims that " a clearer analysis " of the example of the breaking of a thread used by him " distinguishes two universal laws " instead of the one contained in his original analysis , though Popper does not seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fully stated explanation originates from the problem of determining whether the universals contained therein are trivially true , the difficulty can perhaps be solved by taking a second look at the triviality question in the light of the difficulties encountered with the reconstruction problem . The triviality question is unambiguous only if the fully stated explanation to be reconstructed contains just one universal statement . In that case the question can only refer to whether the statement is uncontroversial or its plausibility trivially obvious . But , allowing the possibility that the fully stated explanation should contain more than one universal statement , then what may or may not also be trivial is the way in which these statements are to be combined with each other and with the initial conditions to yield the explicandum . For example , the truth of each universal statement may be trivially obvious , but the way in which they can be combined may be highly controversial or totally unknown . Therefore , one 's Popperian analysis of an explanation sketch , such as Agassi 's , is being more sympathetic if one " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement connecting the initial conditions with the explicandum . For in this case the only way in which the original sketch may turn out to be unsatisfactory is if the truth of the statement is not trivially obvious ( and not , in addition , if the way of combining the many universals is not trivial ) . Moreover , it could not 145 Philosophy of the History of Science really be fair to expect the Popperian reconstructionist to " fill the sketch " with the help of many laws , for then the reconstruction problem would be as difficult as the explanatory problem itself . Unless the reconstruction problem is trivialized by requiring only one law , one could not use the model in the way that Popper does in The Poverty of Historicism , for example . Finally there is no possibility that the single law reconstruction be unfair , for the following reason . If this statement , which may be called the minimal universal , is trivially true , then the original explanation ( sketch ) will not be criticized for omitting it . But if that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws contained in any multiple-laws reconstruction could be trivially obvious either , because that set entails the minimal universal and , if the latter is not trivial , either the content of at least one member of the set or their combination must be nontrivial . For all these reasons , it will only be fair , according to his own standards , to complete Agassi 's explanations with only one connecting universal statement . The universal statement being used by Agassi in his first explanation is perhaps the following : ( Ll ) Whenever the principles used in a given field are highly problematic and complicated , then diverse efforts to study one and the same topic are rare in that field . I said " perhaps " because the following generalization would also meet the required condition : ( Ll ' ) Whenever the laws used in explanations in a given field are highly problematic and complicated , then diverse efforts to study one and the same topic are rare in that field . Finally there is a third possibility , though there is something rather artificial about it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history-of-science explanations are , unlike those used in ordinary historical explanation , highly problematic and complicated , then in the field of history of science diverse efforts to study one and the same topic are rare . Since it is obvious that the explicandum follows logically from the conjunction of the initial condition ( ICI ) and either ( Ll ) , ( Ll ' ) , or ( Ll " ) , an obvious difficulty arises , namely , that even a single-gencrali-146 Agassi 's Philosophy zation reconstruction of an explanation sketch is not unique . And this seems to be true in general , since , if the explicandum of an explanation follows from the initial conditions and some universal statement , then it also follows from those initial conditions and any more general statement . If the deductive model is to be applicable , the question that has to be answered is , How general a universal statement is one supposed to construct when analyzing an explanation that has been merely sketched ? The criterion of independent testability is useless since a universal statement is automatically testable independently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an artificial generalization as ( Ll " ) , which is universal only with respect to time . Let us now consider the criterion of maximum testability or falsifiability . This would allow us to use the most general universal statement which would fulfill the other requirements , in our case ( Ll ) . But this criterion is unacceptable because it is not evaluatively neutral . For the explanation being analyzed either is or is not a discovery . If it is a discovery , then to maximize the testability of the universal statement being used would be to attribute a desirable characteristic to the explanation . If the explanation is not a discovery , then whatever universal statement is being used , it is known to be true or false ; in this case to attribute maximum falsifiability is to maximize the chance that the statement , and thus the explanation , is false . And to do this is to criticize the explanation . It is not my task here to solve this difficulty , since what I intend to do is to criticize Agassi 's explanations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At any rate , for my criticism of Agassi 's first explanation , it is not necessary to solve the above mentioned problem because none of the three above mentioned universal statements is trivially true ; and the same argument shows that all three of them are false . This can be seen as follows . Let us assume that the " laws " used in history-of-science explanation are indeed highly problematic and complicated . Consider now what will happen when a certain historical development is taken as an explicandum . Whenever some historian of science will put forth an explanation , the admitted problematic character and complexity of the universal statement or statements which he uses in his explanation will make the explanation itself problematic . These problems will be the source of dissatisfaction to other historians who will therefore be led to put forth a different explanation which in their judgment is more satisfactory . 147 Philosophy of the History of Science They too will necessarily have been using problematic laws , so that the proliferation of explanations will go on indefinitely . And the proliferation is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the study of one and the same topic . Our conclusion is that Agassi 's first explanation is false . Agassi 's statement of his second explanation is as follows : Although this i.e. , Agassi 's account of the logic of the concept of explanation need not be taken too seriously , it suffices , I think , to explain quite a number of facts in the history of history . For my own part , I am trying to explain the low standard of work on the history of science . Unlike most historians , historians of science must , in the main , use laws that are highly problematical from methodology and epistemology . And unlike most historians who have to use problematical laws , they are seldom conscious of the fact that their laws are indeed problematical . P. 77 The explicandum is here " the low standard of work on the history of science . " The explicans may be paraphrased without change of meaning as follows : ( IC2 ) Unlike most historians who have to use problematical laws , historians of science are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problematical laws from methodology and epistemology . This statement seems to be a generalization about what historians of science do , do not do , or have to do . If this is correct , then what would be missing from Agassi 's second explanation sketch would be the initial conditions . But when we try to complete this sketch , we discover that what is needed is another generalization : ( L2 ) Whenever historians of science , unlike most historians who have to use problematical laws , are not conscious of the fact that their laws are indeed problematical laws from methodology and epistemology , then a low standard of work on the history of science results . Which general statement is the " law " being used by Agassi in his second explanation ? The answer is , of course , that the second generalization , ( L2 ) , is the one . Why ? The Popperian answer might be that it is so because the second generalization , ( L2 ) , is a statement which 148 Agassi 's Philosophy allows us to deduce the explicandum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But ( IC2 ) also allows us to deduce the explicandum from ( L2 ) . It seems , then , that the Popperian can not really justify his choice of ( L2 ) instead of ( IC2 ) as the universal " law " being used in Agassi 's second explanation sketch , for neither generality nor deductive power provides such a justification ; the former does not because both statements are generalizations , the latter because both statements are necessary but insufficient for the deduction of the explicandum . I believe there is a reason why the Popperian would choose ( L2 ) as the " universal law " being used by Agassi in his second explanation sketch : namely , ( L2 ) states a connection ( causal ? ) between the explicandum and ( IC2 ) , whereas ( IC2 ) does not state a connection between the explicandum and ( L2 ) . But this is an unPopperian justification because it shows that the function of what the adherent to the deductive model calls " universal laws " is to provide a connection between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But if that is the function of the universal law , then anything else that provides the connection is just as good . Universal laws , then , and perhaps even deduction would be accidents in explanation , and would not express its essence , let alone its meaning , as it is claimed by Popper.4 From the present point of view , then , ( IC2 ) is to be regarded as a singular statement of sociological fact about historians of science and ( L2 ) as a universal law . There still remains the question of whether ( L2 ) is trivially true or not . Its nontriviality is shown by its falsehood . For the paradox of methodology is that , in general , one does not have to know explicitly what one is doing in order to do it , and even do it well . Agassi himself admits this when he says , " I do not think that conscious methodological efforts are necessary for a historian of science to write an interesting and valuable work " ( p. 78 , my italics ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is also false . Let us now examine Agassi 's third explanation : Admittedly , bad or boring histories exist in every field , and no elaborate effort to explain them is necessary . Yet the fact is that a mediocre political history is less boring than a mediocre history of science ? even for a person like myself who is much more interested in the history of science . Since this fact is rather puzzling , i do not think that my explanation is quite redundant . 1 ' . 77 149 Philosophy of the History of Science The explicandum seems to be the statement that , even for a person much more interested in the history of science , a mediocre political history is less boring than a mediocre history of science ( p. 77 ) . The explicans is presumably the same as the explicans of the " low standard of work on the history of science " ( p. 77 ) . The universal statement that Agassi is using in his third explanation is perhaps the following : ( L3 ) Whenever problematic laws must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that field are not aware of this fact , then the writings of these practitioners are boring , much more boring than the writings of investigators who either do n't have to use problematic laws or are aware that the laws they use are problematic . This statement is by no means trivially true ; therefore according to the deductive model it should have been included in Agassi 's third explanation , which is therefore unsatisfactory as it stands . Yet the unjustified sketchiness of Agassi 's third explanation may be the least of its drawbacks ; it is probably false because the universal statement being used is probably false . This may be seen as follows . Since the laws used in political-history explanations are usually very simple , they will not normally be explicitly mentioned . Though the laws used in the explanations to be found in a history of science are problematical , since most historians of science are presumably not aware of this fact , they will not explicitly mention these laws either . Thus both political historians and science historians will take for granted and refrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that if both did explicitly mention the laws , the result would be that the political history would be much more boring than the history of science . The following is also clear ; namely , if neither states the laws explicitly , the history of science is harder to comprehend , more provocative , and bolder . But if this is so , it would seem that the writings of the historian of science are more and not less interesting than those of the political historian . Thus ( L3 ) is probably false . Agassi 's fourth explanation is the following : I would go further , and try to explain two more puzzles . First , why is Bacon 's problematic theory " according to which every scientific theory emerges from the facts " ( p. 77 ) accepted as trivially true by so many historians of science ? . . . My answer is this : Bacon 's theory is the only well-known explanation of the rise of scientific ideas . Since the most obvious task of a 150 Agassi 's Philosophy historian of the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of an idea , he needs a general theory of the development of ideas ; and there is no widely known competitor yet to Bacon 's general theory of the emergence of scientific ideas . Pp. 77 ? 78 The explicandum is the statement that " Bacon 's problematical theory is accepted as trivially true by so many historians of science . " The explicans is the following set of statements : " Bacon 's theory is the only well-known explanation of the rise of scientific ideas . Since the most obvious task of a historian of the development of science is to explain one specific development , especially the development of an idea , he needs a general theory of the development of ideas ; and there is no widely known competitor yet to Bacon 's general theory of the emergence of scientific ideas . " Does the explicandum follow from the explicans ? To determine this , consider the following argument which exhibits the logical structure of the explanation more clearly . ( 1 ) Bacon 's theory is the only well-known explanation of the rise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a historian of the development of science is to explain one specific development , especially the development of an idea . ( 3 ) If the historian of science wants to explain one specific development , especially the development of an idea , he needs a general theory of the development of ideas . ( 4 ) Therefore , the historian of science needs a general theory of the development of ideas . ( 5 ) But there is no widely known competitor yet to Bacon 's general theory of the emergence of scientific ideas . ( 6 ) Therefore , the historian of science will be likely to accept Bacon 's general theory of the emergence of scientific ideas . ( 7 ) Therefore , Bacon 's theory will be accepted as trivially true by a great many historians of science . Agassi 's fourth explanation is then , at least in intention , " fully stated " and not " merely sketched " ; for the presumption is that the last statement follows from the preceding ones , all of which are more or less explicitly stated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement , namely ( 3 ) . It is doubtful , however , whether 151 Philosophy of the History of Science this intentionally full statement makes the explanation any more satisfactory , for it now becomes open to other kinds of objections . First , even if ( 6 ) should follow from the preceding statements , ( 7 ) does not follow from ( 6 ) . Nor is the difference between these two statements trivial . In fact , according to Agassi , the difference between " acceptance " and " acceptance as trivially true " is the difference between " acceptance " and " uncritical acceptance , " and it is primarily the latter that needs to be criticized and explained . It is not difficult to understand how Agassi was led to such an oversight . We recall that Agassi is using this explanation to boost the explanatory power of his philosophy of the historiography of science , of which an important part is the deductive model of explanation , a presumed consequence of which model is the universal statement ( 3 ) in the argument . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicandum and not from explicandum to explicans . Looked at from the point of view of the theory or statement ( 3 ) , the differences between the last two statements ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) do not appear to be great : they may both be regarded as confirming the former . The second objection is this : ( 6 ) is being fallaciously deduced by Agassi from ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . The subterfuge is the identification of the " general theory of the development of ideas " in ( 4 ) with the " general theory of the emergence of scientific ideas " in ( 5 ) . By comparing the statements from which ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) are respectively deduced , we can see how different those two things really are . ( 4 ) is validly being deduced from ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ; hence the " general theory of the development of ideas " mentioned in ( 4 ) must be the one mentioned in ( 3 ) ; and the " general theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the theory of the development of ideas in general , needed if one wants to explain a specific development of an idea ; in other words , it is the " universal law " ( about how ideas develop ) being used , in accordance with the deductive model , in the explanation . But the " general theory of the emergence of scientific ideas " in ( 5 ) must be simply the theory about how scientific ideas originated in the first place , i.e. , the account of the historical event called the rise of scientific ideas ; and the reason for this is that Agassi deduces , fallaciously , as we shall see later , ( 5 ) from ( 1 ) , and ( 1 ) speaks of the explanation of the historical event labeled " the rise of scientific ideas . " Thus , since what the historian of science needs , according to the deductive model , is a theory about the development of ideas in general , and since what lacks widely known competitors is Bacon 's theory of how scientific 152 Agassi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the historian will accept Bacon 's theory . I said above that Agassi is not justified in deducing ( 5 ) from ( 1 ) . And this is my third objection . I think that Agassi must be trying to deduce ( 5 ) from ( 1 ) , otherwise ( 1 ) , which is adduced in his statement of the explanation as the principal initial condition , would be superfluous . Moreover , both ( 1 ) and ( 5 ) speak of what is clearly the same thing , namely , the " rise of scientific ideas " and the " emergence of scientific ideas , " respectively . Agassi equates an explanation with a theory . And this is surely unjustified , even from the point of view of the deductive model which emphasizes the need for initial conditions . I believe that this misapplication of the deductive model stems from a misapplication of " Popper 's critical philosophy of science " ; that is , Popper 's idea that scientific theories are explanations of facts is effectively being extended by claiming that the converse is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are scientific theories , i.e. , explanations are general theories . And this extension is not justified since scientific theories are explanations of scientific facts , which are already of such a generality as to obviate the need for initial conditions in the explanation of them . But not all facts are scientific facts ; the most obvious contrast is historical facts , and for the explanation of these , theories alone are not sufficient , and may even be unnecessary . The above critical analysis has shown that Agassi 's fourth explanation is highly unsatisfactory when judged by the standards of the deductive model of explanation . To be sure , since the model applies only to fully stated explanations , and since Agassi 's explanation did not come with the label " fully stated , " that evaluation of unsatisfactorincss depends also on our decision , not unfounded , to regard this explanation of Agassi 's as fully stated . Perhaps that decision was mistaken . Let us then take the set of statements constituting the explicans not as an intentionally full statement of the grounds from which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sketch which perhaps remains to be filled . The statements following the main initial condition of the explicans will be regarded , then , as an articulation of the meaning of that initial condition . And Agassi 's equation of " explanation " with " theory " and of " rise of scientific ideas " with " development of scientific ideas " will be regarded not as fallacious deductions , but as Agassian nominal definitions . When all this is done , Agassi 's fourth explanation becomes a sketch in which the explicans is the statement that Bacon 's theory is the only theory of the develop-153 Philosophy of the History of Science ment of scientific ideas well-known among historians of science , and this is supposed to explain why Bacon 's theory is accepted as trivially true by so many historians of science . But , if this is so , and if we do not emphasize the uncritical acceptance of which the explicandum speaks , then the explanation is circular since both explicans and explicandum mean the same thing ; the explanandum does indeed follow from an explicans which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any case , Agassi 's fourth explanation is unsatisfactory , according to the deductive model . The fifth explicandum , the alleged fact that certain histories are tolerated by an enlightened public , is not really a historical fact about historiography of science , but about one of the developments of Western culture , since it consists of the public 's attitude toward the historiography of science . Hence its explanation is not likely to be relevant to Agassi 's philosophy of historiography of science . I shall not , therefore , examine it . This part of Agassi 's argument is then without force , since the explanations constituting it are unsatisfactory . This fact makes it unnecessary to examine in detail the question of what elements of that philosophy are so related to parts of those explanations as to have their explanatory power increased . A secondary result of our analysis is the exhibition of the difficulty of applying the deductive model and the problematic character of many of its aspects . I now turn to the other part of the argument , where Agassi deplores the lamentable state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter 8 . Two interconnected questions arise . First , is there really anything to explain , and second , does Agassi really put forth an explanation ? Both questions are disposed of by the deductive model of explanation ( a good reason for not accepting the model , I should say ) . Let us answer the second question first . It is true that Agassi is not explicitly calling this set of statements an explanation , as he does his statements in the last section of his essay , which we have already examined . But , according to the deductive model , an explanation is a set of statements one of which follows logically from the others , which ideally consist of singular statements of initial conditions and of universal laws . Thus any argument which attempts to prove a conclusion is also an explanation . Therefore , since in the above quotation Agassi is obviously sketching an argument intended to show that the study of the history of science is in a lamentable state , he is also sketching an explanation of that alleged fact . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language in " the faults which have given rise to this situation . . . stem . . . , " and causal claims are , according to the deductive model , sketched ( causal ) explanations . This answer to the second question helps us to answer the first , which asks whether it is appropriate to look for an explanation of that alleged fact , when we do not even know whether it is really a fact . The answer is that it is perfectly appropriate to do so since the explanation will be the proof of the fact . But there is another problem that must be faced now , in that the explanation being considered is the intended proof of a dubious fact . I also interpret the present explanation to be part of Agassi 's argument in support of his philosophy of the historiography of science . I am then interpreting this explanation as an argument which supports both the historical fact which is presumably its conclusion , and the philosophical claims which are presumably its premises . Am I not thereby attributing to Agassi 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my interpretation than on his statements ? The answer to this question is two-fold . First , the circularity , to the extent that there is one , must be attributed to Agassi himself , since I have already shown that the present interpretation is the most proper and the most consistent with his general outlook . Second , the circularity involved may not be as objectionable as it may at first appear , if the circumference of the conceptual circle involved is long enough to allow one to gain a great deal of understanding in the process of going around . Consider the structure of Agassi 's explanation-argument for the lamentable state of history of science : ( 1 ) Most or many historians of science accept uncritically the inductivist or conventionalist philosophies of science . ( 2 ) The acceptance of these philosophies leads the historian to write inductivist and conventionalist histories , respectively . This is so because philosophies of science are explanations of the facts of the history of science , so that the latter are derived from the former , the acceptance of which thus becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is nothing objectionable if the historian of science accepts those philosophies of science " critically " ; for then the study of the history of science would be the endeavor to explain facts by means of those philosophies , and Agassi 's phi-155 Philosophy of the History of Science losophy of the historiography of science assures us that philosophies of science are explanations of the facts of the development of science . ( 4 ) But for the historian of science to accept those philosophies uncritically is irrational because the acceptance or allegation of facts without any connection to a theory is at best , if the theory is true , an activity without purpose or aim . At worst , if the relevant theory is false , it is useless for the advancement of learning , which would require first a correction or articulation of the theory and then new kinds of facts to corroborate it , instead of more confirmatory facts of the old kind , which do not really add much to the rational acceptance of the theory . Again , it is Agassi 's philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories are philosophies of science . ( 5 ) Therefore the study of the history of science is in a lamentable state . Although premise ( 1 ) is a claim about present historians , it is a claim about the philosophies of science they accept and not specifically about the kind of history they write . Reference to the kind of history they write is made in Agassi 's conclusion . Agassi supports premise ( 1 ) by verbal evidence such as McKie 's dogmatic statement that scientific ideas emerge from facts ( p. 6 ) . This is proper evidence for the kind of claim Agassi is here making , which is a claim about the philosophy of science accepted by historians . Premise ( 2 ) is put forth primarily as a consequence of Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science , and it is presumably corroborated by Agassi 's interpretation of the historical developments adduced by him in his essay . I think , however , that Agassi misinterprets his own evidence here . At best , this evidence shows that during the golden age of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their acceptance of the inductivist philosophy of science , and that Duhem was led to write conventionalist history by his acceptance of the conventionalist philosophy of science . But this does not mean that historians are now led to write inductivist and conventionalist histories because of their respective acceptance of those philosophies . At any rate what Agassi 's evidence really shows is that it was the historian 's extension of the inductivist and conventionalist philosophies of science into the domain of history that 156 Agassi 's Philosophy led him to write inductivist and conventionalist histories , and not the simple acceptance of a given philosophy . And it may be noted that in this respect Agassi is doing exactly what inductivist and conventionalist historians did , namely , extend the Popperian philosophy of science into the field of history of science . Claims ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) are derived essentially from Agassi 's philosophy of the historiography of science ; we have seen that this is also the case with premise ( 2 ) . Thus Agassi 's philosophy does have some explanatory power . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circle is too small . For , if the only " lamentability " in history of science is the alleged " irrationality " mentioned in ( 4 ) , then Agassi 's present explanation is ad hoc . Even more ad hoc is the explanation constituting Agassi 's brief summary of the essay 's final section in which are contained the first five specific explanations already examined : " Historical explanation of any value is rare in the annals of the history of science , mainly because of a naive acceptance of untenable philosophical principles " ( p. viii ) . What is Agassi 's evidence that " historical explanation of any value is rare in the annals of the history of science ? " It is true that he has given much evidence intended to show that there is among some historians of science a tendency to transcribe more details than they can either check or understand properly , to be " wise after the event , " to use indiscriminately and irresponsibly the " continuity theory " and the " emergence technique , " etc . But this at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it has little to do specifically with explanation . Agassi does have one Popperian argument : All fully stated explanations must contain universal laws , otherwise they are ad hoc or circular ; and explanations must be fully stated when the universal laws are nontrivial . The universal laws of the historian of science are nontrivial ; therefore those explanations should be fully stated . Since they are usually not fully stated they are unsatisfactory . But what is Agassi 's evidence that historians of science naively accept the questionable principles used in theix explanations ? It is the fact that they do not mention those principles in their explanations , i.e. , that their explanations are unsatisfactory in the above sense . Agassi 's own explanation is then worse than ad hoc , it is circular . The conclusion of this examination of Agassi 's main argument is that he has provided no good reasons for accepting his philosophy of the historiography of science , while some reasons for abandoning it have been found . 157 chapter 10 History-of-Science Explanation : Its Autonomy Inductivist Argument for Agassi 's Idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if interpreted as a solution to the problem of explanation in the historiography of science , has , on an inductivist interpretation , much initial plausibility and , at least for philosophers of science , great appeal : " historical explanation of any value is rare in the annals of the history of science , mainly because of a naive acceptance of untenable philosophical principles , " 1 that is to say , because " unlike most historians , historians of science must in the main use laws that are highly problematical from methodology and epistemology and unlike most historians who have to use problematical laws they are seldom conscious of the fact that their laws are indeed problematical . " 2 As an example of 158 Explanation : Its Autonomy such a philosophical principle , and one which is dogmatically accepted and presumably employed in explanation by some inductivists Agassi cites " Bacon 's law according to which every scientific theory emerges from the facts . " 3 The practical consequences of Agassi 's conjecture when so interpreted are clear : since the cause of the unsatisfactory state of history-of-science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the methodology and epistemology of science , they should , if they want to improve their explanatory practice , become more critical about the philosophy of science principles they accept . And they can do this by taking seriously , studying , and critically evaluating the works of philosophers of science in Agassi 's sense , that is to say , philosophers of the history of science . However , if Agassi wants to accept his own thesis critically , if he wants to have reasons for ( or to justify ) his belief , he must do it as an inductivist . He must make his idea " emerge " from the facts of contemporary historiography of science . For we have seen that he can not accept that thesis on his own Popperian or hypothetico-deductivist grounds since it is ad hoc and circular . And yet the hypothesis clearly is a recurring theme throughout Agassi 's essay and one of its principal messages . On the other hand , once an inductivist approach is adopted in the field of the philosophy of the historiography of science ? that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of the historiography of science ? the possibility immediately arises that inductivism may be the best approach , not in science , to be sure , but in history , including history of science , i.e. , in the domain of facts of the development of science , which the Agassian philosopher of science studies no less than does the historian of science . Agassi 's neglect of this possibility must be due to his having succumbed to the common tendency of trying to imitate science by transferring its methods to history , a tendency which , ironically enough , he derisively attributes to inductivist and conventionalist historians of science . But how can Agassi 's idea be made to emerge from the facts of the historiography of science , which I established in Part I ? The argument would run as follows . We know for a fact that history-of-science explanation is in an unsatisfactory state , for which there must be a good reason . A possible cause is the historians ' uncritical acceptance of philosophy of science principles . Nothing else seems to be present which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their uncritical acceptance of philosophical principles . That the argument is sound can be seen by exhibiting its structure : 159                     