@@774356

txt  | gagements of the groups to which sociologists belong ( or with which they identify themselves ) but which has a definite , if limited , independence of these factors . One considerable element in the crisis bespeaks both the intellectual fragmentation to which I have referred and the historical circumstances underlying it . We confront not a uniform set of Marxist ideas but a number of Marxist traditions , differing from country to country and indeed sometimes from group to group within the same country . This process of differentiation indicates the authenticity of the crisis : the efforts undertaken to overcome it are in fact responses to real historical problems experienced in concrete forms . Having referred to the relative autonomy of Marxist thought , I have now called attention to a dimension of action ( or contemplation before and about action ) in Marxist discussion . Movement , reflective movement , between these two aspects of Marxism seems to me to constitute one of the most valuable possibilities of Marxism as a system ; it allows a qualitatively different test of thought than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natural sciences . It also recognizes antinomies and discontinuities in the human situation ; in particular it denies both the total independence of thought and the notion that thought somehow " reflects " realities outside it . The former entails a complacent isolation of thought from reality , and in fact renders thinkers more and not less likely to succumb to extrinsic pressures ; the latter denies the value of the intellectual enterprise itself , and at the same time denigrates the capacity of thought to change the world . These , however , are considerations best reserved for the final discussion of the crisis in Marxism as it affects questions of method . I propose to proceed , now , by considering in turn a number of specific areas of sociology in which the crisis is apparent .  | The original Marxist theory of social classes has a general and a specific component ; the general component refers to the internal differentiation of societies resulting from the relationships of production , and the specific one refers to bourgeois and capitalist society under conditions of machine production . Clearly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter ; Marx himself announced his intention of establishing the " laws of motion " of capitalist society , and acknowledged that the concept of classes as such had already been elaborated by bourgeois historians and social philosophers . Two sets of problems must concern us : the question of the utility of the notion of classes in their relationship to property in industrial societies , and the interpretation of the class structure of other social types . It is clear that for Marx the fact of social domination in capitalist society rested upon the possession of property by a distinct social group , the bourgeoisie . It is equally clear that for a long period in the history of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries the relationships among the possession of property , the control of the state , privileged access to higher culture , and the promulgation of a central ideology which purported to legitimate these conditions , were unequivocal . The cases which have been advanced as exceptions do not seem upon closer examination to serve as such . The early characteristics of the United States as described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free competition for property by a population whose members were placed in conditions of approximate equality at the beginning of the struggle , were erased soon enough with the advent of industrial capital . It must be said , also , that a war for independence had displaced some of the original property owners of the country . The many complexities attendant  | upon the survival in Europe of pre-industrial elites ( early bourgeois and aristocratic groups ) were real enough . These elites did manage , however , to attach themselves to industrial property and have in the long run merged with the proprietors of the latter ; the length of the historical process in question can not obscure its finality . As industrial property and industrial proprietors came to dominate their societies , however , certain other transformations intervened . In the first instance , as property became ever more concentrated it became ever more impersonal . The development of late capitalist structures of production and market exploitation required , in due course , the well known separation of ownership and management . Phrased in extremely simple terms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ownership . In itself , this development would appear to pose no great challenge to Marxism . Concentrated property remains property , and concentration was foreseen , of course , by Marx . Moreover , a number of inquiries in different societies , undertaken at different periods , shows a definite conjunction between propertied and managerial elites . The concentration of property , however , and the emergence of managerial groups have rendered the former ( by way of political pressures upon the latter ) peculiarly susceptible to controls exercised by the state upon the economy . Concentration has also , to be sure , permitted those in command of property to act more effectively upon the state . I shall deal shortly with some of the problems this entails ; for the moment , let it be said that the loci of class conflict , and the strengths of the conflicting parties , have become extremely variable . While bourgeois sociology has manifested a certain tendency to mistake the dispersion and differentiation of class conflict for its elimination , Marxist sociology has paid insufficient attention to the complexities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new application of Marxist thought has been largely ignored . The concentration of prop- erty in new corporate forms , and the increasing role of the state in the economic process , have resulted in the penetration of an entire spectrum of social institutions by a variant of economic rationality . The attenuation of certain relationships of direct exploitation , particularly the partial integration of the working class in a system it was supposed to destroy , do not exhaust entirely the consequences of the development of capitalism . The obscurity and at times latency of class conflict have combined with its fragmentation to blind Marxists and non-Marxists alike to newer forms of class conflict . A new approach to this set of problems , perhaps , waits upon the assimilation of the problem of the new middle class or technical intelligentsia . The growing complexity of the productive process , the increasing embeddedness of the state in society , the development of large systems of administration , distribution and services , have resulted in the growth of a new labor force , characterized by educational qualifications , organization in bureaucratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , this technical intelligentsia has identified itself with those in command of the property and the state ; expropriated , with respect to access to the means of administration , it has nonetheless behaved as if it possessed a vested interest in the maintenance of existing structures of power . In a real sense it has precisely that interest : its own material and psychic income depend upon the conventional functioning of the social apparatus . The existence of this group suggests a new possibility for Marxist analysis . Expropriated from control of administration , it nonetheless possesses the skills without which administration ( in a large sense of the term ) would be impossible . Often enough , groupings within the technical intelligentsia experience a contradiction between their capacities and insights , and the imperatives visited upon them from above . Some Marxists have even extrapolated from this to the hy- may indeed signify a consolidation of historical insight in Marxist sociology ; at the moment , insight and analysis both remain fragmentary . The analysis of the social structure of the state socialist societies , and in particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociology . One simple solution to the difficulty has been the observation that large-scale capitalist property does not exist in these societies ; it follows ( for some ) that class analysis is inapplicable . A good deal of this is , of course , a sterile play of words . Large-scale property does exist , and control over it is exercised by an elite . This elite acts in the name of the total society , and with a certain conception of the general welfare ; nevertheless , the elites in the state socialist regimes have managed to derive considerable advantages from their positions of power . Domination exercised in the name of a higher ideal remains domination , and it can not be said that the working classes in these societies enjoy trade unions conspicuous for their resolute independence of the political elites . Interesting possibilities for analysis concern conflicts among political and technical elites with respect to economic priorities , the institutionalization of facilities for social mobility and the consequences of this process , and the modes by which in the absence of direct political representation a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection , it may be said that the explicit coalescence of state and economy in the state socialist regimes makes of occupational discipline a political phenomenon . Our colleagues in these societies have now begun to investigate certain of these problems : their work constitutes at once a welcome demystification with respect to schematic depictions of the " triumph " of socialism and a refutation of facile views as to the similarity of all industrial regimes . Even a casual visitor to these countries is struck by the social atmosphere apparently generated by the absence  | of the sort of institutionalized privatization which is a psychological accompaniment of market structures . An amplification and extension of current inquiries into the structure of state socialist societies will necessarily touch some of the critical issues in contemporary sociological theory , not least the question of the inevitability of one or another form of alienation . These putative theoretic gains , however , can be derived only from a Marxist sociology true to the critical traditions of Marxism ? that is to say , a sociology which refuses the function of an administrative technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal of a certain form : the view that purely empirical procedures can totally displace the critical elements in a Marxist sociology is incompatible with the tasks of viewing the state socialist societies in their historical specificity . I now turn to the other element of difficulty in the Marxist theory of social classes : the problems presented by class systems in non-industrial societies . These occur today in a particularly acute form as questions of development . The discussion of development , however , often enough is ahistoric ( in both Marxist and bourgeois sociologies ) . The ahistoricism of each is rather like a distorted image of the other . Bourgeois sociology tends to a certain reification of cultural traditions , emphasizes the incentives and disincentives to " modernization " ( in itself an extremely dubious concept ) intrinsic in those traditions , and is often enough curiously silent about the intrusion upon the historical development of the societies under examination of colonialist and imperialist forces from without . A good deal of Marxist analysis concentrates on this last element , while ignoring the weight of history except for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural traditions and social institutions which often enough combine in historically specific structures for which we have as yet to find adequate concepts .  | In particular , the varieties of class conflict in the non-industrial societies merit systematic attention . Phenomena like the existence of " compradores " in symbiotic dependence upon imperialist forces , or of a " national bourgeoisie " aligned with the veritable proletariat in these societies , are familiar enough . What is required is a mode of dealing with the genesis of cultural traditions radically different from the Western one in class structures which were no less different , and the specification of the ways in which these traditions have combined with new historical accretions to give us the societies of Asia , Africa , and Latin America in their present forms . Something can be learned from the theoretic justifications developed for the political practise of neo-Marxist regimes like that of Castro 's Cuba . Much can be gained by referring to the classical Marxist discussion , recently revived , of an " Asiatic mode of production . " Wittfogel 's extension of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state as in itself proprietor and exploiting agent has the virtue of reminding us that the forms of class conflict are historically extremely variable . This was , if I have read him correctly , the burden of Max Weber 's comparative sociology . His intention was not to show that Marxism was false ( the Marxism he dealt with was often enough the evolutionary positivism of German Social Democracy ) , nor yet that stratification rested on status rather than market considerations , but that the predominance of the market in capitalism was but one historical variant of class conflict . The present phase of world history , the emergence of civilizations and peoples long held in subjugation , renders peculiarly acute the emendation of Marxism to cover the structures peculiar to these societies and to the struggles in which they are now engaged . The depiction of the latter of course entails a refinement of the political sociology of the advanced societies to include the colonial and imperialist phenomena which  | may well now constitute important elements in the internal functioning of the advanced states ( in this connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia can not be ignored if we wish to understand the Soviet Union ) . It also demands that considerable attention be paid to the specific historical traditions of the societies termed underdeveloped , and not least to their religious traditions . We shall see , subsequently , that the rediscovery of the historical role of religion is an important element in the current Marxist discussion . It remains now to turn our attention to the political sociology of the advanced societies . Among the defects of a Marxism which has become rigidified has been its failure to follow Marx and Engels themselves in focusing analysis on the state . A misconceived Marxism has sought to reduce state power immediately to its supposed bases in the action of the social classes , without taking account of the manner in which the state subsumes these influences and transforms them . Bourgeois sociology , on the other hand ( although here again Max Weber and to a certain extent the post-liberal Italians are important exceptions ) , has at the same time insisted on the autonomy of the state and , often enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No easy solution to these contradictions can be expected , but at least some of the elements in question can be identified . Until the present , the role of state power in socialist societies has constituted a source of great embarrassment for Marxist scholars working under , or in political sympathy with , the state socialist regimes . The maximization of the power of the state was , after all , a central characteristic of Stalinism . Moreover , the fusion of the state with the total society meant that any critical analysis of a sector of the society would inevitably touch upon the role of the state . The utilization of entirely  | schematic notions of the continuation of class conflict under socialist regimes , through the vehicle of the state ( deemed , by fiat , " historically progressive " ) was one solution to this difficulty . Another , more recent one adopted apparently in imitation of the political evasiveness of bourgeois sociology , has been to fragment discussion by concentrating on the several sectors of society without reference to the integrating and command functions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain " official " bourgeois sociology , often difficult to distinguish from political intelligence and/or political propaganda , has committed the opposite error : the role of the social classes in political decision in the socialist states has been systematically ignored , and the state has been depicted as an irresistible force , sovereign in the society . The elucidation of these relationships in socialist society awaits a new forward thrust by a Marxist sociology free of political tutelage . For the Western societies , a similar range of problems awaits solution . One answer to a simplified Marxism has been the curious doctrine of the total autonomy of the sectors of society : the role of the state as an integrating factor has been underemphasized , and political conceptions of a pluralism more ideal than real have been allowed to preform or , rather , deform analysis . It is here that we can take note of some of the few positive contributions of Western European Marxism . The integration of the capitalist societies , particularly in their recent , or neo-capitalist , phase has been the object of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of systems of education and mass communications , of the encapsulation of class conflict in formalized relationships among unions , employers and the state , of the development of welfare institutions , of a partial but definite control of the market , has shown how modern Western states are able to institutionalize and control class conflicts . The analysis of the role of consciousness remains defective , and , in particular ,  | the analysis of identifications with national communities or pseudo-communities on the part of the different social classes has not progressed very far . Two major problems require consideration . The recent modifications in the nature of capitalism as an economic system mean that market analysis alone can not give us the structure of the system : the state is indispensable to the functioning of the economy , and in a sense , the society as a whole has been converted into an economic apparatus . This I referred to earlier , when insisting upon the penetration of the most diverse sectors of society by an economic rationality . Under these conditions , a specific political autonomy is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomy is impossible to attribute to the market . Indeed , the classical market has disappeared and has been replaced not simply by structures of a monopolistic or oligopolistic sort but by a complicated apparatus of controlled , interlocking processes . The original notion of base and superstructure has little meaning in the face of this concrete totality . We do , however , confront the question as to whether an autonomous sociological analysis , which leaves to other disciplines and other perspectives the tasks of the analysis of the economy , of the state , and of culture , is not in some danger of falling into either formalism or an artificial restrictiveness which is self-defeating . Marxist sociology has , traditionally , concentrated upon the social classes . As long as these were , in capitalist society , relatively stable and easily identifiable there was considerable justification for this focus . The experience of totalitarian integration in the state socialist regimes and what may be termed " consensual integration " in the neo-capitalist societies renders the limitation increasingly arbitrary . The case of the debate over imperialism makes this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world polity , in effect of a world society , is no longer arcane ; it  | is , quite simply , obvious . Our understanding of the history of capitalist and other societies in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries would appear to require substantial revision . Our understanding of the internal movement of the separate societies of the Western world requires enlargement to include the role of imperialist relationships . In the late nineteenth century , Marx raised the possibility that Britain 's imperial position had converted the British working class into a privileged group . In the wars for European hegemony fought since 1866 , the European working classes have generally sided with their national elites against other nation states . Indeed , part of the rationale for the development of national welfare institutions by Bismarck and David Lloyd George was the necessity of increasing national cohesion in the interest of the more efficacious conduct of imperialist rivalry . There is some evidence that the contemporary American working class is not at all averse to repressive adventures against foreign " communism , " particularly insofar as these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , require a systematic interpretation which for the present is lacking . I do not refer only to the difficulties , from the viewpoint of a purely economic analysis , of estimating the component of imperialistic economic relations in the separate domestic economies of the West ( and , let it be said , of the Soviet Union ) . I refer to the difficulties attendant upon identifying a stratum of the elite particularly charged with the management of imperialist political-economic relations . An exception is the case of Great Britain in the classical epoch of the imperial magnates , who were quite distinct from , for instance , the Midlands industrialists . The identification of this stratum once accomplished , it will remain to examine its mode of domestic operation , the mechanisms of cooptation it employs to integrate other elites in the imperialist enter- prise , the ideological resources at its disposal for the attainment of " consensus " or its simulacrum . In attending to these problems , a Marxist sociology must inevitably avow its critical and interpretative character ; it must do so in the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad and domestic social structures , precisely because the normal canons of " positive " social science do not encourage synthetic ventures of this sort . Perhaps this accounts for the very fragmentary beginnings of this sort of Marxism in the world 's major imperialist power , the United States : there is little in the tradition of American social science , even critical social science , to support and encourage the use of the scientific imagination in this way . The same may be true for England , where we may say that even the Marxists are " empiricists . " But empiricism directed to imperialism in Great Britain can hardly ignore that country 's historical legacy . It does seem that French sociology has progressed farthest with these analyses , not alone because of the French political tradition but because French social thought i5 in its structure far more synthetic . But I have moved , unintentionally , from consideration of a substantive problem to consideration of method . Before continuing , it will be necessary to consider two areas of Marxist analysis in which I have chosen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the analysis of consciousness or the analysis of ideology . Culture does not seem to me to be entirely a matter of consciousness , since human consciousness in culture responds to the unconscious communicaton of meaning through symbols , and conscious reflection or analysis often rests on a  | deeper stratum of experience not always immediately accessible to consciousness itself . Ideology , in turn , refers to formalized systems of social discourse which are equally subject to accumulated cultural experience as well as immediate social pressures or interests . The analysis of culture , at any rate , is of peculiar interest to Marxism precisely because Marxism is in no vulgar sense a materialist doctrine . It is , rather , a doctrine of the human genesis of forms for the satisfaction and containment of need , in the actual and necessary shape of crystallized labor-power , and in the future and possible institutions of a realm of freedom . One of the major recent advances in Marxism has taken the paradoxical form of a return to the Marxist sources . In place of a mechanical derivation of " super-structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reductive interest-psychology found in the Marxism of Bernstein and Kautsky ( and to some extent of Lenin as well ) , a conception of the totality of human culture has marked recent Marxist work on culture . In this development , extrapolations have been made from the early writings of Marx and Engels themselves . This has entailed treating the materialism of the early writings as a polemical emphasis occasioned by the attack on the Hegelian system , although this materialism has also been redefined as an existential humanism . At any rate , the Marxist theory of culture now understands symbolic or ideological representations of a given historical situation as an integral and defining part of the situation . These representations do not simply " reflect " material constraints ; indeed they can anticipate , some would say , create , new material possibilities in historical situations . Further , the notion of contradiction has been employed to nullify the view that culture ( as " superstructure " ) must absolutely " reflect " material constraints : culture may in some measure constitute a spiritual denial of these constraints and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This last point has been the occasion of  | a systematic reconsideration of the Marxist theory of religion , which has led some Marxists , and , admittedly , there are some theologians among them , to take a much more refined and favorable view of religion as a human phenomenon than heretofore . Is this simply a manner of repeating Engels ' familiar warning , made late in his life , against over-emphasizing material factors , his insistence on the process of interaction between " basis " and " super-structure " ? I think not . Rather , it represents the influence on Marxism or the discovery within Marxism ? of three distinctive , if often confounded , components . ( 1 ) By recourse to the early texts , and in particular to their anthropological components , a Marxist existentialism has been established . This depicts man as the maker of history , its subject rather than its object . Of course , the entire point of the Marxist anthropology has been to show that man could not make his history under conditions of capitalist commodity production and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The newer Marxist interpretations of culture certainly do not deny this proposition , but they modify it by insisting on the universality of the struggle against alienation expressed in all cultural history . This does constitute a greater or lesser modification of the Marxist temporal schema , by inserting the struggle against alienation in a variety of contexts and not simply a revolutionary one . ( 2 ) Again , by recourse to the early texts ( and also , as is the case with Lukacs , to Hegel 's writings ) the dialectic as a method of thought has been reemphasized . Its application to the theory of culture presents peculiar difficulties of specification . With respect to the action of real men , it entails among other things the utilization of notions of ambivalence , whereas Marxist psychology , heretofore , has been conspicuous neither for its plausibility nor its subtlety . With respect to temporal sequence in the development of cultural structures , the notion of dialectic  | has been most effectively employed when confined to the interior of one structure , a movement of thought or style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than when applied to changes in structure . With respect to cultural meanings , the use of dialectic has required concentration on the condition of ambiguity . Its most convincing expressions to date have been concretized in yet another notion , that of totality . ( 3 ) The systematic explication of cultural totalities by dialectical methods in recent Marxism owes much to the incorporation of ideas derived from Gestalt psychology and philosophical phenomenology . One aspect of a situation has been treated as reflecting in a specific mode of organization all other aspects ? a procedure which at times has come close to the denial of the determining role of the relationships of production . In the case of one Marxist thinker , Goldmann , the analysis of cultural totalities proceeds after the establishment of a basic socio-economic relationship . That is to say , the dialectic is effective within a previously defined historical totality , and the processes of change from one total structure to another ? do not enter into the analysis itself . These developments in Marxist thought are certainly challenging , and they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the field . Nonetheless , it is legitimate to assert that these too partake of the crisis in Marxist sociology . These innovations in the Marxist theory of culture incorporate a good many assumptions and methods derived from other philosophical systems and methodologies . An open Marxism has proved exceedingly fecund in an area in which the original texts promised much , but delivered little . The question is , how much further can Marxism be opened without itself undergoing a radical transformation ? The insistence that a new procedure is consonant with the critical spirit of early Marxism is no doubt reassuring , but changes of substance can not be dismissed in this way .  | Two further sets of problems affecting the theory of culture must concern us . The first has to do with the vexed idea of " rationalization " in advanced industrial cultures . The most profound treatment we possess of the process of " rationalization " is found in Max Weber ; its similarities to the Marxist analysis have been noted by Lowith and more recently by Marcuse . Marx began with the notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , went on to analyze the immanent structure of capitalist production itself , and to predict its eventual self-destruction on account of a higher historical rationality which would overcome the short-term and superficial rationalities of bourgeois culture . From the early Marxist writings and from Weber as well , Lukacs derived the notion of " reification " as an essential component of Marxist sociology . Mannheim incorporated an analysis derived from Weber ( without subjecting himself to the rigors of a Marxist analysis ) in his distinction between " functional " and " substantive " rationality . A certain process has been ineluctable : the rationality of capitalism has been transformed , partly by an extension of Weber 's idea of bureaucratization , into an industrial rationality . Insofar as Marxist elements remain in the discussion ( as with the idea of " reification " ) these have become isolated , separated from a total account of historical process and historical possibility . Tacitly or overtly , contemporary Marxism accepts the inevitability of an industrial rationality , which it sees little or no chance of overcoming . Its analysis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its intrinsic irrationalities ever more acute , precisely as the Marxist concept of a higher historical rationality has receded . One of the consequences of this elimination of the original Marxist conceptions of historical progression from contemporary Marxist analysis has been not unlike the fate of the theory of ideology freed of the notion of an ultimate truth . Specific ideologies  | can be analyzed in their historical contexts , but history is viewed as a sequence of ideologies and not as a progression through conflict from ideology to truth . For this last situation , the Marxists attached to the Communist movement bear as much responsibility as those who , in bourgeois sociology , relativized the notion of ideology . For both groupings , ideology has been treated as the expression of the interests and perspectives of discrete groups . The Communist Marxists generally restricted the term to overt expressions having , ultimately , a socio-political reference . Bourgeois sociology could justify its own methods by referring to the richness of material presented by ethnology and social anthropology , and by the history of ideas ( disciplines which of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one case , we have a certain political vulgarization ; in the other , a philosophically barren immersion in empiricism , or rather , the implicit enunciation of the highly debatable philosophical position that the world is precisely as it seems to be . Briefly , a striking aspect of the crisis in Marxist sociology is the failure of development of the original notion of ideology and this despite the reality of a deepening of our appreciation of the structure and function of a multiplicity of concrete historical ideologies . Some of the difficulties sketched with respect to the theory of culture can be found , transposed on to another plane , with respect to the Marxist anthropology . The original Marxist texts are definite , but exceedingly general . Man is a sensual and active being who can fulfill himself only in the right Praxis . That Praxis , in turn , would constitute a medium through which man could re-constitute himself . Under conditions of capitalist commodity production , the right Praxis was impossible : labor-power invested in work , which should  | express man in his wholeness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work , commodities , ruled over men in a sovereignty which rendered them alienated . Only revolutionary Praxis , then , could restore ? or institute a truly human condition . The profundity of this historical vision has , alas , so impressed many Marxists that they have been by and large unable to enlarge it or even render it more precise . One tendency follows from the work of Marx and Engels subsequent to the early writings on alienation : attention has been re-directed to the social institutions and historical processes which function to maintain a condition of alienation . This has led , imperceptibly , to a theory ( more implicit than explicit ) of infinite human psychological malleability . In the absence of revolutionary Praxis , and in light of the evidence of the corruption of much of the revolutionary Praxis undertaken hitherto , a despairing conviction has possessed Marxist sociologists : men are capable of assimilating any injury , and any insult . The more profound the analysis ( vide Adorno 's remarkable essays on high and mass culture ) the more despairing the conclusion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marxism has been most penetrating where most negative in its conclusions , where the analysis of instinctual repression , of the self-abasement entailed in the internalization of authority , has supplied an account of the psychological dimensions of alienation . Again , this has been accomplished largely through separation from an analysis of the possibilities of liberation . Marcuse , who did attempt that analysis in his own work on Freud , thereafter returned to the study of institutional process , of the institutional repression of freedom . One possibility has been overlooked by many Marxists : suppose that we do take seriously the notion of malleability . We confront not one historical universe , but several , given  | to us in the variety of human cultures and historical societies , each separate historical configuration producing a distinctive human type . According to this view , no single sort of human liberation can be postulated . There may exist , indeed , diverse possibilities and types of liberation . Recent Marxist work on religion , with its acceptance of a liberating component in the religious experience , its skepticism about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century thought , reflects this doubt about the immediacy and finality of the earlier Marxist treatment of the historical course of human nature . It is true that a proper attention to historical variability is the necessary preliminary to a general view of human possibility . Thus , the Marxist analysis of historical variability can not limit itself to the variability of institutional forms , but must follow ethnology and comparative psychology in studies of the variety of psychic structure . Here , clearly , Marxist sociology has failed to profit very much from a considerable body of work accomplished on other assumptions . Perhaps , however , certain early Marxist assumptions are at fault . Influenced to some extent by romanticism , as well as by Hegel and Feuerbach , Marx and Engels supposed that work was the privileged form of human self-expression and self-constitution . They saw machine work as , however , deforming , and envisaged an eventual liberation from deformation ( insofar as they envisaged it concretely at all ) in something like the assumption by every man of the totality of work functions fragmented in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two quite contradictory directions . Some functions require more and more comprehension on the part of the worker , and expand the scope of his control of the process . Others limit the worker 's operations to a minimum , and deprive him of a vision of the sense of his work . In fact , there are two quite distinct components in the Marxist theory of the human potential  | for liberation from the bondage imposed by work under conditions of capitalism . One entails a direct transformation of work itself ; the other entails a transformation of the context of work , particularly with respect to the structure of authority and control of the disposition of the social product . The recent development , in the Marxist theory of imperialism , of the notion of the " nation-class , " with respect to the " third " world , points in the latter direction . The peasants in underdeveloped countries certainly do not directly experience the fragmentation caused by the capitalist division of labor . But they are not really masters of their historical circumstances , since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as geographically . ( The same may be said , on a rather different scale , of course , for large parts of the advanced industrial labor force in the developed societies , including the intelligentsia . ) A new view of the problem of work is essential to further progress in Marxist sociology . I do not refer alone to the immense discussion of leisure ( which often enough is conducted in curious separation from the discussion of work ) . I refer to the possibility that the development of the productive forces in industrial society is changing the nature of work , less in the sense of its real or imputed significance than in the more precise sense of its inner structure . Marx may well have predicated his anthropology on the basis of an image of homo Faber ; it remains to ask what revisions in this image are made necessary by the computer , and by the possibilities of large-scale social control implicit in bureaucratic organization . To some extent , of course , these problems bring us again to the problem of domination . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confront anew the problem of domination . Max Weber once observed that psychoanalysis would prove an invaluable means of analyzing relationships of authority . A few Marxists , associated with the Frankfurt Institut far Sozialfor- schung , have worked on these problems , but a renewed attack on them is imperative . In particular , we shall have to ask to what extent men can transcend the universality of structures of authority , liberate themselves from authority internally , and accept authentic , but as yet quite unrealized , conditions of equality . Alternatively , we may inquire into the possibilities of what in the recent American literature , mainly as developed by younger thinkers , has been termed " participatory democracy . " Upon examination , then , a paradoxical methodological conclusion emerges : even with respect to so abstract a consideration as its anthropology , the Marxist system requires certain answers in Praxis . I now turn to the last section of the essay , and deal with questions of method . A distinction between method and substance , with reference to Marxism , is difficult to establish . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed that the historical world could be understood as it was , that is to say , that our theoretic understanding of it was not simply a matter of agreement among observers on conventions concerning observations and on protocols about observed data , but a construction which apprehended the movement of history itself . A good many of the unresolved difficulties of Marxism are consequences of its denial of a total separation between subject and object in the process of historical knowledge : the knower is immersed in the substance he seeks to elucidate . The recent expansion of sociology as an academic discipline and as an ancillary administrative service has been accompanied by a considerable expansion of those inquiries termed " empirical . " Obviously , a settlement of Marxism 's accounts with this sort of inquiry is in order . A number of  | preliminary points may be made : ( 1 ) There is nothing in principle or in fact truly new about the collection of sociological data of a quantitative sort , although of course the development and refinement of statistical method has increased the precision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the eighteenth century ; in the nineteenth , Marx himself designed a questionaire. ( 2 ) There is no epistemological or practical warrant for assigning a privileged place to inquiries entailing interviews or direct observations rather than the utilization of other types of data . In particular , historical inquiries are neither less nor more " empirical " than other kinds . The insistence of some that the term " empirical " be restricted to quantitative work on contemporary populations is easy enough to explain , but difficult to excuse . ( 3 ) Inquiries on contemporary populations are generally conducted , as Mills among others has shown , in considerable abstraction from total or even partial historical contexts . This abstraction , or isolation , implies a possibility of systematic distortion in the interpretation of data . These points stated , a number of problems remain . Whatever limitations attach to their use , the inquiries now typical of sociological research can be valuable modes of acquiring knowledge . Marxist sociologists have for too long contented themselves with negative critiques of the deformations possible in these inquiries , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modes of interpretation . These might consist of either employing a different contextual analysis to interpret data or a redefinition of the categories , according to which data are constituted . At this point , questions of method fuse with questions of substance : interpretation and reconstitution entail substantive assumptions . At any rate , a more serious and systematic approach to these questions is indicated ; perhaps our colleagues from the state socialist countries will be able to contribute to our enlighten- ment . It is difficult to believe , however , that inquiries undertaken to serve the purposes of administrative clients will be more critical of the clients in state socialist society than elsewhere . One area in which method and substance , in Marxist sociology , are inextricably fused is that of " basis , " " super-structure , " and ultimate determination . In one sense , a solution to questions in this area can be nothing but theoretical : the concepts with which reality is analyzed dictate our views of its structure . A dogmatic insistence on the purely theoretical nature of these questions , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allows a new view of the relationships involved , would in fact constitute a denial of the capacity of Marxism to depict the real movement of society , and thus result in an assimilation of Marxism to a conventionalist epistemology . A new , or , more accurately , a revised view of the relationships in question has been developed by Althusser , but I find it difficult to situate his contribution . He allows for considerable variation in the relationship of " basis " and " super-structure , " denies an inevitable , mechanical , or universal set of determining relationships , but is exceedingly general in his conclusions . His work represents an academization of Marxism , an energetic , and at times inspired , elucidation of concepts , but one which rarely , if ever , leaves the conceptual level to deal , as did Marx himself , with historical structures . In this light , Althusser 's insistence on the importance of an " epistemological disjunction " ( " coupure epistemologique " ) in Marx is curious . If Marx proceeded from philosophy to the empirical study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely philosophical and quite remote from any consideration induced by the empirical study of society . If revisions of Marxism like Althusser 's are to bear fruit , they will have to be combined with systematic attention to the content of generalization from historical evidence .  | It is necessary to say something on the discussion of the importance of " structuralism . " I do so with reluctance . The theme has been treated at great , indeed exhaustive , length elsewhere ; there are a good many competing and confused versions of structuralism ; the claims advanced for the doctine ( or method ) seem to be considerably greater than its concrete achievements . Let us consider , very briefly , the work of Levi-Strauss , who has himself insisted on the consonance between his ideas and some aspects of Marxism . It is easy enough to enumerate the contradictions between his theory of society and Marxism . From the point of view of method , the extrapolation from concrete historical relationships to hypothesized systems of code destroys the historical specificity of social structures . These are " de-coded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as communications , history in short is reduced to a message or a set of messages . The elements remain the same , and the fundamental historical processes also ; the world of structuralism is a world of infinite variation on the surface , of terrible sameness in its depths . It is a world , moreover , in which historical transcendence is impossible ? in which men construct their societies with a limited set of elements susceptible of combination in a limited number of ways . The determinism structuralism promulgates , then , is different in kind from the determinism enunciated by Marxism . The former is irrevocable , the latter capable of transformation . Philosophically , structuralism and Marxism are incapable of reconciliation . The negative humanism of structuralism , its tendency to eliminate men from history in favor of systems of signs and symbols , is disturbing only when we take structuralism not ; is a method , but as a privileged method with total philosophical implications . If , however , we treat structuralism as strictly a method for the analysis of communications , it is impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | of the agitation in the current discussion appears to be connected with a certain confusion on these points . The capacity of structuralism in the forms developed by Levi-Strauss himself to explicate hidden consonances between symbolic systems and other sectors of society , a notion of the interpenetration of symbolic and other series of behaviors , in short an analytical idea of totality , renders Levi-Strauss ' work exceedingly important . It is no less important , however , to recognize its limits ; these are particularly acute in connection with the problem of Praxis . The original Marxist idea of Praxis , which had deep roots in Western philosophical tradition , is in some danger of degenerating into a slogan as tawdry as the term " empirical " in bourgeois sociology . Praxis is a concept with several connotations ; let us examine them . In the first instance , the idea clearly implies that a totally detached or objective science of society is impossible . The truth for human beings is not simply constituted by a set of propositions about reality but , since man is a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth about society is ultimately a true condition , a manner of organization consonant with man 's potential . It does not follow from this that all social science has to be " engaged " in any direct sense , and assertions to this effect have contributed largely to the doctrine of Partinost ( fidelity to party spirit ) which has vulgarized Marxism and reduced it to the status of a propagandistic ancillary of the working class movement or , more precisely , of those who claimed to speak for this movement . It does follow from the idea of Praxis , however , that the moral and political implications of an assertion as to the organization of society and its movement be examined , that the possible consequences of a given historical situation be explored in their relevance for the future direction of human activity . Scientific Praxis , in other words , is itself a form of human activity which affects and increasingly shapes the future . This  | brings us to the second connotation of Praxis : its directional content . The Marxist anthropology , for all its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consists not least in his capacity to make or re-make his history . Sociology and social science as Praxis , then , have the task of anticipating and apprehending the future . Finally , the idea of Praxis contains an intention which remains programmatic ( indeed , utopian ) : the abolition of the division of labor , the achievement of human nature through activity . This , along with the other connotations of Praxis , poses serious , and as yet unsurmountable , difficulties for Marxist sociology ; clearly , the practise of sociology entails the division of labor , and the triumphs of modern science , including social science , would have been unthinkable without it . It will be seen that the notion of Praxis is as much of an embarrassment for Marxist sociology as for its bourgeois counterpart . The precise relationship between propositions about reality and a philosophical conception of humanity remains to be established . Equally , the Marxist critique of the " objectivist " pretensions of a " positive " or " empirical " sociology does not constitute a solution of the difficulties entailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociology with other aspects of Marxism . Neither does the assertion of the directionality of history make for an easy resolution of the problem of historical extrapolation . Finally , the view that a Marxist sociology is also an aspect of a Praxis affords no guarantees against its subservience to the wrong Praxis . I have no solution to these multiple difficulties , but one line of development may prove not without promise . Earlier in the essay , I insisted on the relative autonomy of Marxist sociological thought , its relative detachment from immediate political considerations . There are , of course , ocasions when a social science and specifically a sociology are directly subordinated to political purposes ? usually as an  | ancillary technique of domination rather than as a mode of facilitating liberation . In general , however , we would do well to understand sociology as a part of a larger scientific Praxis , as an effort , often unconscious , caused by the extreme division of labor implicit in intellectual activity , to master history . The preliminary methodological task of a Marxist sociology , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own version of this general Praxis . This can lead to a critical view of the totality of our historical situation , not by the imposition upon it of pre-formed schema for depicting history but by the examination of the difficulties of apprehending history . It is not by total detachment that a Marxist or any sociology can attain a view of history , but by critical reflection on its own specific historical location . For the indefinite future , this entails an acceptance of those aspects of the division of labor which have produced modern science . It also entails , however , systematic reflection on possible modes of overcoming that division ? that is to say , it entails conscious acceptance of the dissensual status of a sociology which does not view itself as the culmination of human spiritual evolution but rather as a potential step in an evolution far from completed . The crisis of Marxist sociology in its methodological aspects , then , partakes of the general crisis of the social sciences . Originally intended to apprehend human history so as to fulfill the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broken down in two ways . The intention of apprehending history has been renounced in favor of a total capitulation to the scientific division of labor : abstractly recognized , the historicity of mankind is denied in scientific practice . This last contents itself with a fragmented description of a fragmented reality . In the second place , social science has become another instrument of domination , rather than a mode of liberation . Not the least contribution of those who sense themselves to be in the Marxist tradition  | is the insistence that the original humanist intent of sociology be incorporated in contemporary sociological practice ; not the least of ironies is the fact that Marxist sociologists are often as incapable as any others of realizing that intent . There seems to be no immediate way out of the many contradictions , dilemmas and difficulties which I have adduced as constituting a crisis in Marxist sociology . Originally conceived as a depiction of the totality of human history , Marxism 's very fruitfulness has made us conscious of its limitations . We now see industrial society , in its capitalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . History , in other words , may in the end be understood not as having one structure but a succession of structures . The notion that meaningfulness can be found in history , if necessary , by invention and innovation , is a Marxist legacy to sociology which can be dispensed with only by acceptance of the pseudo-rationality of a sociology so in bondage to the present that it ignores past and future . It may be , however , that those sociologists most aware of their debt to the Marxist tradition will have to transform and transcend it ; if so , the crisis in Marxist sociology may mark the beginning of the end of Marxism . Those Marxists who fear this eventuality would do well to re-read the original texts : a revolution in Praxis which can not begin with its own theoretic presuppositions is in fact not a revolution at all .  | Reformed faith and church in partial opposition to Luther , and in conflict with the extremely articulate and active Zurich Anabaptists , who claimed legitimation from Zwingli 's early teachings . The influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all of south German Protestantism ; - ' Calvin 's Geneva was profoundly affected by it ; a Anglicanism and Puritanism ( through Bullinger , Zwingli 's successor in Zurich ) bore some of its traces . " But for our understanding of the Reformation , Zwinglianism has a rather special importance , independent of , the question of the direct influences it exerted and of the indirect lines of ecclesiastical descent from it . The Zwinglian Reformation poses , in small but critical compass , a sociological problem touched upon by much of the modern historiography of the Reformation : the question of the relationship between capitalism and early Protestantism . Zwinglianism , with its radically anti-sacramental doctrines , its initial emphasis on popular participation in Church government ( however modified by Zwingli under political pressures ) , and above all its ethical attitude to the profane world  | of work anticipated , in important respects , those Calvinist doctrines described by Max Weber as indispensable to the emergence of that complex of ideas , aspirations , and anxieties he designated as the capitalist spirit. ? This is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy over Weber 's thesis . Weber himself said that he had not proposed to substitute , in his words , a one-sided idealistic interpretation of history for an equally one-sided materialistic one . And , it will be recalled , Weber dealt primarily with the seventeenth century variants of Calvinism . But if the Zurich Reformation enables us to see some of the components of Calvinism in statu nascendi , an investigation of its social context may allow us to consider anew the connection between capitalism and Protestantism . The view that the special characteristics of Swiss Protestantism in general , and of the Zurich Reformation in particular , were shaped by the republicanism of the Swiss cities is familiar . We find it in Ranke , 8 in the latest survey of the subject9 ( by an authority on Zurich ) and in the recent volume of the CMH.10 But this view clearly raises questions rather than answering them . The constitutions of the Swiss cities in fact differed ; some were more , others less , oligarchic . " And the formal political institutions of the republics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were legacies of centuries of social conflict . Zurich had , throughout the latter half of the fifteenth century , experienced violent political struggles : these were produced largely by the opposition of  | artisanry to patriciate.12 The Reformation , too , was accompanied by the conflict of social strata ? but we can not , here , speak of a simple opposition between artisanry and patriciate ; each was rent by internal divisions of various kinds . And to this complex and changing system of alignments was added the complication of the relationship between town and countryside . Rather than considering the general characteristics of the society in which the Zwinglian Reformation occurred , therefore , we should do well to relate it to the specific pattern of social conflict of which it was , at once , the expression and the partial resolution . By 1519 , Zurich had had a generation of relative political stability after the violent conflicts of the late fifteenth century . In these , a group of newly wealthy guild masters had challenged the previous ruling elite . They sought , further , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patrician had joined the artisanry in a counter-attack on the new elite , whose wealth had been won in trade . In the ensuing struggles , these last two eventually made common cause to the permanent disadvantage of the patriciate . And the peasantry was soon opposed , in turn , by all the urban strata . The constitution of 1498 , the outcome of these conflicts , enabled the artisan guilds to dominate the state . It did not follow that the artisans did so . Rather , the politically important guildsmen were often those wealthy masters whose bid for a near monopoly of power had been unsuccessful , but who  | were able to manipulate the constitution to their own advantage . Indeed , they effected a partial rapprochement with the remaining patricians , whom they joined in the state service and as officers in Zurich 's army . The artisanry now saw itself governed by a unified political elite , despite all the fissures within the latter . The process of rapprochement between burgher and patrician in fact could not be completed . The Reformation was to divide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recombine them in a series of transient camps ; the period of relative political stability ended in 1519 . The total population of the state of Zurich in 1519 was some 6o,000. ' 4 Of these , 50,000 lived in the countryside ; 5,000 in the two towns of Winterthur and Stein am Rhein ; 5,000 in Zurich itself . ( The great German cities of the era were five or six times the size of urban Zurich ) . The number of male citizens in 1529 was , according to the military rolls of the city , 923 . There were some 200 places in both the Great and Small Council of the government ; theoretically , every citizen had a high chance of holding office.15 Participation in government no doubt involved a higher proportion of the citizenry than elsewhere , but it was nonetheless limited . This discrepancy between theoretical possibility and factual restriction may very well have acted as a political irritant , the more so because in a small city politics were of necessity far more visible than in a large one . For the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city was at least formally representative exercised authority of a far more arbitrary sort in the countryside : the government of the city was identical with the government of the state , despite a certain rural local autonomy .  | Since the middle of the fifteenth century , the economy of Zurich had undergone some striking vicissitudes . " Decisively defeated by the Confederates , in 1446 the city lost much of its population and wealth . The silk weaving industry disappeared . In 1440 the depleted guilds of woollen weavers and linen weavers merged into one . This was a radical caesura in Zurich 's development ; by 1500 the economy had been set upon another basis . Zurich was now a city whose wealth derived primarily from trade ; it took iron ore from the northeast of Switzerland and exchanged this for salt , grain and manufactured goods obtained via Basel and for wine , imported and home-grown . One of the most important local industries of the new period was that of the Smiths : weapons were in demand . Further , cotton wool was being produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint of some sort of industrial development when we note that of 435 foreigners naturalised by the city between 1500 and 1530 , 232 at least , were artisans . ' ' The publicans , meanwhile , were favoured by Zurich 's position as a crossroads and by the constant Confederate political gatherings within it . Our understanding of Zurich 's economy in 1519 , however , would be incomplete did we not consider two factors absent in the German cities of the time : the direct exploitation of the countryside by the city , and the revenues from mercenary service . All the urban strata profited from the former : the political strength of the city depended largely upon the military uses of the peasantry , and direct control of its sources of agricultural supply was an advantage to any city . In the latter .  | half of the fifteenth century , peasant resistance forced relaxation of urban efforts to restrict the rural expansion of the crafts ; significantly , rural mercantile activity was successfully limited . We see , then , that the chief beneficiaries of this relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not landlords . Most of Zurich 's peasants were holders of hereditary feudal tenure in their land , but they had considerable autonomy with respect to the disposal of it . They were those urban notables who administered monastic lands , who represented the state in its rural jurisdictions , and who held mortgages on peasant holdings or who had bought the rights to specific Church tithes . The revenues from mercenary service , again , were of more importance to some urban groups than to others , namely to the patricians whose rural incomes were insufficient for a patrician style of life and to those offspring of artisans and merchants who , schooled as officers in the state forces , found mercenary life congenial . The city 's casual labour force and the surplus rural male population enlisted under these Swiss condottieri for obvious reasons.18 This sort of private military entrepreneurship must be distinguished , of course , from those state treaties which sent Zurich contingents into foreign wars to benefit the public treasury , although these funds too were eventually redistributed . ( State office holders must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course belonged to the city 's political elite ) . It is clear that the foreign payments made to Zurich notables not alone for services rendered but for services anticipated constituted both an important source of income for the urban elite and a political issue of the first order . At first sight , therefore , Zurich does not look like a center  | lors as " My Lords , " it is clear that they did so with good reason . By 1519 , the state was agitated by the one issue which reflected its basic : political tensions : foreign pensions and mercenary service.20 Not only did the artisanry resent the inequitable distribution of official foreign subsidies paid into the treasury , it had good reason to suspect the notables of enriching themselves secretly by accepting foreign favours . We may suppose that the city 's merchants supported those foreign alliances which kept open ( or extended ) their trade routes ; the artisanry 's interests were more local , and it had no sympathy for the Junkers who lived off war . Habsburg , Pope and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was decisively defeated in 1521 ; the oligarchs sought to counter Habsburg by supporting the Pope , but the dominant popular sentiment was Confederate . Zwingli was summoned to the city as a bitter public opponent of mercenary service in general and of the French in particular ; from its beginning , then , the Reformation was politically coloured . The Zurich Reformation was politically coloured ; the city 's social conflicts were reflected in its religious divisions . But , equally , religious conceptions shaped the angle of vision with which contemporaries grasped their situation ? the inner dissolution of late medieval Catholicism , far from producing a secularised indifference , had heightened religious aspirations and tension . Zwingli 's own position , when he arrived as preacher to the  | city cathedral at the age of thirty-five , may be briefly summarised . The son of a rural headman in North-eastern Switzerland , he had learned to hate mercenary service : he had accompanied his parishioners to Marignano . His antidote was the moral regeneration of Swiss society in the Erasmian terms he had learned while a student at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1519 he was not yet an opponent of the Papacy , but still deemed a Christian renaissance possible within a purified but not revolutionized Church . Though he had developed a " social theology " on humanist foundations , 2 ? he did not arrive at a properly Protestant position until 1520-1 . Thenceforth he held that reliance on man 's unaided moral will was blasphemous and only faith in God 's mercy could constitute justification for sin . The embodiment of that mercy was Christ , and its sole record Holy Scripture . Only the Word had moral authority , and it did not mention Pope or Catholic Hierarchy . Though Zwingli clearly took some impetus from Wittenberg , the consensus of recent scholarly opinion is that he was a good deal more independent of Luther than was once supposed . Zwingli was brought to Zurich by the notables ; his sermons , however , found immediate resonance amongst the common folk . In plastic and vivid imagery , he denounced abuse in Church and society ; he broke precedent by preaching directly from the Bible . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discontents and demands : the city , already stirred by the events in Germany , was swept by a wave of enthusiasm for the Evangile . There was , of course , opposition . The Cathedral Clergy and the monks , mercilessly attacked , were quick to raise the cry of  | heresy ; Zwingli 's political opponents were not much slower . The city 's Erasmian episcopal Lord , the Bishop of Constance , at first conciliatory , became ever more insistent on suppression of the new doctrines . Most of the other Confederate states were hostile . Rome kept its peace until , in 1521 , it succeeded in hiring Zurich troops ( but then embarrassed the local Catholics by refusing to pay for them ) . These pressures on the City Council were more than balanced by profound popular Evangelical sentiment , often manipulated by Zwingli and his followers to push the government farther . In the years 1 521 through 1523 the state broke , effectively , with episcopal and Roman authority . It had always insisted on certain administrative rights over the local Church , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The campaign against Luther convinced Zwingli of the futility of expecting reform within the received structure of the Church . He turned to the City Council to further his work ; with some hesitations , it supported him . The climax of this first period of the Zurich Reformation was the first Disputation ( 1523 ) when Zwingli argued his Sixty-seven Theses against episcopal representatives : Catholic rituals offended the faith which was alone Christian ; Christ was the sole head of the Church ; the believers congregated together locally had the right of ecclesiastical self-government and the distinction between priest and layman was null and void ; secular authority was legitimate only if based on scripture . The Council endorsed Zwingli 's views , an implicit contradiction which was to become the explicit focus of deep conflicts among the Zurich Evangelicals : Zwingli had enunciated a new Christian freedom , and as promptly bound himself to another authority . He had in fact resigned his Episcopal commission in 1522 , only to accept a preaching position from the Council . The break with Rome was practically complete ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Evangile for the larger life of the society had now to be  | decided . A current of radicalism surged through the state : Zwingli found himself pushed or opposed by Evangelicals who used his own Biblicism against him . There was pressure for the immediate abolition of image and mass , for the recognition of congregational autonomy of the state . Some elements formed conventicles for prayer and study ; Anabaptism was shortly to appear . Six rural communes demanded of the Council that tithes be abolished as unscriptural . Zwingli , with and against the Council , had to formulate a positive programme . In 1523 Zwingli published his major treatise on politics : Of Divine and Human Justice.24 A direct answer to those who read in the Evangile a legitimation for radical social demands , it insisted that no ideal Christian condition was attainable in the sinful world . The state 's Christian duty was to strive for the maximum possible justice ( Zwingli was not , of course , as quietist as Luther ) , but this by no means entailed a repudiation of contractual obligation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilised the demands of the radicals ( possibly , too , he was impelled by their pressure ) in his long campaign against the mass ? finally abolished in 1525 . The net result of his encounter with the more consistent of his followers was , however , the theory and practice of the State Church . Zwingli took this road with some visible reluctance . He justified it , as against his early insistence on congregational autonomy , in two ways . First , the state was simply doing its Christian duty : removing the hindrances to the promulgation of the Word . Its theological decisions entailed recognition of the truth , not pronouncement of it . Secondly , the state was acting on behalf of the entire local community of Christians in enforcing ecclesiastical discipline within it . More , Zwingli 's conflict with the Anabaptists and the other  | resistances he met led him to see positive advantages in that discipline : he deplored the " many who claimed their absurd conceits were of the Holy Spirit " and held that the " evil spirited and ignorant " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anabaptists , indeed , turned , not so much on the issue of infant baptism as on the doctrine of the Church.27 Zwingli ( unlike Luther ) held that infant baptism was simply a symbolic transaction , a pledge from parents and community to raise the child a Christian . What he repudiated in the Anabaptists was their separatist convictions and their literal biblicism : these , he held , were a danger to the unity and integrity of both Christian community and the social order . In 1525 , the Council prescribed infant baptism , proscribed adult baptism , and proceeded to terrible punishments for the Anabaptists : exile and in at least one case , death . The constraints imposed upon the Anabaptists were but part of a larger system of controls developed in the period 1524-28 . Confiscated Church and cloister property was administered by the state ( not without one or two scandals ) for welfare purposes . Schools were established to train new preachers , conceived as incumbents of a Predigtamt , a preaching office . The clergy was organised into a Synod , under ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marriage Court , established in 1525 and reconstructed in 1526 as , in effect , a Morals Court . A model for similar institutions elsewhere , notably in Geneva , this proved  | a remarkable instrument of control ? at once ecclesiastical and political . Its composition and competences indicated the balance of forces in the new Zurich Church : four laymen , two each from the Small and Large Council , and two pastors , could cite miscreants before the Council . Zwingli originally wanted a Church-administered right of excommunication for adulterers , blasphemers , whores and usurers . The Council reserved this right to itself and excluded usurers from the category of sinners . We should be mistaken were we to suppose that the Marriage Court , at least in Zwingli 's lifetime , was an Erastian institution : granted the control of the Council won by 1526 by Zwingli and his supporters , it was in effect theocratic . Zwingli used it to terrorise the political opposition ( espionage and denunciation were some of its techniques ) , as well as to punish sinners and encourage , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marriage Court was an attempt to actualise a vision which Zwingli had not entirely abandoned , despite his retreat from his early biblicism : the idea of a sanctified community , obedient to God 's Will , and militantly committed to the Evangile . Aware of the contradiction between a State Church and Evangelical Freedom , Zwingli sought to overcome it in the Evangelical State . The contrast with the Lutheran Territorial Churches was marked : the formal reorganization of the Church in Saxony did not begin until 1527 , and the Lutheran cities were not subjected , apparently , to this sort of inner discipline.29 Yet the differences between the active and innovating Zwinglian ethic and the more traditionalist Lutheran one were already manifest in the sacramental controversy . The dogmatic foundation of Zwingli 's many ritual reforms was his denial of scriptural warrant for the efficacy of the Sacraments : the  | Spirit spoke only to the Spirit and the sole aim of Divine Service was the preaching of the Word . He rejected the real presence in the Eucharist ; the new order of worship in 1525 introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Luther 's theology of the sacraments was equivocal ; he retained Baptism and the Eucharist , but held them objectively efficacious only if faith were present . Zwingli 's symbolic interpretation of the Eucharist struck him as unmitigated blasphemy : he asserted the Real Presence . The sacramental controversy had major political consequences for the Reformation as a whole and for Zurich . The Catholic , inner Swiss , cantons allied themselves with Hapsburg ; Zwingli hoped to end this threat , and to carry Protestantism to these cantons , by joining a grand alliance 31 Bern reformed in 1528 , Basel in 1528 : these were already Zurich 's allies . Strasbourg and the southern German cities , Zwinglian in their sacramental doctrines , were agreed . But the Lutheran cities and princes of northern Germany refused an alliance on account of the sacramental issue . Zwingli was ready for an alliance on purely practical grounds ; had he not sought a rapprochement with his old opponent , the Catholic King of France ? But the Lutheran proponent of the alliance , Prince Philip of Hesse thought it imperative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Marburg in 1529 . The sacramental question proved insoluble ( the more so since the Lutherans had not abandoned hope of an eventual agreement with the Catholics ) ; doctrinal agreement on other matters did not overcome Lutheran resistance to joint political action . Zurich meanwhile had signed a compromise peace after a bloodless war with the Catholic cantons ; a sceptical Zwingli redoubled his political efforts . Now , Butzer and Strasbourg attempted to mediate on the sacramental issue , in order to bring the Swiss into the Schmalkaldic League , but this effort ,  | too , failed ( 1530 ? 1 ) . Zwingli called for war on the Catholic cantons , but Bern urged restraint and the Zurich citizenry was unenthusiastic . In the spring of 1531 Zurich blockaded the food supplies of the inner Swiss , despite the preacher 's warning against half-measures . So strong was Zurich 's unwillingness to fight that he threatened to resign in July . And in October , the Catholics defeated a remarkably unprepared and demoralised Zurich army on the borders . Zwingli fell in battle , Zurich remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal to compromise on the sacramental issue had isolated the Protestant Swiss , but the lack of enthusiasm of the populace was not simply a consequence of that isolation nor was military inefficiency entirely due to lack of morale ; rather , all three facts reflected the social situation in which the Zurich Reformation was embedded . The social conflicts of the period were directly reflected in the political controversy over the Reformation . So intense was the controversy that Zwingli in 1522 had to have an armed guard . ( Somebody who had stoned his windows was later found hiding in a priest 's empty wine barrel in a cloister ) . This was a period when few defenders of the Church could be found in the city ; of these few Bullinger said : " The prominent pensioners and officers , and others who had praised his sermons and practically run to hear them , now cursed Zwingli as a heretic . Many who were never particularly attached to the faith now declared their allegiance to it , saying that they wanted to defend the true old faith against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the faith but the money-bag . " To these secular op- ponents were joined , of course , many of the clergy . The Catholics of the Cathedral Chapter were , in some cases , members of prominent Zurich families . But the entire oligarchy of the city was not opposed to the new doctrine ; indeed , many were among its most ardent supporters . The Reformation began in Zurich , in fact , with a united front of artisan and merchant behind Zwingli ? opposed by a considerable part of the patricians . In 1522 at the famous Friday meat meal at the printer 's , Froschauer , merchants and prosperous artisan masters joined simple journeymen ( in Zwingli 's presence ) to defy the Church . Froschauer showed considerable theological eloquence in defending himself before the Council : many were prepared to take seriously the priesthood of all believers . It was a group of laymen who answered , in a pamphlet , the episcopate 's attack on the Sixtyseven Theses . These included three members of the important Saffran guild , where many merchants were found , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to turn to trade . These were typical of the educated elite 's support for Zwingli . The new doctrines were also popular , of course , amongst the more self-taught artisanry and we can read in a Council protocol of an artisan greeting his mates , amidst laughter , " What are you Pharisees doing ? " The leadership of this initially united Evangelical political movement was a new and energetic group of oligarchs , most young , grown prosperous in crafts and trade ? particularly , in the new branches of the economy associated with the upturn in the city 's fortunes at the beginning of the century . In 1524 , with the death of the two mayors , these offices passed to convinced Evangelicals . One , the son of his predecessor  | ( Roist ) , was from a patrician family recently risen from the artisanry ; the other ( Walder ) belonged to Smith 's Guild and was himself the proprietor of a bathhouse . I have made a list of thirty-nine prominent Zwinglians active in politics and the administration of the new Church.37 There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meise , five from the Saffran and four from the Simth 's . The Tailor 's Guild , of course , included textile merchants ; the Meise , wine dealers , painters and glaziers ; the Saffran , merchants ; the Smiths ' , all who worked with metal . The Secret Council at the time it worked most closely with Zwingli included a goldsmith , a blacksmith , a tanner , a merchant , a carpenter , and a glazier . ( Two of Zwingli 's closest lay associates were , in fact , glaziers : Funk who accompanied him to Marburg , and Lavater , later a mayor ) . When the opposition , after Zurich 's defeat in 1531 , expelled five Zwinglians from the Council as warmongers , three were tailors ( two cloth cutters ) , one from the Shoemaker 's and one from the Butcher 's guild . The results seem reasonably clear ; not only did the leading Zwinglians represent the city 's mercantile and artisan elite but they were , in striking measure , from those trades and crafts in which economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the social characteristics of the  | opposition ? Again , I have made a list of opposition leaders , numbering twenty-eight . Of these , eleven carne from the patrician Konstaffel . The only other noteworthy concentration was in the Kambel Guild , comprising retailers , secondhand dealers , and oil vendors . The patricians , of course , were largely mercenaries and rentiers ( although not all mercenaries were patricians ) and in general offended by the ecclesiastical and political innovations of the Reformation . But why should the Kambel have provided some of the opposition ? Possibly , these rather traditionalised elements were unenthusiastic about the activities of ' the Zwinglian elite . Finally , it must be said that among those expelled from the Small Council in 1528 as opponents of the Reformation ( or Zwingli 's politics ) were a butcher , a furrier and a hatmaker . The butchers and millers were at this time embittered with Zwingli : their trade had suffered because of strained relations with the Catholic agrarian cantons of inner Switzerland . Perhaps some of the other occupations , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were of a character that allowed no new spiritual perspectives to develop . It does seem , then , that the opposition was not entirely the work of the patriciate and the mercenaries ; it included , under the leadership of the latter , some of the artisans ? apparently those in the more traditional and local trades . Here , as amongst the Zwinglians , there were exceptions ; but the general situation is clear . The Reformation in Zurich entailed an alliance of a new mercantile and productive elite with a large group of lesser artisans , against the patricians  | ( mercenaries and rentiers ) and certain artisans , very possibly concentrated in the more traditional sectors of the economy . These conflicts were visible in the proceedings of the Council . Resistance to the Reformation , and the delaying tactics of its more hesitant supporters , was originally concentrated in the oligarchic Small Council . In 1523 , an Evangelical cloth cutter , himself of the Large Council , said that there were but fourteen good Evangelicals among the fifty members of the Small Council : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1524 the large Council itself assumed the right to judge false doctrines ; it also reversed a Small Council order to a rural commune demanding the restoration of Church images . Despite the clear balance of opinion within the city , the Council as a whole often moved more slowly than the Evangelical enthusiasts wished . Zwingli asked for the abolition of mass in 1523 ; this was voted , and then only by a narrow majority , in 1525 . Zwingli had often to intervene from the pulpit to stir the Council ; only after he had done so in 1526 were recipients of foreign pensions prosecuted and condemned , and the purge of the Catholics and other opponents from the Council in 1528 was equally due to his intervention . The purge , ostensibly the high point of his power , actually marked its turning point . Its immediate occasion had been the elections , the results of which displeased him . It was followed by an ostentatious Catholic display during the New Year 's Dinners at the gild halls : it was Friday , and some ate fish.40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general warning , instituted compulsory Church attendance , and forbade attendance at mass outside the city . In 1530 , a general mandate was issued ; it complained that the public houses were full during service , and that the preachers .  | had been jeered.41 The guilds , in the city , were left to impose punishment on those warned by the Marriage Court , for these and other transgressions . But this provision , a concession to democratic theory , pointed to a fatality in the oligarchic practice of the new state . The purge , followed by a constitutional revision which reduced the Konstaffel to the political status of the other guilds , enabled the new Zwinglian elite to consolidate its hold on the state . In 1529 , too , a new military organisation was introduced : this gave reliable Zwinglians command positions and reduced the patrician officers to the status of technical advisers . It also increased the financial burdens of service on the average citizen ; and in general , the rise of the new oligarchy was unaccompanied by concrete concessions to the artisans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met increasing resistance ; he had to threaten to resign , in 1529 and 1581 , on account of opposition to his war plans . The final defeat in 1581 ( and the restoration of the patricians ' constitutional advantages ) was due to some considerable extent to popular coolness towards the reformer 's political works . A contemporary is quoted : " My Lords burned the wooden images , but they took the golden ones and stole away with them in their pockets and many became Evangelical , only to obtain office . " The Zwinglian elite had indeed streamed into the state , not least into the administration of secularised Church property ; some had been exposed for speculating with funds intended for poor relief . The moral impulses originally mobilised by the .  | reformer amongst many artisans had not been satisfied ; no wonder that they subsided , or turned elsewhere . But there developed in the city of Zurich no strong movement which seemed to unite theological and social radicalism ; social conflict of this sort in the Zurich Reformation seemed to occur mainly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this missing factor in the city . Most important , perhaps , was the relative absence of an industrial proletariat and the relatively high degree of political participation enjoyed by the artisans ? high , that is , by contrast with many contemporary cities . Nor have I found evidence that Zurich had much economic discontent . But we have also to consider the fate of urban Anabaptism in Zurich . The assumption of an automatic association between theological and social radicalism , in Zurich as elsewhere , has been disproved . Some of the Zurich Anabaptist leaders , indeed , were quietist in their attitude to the state ? opposing only its intervention in religious affairs ? and by no means the social revolutionaries , specifically the Christian Communists , their opponents so often claimed . The mutual aid the Anabaptists practised was indeed a practical imitation of primitive Christian models and not a political programme . But there is no doubt that in the Reformation , radical social demands were based on the more self-consciously Biblicist of the competing Protestant doctrines of faith and the Church . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the state . In Zurich , the persecution of the Anabaptists led to the elimination of this movement as a possible channel of expression for artisan discontent . Anabaptism in Zurich began , in fact , amongst dissenting and  | educated laymen ? not amongst the artisans . Peachey 's careful investigations show that the urban Anabaptists known to us included five priests , nine other educated men ( both categories including some of Zwingli 's early associates ) , five nobles and but seven ordinary citizens . Anabaptism in the state of Zurich became a rural movement ; it is to the countryside in any case , that we must turn for a fuller understanding of the social context of Zwinglianism . The peasants ( and rural artisans ) took as their point of departure Zwingli 's own early criticism of tithes and his expressed sympathy for those who lived by their hands and not from exploitation . But when the peasants rejected the tithes , and when interest payments on rural mortgages were threatened , Zwingli quickly drew his distinction between divine and human justice . The voluntary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligation was theft : human justice in the condition of the fall required that the division of property be maintained . We may recall that the new as well as the old political elite of the city drew income from rural rents , and that the state itself had rural holdings . Zwingli by no means reacted to peasant demands as did Luther ; he urged negotiation with those of Zurich 's rural subjects who rose in 1525 , and he proposed a number of reforms . In particular , he held that rural mortgages could be  | justified only as advances on the future productivity of peasant holdings ; interest , therefore , ought to vary with the harvest . He insisted that tithes had to be restored to their original uses ( welfare and the support of a purified Church ) and he held that the lesser tithes could be cancelled if the greater ones were promptly paid . But the reforms did not materialise ; there remained Zwingli 's advice to the peasants to leave their uneconomical holdings rather than mortgage themselves anew . But those who sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their communes one third of the price , as compensation for the loss of a subject : the advice was gratuitous . These demands can not be attributed to ' Anabaptist teaching : indeed , some scholars suggest that Anabaptist successes in the Zurich countryside followed ( and were due to ) the frustration of the peasants ' social protest . " Peachey 's figures show that some thirty rural artisans and over two hundred peasants were identified as Anabaptists . But if it was more effective in the Zurich countryside than in the city ( in one commune , a number of conscripts refused military service on grounds of biblical pacificism ) , it was in both places , by the end of the decade , without major effect . Thus the Zurich Reformation mastered ? more easily than was done elsewhere ? the double challenge of theological and social radicalism . Overt pressure on Zwingli 's social ethic developed in the countryside ; in reaction to it , he modified his biblical critique of society . In the city , the challenge was far less pressing ? and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and condemn the trading companies ; the Zurich merchants were also against them . Zwingli 's disdain for a biblical social radicalism ( he recommended to authority that  | " those who are so well informed that they know that all things shall be held in common . . . should be fixed to the gallows as a common example for us all , " and his anger with the Anabaptists , were understandable . Taken separately , each was a threat to his version of the Christian polity in Zurich ; together , they might well have overwhelmed it . But his work produced a state and a state church which excited the hatred of those who claimed to be more faithful to his early teachings than the preacher himself . It is clear that the Zurich Reformation was the occasion , indeed , the vehicle for the replacement of one political elite by another : the merchants and master artisans , some of them veritable entrepreneurs , displaced the old patriciate . In doing so , they alienated the peasants and at the very least did nothing to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the external uses of the new doctrine in Zurich , once it appeared . Was there something intrinsic to it , however , that bespoke its origins ? Zwinglianism 's most pronounced characteristics were three : its anti-hierarchical view of the Church , its symbolic theology of the sacraments , and its strongly activist social ethic . These general positions were not surrendered , whatever concrete interpretations were placed upon them under the pressure of social circumstance . The Zwinglian view of the Church reflected the self-respect of an urban citizenry , educated burghers and a literate artisanry , already disgusted with a Church corrupt and profane and ruled by an alien system which combined the arrogant remoteness of impersonality with the gratuitous insolence of nepotism . The self-confidence of social groups unbeholden to the traditional powers of late medieval society , and possessing their own independent and vivid political traditions , rendered a hierarchical theory of Church government ever more difficult of acceptance . The clear demonstra- tion of its want of scriptural legitimation effected the break : the recourse to scriptural authority ( and , of course , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to the path of salvation . The peasantry , for reasons not dissimilar but accentuated by their frequent encounter with churchmen as rural exploiters , found it very easy to accept the new view . The symbolic theology of the sacraments was a blow at the pretensions of the priestly estate and as such , welcome to nearly all the discontented in late medieval society . But the Evangelicals in Zurich came largely from those sectors of the economy in which they dealt in new technical processes , mastering material , or in which they commanded relatively abstract economic forces . They were more or less easily brought , therefore , to distrust an earthly presentation of divine processes . This does not mean that they were forerunners of theological liberalism : the ultimate mystery remained , in the form of an inscrutable God , but it was banished from ordinary sense experience . The social ethic of Zwinglianism insisted that Christian theory could not be satisfied by Christian ritual practice alone ; developed in the highly visible political and social circumstances of the city state , it appealed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves and control their neighbours . But the general Zwinglian imperative to the Christian life , capable of uniting a number of groups in either latent or active conflict with one another in opposition to those aspects of the existing order they all opposed , proved incapable of specific application to any of these conflicts or was applied to the advantage of the most powerful elements in the Zwinglian Church . The embodiment of this new version of the Word in a Church , then , called into play the balance of forces in Zurich society and , to some extent , altered it . The divisions within the society and the explosive potentialities of religiously  | legitimated dissent were too great : a disciplined State Church had to be constructed . Its masters were the new men engaged in a struggle for control of the state : they used the Marriage Court , devised as an institution of moral discipline , as an instrument of political rule . The Biblical promise of Zwingli 's early teachings was unfulfilled , and Evangelical freedom remained a vision pursued , in despair , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were demanded of the ordinary artisan and peasant than rewards offered to them : an outer discipline was imposed . In later generations this was to result in the modern Protestant personality . Finally , we have to consider the light thrown by the Zurich Reformation on the problem of the relationship of capitalism to Protestantism . Weber asserted that the " typical bearers of the capitalistic ethic and the Calvinistic Church " were those petty and middle bourgeois rising up into entrepreneurial roles.54 Weber 's interest was mainly in the seventeenth century , but the sixteenth century antecedents of this type were surely the dominant element amongst the Zwinglians in Zurich . Weber also asserted that Calvinistic Protestantism was an indispensable precondition of the development of a capitalistic work ethic . We have seen that Zurich in the early sixteenth century was by no means a center of the developing capitalism of the period ; we know that later , its Protestant population ( admittedly , swelled by Protestant refugeees from the Ticino ) was conspicuous for its ingenuity at technical innovation and its success in accumulation . We  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Zurich elite , at the beginning of the sixteenth century , took them out of the economy into the service of the state and eventually into a late medieval patrician style of life . At first glance , then , it would seem that the Reformation in Zurich did break into an historically indeterminate situation and induce capitalist attitudes in part of the population . But no such simple formulation is legitimate . The very indeterminacy of the historical situation in Reformation Zurich allows another interpretation . Many of the elements of capitalism were already there : mercantile accumulation and technically advanced production . The fact that Zurich was not a capitalist metropolis like the Augsburg of the Fugger may have been an advantage : the great monopolies were missing , and the newer economic forms could crystallise there free of the restraints and encrustations of the transitional patterns of the late medieval urban economy . Urban Zurich 's relatively small size and its difficulties as an autonomous state amidst political and economic convulsions of late medieval European society may also have been advantages : like litmus paper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most basically , it was a society which had experienced a very rapid rate of social change ; many of its members had participated in the making of their own traditions , and the vested values and ideologies which elsewhere hindered change were missing or weak . The breakthrough of a radically new religious system was more possible in these circumstances than elsewhere : the potentialities for the development of both capitalism and Zwinglianism were simultaneously given in the city . If Zwinglianism was the road towards capitalism for Zurich , it was taken because the route in any case led in that direction .  | In his book on the German Peasants ' War , Friedrich Engels observed that in a religious epoch , even revolutionary ideas have to be expressed in a religious rhetoric : the very thoughts which anticipate the future assume old forms . I was reminded of Engels 's remark when , last December ( 1966 ) , I attended a conference of Marxist sociologists of religion in Prague . The participants , nearly all of them from Eastern Europe , were troubled by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few reacted dogmatically : as the case was put by one scholar from the German Democratic Republic who held to a rather narrow version of Marxism , if religion did not decline under socialism , then the Marxist theory would have to be considered false . Other participants who took a much more subtle , comprehensive , and comprehending view of religion in history ( including their own recent history ) did so in different Marxist terms . I believe that their utilization of Marxism to explore the social and spiritual realities around them may anticipate new developments in Eastern Europe . Engels was writing , in fact , about the great Reformation theologian and Christian Communist , Thomas Miinzer , who  | died a horrible death at the hands of vengeful German ( Protestant ) princes for having taken seriously the doctrine of the Imminence of the Kingdom in early Protestant theology . My colleagues at Prague were sociologists and philosophers , not theologians , and none spoke directly against his own princes . Yet some of the things they said in the course of the meeting reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well portend new developments in other spheres ? not least in politics . Ever since the end of Stalinism , the Communist parties of Eastern Europe have been seeking a modus vivendi with the populations they rule . Janos Kadar 's bon mot , " all who are not against us are with us , " typifies one prevalent attitude . The peoples of Eastern Europe can not yet be described as enthusiastic about socialism in its Eastern European version . A less hostile and more sophisticated view of the religious beliefs and communities to which these peoples remain attached is a consequence of the new Communist awareness of this fact . It is true that the Communists ( or some of them ) remain most hostile to religion where the churches have been strongest : above all , in Poland , where the Primate is about as stubborn as the General Secretary of the Communist party , both being old men who grew up in a different world ; and in Germany , where the Protestant Church has been the one functioning all-German institution . In general , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political views of certain ecclesiastical leaders and the religious convictions of their peoples ? if only the better to split the two . Indeed , the regimes have found some politically compliant churchmen , and there are groups of theologians ( the most distinguished of whom are at the Comenius Faculty of Protestant Theology at Prague ) who see no scriptural warrant for depicting Communism as the work of the devil .  | In addition to setting off a general attempt at discussion between Christians and Marxists , the demise of Stalinism has also entailed the development of empirical social research in the Eastern European Communist countries . Instead of deducing the contours of reality from a few exceedingly primitive political postulates , Communist parties and governments have begun to rely on social inquiries and occasionally on broader sociological analyses . In some countries , such inquiries and analyses were first undertaken by politically courageous thinkers ( like Djilas and others ) who had a clear revisionist intent ? to demonstrate that the official picture of reality was grotesquely untrue . There seems , however , to be a law at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ techniques originally meant to create new social possibilities serve only to consolidate old ones . Empirical social inquiry in our own societies was devised as an instrument of social reform ; it has become very largely another piece of administrative technology . The same thing seems to be happening , in a much more compressed period of time , in Eastern Europe . Ten years ago , " sociology " was a politically dubious term in much of Eastern Europe : it evoked fears of the penetration of " bourgeois science . " ( We may define " bourgeois science " as science done by bourgeois professors who are not Marxists . ) Today , Communist parties and governments alike look with great favor on sociology . As for " bourgeois science " ? speaking of the intense interest shown by his colleagues in sociology in the work of Talcott Parsons , a " revisionist " Czech philosopher told me with some feeling that " if this goes on , Marxism in eighteen months will become a revolutionary doctrine again . " At any rate , the scholars who met in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion from a Marxist point of view . They had met together once before , at Jena in Germany , the university which gave Karl Marx his doctorate . I have termed them scholars , and the  | description is exact : most were teachers at universities or research workers at the Academies of Science in their respective countries . There was a professor of the sociology of religion from the German Democratic Republic , Olaf Klohr , even if his chair was designated as the " Lehrstuhl fur wissenschaf tlicher Atheismus " ( Chair of Scientific Atheism ) . There were also two or three publicists from party institutes for the struggle against religion ; even they acknowledged the necessity for an empirically founded approach to religion , and indeed the institute attached to the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party has actually conducted sociological research on a large scale . My own presence was accounted for by my position as secretary of the International Sociological Association 's Committee on the Sociology of Religion . Actually , there had been certain hesitations about inviting me , but these probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bourgeois " scholar than with the fact that I was known in some Eastern European countries as a " neo-Marxist . " What , precisely , this may mean , and whether or not it is true , in parts of Eastern Europe the accusation is a grave one . The conference , and particularly the lively spontaneous discussions of the prepared papers , made national differences among the participants very evident ? differences which resulted from local intellectual traditions , the particular shape of the problem of religion in the various countries , and the degree of intellectual freedom permitted by the individual regimes . The Bulgarians , for example , were quite rigid intellectually , and I must confess that I did not always sense that they followed the contributions of some of the others with sympathy , or even with total comprehension . The Czechs , our hosts , were there in large numbers ( some fifteen , whereas there were only three or four from each of the other countries ) . Czechoslovakia at the moment enjoys a considerable  | amount of intellectual freedom , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blunt , and did not circumvent real problems with empty formulations . The East Germans were solid and thorough , precisely like scholars from the other German state . They came , however , from workingclass families in a society in which workers ' children had rarely gone to the universities in ages past . Not surprisingly , their Marxism coincided almost exactly with the Marxism of the German Social Democratic party in the Wilhelminian Empire . It was a doctrine of the sovereignty of applied science , in which socialism was reason triumphant . By contrast , the Hungarians evinced great imagination and subtlety : their group included Ivan Varga , who is a pupil of Georg Lukacs and has inherited the critical humanism which is the best side of his teacher . The Polish group was divided between scholars from the Academy of Sciences and anti-religious publicists . The Soviet participants were extraordinary . Fully in possession of their own intellectual tradition , they seemed also to have recaptured the long Russian tradition of mastery of Western thought . About the Yugoslays , finally , little need be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universities : one of the Yugoslays present struck me as a positivist and rationalist . When the Yugoslays do work with Marxism , they often make something interesting of it . The conference went on for three days , in what was once the chapel of a Franciscan cloister , now converted into the headquarters of the municipal Communist party . ( The building is next to the old Opera House , where Mozart himself conducted the premiere of Don Giovanni . ) There were Baroque religious paintings on the ceiling , and stern busts of Marx , Engels , Lenin , and Gottwald stared fixedly at us from the front of the room . The discussion returned to a number of central themes which were systematically ? I am inclined to  | say dialectically ? interrelated . The findings of a number of research projects pointed to the difficulties of a Marxist interpretation of religion under Marxist regimes . Discussion of such difficulties soon enough turned into a reexamination of the moral experience of these societies . The sessions began , straightforwardly enough , with a lucid exposition by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sciences . She had studied the religious consciousness of a group of her compatriots , in a locality in which religious affiliation was still rather strong . Among those who said that they were religious , nominal adherence to the Church and traditional ritual participation far outweighed deep inner conviction ; the belief in immortality , or in the divinity of Jesus , was conspicuously absent from their affirmations . Seventy-five per cent of her sample , however , said that religion was a means to master life . They consciously saw religion , in other words , as an instrument of adaptation and were therefore outside the religious experience or historically past it . These results , of course , correspond almost exactly to those found in many Western countries . Professor Ugrinovtisch of the Lomonosov University in Moscow was the next speaker . A humorous and sympathetic scholar who had impressed many of the Western scholars at the World Congress of Sociology in France in September by the suppleness and sharpness of his mind , Ugrinovtisch suggested that studies in the Soviet Union yielded much the same findings as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World Congress of Sociology , Ugrinovtisch had insisted that religion was strongest in the Soviet Union among those least integrated into Soviet society : older persons , rural communities relatively untouched by urban currents . At Prague , however , he added some new dimensions to his argument . He held that there were secular or non-religious , indeed even anti-religious , cultic and ritual observances in socialist society ; ritual alone , therefore , was not necessarily connected with  | religion . What he intended was to support his contention that studies of religious comportment by itself were meaningless we had to study the psychological and spiriutal content of religious beliefs . What in fact he did was to raise the vexed question of the spiritual status of civic belief in the socialist societies . For the moment , this passed unremarked ; the participants argued about other matters . Dr. Kadlecova pointed out that an ideal community had not yet been constructed under socialism . In the circumstances , she felt it justified to ask if there were social grounds for the continuance of religion , in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further . He described as " an old dualism " the view that men controlled their own destinies under socialism but did not do so under other social systems . We required concrete inquiries into the precise degree of control over the social process exercised by specific individuals and groups . To begin with , we already knew that in socialism some individuals could exert far more influence on the social process than others . These remarks seemed to be unexceptionable , yet they quickly led to controversy . Professor Klohr , from Germany , strenuously denied that religion and what he called a high degree of educated consciousness could coexist . Klohr and his colleagues proceeded to present statistics which showed , to their satisfaction at least , that religion declined as socialism advanced . The East German researches rested on the assumption that there is nothing universal about religion , or about human consciousness in general . Indeed , neither religion nor atheism was a primary form of consciousness : both , rather , were derivatives of more fundamental modes of thought . The sources of these , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production . Atheism arose when a materialistic view developed , quite spontaneously , as a result of social changes which increased society 's conscious power over social and natural processes . It followed , the East Germans insisted ,  | that there had to be a sociology of religion specific to socialist societies : the identical categories could hardly deal with religion in different social systems . The evidence they introduced to support these contentions did not entirely convince many of their colleagues . Klohr and his group found , to be sure , that many with religious convictions had a " progressive " ( by which they meant positive ) attitude to the East German state . But they also insisted that those who were most engaged in " constructive " social activity were most remote from religion . I found their mode of inference curiously devoid of psychological penetration : they seemed to care little about what people thought , and even less about what they felt , and to concentrate on what they said . " Socialist " science in this case was rather like the more backward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , it was true to old traditions in classical sociology . August Comte enjoined the European elites after the convulsions of the French Revolution to use sociology as an instrument of domination . Klohr and his colleagues made their own aims quite clear : " The analysis of this entire complex . . . gives a further basis for a differentiated educational and pedagogic activity . " The response to the German presentation was vigorous . Dr. Kadlecova declared that different categories were not needed for the same religious systems in the same cultural areas , despite political differences . This was an interesting way of insisting on the unity of European culture , an idea more Gaullist than " orthodox " Marxist . Varga of Hungary doubted that the actual content of religious beliefs was different in the different types of society . The East German categories , he continued , referred to the sociology of politics and not of religion : he doubted that it was useful to make the strengthening of socialism the direct aim of study . In any case , Hungarian inquiry had shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to social  | engagement . Moreover , Varga observed , a materialist worldview did not always lead to positive social action . He did not elaborate on this point . Klohr defended himself against his critics rather well . He noted that " bourgeois " sociology also dealt with the political correlates of religious conviction , that it too had shown that the same Christian convictions gave different results in different political contexts.I myself took the floor at this point , to say that the interpretation of Marxism as a doctrine of man 's mastery of nature and society with the aid of science and technology was not absolutely true to Marx 's philosophic intentions . We in America also had a doctrine of the use of science and technology for mastery of the human environment . Perhaps its most conspicuous current proponent was our secretary of defense , Mr. McNamara , himself a former professor of economics . ( Many at the conference , if not our German colleagues , appreciated the point . ) I also said that those who had the most radical and revolutionary ideas about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps , but the churches not . Socialism is always the doctrine of the working class , " objected Klohr . " In America , " I responded , " socialism is more likely to be found in seminaries of Protestant theology or in the universities generally than in trade unions . " The argument about the fate of religion in Eastern Europe quickly touched upon a critical theme : the persistence of an alienated human condition under socialism . Alienation , in the early writings of Marx , was the stunted and unfulfilled human condition which resulted from the subjugation of men to powers outside themselves . These powers were in fact the products of their own labor , but in the class society men could not enjoy the fruits of their labor . Rather , they were ruled over by them in the form of the laws of the market , and the coercive might of the state . In the sphere of consciousness ,  | men were hauted by the phantasmagoria of their own minds : they made an eschatology of their unrealized yearning for fulfillment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope in the beneficence of a world become strange and their awful submission to it . Religion was therefore also a product of alienation . The participants were aware that the term alienation has come in the West to cover practically every spiritual disease known to man . They were also fully conversant with the early Marxist texts , and they knew that until very recently , discussion of these as anything but youthful aberrations had been officially discouraged in Eastern Europe . The elimination of market relationships , or so the official doctrine went , rendered all talk of alienation gratuitous . This attitude , along with much else , has changed . Dr. Kadlecova declared directly that the future ought not to be confused with the present ? alienation had not yet been eliminated from socialist society . Varga remarked that other forms of alienation besides the " fetishism of commodities , " perhaps political ones , could also account for the persistence of religion . " There are also in socialist society phenomena of alienated consciousness capable of evoking the so-called substitute religions . " He mentioned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an immediate protest from Klohr , who found the notion of substitute religion extremely dubious . Klohr went on to say that the class roots of religion had been eliminated in socialist society , and to deny that there was any religious continuity between capitalist and socialist society . Finally , an Austrian Marxist , Walter Hollitscher , objected that the present and future difficulties of life under socialism need not engender a recourse to religion . In the end , historical developments may prove Hollitscher right . For the moment , he received little support from those at Prague who reported on psychological researches into religion in Eastern Europe . A Czech scholar said that despite  | pleted : a search for new general ideas , their outlines barely discernible but their substance still obscure . The constraints under which the participants labored , in other words , were inner ones : the difficulty of altering a set of assumptions , a fixed structure of thought . The contradictions , differences , and disputes at Prague , the schematism of some and the tentativeness of others , point to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain how , let me take four major areas of discussion . The continuity of European culture , across all political boundaries , was very much emphasized at Prague . Our Czech chairwoman said quite explicitly that we lived in a common culture , and the Soviet participants touched upon similar themes . The participants were familiar with religious tradition , and their familiarity was not the familiarity associated with contempt or the deep hostility born of fear . It would be vulgar ( and , above all , wrong ) to suppose that the dispute with China has suddenly brought Eastern Europe to the realization of its common heritage with Western Europe . Rather , the historical force of that heritage itself , the population 's stubborn attachment to it , the equally strong attachment of the intellectuals , have made another view of religion inevitable following the removal of these questions from control by the police . A sense of the concrete , of national particularity , of the value of tradition : these are now emphasized by the Communist regimes as part of a new political strategy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to new Communist leaders well aware of the perversion of " internationalism " under Stalinism . ) The Jewish participants no less than the others seemed to share in this temper although Jewishness , Judaism , and Jewish communal life in Eastern Europe were not discussed at the Prague conference . I have the impression , from other experiences in Eastern Europe , that a number of Jewish intellectuals in the Communist movement now identify them- selves with things Jewish . It will be recalled that Professor Adam Schaff , member of the Central Committee of the Polish party , recently published a book which among other matters dealt with the problem of the continuation of antiSemitism in Poland. * At any rate , the situation of Judaism and the Jews in Eastern Europe is perhaps best understood in the light of newer developments in these countries . The rather more explicit discussion of alienation under socialism entailed more delicate questions . If fifty years of socialism in the Soviet Union , and twenty years elsewhere , had not brought appreciable progress toward the end of alienation , then clearly second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prague that there may be forms of alienation peculiar to socialist society , but this possibility was not thoroughly explored . The participants tended to insist on the general human problems which socialism had not yet eliminated ( and which it might not eliminate in the foreseeable future ) , rather than on oppressive elements in Eastern European socialism . They did , however , prepare for a thorough critique of the quality of life in socialist society ? by showing that the persistence of religion , in some cases at least , had real roots in human distress . The discussion of alienation was rather general , but the exploration of the question of secular derivatives of religion was somewhat more specific . The participants from the Soviet Union were quite prominent in this discussion : they came , after all , from a country which has a religious tradition rich in ritual and litany . I was glad to see that the Eastern European states were depicted as resting on psychological forces somewhat more subliminal than the insight of their citizens into the high degree of political perfection they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were civic or state religions prevailing in Eastern Europe ( religions which used the Marxist rhetoric without having much connection with  | Marxism in its original form ) . I myself find the notion of Marxism as a substitute religion very debatable : Marx intended to end a transcendental form of human thought in favor of a humanism immanent in the world . I do think that the Communist sociologists of religion are beginning to approach the terrain on which this debate has been conducted elsewhere . They will have to cross it before they can find convincing answers . Finally , I was struck by the repeated references at the conference to secularization as a universal process in Western culture . Some of the participants shared that nostalgia for the religious past of mankind which is so curious a part of the current discussion of the death of God , among the religious and non-religious alike . I wonder whether this aspect of the exchanges at Prague may refer , if obliquely , to Marxism as much as to Christianity . In the Constantine epoch , Christianity became a fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualities as a result . In due course , the social order itself began to dispense with Christianity . What of a Constantine epoch in Marxism ? Having become a state doctrine , it has legitimated a system which seems no less problematical than those it has replaced ? and in which the universal reign of justice and fraternity , reason and human sovereignty , seems remote . These are familiar enough ideas outside Eastern Europe , and familiar enough experiences inside it . The persistence of religion must strike many Marxists as not unlike the persistence of Marxism : a stubborn perseverance of a belief in a better world , despite the experience of a worse one . This places the discussion of alienation at Prague in a somewhat different light . Talking about unfulfilled human needs under socialism , some of the participants may have been attempting to say that religion was but one historical solution to the absence of human fulfillment . Marxism may offer  | another ? but not in its present , its own Constantine form . A rediscovery of other elements and possibilities in Marxism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of the speakers , might offer an alternative to that official Marxism which has become a state doctrine . From a consideration of the fate of religion under state socialism , the Marxist sociologists at Prague were edged by the nature of the theme itself toward critical reflection on the fate of Marxism under their regimes . The process of reflection has begun , and although it is as yet tentative and usually covert , its continuation and enlargement is a certainty for the future .  | ern colleagues to open . The conversation started in a faltering and partial way , and the Soviet Russians , as distinct from some of their satellites , had no part in it . A generation of Stalinism had done its work : the Russians at Amsterdam could only be described , in one observer 's words , as Neanderthalers . But the Czechs , East Germans , and Poles were quite capable of talking to the rest of us , and were obviously delighted at the opportunity to do so . They belonged , culturally , to the West ? as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stalinism . Why did we fail to establish contact with the Russians ? Sociology as such is proscribed in the Soviet Union . The mixed bunch of official philosophers , philosopher-officials , economists , and publicists who came to the Congress had no acquaintance with the discipline . But they would have been equally lost in their own fields . Social science can develop on a Marxist basis and Marxists have done and are doing useful work in a number of countries , if generally not under Marxist dictatorships . The Russians have no social science , Marxist or otherwise . They have , instead , an ideology which they reiterate upon every occasion . The encounter with the Russians mostly took the form of collision . But the Czechs , East Germans , and Poles sought out the Westerners and ignored , almost ostentatiously , the Russians . And the whole process was both complicated and facilitated by the fact that some of the Western sociologists present , most notably a number of French and Italians , were themselves Communists , fellow-travelers , or left socialists . Also , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceedingly experienced in dialogues of all kinds with all camps . The lines were fluid , so fluid at times that many of the participants had to acknowledge , in one way or another , contradictions within their own camps and often found themselves more in agreement with their nominal opponents than with their allies .  | Whether polemic or sympathetic exchange , all this dialogue was highly stimulating . But it also carried a lesson . The Amsterdam meetings showed , in a way that the more abstract discussions of the Congress for Cultural Freedom can not , what the consequences are of political limitations on social inquiry . It dramatized the intellectual utility of freedom . But the meetings may also have shown that Western sociologists do not invariably make the best use of their freedom . ' I ' hey were divided , at Amsterdam as elsewhere , by a number of conflicts over approach and value . Such conflicts are not necessarily bad ; social science , in fact , may thrive on them . But they ought to be faced and explored , and many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We heard the usual arguments , of course , about the scope and methods of sociology . ( Henri Poincare , the mathematician and philosopher of science , once remarked that sociologists were always writing treatises on methods they were scrupulously careful never to apply . ) But the disputants , by and large , ignored a fact under their very eyes : the fact that a good many of the Westerners at Amsterdam were , as sociologists , relatively uninterested in the dialogue with the East and in the central political experience of our time . As citizens , of course , they were glad to listen . But as social scientists , they remained curiously uninvolved. ' ' hose in the West who took the initiative in the conversations with the East were , philosophically , highly assorted . There were Catholics , existentialists , liberals ; and in great numbers , Marxists , neo-Marxists , ex-Marxists . Politically , the divergences were fewer : the " democratic left " of a number of countries was much in evidence . And all those eager for conversation with the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begins , as paradoxical as it sounds , only in historical urgency and political commitment . Before you can describe history objectively , they held , you had to  | live in it . Many of their colleagues took the opposite view : that sociology was a science like any other , and that their own involvement in its subject matter was of small account . Perhaps my own sympathies mislead me , but I have the impression that the pallid papers at Amsterdam came from this latter group . Faced with the theme " Social Change in the loth Century , " they dropped an iron curtain of their own across their desks , and separated their political concerns from their scientific interests . Even the locale of the Congress had political implications for those who looked about them . Not only is Amsterdam a charming city : its history reminds us of the historical effectiveness of bourgeois democracy . The Netherlands today is a free society which has obtained a welfare state while learning to live amid considerable political and social tension . During the Congress , in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building in which the Congress met had its own historical associations ; now called the Royal Institute for the Tropics , it was still known to streetcar conductors and hotel porters as the " Colonial Institute . " The formal organization of the Congress was not entirely conducive to conversation , whether between East and West or anyone else . There were too many plenary sessions : a conversation among six hundred scholars is ? perhaps luckily ? impossible . And the smaller working groups into which the plenary sessions dissolved were often preempted by professors suffering from a common occupational ailment : an over estimation of the importance of their own words . But Dutch hospitality was immense and there was a large number of receptions . And the sidewalk cafes and Oriental restaurants in which Amsterdam abounds provided other opportunities for talk . And it was talk that interested most of the delegates . Unlike scholarly gatherings in the United States , European and international meetings are not academic track meets with  | jobs and research grants as the prizes . The hunt for prestige , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States are no less eager than their American colleagues for its tangible benefits . But academic entrepreneurship abroad is more subtly done , more disguised , while the younger men have little to occupy them beside their immediate tasks , since jobs and grants are so few anyhow . Talk , however , requires language . French and English were the official Congress languages , but German was more useful in dealing with most of the East Europeans . The worst linguists at the Congress were not the Americans , British , or French ( most of whom seemed to assume that God had spoken to Adam in their own tongue ) but the Russians . The old Russian intelligentsia was at home in French and German ; their Stalinist successors overworked their interpreters . Conversation began over the formal papers . These were uneven in quality and the arrangements for discussion were cumbersome , but they were the first things the delegates had to talk about . The papers covered an astonishing variety of topics . Opening my program at random , I found " Changes in Family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Class in the British Social Structure , " " Some Problems of Rural Collective Settlements in Indonesia . " Economic organization , the distribution of property , class structure , family systems , education , agricultural tenure ? these were the main themes on the program . Politics as such was surprisingly absent , despite the recent revival of interest in political sociology . But as we shall see , it intruded itself quickly enough . It was in the formal sessions that the delegates first encountered the Communists . The Russian contributions precluded real conversation . Propagandistic tracts , they were written in a tone defiant of contradiction or even question . We were told of the Soviet Union 's democratic electoral law , of wide  | popular participation in political decision , of the equality of individuals before Soviet law claims not requiring comment . The Soviet speakers referred rarely to problems in their own society , and then usually as " survivals " of the bourgeois era . They hardly cited statistics , and their discussions were so diffuse that they scarcely touched on those spheres in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like education and medicine . But the Soviet delegation did have some notion of the kind of questions that would really interest their Western colleagues : those dealing with a class system in the " classless " society . This is the kind of thing they prepared : " The equality of citizens , firmly established in the norms of socialist law , does not however mean equalization either of the amount of payment for work or in the fields of needs and everyday capacities , as sometimes ill-informed people imagine . Equality under socialism means equal relation of everyone to the means of production and equal duty on the part of everyone to work according to his or her abilities , and an equal right of all the working people to receive compensation in accordance with their labor . Such a proposition does not exclude any property differences among the citizens of the socialist state or considerable differences in the organization of everyday life and the character of the requirements that are to be met . These property differences result , however , not from the fact that the sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wholly from the fact that the compensation paid is fixed according to quantity and quality of work performed . It is individual work that is the source of income in every case . " It is , of course , nonsense to suppose that a member of the Soviet cabinet , making a decision about the economy , and an ordinary worker bound to do as told ? enjoy " equal relations to the means of production . " And if commissar and peasant both live by their work , and not off inherited capital ,  | what may we say of the different advantages they can bestow upon their children ? The statement quoted admits the existence of class differences in income and culture in all but name . But it ignores their implications . Yet the paper in which it was contained waE about the most honest of all the Soviet contributions , formal and informal , at Amsterdam . The Soviet delegates could not allow themselves to see their society as it was ? or at any rate they could not talk about their real perceptions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gaining information about their society : their statistics were minimal and fragmentary and they seemed to have done little empirical research . Soviet ideological fervor provoked some unfortunate reactions from the West . One American professor announced t hat his researches demonstrated that successful businessmen in America were self-made men , that the American myth of success was substantially correct . This did not attract quite the attention it deserved in view of the fact that everybody else 's researches showed quite the opposite . Another American declared that we no longer had a working class , only a " labor force . " This attempt to match Soviet skill in altering facts by renaming them was resisted by no less a figure than ' I'alcott Parsons of Harvard . The satellite delegates were much less bound by ideological straitjackets than the Russians . The Poles ' entire appearance foreshadowed , on an intellectual plane , the political explosion in Warsaw in October . They issued reports on research into the structure of their society ; they brought along non-Marxist professors , who quarreled publicly and privately with their colleagues ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland . The Czechs , who were not sociologists , collected bibliographies and books on recent inquiries into Western society . Their questions showed them to be well informed and critical . Even the then Hungarian Minister of ustice , Molnar , who was largely circumspect and silent ( and ,  | as if he anticipated the imminent revolution , depressed ) , said that he had come to renew contacts with " bourgeois science . " The East Germans insisted on their pleasure at being in Amsterdam . One of them said that , until recently , Karl Mannheim 's books had been verboten in his university . Mannheim was , of course , the most brilliant of Weimar Germany 's neo-Marxist sociologists . Any Marxist regime but a Stalinist one might have encouraged the study of his work . The informal contacts at the Congress were , therefore , most illuminating for the Westerners , and possibly for the Communists as well . The Russians were very sociable , an improvement on their reported behavior at congresses even two years ago , but it was difficult to exchange more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bewilderment at the frequent references to the " middle classes " in Western papers . " Why are n't the categories bourgeoisie ' and proletariat ' good enough ? " he asked . " Where do the middle classes ' come in ? " Others answered questions , not hostile or pointed but sheerly factual ones about Soviet society , in highly general , almost formula-like terms . They seemed on the defensive and ill at ease . The French sociologists , however , were reasonably satisfied after a private meeting with the Russians . But I gather that the French did most of the talking . The Poles , on the other hand , were remarkably frank . Even the Marxists among them ( and two of the professors present were members of the Central Committee of the United Workers party , the Polish version of the Communist party ) seemed to prefer associating with the Westerners rather than the Russians . And the non-Marxists made no secret of their differences with their colleagues : at a private meeting with an American-British group the Poles argued violently among themselves on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polish Communists , and not the least of them ,  | when asked to explain the difference between the behavior of his delegation and the immobility of the Russians , exclaimed : " It 's simple . They 've had thirty years of it and we only ten . " The Poles were anxious to import Western sociological research techniques ? the Marxists simply because of their value as techniques , and the non-Marxists because they see them as an opening for a more critical general sociology . One Marxist professor , who deplored " anecdotal empirical sociology , " hoped to combine the measurement of social phenomena with a " reformulated and completed " Marxist theory . The Poles planned to send students to America and Britain ( a number are already in France ) and they began arranging for academic visits to Poland by Western professors . It would be unfortunate if the only Western visitors they got were social research technicians . However skilled the technicians , they are unlikely to infuse Polish students and professors with a new vision of society to replace the Marxist one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satellites at Amsterdam precisely because they were so free of satellite intellectual characteristics . The Czechs and East Germans were as reasonable and receptive as the Poles in private , but they read no public papers . ( One Polish paper , by Professor Ossowski , was the initial sensation of the Congress . Its author , a non-Marxist , analyzed the class structure oI ' the present Communist societies in unadorned terms . ) The Bulgarians and Rumanians went around talking about peace and international cooperation . The vice president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences , who accompanied the Minister of justice , was sufficiently unimpressed by the official company he kept to explain that he was not personally a Marxist . Of all the Communist delegations , the Yugoslays were the freest . Unlike many of the Russians , all the Yugoslays were genuine scholars , at home in sociology even if primarily  | economists or lawyers . They were Marxists , but they put observed facts into the Marxist vocabulary rather than insisting on the vocabulary and ignoring the facts . And they seemed more varied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this impression is the result of a political judgment . They distinguished themselves in the two special sessions on Marxism and the interpretation of social change in the loth century , sessions that were , in many respects , the highlights of the Congress . These sessions developed because a group of younger French and Italian sociologists wanted to discuss Marxism with their colleagues in general , and with the East Europeans in particular . Their motives were political as well as intellectual . One of the Italians was a Communist ( although he publicly told a Russian that in his opinion Stalinism was the work of a social stratum and not of one man ) , and others were Nenni Socialists . The French intelligentsia , and not least the social scientists , are fascinated with Marxism ; this reflects their ambivalence toward the French Communist party . It also reflects the persistence of an indigenously French socialist tradition on which Marx himself drew . ( Many French intellectuals can simultaneously debate supporting the Communists and speculate as to how many days they personally could survive a Communist seizure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which held that Marxism was a set of hypotheses like any other , even if a remarkably useful one ; therefore , if the meeting were not to degenerate into scholasticism , it ought to provide opportunities for a critique of Marxism . This initial divergence of purpose led to some misunderstanding , but it also opened the way for a more stimulating and penetrating discussion than would have been possible had either group monopolized these sessions . The first meeting , lasting four hours in the most smoke- filled of rooms , was egalitarian , even comradely . Some twentyfive speakers took the floor , unannounced and largely unprepared , for five minutes each . There was confusion and repetition at first , though enlivened by pronounced national differences in rhetoric and style . The French made even the most banal of observations sound like something from Pascal . The Americans clothed logic in casualness . The Southern Kuropeans were uniformly intense . The Germans , although well represented , were surprisingly silent . Most of the speakers were Westerners , although three Yugoslays made a great impression . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of points . At the beginning it was a series of monologues . Later , however , the participants began to talk to each other . What did they say ? Marx had predicted that society would split into two completely antagonistic classes , that an impoverished and humiliated working class would unite to overthrow the exploiting class . But industrial society had developed a new middle class not identical with the exploiting one . The working class was itself internally differentiated and , in the advanced industrial countries , demonstrably richer . Extreme economic differences between the working and middle classes were now gone in these countries . In some , the workers had either become " bourgeois " or accepted bourgeois leadership . The revolution , in other words , had either failed to occur , or had taken forms not foreseen by Marx . Marx had , further , viewed political power as a simple function of economic power . The state , he claimed , was an executive committee for the bourgeoisie . Yet in our time the state had frequently altered the balance of economic power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Soviet Russia , the state itself had become a massive exploiting agency . Also , Marx had written of " alienation , " of men 's estrangement from the vital and healthy potentialities of their own nature . Alienation , Marx implied , would supply  | the psychological dynamic for the revolutionary overthrow of capitalist society . But alienation has , in our time , produced horrible political movements and not that brotherly commonwealth envisaged by the early socialists and ? despite his professed scientific amorality ? Marx himself . Finally , both Asiatic and Western speakers asserted that the problem of exploitation had shifted largely to the colonial sphere , where new forms of imperialism required new ways of analysis . These things were said in a Marxist temper , in the conviction that much in the Marxist method was still viable , and that even Marx 's mistakes had been fruitful . Even an anti-Marxist could agree with this last . But some critical voices were raised to ask why , if Marx had made so many concrete mistakes , it was still necessary to take him as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really attempted . There was , to be sure , some discussion as to whether Marxism as a method of sociological analysis necessarily entailed acceptance of dialectical materialism as a philosophy . There was also much talk about removing the mythological elements from Marxism . But unfortunately , no one could say why some intellectuals should have made a myth of what was something else in Marx 's hands . All of this was on a fairly general plane ? until more immediate problems made an insistent appearance . A Pole spoke of revising Marxist ? by which he meant Stalinist ? analyses of contemporary society . All that he could propose was that we should now attribute Nazism to the " petty bourgeoisie " rather than to the " monopoly capitalists . " He added that the Polish Communists were now willing to accept the " honorable capitulation " of the Polish " kulaks , " and sat down . ( The more " flexible " of the Polish Marxists had avoided these sessions , intimating that they did not want to come into direct conflict with the Russians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) The Yugoslays  | caused a stir by insisting that even nominally socialistic states could behave imperialistically toward other socialist states , and they argued that it was the task of Marxists to prevent the development of new forms of domination imposed in the name of socialism . Their references were clear ? yet the Russian speaker referred later to the " valuable " comments of the Yugoslays . An American , Professor S. M. Lipset , described Stalinism as simply a mode of enforced industrialization . Lipset recalled the controversy over industrialization in the Soviet Union in the 1920 'S and he cited the views of both Bukharin and Trotsky , important participants in that controversy . The Russian speaker later declared that his delegation " did not find it necessary " to enter into discussion with anyone who quoted Bukharin and Trotsky . Perhaps the Russian ? he was editor of the Soviet trade union newspaper Trud really believed that these two old Bolsheviks had been imperialist agents . His reaction was , in any case , a striking reminder of the survival of many of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the audience , involuntarily , by assuring them that he was pleased to see knowledge of Marxism growing outside the Communist countries ! He made a gesture , at least , towards real conversation with the West by declaring that there was much " merit " in a question by Professor Georges Friedmann , the distinguished French scholar who was elected President of the International Sociological Association . Friedmann had declared that workers in Russia did subordinate and laborious work , like workers everywhere ; did this not affect their attitudes even in a " socialist " society ? The Russian speaker , despite his cordiality , did not answer the question . The delegates left the session exhausted but satisfied . The Yugoslays were nearly everybody 's heroes . They seemed to be those Marxists without myth demanded by the speakers . And they talked the language of democratic and utopian  | socialism . Nobody mentioned Djilas and Dedijer , who had been persecuted for trying to persuade the Yugoslav Communist party to pursue those goals . In general , that evening , people spoke softly . A second meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Professor Raymond Aron of Paris , S. M. Lipset , the Hungarian Justice Minister , Molnar , and a Yugoslav law professor , Rudolph Legradic . Lipset made a reference to the view that industrial development might have taken place in Russia even if the Czarist regime had continued . This infuriated the Russian spokesman , who had returned for more , and he ignored Lipset 's real points . One of them , on the Stalinist bureaucracy , was made later by an Italian Communist and found at least nominal acceptance by the Russian . The Yugoslav had , indeed , opened the evening with a discourse on the dangers of bureaucracy and an astonishingly utopian demand for the elimination of the state . Aron began by remarking that a dialogue between East and West was desirable , and that it might be easier if the East were to stop jailing and executing opponents . He declared that Western Europe and America were now welfare societies and had surpassed Soviet Russia in providing for their members ? at infinitely less human and moral cost . The Russian , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wartime losses . The rest of Aron 's points escaped him . Molnar 's manner was singular . His very brief statement fell into two distinct parts . He began by saying that a superficial look at Communist countries might lead us to suppose that they were characterized by unequal control of the means of production , by a dictatorship not of but over the proletariat . That would be a mistake , he declared , and in the second half of his talk he told us that behind this deceptive and depressing mask lay the true and just face of social revolu- tion . Some people had the impression that he himself nevertheless inclined privately towards the first view . Or perhaps he was simply looking at things dialectically : he did tell Aron to read Hegel . Thus the second session on Marxism left the sphere of abstractions and dealt in hard and disputed realities . It was not alone ideas that were argued about , but the actual structure of human society . And the arguments were political , about the uses to which power was being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Congress program . In the last analysis , knowledge about society ? or the refusal of such knowledge ? is something we need in order to attain political aims . And , quite apart from our aims , politics is frequently a decisive category of change in social structure . What began , then , as detached intellectual analysis became a political controversy . And the sociologists , despite their theoretical structures and research techniques , found themselves arguing in the same terms as everybody else , even if they had an acuter sense of the social limitations on political decision . It is now , perhaps , a bit clearer why many Western sociologists retain an interest in Marxism despite Marx 's mistakes . For Marxism treats society in terms historical in conception and political in application . And it was a political contact with history that they were seeking , a search which led them into the dialogue with the East . The Amsterdam Congress , then , gave rise to a number of reflections ? many of them bearing on the political relevance of social science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our conversations with our Communist colleagues have now been overshadowed by the dramatic and moving events in Poland and Hungary ( and by the time this appears , perhaps elsewhere as well ) . We thought we were glimpsing a world in motion . Actually , it was a world about to explode . The mixed despair and hope with which  | our colleagues talked showed us that to them , de-Stalinization was a matter of spiritual life and death . The reactions of an official like Molnar , or of the restive delegates from countries not openly defiant of Stalinism ( the Czechs and East Germans ) , were as instructive ? in their own way ? as the outspokenness of a man like Professor Hochfeld of Warsaw , who came to Amsterdam in the midst of his parliamentary struggle for socialist democracy . Our experience at Amsterdam , and the things it foreshadowed , confirmed David Riesman 's criticism of the Orwellian exaggeration of the omnipotence of totalitarian rule . Through the blackest period of Stalinism many East European intellectuals , whether Marxist or not , persisted in thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , was disheartening . It is sobering to recall the Pole 's remark on the effects of thirty , as opposed to ten , years of Stalinism . The immediate evidence available to us at Amsterdam , of course , concerned the fate of social inquiry in the intermediate phase of de-Stalinization . Looking back , we can now see how the forces mobilized about this issue reflected underlying political conflicts . Social inquiry as such was rejected by Stalinism : had not Marx , Engels , Lenin , and Stalin discovered , once and for all , the laws governing social events ? As Stalinist controls loosened , the Communist policy-makers were either confused or at odds on allowing the resumption of social inquiry . Some may have thought that non-Marxist or critical Marxist sociologists could be allowed their say , in the expectation that they would gradually die out . But those we met at Amsterdam were busy reproducing themselves , intellectually , by writing and teaching . Then again , social inquiry may prove an indispensable instrument of government . Public opinion surveys and studies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be precisely what a Gomulka needs .  | A general turn from dogmatic rigidity in social and economic policy in some of the Soviet bloc countries , then , seems to be leading to a renewal of empirical inquiry . But empirical inquiry itself may encourage some Communists to look anew at their assumptions . A good deal of modern Western sociology originated in the effort to grasp the limits of Marxism . A similar large-scale effort in Eastern Europe is still in the future . But at Amsterdam we witnessed stirrings in this direction , and recent political events ( themselves partly the result of intellectual dissent ) may open new perspectives . The anxieties of the Stalinist die-hards are easy enough to understand . Once permitted in a limited way , inquiry of this sort can break all bounds . For the present , we can expect a pronounced increase in concrete research programs in Eastern Europe . The Poles began before Gomulka 's return , the Czechs and East Germans are in contact with the Poles , and the Yugoslav experience fits this pattern . ( One Yugoslav @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I told him that many of us in the West thought that some of our industrial research was ideologically biased . His answer was : " I know ideology when I see it : it 's the techniques and the facts I want . " ) The Easterners are turning to the West for scientific assistance and collaboration . What attitude ought Western social scientists , and intellectuals generally , adopt to these requests ? It is practically our duty , I think , to accede to them . Technical issues are hard to distinguish from substantive ones . We ought to be clear that such collaboration is a political act . But unless , in the face of all recent evidence , we cling to a demonological image of the Communist regimes , we can proceed with a good conscience . Communist opinion in East Europe is far from monolithic . The recent struggles in these countries began when the Communist intellectuals seized upon the Khrushchev speech to open an attack on  | totalitarianism on many fronts . Many of the people we help will have taken considerable risks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as far , are prepared to do so . Scholarly collaboration is , at once , the repayment of a debt of honor to those who have won their first battles and a gesture of encouragement to those who may tomorrow find themselves in desperate struggle . The most important thing we can do is simple enough . It is to keep talking , to keep open our lines of intellectual communication with the East . And conversation may affect those who listen to it as well as those who participate in it . It was noticeable at Amsterdam that the Western Communists seemed to feel themselves closer to their Western colleagues than to their Soviet comrades ? especially after the Soviet speeches . It would be futile , of course , to expect very much in the way of conversation from Stalin 's professors . The " thaw " in Russia has yet to melt any number of icebergs in the social sciences . But conversation with Stalin 's professors may be the price for the chance to talk to their students , who have noticed their teachers ' discomfiture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress from Moscow were a good deal more accessible than their middle-aged colleagues , and the rising generation ought to be more accessible still . ) And if a certain amount of tact is the price for talking with the Russians at all , then it may be well to consider paying it . " Tactlessness , " of course , may also bring gains and it may be a gain to upset a Soviet ideologue ? not least to the ideologue himself . Totalitarian societies repress their own social conflicts , or their leaders may invent pseudo-conflicts to avoid the real ones . In any case , no social science is possible . In free societies , the fact that conflicts are not forcibly repressed allows them to be expressed in social science itself . But the Western social  | scientist , in these conditions , may find it difficult to see things as they really are . He may mistake an issue involving the fundamental nature and freedom of social science for a professional difference over methods and approach . Both Eastern and Western sociologists agreed at Amsterdam that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim to have discovered them in Marxism . This claim , in Stalinist hands , became an ideological justification for exploitation and tyranny . The resistance of the Stalinists to empirical inquiry ( a resistance which would have been repugnant to Marx himself ) is of course due to their fear of disproof of their claim . Social inquiry , under Stalinism , was really something subversive . But what about Western claims ? Many Westerners at Amsterdam were themselves not free of ideology . It took the form of supposing that the laws governing social life lie very near the surface , just awaiting discovery . One more inquiry ( and one more grant ) and there they 'd be ? lacking only suitably simplified packaging for freshman courses . Part of this is simply a professional attitude : sociologists need to convince themselves , and university administrators , that they really are entirely distinct from economists , historians , political scientists , and , above philosophers . But something else was at work . The notion that we can begin our search for the laws of social life just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amsterdam Congress was only the latest . A sociology that proceeds from one randomly chosen inquiry to another may he fleeing social conflict . Our task is to see our society as a whole . Inquiries subversive in the East may in the West be simply evasive . Amsterdam , then , may have reminded some of the Westerners of the problem of significance in their work . It may have turned them away from excessive preoccupation with the model of the physical sciences . A nominally free social science that is unaware of its roots in conflict may  | remain chained . The very measure of the strength of social science may lie in the way it diagnoses specific social conflicts which are the essence of the society in which it functions . Our frank admission of uncertainty may be our strongest weapon in the attempt to enlarge the dialogue with those minds in the East now struggling for their freedom . Postscript . The tragic and brutal destruction of the Hungarian revolution by the Red Army demands a melancholy postscript . Professors and students alike were conspicuous in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army and the workers ' militia in the streets and , according to the last depairing broadcasts from Hungary , fought to the end . Public criticism of Stalinism in Rakosi 's Hungary began , we may recall , with pronouncements by the Budapest intellectuals . And the Academy of Sciences used Hungary 's few brief days of freedom to appeal to scholarly bodies elsewhere for aid . Molnar , meanwhile , has disappeared : he was a member neither of Nagy 's national front government nor of Kadar 's pro-Soviet regime .  | Discussions of sociology , although usually boring , provide an opportunity too good to be missed by inveterate academic polemicists , by specialists in Weltanschauungen ( their own Weltanschauungen ) and by " methodologists " afraid of reality . Sociology is vast and amorphous , disjointed and self-contradictory ; anything can be said about it . There is no intellectual foible it does not contain , no gaucherie of which some sociologist is incapable , no political ideology which some version of it can not defend . Sociologists range from educated and cultivated men to leaden-footed philistines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of man to fallen women . They thus provide any comer with particular excuses for venting general grudges . Sociology is the great intellectual grab-bag of our time : everybody , from the Provost of King 's to the Professor of Logic at the London School of Economics , can reach into it , certain to find precisely what he wants . Discussions of it , then , ought to be specific . Personally , I 'm more afraid of its friends , particularly its American friends , than its enemies . I first met its friends upon beginning research at Harvard . A New Yorker , I 'd read Marx at an age when most English schoolboys had yet to discover Tennyson . I supposed that sociology was about the struggle for power in societies , their division into social strata , the inter-play of material interests and spiritual values in social change . But my teachers were  | " building social science " by trivial studies whose very triviality allegedly attested their contribution to some gigantic ( future ) accumulation of knowledge , by devising systems of categories so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social life , and by developing a " methodology " ? in effect , the study of nothing in particular , designed to increase our means of understanding everything in general . These were sociology 's friends . They insisted that to doubt them was to join its enemies . I was bewildered , the more so since there were men of talent and conviction amongst them . I soon saw that they were obsessed . Like all obsessions , theirs was rationalized by an illusion ? that precision and technology exhaustively characterize a science . The illusion dies hard , but the mistake is not ignoble : a rigorously scientific conception of the world appears to promise intellectual liberation . It becomes pseudo-scientific , however , when it ignores the fatalities of the human sciences . There are , of course , other voices in American sociology . C. Wright Mills has studied the new middle classes and the power elite . David Riesman has noted changes in the American character . William H. Whyte has shown some of the debilities of large-scale corporate organization . Riesman is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and only Mills a " professional " sociologist , if one of whom his colleagues are remarkably disapproving . Mills does take risks . IIe does not produce papers like a recent disquisition on " Status After Death , " which showed that , other  | things being equal , rich men had costlier funerals than poor men . Mills 's generalizations may be false , but they are not cosmically irrelevant . Then there is a whole group of younger American sociologists ( most of them ex-Marxist ) who work on similar problems , if with different results . Recently , Pitirim Sorokin and Mills have each exploded intellectual land-mines under their colleagues ' chairs . In Sorokin 's Fads and Foibles in Modern Sociology ( 1956 ) and NIills 's The Sociological Imagination ( 1959 ) they have criticized their colleagues ' servile imitation of the ( mistmderstood ) methods of the natural sciences , the pretentious verbiage with which they advance banalities and tautologies , their failure to read anything written before 195o and not published in a sociological journal , and their want of any historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributes these aberrations to the bureaucratic structure of the American academy , and to the pressures of a society requiring human engineering but resistant to social criticism . These strictures have not been without effect on the educated public as a whole , and those criticized have begun a tacit abandonment of positions they were once committed to defend , down to their last research assistant . At some point in 1958 , The Times Literary Sltpplement appears to have discovered the discussion . In those terms of genteel and tired reproach it reserves for things it does not understand , The T L S has constructed an image of sociology derived exclusively from its lugubrious American professors . There is in Britain , however , a far more serious opposition to sociology , far less concerned with sociology 's manifest absurdities ( which serve it well for propaganda purposes ) but with the very real intellectual challenge it poses . If we are to understand this , we had best consider sociology 's recent history . Sociology has , in fact , many traditions . Such unity as it possesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both subject and object of ideological conflict , sociology has a peculiar liability . It usually deals with the core of a society 's institutions , the class structure ; its depiction of that structure and of the cultural and political conflicts endemic to it is invariably controversial . Sociologists themselves are never outside their societies , and affected as they are by their experience they can not approach even distant societies with complete detachment . Combined with the intrinsic difficulty of dealing with processes extended through time and society , this means that the sociologist can be objective only within limits . The limits are not fixed , and the border areas between fact and interpretation are unmarked and obscure ? an ambiguous balance sheet which has given rise to a large number of philosophic bad cheques . I am , of course , as aware of the difference between fact and value as any sixth-form reader of Language , Trzith and Logic . But the facts about the larger aspects of social life are not as clear-cut as those of biology or geology . Smaller , more accessible phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey techniques to ascertain recent shifts in political opinion ( if with rather less certainty than Mr. Henry Durant would have us believe ) . But we can not use the social survey to analyse those recent changes in the class structure which account for these shifts . Our interest in smaller phenomena , usually , is the light they throw on larger questions . In sociology , then , men shuttle back and forth between the particular and the general . They are men , not machines influenced by temperament , value , political preference and social milieu . No automatic formula can guarantee the validity of their perceptions , and their inferences and interpretations are subject at a hundred points to error . Sociology 's eighteenth-century origins , indeed , are to be found in the warfare of philosophy with religion . The social thinkers of the Enlightenment held that history , and human activity within it , was not God 's immutable work but the  | result of man 's faltering hand . The first great figures of sociology were avowedly philosophical and practical in intention . Comte @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective science of society and to realize one rather than ; mother set of values . Their legacies , somewhat truncated , still constitute the essential concerns of sociology : despite all differences amongst them , they agreed that sociology had to lay bare the inner structure of the new industrial society and to consider whether men could live in it without God . Contemporary quantative research gives effect to Comte 's prescription for a positivistic science of society ? devoid , however , of the moral certainty he expected to result from social inquiry . Spencer 's interest in non-Western society was the beginning of social anthropology and of the comparative study of social institutions generally , although we no longer seek the origins of free enterprise in the devolution of primitive mankind . Marx ? after a century of refutations ? is the one sociologist who can not be ignored . His notions on class conflict , on the process of change in society , on the conditions for the emergence of ideology and social awareness , his general and ill-specified view of " alienation " as the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These thinkers , in the inimitable invective of the currently dominant school in English philosophy , were muddled . They confused fact and value , rearranged data to suit their a priori conceptions , and in general showed themselves unworthy of pass degrees in the P P E School at Oxford . The world , however , is perverse . Their muddles were enormously fruitful , and had they lacked the courage of their speculations , they would long since have receded over the intellectual horizon . Much of modern sociology is the result of the decomposition of the unified systems constructed in the nineteenth century . Sociology since then made two sorts of mistake . Either it attempted synthesis where none was possible , or it  | stuck to facts when synthesis was required . Not intellectual error alone , but the larger social pressures affecting the field account for the fact that sociologists to-day speak in a babble of tongues . These pressures have often been conveyed through the continuities in a nation 's mode of thought , themes derived from its major conflicts of power . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a search for a counter-theory to Marxism . Weber 's work was a continuing dialogue with Marxism , and his views on the omnipresence of bureaucracy and the independent role of religion in history were attempted refutations of the Marxist theories of the state and of ideology . Durkheim 's interest in the integration of the individual to the group was a reflection of his effort to establish a Republican and secular morality , a counterweight at once to Marxism and the Catholic social theory of the French right . American sociology , by contrast , was mainly reformist . To recall Nietzsche 's aphorism about German philosophy , its father was a Protestant pastor . It was the product of the Social Gospel and the movement of middle-class social reform , whose protagonists were horrified by the immigrant slums and determined to ascertain the dimensions of the mess before cleaning it up . Sociology , then , lives in a plurality of value universes . Despite or because of its habitat , it has been an uncommonly productive discipline amongst the social sciences . Sociologists , under the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data . These concern the social strata and their organization ; the modes of recruitment into them ; the social elites ; the social setting of religion , art , and science ; the interaction of institutions in political conflict and in social change generally . The empirical findings of sociology are not controverted by the partisans of any number of differing ideologies . Interpretations , of course , vary . Where , in all of this , does British sociology stand ? Sociology  | is rather new in the universities , rather ancient in the nation 's intellectual life . Millar and Hume did sociological work . The tradition of " political arithmetic " is British ; the modern social survey began in eighteenth-century Scotland . The nineteenth-century movement of social reform entailed the careful accumulation of data by the early students of poverty and the working class . These were not subjects thought fit for University education . The young gentlemen of the ruling class , and those being trained to serve them in the Civil Service , were not expected to heed knowledge of this sort about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of antiquity , sufficed for apprentice rulers supposed to be sure of their heritage ; better that they studied the principles and techniques of rule ( with Plato ) than the society in which they enjoyed their advantages . The Fabians took the opposite view . The Webbs initiated and themselves executed an astonishingly comprehensive programme of social investigation . They did so without doing violence to the historical sense : a continuing component of the British sociological tradition ? one which distinguishes it from th , - . American one ? is its refusal to accept arbitrary distinctions about its subject matter , its insistence on analysing modern society in temporal depth . " IThe Webbs were associated with those enthusiastic and not unperceptive amateur sociologists , Shaw and Wells . At the London School of Economics , which they founded to provide an academic setting for the kinds of inquiry which the British academy had so far refused , they were succeeded by a distinguished group of scholars who worked sociologically , whatever their disciplines : Graham Wallas , Leonard Hobhouse , R. H. Tawney , Harold Laski , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these scholars made a consideration of social structure the centre point of his work ; each was interested in the control of social change . The intellectual descendants of the Webbs are still con- centrated at the L S E. The studies of the Welfare State by Titmuss and his associates have already destroyed one carefully propagated myth , that the middle classes somehow lose by it . The investigations directed by David Glass have shown how the nation 's Mites , by controlling the educational system and the professions , have retained their supremacy inside the social structure altered by the Welfare State . ( It is ironical that on the whole , the institution founded by the Webbs has abandoned its reformist past ; there are today several company directors on its teaching staff but no members of the National Executive Committee of the Labour Party . The L S E , of course , also houses Professor Popper , whose animadversions on sociology are read with the greatest attention by many British sociologists ; they fail to find much evidence that their philosophical colleague is acquainted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , seems to retain its early reformist bias . In the younger generation of university teachers , partly as a result of Mannheim 's influence , that bias has given way to a more sophisticated and modernized interest in Marxism . A good deal of sociology is done in this country under another name . Britain 's imperial position has stimulated an interest in variations among different types of society . From the elder Mill through the Indian Census , in the Royal Asiatic Society and the researches of the social anthropologists , British scholarship has accumulated an enormous amount of data on institutional variation . Resistances to the sociological study of British institutions appear not to have prevented the Colonial Social Science Research Council from sending teams of anthropologists into the field . Sociology does seem to be more acceptable in Britain if its objects are remote , or foreign , or dead . ( The Reverend Montgomery Watt , who lectures in Arabic at Edinburgh , has published an impressive analysis of the class basis of Muhamed 's proph- ecy ; none of his colleagues has performed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the newer universities , although not at all of them , and not yet at the older ones . The sources of resistance to sociology in British academic life are complex , and the reasons given by its enemies are often good ones rather than real ones . They point with horror to the American scene , of course , but they might equally well point with admiration to an elegant and flourishing school of sociology at the Sorbonne ; their selective perception requires investigation . Part of the resistance is , of course , due to the association of sociology with the British Left . But the Continental example , where theoretical sociology has largely been Conservative , suggests that the right is rather more anxious than it ought to be . The American example , further , suggests that a certain kind of sociology makes as ideal an instrument of administrative technology as certain kinds of economics . However , sociological generalization about contemporary Britain may well involve the projection of future trends , and perhaps this violates that " empiricism " by which a good many intelligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times exhausts reality . Part of the resistance , too , comes from a certain type of literary amateur , more honoured in Britain than elsewhere , who finds any hard intellectual work somehow in bad taste . Whatever the reason , thinking about the whole of British society and its conflicts , as well as the identification of material or spiritual poverty within it , seems difficult for influential sections of the British intelligentsia ? perhaps most difficult for those who identify themselves most closely with the present distribution of power and advantage in British society . Within the universities , resistance to sociology seems strongest in the three disciplines to which it is most allied :  | history , philosophy and politics . It would be vulgar to suggest that resistance is due to the fear of losing students , but it would be sociologically unrealistic to ignore this ignoble motive entirely . History is the simplest case . The revulsion against sociology amongst certain historians is a continuation of history 's own internecine warfare . There are many historians who regard statements more venturesome than the assertion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerously speculative . What they fear from sociology is what they fear in history itself : the intrusion of general ideas . The controversy on the rise of the Gentry shows that sociological ideas , derived from Marx and Weber , have already entered historical studies . Professor Trevor-Roper and his Marxist opponents are at one on this , that history without sociology is blind . The case of the philosophers is more difficult . In these pages recently , one of Mr Ernest Gellner 's critics dismissed as " gossip " his sociological analysis of Oxford philosophy . The critic is not well informed as to the history of his own field ; unless we are to accept that Hobbes and Hegel were nothing but gossipmongers , we must admit that a search for the social psychological origins of belief has been a traditional part of philosophy . Indeed , as philosophy has become detached from the social sciences it has been in some danger of losing philosophical relevance . What is the use , in the era of thermonuclear weapons , of the kind of moral philosophy that still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that as it may , those who hold that philosophy is now a special technical discipline amongst other disciplines ought not , on the face of it , to be disturbed by sociology 's claims . Those who hold that philosophy is sonic kind of synthetic science , however , might for their part welcome sociology in order to have yet more to synthesise . Philosophers , however , exhibit no very reasoned attitudes on these points ; perhaps one of them can tell us why .  | Resistance to sociology amongst teachers of politics is rather more interesting . Politics as a field is in itself seriously divided , between the study of political institutions and political philosophy . Its amorphousness , and many of its uncertainties in relation to history , are not dissimilar to problems encountered within sociology . Politics , too , is a parvenu discipline ; newcomers to the academic hierarchy may feel especially obliged to defend its present arrangements . More important , sociology by its very existence seems to imply that the criteria by which many students of politics define their problems are simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value . The separation of politics from sociology constitutes an answer to sociological questions : it declares them a priori irrelevant . In fact , many teachers of politics do think that they have a good deal to learn from the sociological study of public opinion , of bureaucracy and of class structure . These resistances will no doubt be overcome in time , although not entirely by argument . Britain 's decline as a world bower , and the changes now taking place within British society , may make sociology appear more attractive as a university subject ; they also make sociology more disturbing . Those outside the universities would find it difficult to comprehend the dogmatism , rigidity , and sloth with which universities generally meet proposals for major alterations in the curriculum . For the moment , there are more teaching posts in philosophy at Oxford than there are teaching posts in sociology in the entire United Kingdom . ( This last number is also exceeded by the number of research posts in sociology in Paris . ) The absence of sociology at Oxford and Cambridge has inhibited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole . ( In so far as sociology has been excluded from the older universities on account of the political tradition associated with it , the exclusion has served to keep sociology left ,  | by maintaining unchanged the class composition of . its recruitment . ) Cambridge , however , is now about to begin undergraduate sociology teaching on a considerable scale . At my own university , Oxford , many students and no small number of dons , manifest an intelligent and critical curiosity about the field . But I should not want to be in the unhappy position of denying a self-evident proposition : Oxford has attained such a state of academic perfection that changes would be superfluous . Should there be some expansion of sociology in the British universities , the field may find itself endangered by certain of its British friends . The social anthropologists , whose usual objects of inquiry are dissolving under their very eyes , are beginning to study industrial societies . But the techniques applicable to primitive village communities have only limited value when transferred elsewhere . Then , too , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canons of practicality are absurdly narrow . To understand contemporary society is not easy , and sometimes the long way around may prove the surest . In any case , it is a service neither to sociology nor to the left to make of sociology in Britain simply an instrument for measuring defects in the supply of social services . The important point is to see that sociology is neither monolith , machine , nor party . In the last analysis , the success or failure of sociological work depends upon the intelligence , education , and sensitivity of the individual scholar . Not the least of the tasks incumbent upon him is an acknowledgement of the ambiguities and uncertainties of his own field . It would be pleasant to hope that such an acknowledgement would be met , by those who conceive of themselves as sociology 's opponents , with a willingness to re-examine received assumptions . But there are good sociological reasons why the hope is not likely to be fulfilled . The arguments for sociology are practical , not theoretical . Since Marx , a socio- logical mode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the question of whether it belongs there is academic in the pejorative sense . The study of literature and reflections on the wider questions of contemporary culture are equally influenced by consideration of the social context of spiritual effort ; Eliot , Hoggart , and Williams agree on that . Among the claims that can be made for sociology as an academic discipline is that it does what no one else can or will do . For the study of class structure , of the distribution of power and cultural values in contemporary Britain , this claim can most certainly be made for British sociology . Yet another claim is that sociology does what others do , not better , but in a manner that is interestingly different . This claim could be made with respect to the comparative study of institutions , although just on whom the burden should fall is not a serious question . Sociologists , at their best , insist on a sense of the interconnectedness of the whole ; they may help others from isolating and therefore falsifying their reading of its parts . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paradox : ideological interests produce the most objective sort of sociology , provided that the sociologist is reasonably self-conscious about his ideology . The tension between ideology and science , t ben , remains sociology 's fatal and recurrent crux ; the effort to overcome it is the source of such intellectual and spiritual dignity as it possesses .  | Discussions of the sociology of current social research usually begin with an antithesis . Research , in the form of empirical social inquiry ( surveys , interviews , questionnaires , direct observation , and statistical or quantitative analysis ) has been opposed to theory . The latter , it is argued , is the philosophically privileged form of social discourse . It is holistic ,  | in that it deals with the social totality . It entails a view of society 's inner movement and of its larger contours , of the inter-relations of its parts , of the co-ordination ? either willed ur unintended ? of its activities . Theory , on this view , may have a critical purpose : to illuminate the present social order ( or disorder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may therefore serve as the indispensable spiritual pre-condition for reform or even revolution . Equally , theory may have a conservative tendency : to show that what exists can take no other form , that in the worst of all possible worlds , man 's social institutions are the best his collective traditions and the capacities of present generations will provide . Critical or conservative , theory in these antithetical terms serves as a supreme mode of historical consciousness : it reproduces , symbolically , our collective and historical condition . Social research , or more precisely empirical social research , is in the framework of this antithesis incapable of apprehending the social totality . It can deal with partial sectors of social reality , with concrete motivations , with single situations , unique or otherwise . By its very nature , it must ignore the whole : it is technically confined to its parts , and can not by any means within the repertory of research technique itself ascend to the whole . It may , indeed , have a baleful effect on the making of social theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality . A notion of social totality constructed exclusively with the aid of the findings of empirical social research must eventuate in systematic distortion : the essence of totality , of the inter-connectedness of society , can not enter into its empirical basis . Worse yet , by drawing generalizations from the surface appearances of present-day social phenomena , it can give rise to historical fore-shortening in our depiction of society . We can be led to suppose that social phenomena are related , invariably , as they are at prescut . This , in turn , can entail a compelling conservative bias :  | the present structure of society may appear to exhaust all historical possibility . The antithesis I have sketched is common enough in discussions of our discipline . It is admittedly dramatic , but it has the virtue of providing a convenient and lucid model to which the disparate varieties of theory construction and empirical research in contemporary sociology may be fitted . It does , however , have one major drawback . It is false . The relationships between theory and empirical research , between critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empirical inquiry , are far more complicated ? so much more so , that convenient antitheses do in the end obscure far more than they illuminate . A consideration of the intellectual structure of the problem will clarify the sociological analysis of the process of empirical research as in itself an aspect of social activity . If in practice the two , intellectual structure and social activity , are inseparable we can only understand their conjoint appearance by first separating their components . Another commonplace must engage us . Empirical research has , it is said , a dynamic function with respect to theory , verifying or falsifying hypotheses , breaking the ground for new theoretic constructions . This view in contemporary sociology itself is most prominently associated with the name of Robert Merton , although in fact it derives directly from the tradition of positivism , from August Comte and John Stuart Mill ( both of whom presented the view with far more elegance and persuasiveness than most of their twentiethcentury epigones . ) Suppose , however , that theoretical ideas enter into the very definition and circumscription of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human beings as seeking a maximization of pleasure or profit , as requiring social legitimation for their conduct , as bound to the good or conventional opinions of their immediate associates and peers , enter into the very categories with which  | we seek to interpret ? for instance ? the results of a survey of opinion . Indeed , the very idea of public opinion presupposes a social order in which opinion has an effective function , an attained level of practical democratization which is historically rare . It may also , of course , ignore the extent to which opinion is manipulated and prefabricated . Briefly put , we may say that social theory and empirical research are dialectically inter-related , the categories of the one infusing the other , the findings of empirical inquiry presupposing and even pre-forming theory . On this view , an image of the social totality is given in the analysis of even its parts , and our ideas of totality shape the empirical inquiries we undertake . Schetuatic conceptions of a correction of theory by research , then , arc insufficient because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sociological function of contemporary social research ? Let us begin by considering the origins of empirical social inquiry in the nineteenth century . The founders of sociology ( the Scottish historians like Millar and Ferguson , the French encyclopedists , the German historicists from I lerder and Hegel to Marx and von Stein , Saint-Simon and his disciple Comte ) had quite varied relationships to the formal organizations chartered by their societies to perpetuMe and cultivate knowledge : academies and learned societies and universities . All , however , worked in a way which expressed their closeness or identification with the classical tradition in philosophy . For these early sociological thinkers , whatever formal prescriptions they might have issued for empirical inquiry , sociology was quite unequivocally a philosophical enterprise , a matter of reflection which could and  | did employ historical findings but which did not necessarily require special techniques for the apprehension of contemporary social realities . In general , those methods of observation we today identify as distinctively sociological developed in a considerable degree of isolation from the development of sociological thought itself . Moreover , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical requirements of governments and voluntary associations for valid knowledge of immediate social circumstances . Their origins in earlier times remount to Sir William Petty 's Political Arithmetick in the seventeenth century , their close connection with the German school of Kameralwissenscha f t has been remarked . Their scientific form was given by the rise of statistical reasoning , their political content was determined by the imperatives which motivated governments and political groupings to examine at first hand the unprecedented conditions of a society which was undergoing urbanization and industrialization . The entry of these methods into the universities followed and did not precede the recognition of their administrative and political indispensability for those seeking to exercise some control over the new industrial society . Consider the  | origins of academic sociology itself . In America , this grew out of the Social Science Association , founded in the midnineteenth century to deal with the problems of immigration , urbanization , and industrialization . The famed Chicago School of Sociology , which at the beginning of our century and for four decades thereafter dominated American sociology , was characterized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the educated middle class ? horrified at corporate capitalism but afraid of proletarian socialism . The Chicago School had close connections di Social Protestantism , precisely as did in Germany the Verein fur Sozialpolitik . Max Weber 's own initial empirical inquiries were conducted under the auspices of this body of higher civil servants , professors , and churchmen ( " die Kathedersozialisten " ) and were addressed to pressing German sociopolitical problems , like the condition of the agricultural labor force in the east . The prestige of the Verein , the sense of the social utility of its undertakings , transferred itself subsequently to the German Sociological Association ( Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Soziologie ) and contributed to the legitimation of sociology in the German universities . It has been anmed that Weber became disenchanted with the Verein fuer Sozialpolitik as a vehicle for large-scale sociological inquiry turned , instead , to the German Sociological Association , of which he was one of the founders , and whose initial program made provision for the conducting of social research by the Association itself . A political motivation for the pursuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those engaged in inquiry . Indeed , those actively pursuing social inquiry may subjectively believe themselves to be responding to a disinterested curiosity , when in fact political factors in the environment may well have induced them to define their object of inquiry in one  | clearly ( cf. " Wissenschaft als Beruf " and " Die Oblektivitaet Sozialwissenschaftlicher and Sozialpolitischer Erkenntnis " ) , although some who have subsequently pronounced themselves Weberians have not . In any event , it would be a mistake to say that the shift in the locus of German sociology , from the Verein fur Sozialpolitik to the German Sociological Association , entailed its radical de-politicization . In England , the Fabians could find a home in the universities for the newer techniques of social inquiry only by founding their own academic institution at the turn of this century , the London School of Economics and Political Science . In France , Durkheim and his school were the first university sociologists , bringing to the academic study of moral and social problems the methods employed decades previously outside the French universities by social statisticians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone to fouled an incontestable science of society but to employ its methods in the defense of the moral patrimony and moral integration of the Third Republic . In each of these cases ? Max Weber 's strictures on the ethical neutrality of the procedures of the social sciences to the contrary notwithstanding the fusion of the tradition of philosophical reflection in theoretic sociology with the techniques of empirical research had definite political ends . Generally , the collection of empirical social data at the beginning of our century served reformist political purposes . Empirical sociology , then , entered the universities simultaneously with theoretical sociology , in response to the educated middle classes ' demand for orientation in a society become ever more bureaucratic and complex .  | We confront a paradox . In the course of the twentieth century , a sociology whose very empirical components were intended to contribute to strengthening the role of an enlightened public in the control of social affairs was turned to quite antithetical goals . The reformist phase of sociology lasted for a generation , more or less ( until 1933 in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Thereafter , empirical sociology became increasingly an ancillary technique of bureaucratic domination . How may we explain this singular transformation ? Again , we must have recourse to the inner structure of sociological thought , as it developed in a setting new to it at the beginning of our century , the universities . The simple fact of its reception in the universities did not at once alter sociology . The conception of theoretic discourse closely tied to empirical research , and in turn united with political ends , was not specific to the universities . We may recall that in 188o Marx himself devised an " enquete otivriere , " a questionnaire for administration to the French working class . LePlay had concretized and deepened his conceptions of the nature of industrial society by his studies of familial budgets . The universities , however , did seem to offer a highly suitable setting for the development of an empirical sociology in a very positive relationship to theory and larger social purpose . Did not the universities ' traditions of scientific activity allow the optimal pursuit of sociological insight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the very principle of scientific specialization , encourage the development of specifically and rigorously sociological methods ? Finally , did not the traditions of academic freedom allow the individual scholar to follow the dictates of his political and moral conscience in his work , without having to worry about harrow and immediate political constraints ?  | At first , to be sure , the development of an empirical sociology seemed to confirm these early promises . A number of general ideas were pursued into hitherto hidden recesses of social reality . Consider the utilization by empirical sociology of the distinction between " Gemeinschaft " and " Gesellschaft " by Tonnies . In America , Cooley extracted from Tonnies ' dichotomy the distinction between the intimate and solidary relationships of the primary group and the impersonal and distant relationships of the secondary group . An entire range of sociological and social psychological inquiry was fructified by these notions . In due course , the empirical results of these inquiries came to exert an influence on a new phase of social theory . George Herbert Mead 's views of the social self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impulsions transmitted to empirical research by Tunnies , but they also reflected the correctives administered to the original ideas by the process of inquiry itself . Similarly , in the area of industrial sociology , critical notions extracted from the Marxist tradition produced an entire literature on work . The Paris manuscripts of Marx were not published until 1982 , and their utilization in empirical inquiry had to wait some fifteen years after that : the researches of Friedmann , Naville ; and Touraine in France , of Bahrdt , Lutz , Pirker , and Popitz in Germany , of Ferrarotti and Pizzorno in Italy , and Mills in the United States testified to the creative energies this publication unloosed in the study of industrial and office work , of manual and white-collar workers . But , previously DeMan , Dreyfus , and Lederer had in the 1920s and early 1930s depicted the workings of the new production system , the differentials between types of work , in empirical terms which took the Marxist theories as points of critical departure . A new idea of the role of new middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy of the population of industrial society , was the result . In both instances , an admirable union ? or more precisely ,  | a contrapuntal relationship ? between theory and empirical research followed from the academic pursuit of political interests . The notions of the destruction of community in industrial society , of the alienation of the worker in the process of machine production , of the rise of a new intermediate stratum with an indeterminate political potential , inspired an entire program of empirical research . If sociology , however , had these high points , it also had some rather pronounced low ones . With the assimilation of empirical research to academic sociology , the university 's criteria for academic " neutrality " began to exert a profound influence upon sociology . The effectiveness of this influence depended upon three prior factors . ( 1 ) The enormous prestige of the physical sciences convinced an increasing number of academic sociologists in the mid-twentieth century that the fate of their discipline , uncertain of its intellectual and academic status , resided in a close imitation of the natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict in capitalist society frightened many scholars and discouraged them from taking anything other than a superficial and conventional set of political options . Their sociology , therefore , was increasingly emptied of political relevance ? and , as a result , increasingly remote from the inner conflicts of their societies . ( 3 ) These two tendencies in t urn gave rise to a third : the techniques of empirical research became detached from their original theoretic and political uses , and took on a life of their own ? real or alleged . It was , in other words , not the use of empirical research technique which encouraged a view of society separated from a view of the movement of the whole . It was , rather , the use of empirical research technique in isolation from the imperatives of theoretic clarification which accounted for the autonomy and mechanization of technique . In these circumstances , the process of reflection escaped the conscious control of the sociologist . The categories of empirical research were  | dictated , not by thought , but by the object ( a transitory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total reliance on technique as a means of apprehending reality ) . Little wonder , then , that the object of inquiry was in itself transformed . Once the inner movement of society , the structure of its conflicts , the contours and mechanisms of its organization , the object of sociological inquiry now became the most visible and superficial aspects of the society 's functioning . Quite unnecessarily narrow , the limits to empirical technique set the limits of sociological inquiry ; thought itself has disappeared from a certain kind of sociology . The institutional consequences are of two kinds . For the past twenty-five years ( roughly , since the end of the Second World War ) there has been an enormous increase in the employment of empirical research technique by sociologists either working directly for or on behalf of governmental agencies , industry , the mass media , the political parties , and a great variety of interest groups . These sponsors of sociological research are , clearly , not interested in knowledge or orientation in an abstract sense ; they seek to manipulate , to control , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section that the governments and ruling parties of the state socialist countries ( including the Soviet Union ' and the DDR ) look with favor upon the introduction of empirical social research , but are conspicuously unenthusiastic about precisely those aspects of modern sociological thought ( e.g. the schools of Frankfurt and the work of the Parisians like Gurvitch and Lefebvre ) which can legitimately claim descent from Marxism . The enlargement of the market for sociological research projects and a large number of extra-academic posts for sociologists has also had institutional consequences for the universities . Many teachers of sociology spend most of their time conducting inquiries for one or another agency external to the university . Inevitably , their assistants and students are drawn in . Even where this is not the case , research originated in the universities has come to resemble in method , technique , and aim the sorts of inquiry sponsored by clients external to it . The pronounced separation of sociology from philosophy , a recent development in France and Germany , has been mistakenly attributed by some to an imitation of the philistinism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case ; it is an expression of tendencies immanent in a certain conception of the division of intellectual labor , in the environment of the European universities themselves . The chief result , then , of the recent insti- tutional changes in the setting of sociological inquiry has been intellectual . Technique has dictated a view of human behavior which eternalizes the present constraints to which men are subject . It has also led to intellectual absurdities . Some sociologists have made preposterously exaggerated claims for their discipline ? as if they were in possession of a. sociological equivalent of Laplace 's celebrated , if hypothetical , formula for the world . A particularly flagrant example may be found in the notorious Project Camelot of 1964 . ' This project , briefly , entailed an investigation sponsored by the United States Department of Defense to study a number of countries to establish their potentials for what was euphemistically termed " internal war " ? in other words , social revolution . By expending six or seven million dollars on sociological research , the United States military authorities hoped to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , defeating social revolution . The project had a premature end when Latin Americans protested at the inclusion of their countries in this scientific enterprise . American generals and politicians were persuaded that sociology could in fact perform miracles for them . Mathematical analysis , computers , systems analysis ? a term which upon examination is devoid of intellectual content ? were to be employed . The total absence of any but the most primitive , repressive , and banal socio-political conceptions in the pro- grain for Project Camelot did not disturb its sponsors . It did show , however , what intellectual degradation can follow from the total technicization of sociology ? at a moment in its development when technique and thought have simply separated . Yet , technique is indispensable to scientific activity . Has any attempt been made to fuse in a new synthesis what has been rent asunder ? Here and there , we do find evidence for an effort to re-think the relationship between empirical technique and theory . The utilization of psychoanalytic schema for the interpretation of interview data entails the introduction of a less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From this perspective , the ambivalence of the individual respondent may be used to establish the dissonances and conflicts induced in his life by society . A less mechanical and more complex sociology may emerge from these efforts . Further , the introduction of a temporal dimension in the collection of certain data may enable sociologists to make more specific the impingement of historical change upon the processes they study . Indeed , in some countries ( France , Britain , and the United States are here in the vanguard and Germany rather far behind ) we begin to see the enicrgence of a new group of social historians and historical sociologists , united in a certain critical sophistication with respect to the operations of data collection . Finally ? particularly evident in the United States rather recently and in France empirical inquiries have been undertaken with political purposes which directly and consciously influence the use of empirical technique . Those criticizing the bureaucratic and authoritarian administration of the American welfare state , for instance , have been impelled to develop programs of " action-research . " In effect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests for new views of social possibility . It will be seen that the conventional notion of the sociological recording of process in a fixed social reality is incompatible with experiments of this kind . However great the danger they entail of manipulation of others , they also contain the potential for a new approach to the very conceptual content of the discipline . A summary and a conclusion are in order . Empirical research entered the universities with the academicization of sociology . It became a legitimate ( that is to say , effective ) instrument of deepening and changing theoretic views of social  | reality . Disengaged from these views , separated from any larger social or political purposes , empirical research was taken up by a great many agencies interested in manipulating the world and those who live in it . An entire climate was created in the universities themselves in which sociology as a discipline became identical , in practice , with these techniques . An impoverishment and indeed a falsification of Sociological thought resulted from this institutional process . "  | Certain recent experiments with technique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the techniques need not lead to manipulation or intellectual fraudulence . At the moment , it is true , sociology presents the appearance of chaos , an intellectual tower of Babel . It is noteworthy in this connection that at Berkeley , Berlin , Beograd , Nanterre , and Warsaw the students of sociology have been in the vanguard of the student revolt.12 The refusal by the students of a technicized discipline which put its technique only at the service of the bureaucratic forces directing their lives is an expression of a valid criticism of the discipline . The criticism is , at once , intellectual , moral , and political . It points the way ,  | therefore , to a re-consideration and a re-vivification of the use of empirical technique in sociology . It does so by raising the possibility of new institutional settings for a discipline recently constricted by the circumstances in which it has been practiced.  | A southern sea resort , set in olive groves , would normally constitute an attractive setting for a scholarly conference . The resort in question is Varna , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighth post-war World Congress of Sociology . To the charms of nature were added the attractions of Bulgaria 's condition as a " developing " nation , and the prospect of the first major and public encounter between " bourgeois " sociology and its orthodox Marxist counterpart on the soil of a state socialist society . The whole seemed to promise , at once , esoteric decor and a genuine historical experiment . The result , however , was a mitigated disaster . Both the disaster and its ( slight ) mitigation merit attention , but had best be understood in the context of the course of sociology since 1945 . The vertiginous post-war expansion of sociology as an academic field ( I hesitate to use the term " discipline , " for good philosophical cause ) is reflected in the attendance figures for successive international gatherings . The first one I at- tended , at Liege in 1953 , had some Soo participants . At Amsterdam in 1956 there were already about 500 sociologists , awl at Stresa in 1959 there were over a thousand . At Washington in 1962 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Evian conference was held in 1966 there were over 2000 present . The throng at Varna numbered 4000 ? even if the Bulgarians threw in by official count 501 persons , many of them farcically unqualified . The quantitative growth of sociology in the United States and western Europe over the past twenty-five years had similar sources . Initially , the catastrophes of fascism and war and the problems of reconstruction gave rise to a general political introspection . The constriction Of post-war western politics , the consolidation of a consensus about a restored capitalist productive machinery , turned introspection into its antithesis . Instead of asking how society could be made whole and rational , sociologists portrayed its fragmentation and senselessness as inevitable . Those who sought something else were dismissed as " utopians " by those who fancied themselves in possession ( or about to come into it ) of immutable laws of behavior , of higher and systematic Hisight into the necessary and beneficial constraints of social structures . Rapidly emptied of critical ideas , sociology soon last any intellectual content at all : it became a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful , not least to those in command of the corporate and governmental bureaucracies which set such narrow limits on our political choices . Sociologists became minor ancillaries of the administrative technologists : they presented their instruments of inquiry as aspects of a pure science , if a nascent one , but their work served purposes profane or worse . Not all of sociology , to be sure , was self-consciously technical . Serious efforts were made in the United States to develop abstract criteria for sociological analysis and general models of society . These , too , were subject to political assumptions . The abstract criteria often dealt with social  | constraints as " functions , " as mechanical necessities imposed on men and not as historical precipitates of social existence which could be criticized and changed . The models frequently presupposed a social consensus which , in fact , they contributed to bringing about . In Europe , a serious and desperate search to derive contemporary relevance from the Marxist tradition began as soon as it was clear that the antifascist resistance had not been the prelude to socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working class to assume a revolutionary mission led to studies of new forms of psychic coercion . The process of alienation , briefly , was now seen not alone in the fragmentation of man , citizen and producer , but in the willed servitude of a new generation of consumers . Meanwhile , phenomenologists looked beyond politics for a human essence . They sometimes found it , not alone beyond politics but beyond community , and so reduced social existence to a gigantic charade . Western sociology in its multiplicity had a saving philosophical virtue . Political ideas might infuse sociological notions , but they did so in mediated fashion . The sociologists could and did argue about their assumptions , but they also argued about the social world . Ultimately , what has diminished the appeal of doctrines of consensus and function is the historical evidence that consensus no longer exists , that institutions no longer work . The state socialist regimes have allowed , by and large , no such public corrections of social thought . A flourishing preBolshevik Russian sociological tradition was eradicated . As Stalinism replaced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dogmatized and impoverished " Marxism-Leninism " was all that could be heard in the Soviet Union . The promulgation of " laws " of social development of an entirely invented kind had one clear aim : the point was neither to understand the world , nor to change it , but to justify it . The implantation of Stalinism in eastern Europe  | by the Red Army resulted in similar , if more compressed , consequences in countries like Poland , Czechoslovakia , and Huugary . Only in Yugoslavia did , a sociology autonomous of state and party control emerge . Marxist and critical , theoretic in substance but empirical in focus , Yugoslav sociology had to defend itself against inane denigration in the east , and incomprehension in the west . The decomposition of Stalinism and the growth of productive capacity in the state socialist regimes have altered the situation . In Poland and Czechoslovakia , a suppressed sociological tradition often Social Democratic in inspiration was reborn . In Hungary , while the aging Lukacs labors away at his treatises , his younger disciples do empirical sociology . The cross-currents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to become a sloganized exegesis on party programs , but the intellectual territory liberated by the sociologists has not all been lost . The resilience and honesty of sociology in eastern Europe owes much , alas , to the Communist technocrats ' need for reliable information as a mode of extending and consolidating their rule . The increasing complexity of problems of administration , distribution , and political manipulation in societies now entering the advanced stages of industrialization , requirements for reliable data on consumer preference , educational choice , occupational discipline , and political opinion , leave the technocrats little choice but to encourage a certain kind of sociology . Once housed in Moscow only in the Institute of Philosophy of the Academy of Sciences ( an Institute not so long ago notorious among the learned in the Soviet Union as an assemblage of ideological hacks ) , sociology now has found other quarters . Moscow now also has an Institute of Concrete Social Research . In Akadamsgorod near Novosibirsk computerized and mathematical models of behavior are advanced with an ardor we experienced in this country two decades ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger with  | it : suppose the sociologists do not confine themselves to the execution of technocratic directives for data collection but begin , instead , to think critically about society ? This has happened in Czechoslovakia , Hungary , and Poland , and is a constant internal threat to the Soviet Union 's intellectual controllers . The Varna Congress , indeed , was a gigantic mechanism of defense against this possibility . The first line of defense was left to the Bulgarians . Their organization of the Congress , if it can be dignified by that word , did not seem to have been planned in Moscow ( many Soviet colleagues were revulsed by the local arrangements ) . Among the most retrograde of regimes in Eastern Europe , the Bulgarians probably acted instinctively . The impression of openness had to be given , but the effects of genuine openness had to be minimized , since they could not be entirely eliminated . Masterful only in their disorganization , lack of coherence , and inability to deal with simple matters , our Bulgarian hosts may combined talents of early Koestler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was hardly worth the art of a Victor Serge . ) The participants from eastern Europe were , largely , lodged in hotels ten kilometers distant from the resort town of Gold Strand , where the rest of us were housed . There was no list of participants with their local addresses , although there was under the counter of a Balkan tourist desk a preliminary list of bookings arranged by hotels ? an inaccurate one . Only one hotel had telephones in its rooms , and in any event , receptionists and clerks at the other hotels were usually unable to find the names of their guests on their registers . A bus service did shuttle back and forth between Gold Strand and the Congress meeting sites at the Palace of Culture and Sport and the university in Varna . The eastern Europeans , however , had buses only at the beginning of sessions and meal times . It was not easy for them to get to  | Gold Strand for those extracurricular talks which , frequently , coiistitute the life of a scholarly congress . The participants had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship their papers in advance to the Bulgarian organizing committee . Those who did quite often never saw their papers again . Some never arrived , others were given out it random , so that none were left for the sessions for which they were intended , and still others were strewn about in such disorder that hours of searching by their authors were required to extricate them from the pile . Four out of every live summaries in the printed volume of abstracts were by authors from eastern Europe . The daily Congress Bulletin , issued in Bulgarian , French , and English , invariably stressed the contributions from eastern Europe . The Bulletin outdid itself , however , on the second day . There was no room , its ( anonymous ) editors explained , for conveying changes of room , modifications of programs , and other notices ? these were too numerous . We were favored , instead , with the full text of the address of greeting delivered the day before by His Excellency , the Prime Minister of the Bulgarian People 's Republic . To these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constituted the secretariat of the International Sociological Association took several days of negotiation during the Congress to obtain a bulletin board iu the Palace of Culture . Their request had been agreed to by the Bulgarian organizers but the Palace personnel simply removed it . The gallery was crowded during the opening address by the Prime Minister with persons who wore Panty membership buttons , but local students and the local populace could not attend the discussions : entrance to the buildings was by Congress badge only . Meanwhile , room allocations were constantly shifted about , two groups were sometimes assigned to one room , and at one point the distinguished Egyptian sociologist ( in Parisian exile ) AbdelMalek , had to convene his group on the floor of a corridor .  | Large groups were given small rooms and small groups found themselves in large ones . There were other episodes . The Prime Minister had invited some 300 of the participants ( chosen from among session chairmen , rapporteurs , and the like ) to a closed reception ? but the Organizing Committee had printed the time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plainclothesmen took the invitations at the foot of a hotel staircase ( some were promptly handed over the bannister behind their backs to uninvited sociologists ) , and pushed back hundreds of others . A British university lecturer was thrown down the staircase and a German teaching assistant who remonstrated with the police was rather thoroughly roughed up . No apologies were tendered , but the Bulgarian sociologists did plead with their foreign colleagues to treat the incident as a " provocation . " By this time , however , the irritation and disgust of many of the participants at the course of the Congress were quite audible , and even the least perceptive of our hosts began to wish us gone . The International Hotel , where the reception was held , reverted to its normal status before the sociologists had left . A previous set of guests had been thrown out of their rooms and transferred to other hotels upon our arrival ( scheduled , after all , only two years in advance ) . Now a curious mixture of inelegant German tourists and stocky indigenous bigshots filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detectives I 'd first seen with the Prime Minister were very visible . Their comportment. was such as to suggest the " defense of socialism " was quite consonant with classically Turkish manners : they made themselves conspicuous by shoving aside women at the elevators . The Bulgarian elite enjoyed ostentatious privileges and showed hopelessly provincial and petit bourgeois taste . The bigshots drove about with motorcycle police escorts who compelled all traffic on broad and empty roads to stop while they passed : their limousines had white chintz curtains . Pathetic  | Bulgaria ! Like many nations once ruled by the Turks , its people seemed broken in culture and spirit . And to OrientalWit was added Stalinism . Vas there any scholarly value at all to the conference ? A considerable number of sociologists had anticipatory doubts , and stayed away . Aron , Bell , Bendix , Bottomore , Cazeneuve , ahrendorf , Etzioni , Gellner , Gouldner , Lefebvre , Habermas , Pizzorno , Supek , and Worsley were among the absenecs . Adam Schaff , apparently swept aside by the recent Polish campaign against " revisionists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warsaw colleague Zygmunt Bauman had chosen the road of exile ? or return ? to Tel Aviv and did not travel to Bulgaria . The absences were very regrettable . Some of the missing scholars are neo-Marxists , and their encounter with dogmatic orthodoxy would have had educational consequeuces for the younger sociologists from the state socialist regimes , who were present in great numbers . Some are deidedly ex-Marxists , and the sharpness of their positions would have enlivened the Congress . In the event , discussion as befogged , and I had the impression of swimming in a elatinous substance . Talk was cheap but genuine controversy was rare . Sociologists in no country are conspicuous for their reluctance to speak , and the relative absence of conflict remains to be explained . Harangues there were aplenty . A pseudoMarxist aggressivity marked the contributions of many participants from eastern and central Europe , so much so that many seemed quite unable to distinguish between intellectual polemic and a level of discourse which would have stupefied Agitprop cadres at a party school . We also had to bear with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totally irrelevant prepared texts . Chairmen who had prepared their sessions for months in advance were at the last minute asked to accommodate just another three or five more Soviet or Bulgarian papers . What I have termed pseudo-Marxism is  | less an ideology than it is a catechism or an incantation . Pseudo-Marxism is also a sociological phenomenon . The groups from the state socialist regimes were quite profoundly divided , and that division was in itself a mitigating element at the Congress . There were , initially , differences of intelligence : even Stalinism and Brezhnevism in their several varieties have been unable to alter certain variations in human genetic inheritance . I had the impression that the more dogmatic colleagues from these societies were in fact the less gifted ones . Factors of social inheritance also played their part . Among the Bulgarians , the Communist Germans , and some of the elder Russians , recruits to " intellectual " activity from Party organs were quite obviously not from academic or professional families , not offspring of the intelligentsia , but sons and daughters of manual workers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as our own , extracts its own cultural price : the crudity and historical short-sightedness of the pseudo-Marxists expressed a lack of education , an inability to work with the complexities of a tradition ? even their own . I recall a moment when Alain Touraine reminded a session that not all revolutions were made by Leninist-type parties : the French one had not been . Cultural and intellectual isolation must also have played their part in engendering vulgarity : the Poles , the Czechs , and some of the Russians have traveled widely , as have the Rumanians . The Communist Germans rarely get to the Sorbonne or Berkeley , and most of them have not been to Frankfurt , Goettingen , or West Berlin . Their more sophisticated spokes men ( Hahn , Steiner , Braunreuter ) were interesting . The others should have been told by a regime jealous of its international standing to shut up . Intellectually , pseudo-Marxism consists of a few elementary propositions , repeated compulsively , and quite wrong . The theme of the Congress was " Contemporary and Future Soci  | eties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a rigid distinction between state socialist uid other societies . The " laws " of development applicable to the one type could not be applied to the others . None gave thought to the possibility that there are no " laws " of social development at all , simply successions of historical structures witli different degrees of responsiveness to conscious historical will . This was surprising , since their conception of " law " in their own societies depicted their respective Communist parties as the sole legitimate and effective incarnations of human historical will . To this was linked the assertion that the working class ( exceedingly vaguely defined ) in fact exercised power and held productive property in these societies . I ( lid ask a Communist German how we could understand this last claim : were there not , as mediating instances , state , party , the division of labor , authority structure in the work process , and differential allocation of the social product ? The answer was brief : the question was a " theoretical and not an empirical one . " As I heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German phrase , auf die Gesinming kommt es an , it all depends upon one 's attitude . The " laws " of social development for the state socialist regimes set the context for the interpretation of some of their empirical research . Since these societies were " victoriously " developing their productive and moral capacities , they had no conflicts . Occasional hindrances to development represented insufficient assimilation of the official social morality . Critical studies of bureaucracy were few , although the ViceRcctor of the Komsomol Academy in Moscow did report on a study of popular attitudes to local bureaucracy which suggested something other than perfect satisfaction . The pseudoMarxists , then , used empirical research to " verify " laws which were nothing else than programmatic exercises in historical voluntarism . The Marxist analysis of production  | relations , of super-structure , in their own regimes was lacking . The central Marxist idea of contradiction as a category for apprehending history was not in their possession . In the circumstances , the pseudo-Marxist contribution to administrative technology in their own countries was nil . States and societies can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly when the dicta are false . This difficulty constituted an opportunity for the more serious sociologists in these countries . I would divide them into two groupings , although it was sometimes difficult to tell these apart . We did meet no small number of colleagues who were overtly or covertly critical , even oppositional , with respect to the exercise of power in state socialism . One distinguished younger Soviet colleague told me , " Marx died a long while ago ; much has happened since then , not least in what some refer to as bourgeois ' thought . " From another country , a participant explained his silence : " Under present political conditions at home , I can not speak my mind , and I will not say things I do not believe . " Criticism , for these sociologists , consists in describing social reality . They can not , in general , deal with it as a political totality ? but they can and often do say enough to illuminate the whole by dealing with its parts . The Poles and the Czechs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the art : there is evidence that they are being joined by an increasing number of sociologists from the Soviet Union . What kind of studies do come from those with a minimally critical attitude ? I heard , or read , accounts of social mobility in the socialist societies which left no doubt as to the existence there of a stratified system of social relations ? a class system based on state property . There was an intelligent Polish contribution on workers ' participation in economic planning as a goal of Polish socialism which left no doubt that the goal was very remote of attainment . An inquiry on religion in the Soviet Union pointed to its decline , but also left  | open the question of the universality of religious aspiration . Studies of this sort were distinguished from the pseudoMarxist harangues not alone by their attention to nuance and detail but by an entirely superior intellectual level , a realization of the difficult relationship between theory and fact , a refusal to assimilate reflection to political exhortation . There are , of course , limits which these colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeed in developing a valid sort of sociological inquiry , will they not contribute to the consolidation of the state socialist technocracy , by rendering it . more efficient ? The answer , unfortunately , is yes . I have written of two groupings among those sociologists in eastern Europe who inhabit our world of discourse . The second is not so much critical as pragmatic . Some , to borrow a term from von Hayek not heard much recently , are " scientistic . " The enormous development of the culture of mathematics and the physical sciences in the Soviet Union has induced some sociologists there ( the parallels with our own recent academic experience are striking ) to experiment with the mathematical and formal descriptions of social process . Lenin 's famous dictum , that socialism equals the Soviets plus electrification , has a new Soviet version : socialism equals the Soviet state equipped with computers . In a regime which has not begun to solve its enormous problems of bureaucratic ossification , the reduction of some problems to terms susceptible old theoretic solution by computers is obviously a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made much of computerization : the aged Ulbricht himself , some years ago , took a three-day crash course in programming . They , however , can not yet begin to relinquish the notion of controlling all social processes from the center . The Soviet interest in computerization of social research seems to reflect a political decision ? however contested and however uncertain ? to allow some areas of society a relative autonomy . It is of a piece with economic decentralization and the conscious develop- ment of a socialist market . The appearance , for the first time at a World Congress of Sociology , of Soviet sociologists of this type went largely unremarked . It is a phenomenon which may in the end be more significant than the crudities inflicted upon us by some of their colleagues . The establishment of a framework for the study of these processes presupposes a prior intellectual decision that they are relatively independent . The license to study them implies a political decision to use manipulative rather than coercive means of control . Those regimes which have an intelligentsia closer to contemporary western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the cultivation of empirical sociology ? and for technocratic reasons . What about the western sociologists ? Many of our stars were there , and they were accompanied by a good many intellectual footmen . The diversity of topics covered by the western papers was immense : family , community , social psychiatry , work and organization , politics , methodology , and much more . Indeed , there was no one western sociology represented at the Congress . A fragmented social world has been reflected in a fragmented social science . Conflicting and contrasting assumptions of social nature , its malleability and manipulability , infused the contributions . Pluralism is a good thing , no doubt , but the absence of much debate as to the essential nature of our society casts doubt on our intellectual seriousness . In that sense , we promulgated distorted antitheses of the absurd simplifications of our state socialist brethren . There a terrifying uniformity , here an intolerable confusion . Perhaps , however , the confusion is willed : a certain kind of categorical pluralism allows every man to take sociology in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a caricature of a free market ? but the market society has long since disappeared in history , to be replaced by its technocratic and bureaucratic successors . Western sociology is indeed confused , but it has redeeming elements . Bureaucracy and  | technocracy have become the objects of inquiry for some who seek to make contemporary the large ideas of that sociological tradition which had early industrial society as its field . Inquiry of this sort , of course , inevitably becomes political : the pluralism of sociology can not justify , for any sociologist , it flight from politics . Political voices from the westerners during the Congress were not entirely silent . Some , like myself and a few allies , attempted to engage the pseudo-Marxists and above all the authentic ones from the state socialist regimes in dialogue . Publicly , this proved almost impossible . Privately , over Slivowitz , we fared better . At the very least , we managed to trade our books and articles for caviar and vodka : the Soviet and general Communist demand for printed matter was very great . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger sociologists who managed to hold a few meetings on the sociology of sociology . Was international sociology at the service of the international power elite , they asked ? The answer is that , in general , it has very little to offer to that elite . Nevertheless , the younger Dutch , Germans , and Americans who organized the meeting struck a responsive chord . Hundreds of colleagues rushed to inscribe themselves on their mailing list . I asked about their co-ordinating committee and learned that of its five initial members , one was a young Bulgarian and one a student from Niger attached to a Bulgarian university . Given the critical tenor of these informal meetings , and the generally rigid attitude of the tilgarians , it did seem surprising to some of us that the organizers obtained the use of a car and other facilities from our hosts . Perhaps ? as they thought ? the Bulgarian intellectual opposition was at work . Perhaps there were other , less comforting , explanations . The lists , after being posted iii the lobby of the Palace of Culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American and Quebecois members of the committee . I would have wished for much more criticism  | of our technocratic reality ? in the neo-capitalist and state socialist regimes ? on the Congress program , but it was good to see that the critical element in sociology broke through in the form of this radical group . Their level of rationality contrasted favorably with that of the radical caucus at the September annual meeting of the American Sociological Association . There , radical professors were denounced for writing radical books , for " not doing anything , " and one leaflet declared that radical sociologists were henceforth to be considered the main enemies of radicalism . Reminders of the inanities of the American scene were not , however , entirely missing . One younger American described Manson as an exemplar of a new communal way of living , and portrayed as components of an American avant-garde the " fat people 's liberation movement " and the " gay people 's liberation movement . " The chairman of the session did interrupt to ask that the terms be explained : he lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubted that they were current in Bulgaria . My last image of the Congress was at the airport in Sofia . Sixty of the French had been humped off an overbooked flight to western Europe and had been told that they would have to spend the night in Sofia while alternative routings were found . They made a terrible fuss , and in the end , Bulgarian Airlines whistled up a special jet to fly them directly to Paris that night . I congratulated them on their success : it was no doubt the first demonstration in Sofia in decades . And probably the last for some decades to come , we agreed . Our own plane was a Lufthansa Boeing , with drinks and newspapers available before we had crossed the border . An airborne fragment of our own reality , but a perfectly representative one : crowded , hurried , efficient in the small things , and in no small measure tinny . Perhaps , I thought , society has begun to escape even analysis and reflection , much less  | mastery . The early sociologists were indistinguishable from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find possibilities for the fulfillment of human nature , to inquire into the historical chances of a newer and truer polis . Our own generation has renounced these aims . Empirical sociology is largely a strained gloss on a reality we do not believe we can change . Max Weber , asked early in this century why he studied society , said that he did it to see how much he could stand . ( " Wieviel ich aushalten karat . " ) We lack even this ironic acknowledgment of individual moral purpose , and our search for a new public good has been halting and ineffective where we have indulged it . The word indulged is frightening , but I shall let it stay . What was once the highest force behind intellectual activity is now a mere psychological oddity , a matter of personal whim , a moral idiosyncrasy . The most desperate and the least satisfactory aspects of our Congress were , however , perhaps the truest ones : the effort , beyond the depiction of things as they are , to find a moral and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The self-designated party of revolution in the state socialist societies , however , has becutne a party of the institutionalized revolution ? apologists for old tyrannies writ new . Its most intelligent and rational subjects are agonizingly aware of their servitude . We do not embrace our own , but we do not seem to be transcending it , either . Our own younger revolutionaries think that they can start history anew , and so fall easy victim to its most trivial ruses . A happier synthesis may await us in the future ? but international conferences , upon reflection , are not always conducive to thought 's success in its tasks .  | knowledging Riesman 's patent willingness to be scrutinized in this way . Riesman does not employ ambiguity as a stylistic device . His style , indeed , is ostensibly clear . It is usually possible to see what he means ? in any given sentence . It is the total effect that is ambiguous : his allusions are often irrelevant , his analogies imprecise , his thoughts expressed in a manner apparently informal but actually casual . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There2 his sequences of thought were most orderly , his evidence more exact , his meaning unequivocal . Perhaps the disarray that is so disturbing , from 1950 onward , is the price of greater flexibility . ) Riesman 's work often lack explicit factual reference . Hardly , in The Lonely Crowd , does he attempt to identify in any determinate way the strata and groups of which he writes. ; His historical examples are randomized where they should be selective , and his contemporary examples are selective where they should be randomized . Moreover , the latter usually consist of the received data of American social  | science , and these presuppose the kind of social-psychological analysis they are supposed to corroborate . I find philistine in the extreme the use of the term " impressionistic " or " literary " as opprobrious by social scientists ? but surely the point of sociological interpretation is that it does not dissolve the facts but , recognizing their integrity , goes beyond them . Riesman 's ambiguity , the way in which his interpretations press away the data , serves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire work . The author has written of his " moral experimentalism , " 4 of his belief that values can he understood and effective only in context . He is quite frank : he employs differing moral emphases with different interlocutors . His moral lability can be justified by its instrumental functions for his total moral system . But it is disconcerting that his assertions about reality , no less than his directives for dealing with it , continually shift . His " experimentalism " appears to have been extended to his image of society and he advances , particularly about politics , seemingly contradictory notions of its structure . All moral philosophies rest on some examination ( if only a hasty or unacknowledged one ) of factual possibility . A flexible moral philosophy , as Riesman envisages it , must deal with the complexities of an industrial society . Riesman asks two distinct moral questions of society . Does it allow the realization of my values and ( if not ) , what values ought I to develop to meet limiting circumstances ? These questions appear , at times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have affected Riesman 's approach to society 's factual complexity . He seems to have moved ( unconsciously ) from the perception that a highly differentiated society requires a highly differentiated morality to the assumption that a highly differentiated morality requires a shifting image of the social structure . Riesman , " Values in Context , " Individualism Reconsidered  | But if there are factual necessities that impinge on morality it does not follow that moral necessities can legitimately impinge on our view of fact . The political implications of Riesman 's philosophical ambiguity , in the end , shape his view of political process . Ideologies are not simply falsifications of experience ; they are , rather , selective interpretations of it . Riesman 's image of politics is not without a certain internal logic , but it is the logic of his ideology , which leads him into a number of factual contradictions and inhibits his exploration of the implications of a number of perceptions . An image of politics , meanwhile , contains implicit as well as explicit assumptions : the sorts of thing it emphasizes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the things it leaves out . The aim of the analysis that follows is to uncover the internal logic and the implicit assumptions of Riesman 's view of politics : these are , indeed , not very far from the surface . Riesman has a considerable awareness that thought about politics is itself political . He sees social science in danger of immobilization between the two poles of too much and too little ideological commitment . He praises the disinterestedness of disinterested curiosity ; but he warns that curiosity of an uncommitted sort , fixated on the present , may unwittingly serve some very interested parties ? if only by omitting to  | ask critical questions.e He holds that knowledge has " longrun healing qualities , " but he can not see how those who know can establish contact with those who need knowledge ntost.8 Briefly , he sees the multiple involvements of knowledge with contemporary American politics ? but , for all the good sense and insight of his methodological views , 9 he can not identify an underlying pattern in these involvements . Similarly , he is reluctant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status of survey-type research . He criticizes the ideological assumptions underlying much public opinion polling : this exemplifies the " nineteenth century liberal 's approach to the individual as a social atom . " He began his work on polling and interviewing by noting that it might well convey an illusion of influence to the powerless ? but more recently , he has settled for the therapeutic worth of the interview . Despite the pretensions of all concerned , it may do nothing at all by way of affecting political decision , but it is at least a dialogue between the classes , " in which both parties gain in esteem and understanding and nobody loses . " More recently still , he has attempted to convert some of the liabilities arising from the use of a stand- ardized interview procedure by a semi-skilled field force into assets : by showing that the intellectual and emotional reactions to the instrument were susceptible of meaningful interpretation outside of its formal framework . ' ; But it is still not entirely clear how Riesman would balance off the social and scientific liabilities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern with the survey and the interview follows , of course , from his interest in the role of opinion and personality in the political process . Here , again , Riesman is ambiguous : initially we can not tell whether he considers political psychology the centerpiece , an indispensable component , or simply an appendage of the analysis of politics . Without much difficulty , we can find assertions of all three positions in his work.14 Riesman 's interest in the way people relate themselves to politics , his assessment of the efficacy of their political " styles " in terms of their own experiences and capacities , shows a See his contribution to Paul Lazarsfeld and Wagner Thielens , Jr. , The Academic Mind ( Glencoe : The Free Press , 1958 ) . . " . . . psychologists sometimes show a tendency to overestimate the importance of individual personality , or of the field ' created by a number of personalities , while overlooking the bearing of a long historical development of a structural and institutional sort , to which these personalities , unless quite crazy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in Riesman , " Toward an Anthropological Science of Law and the Legal Profession , " Individualism Reconsidered , p. 461 . See also " . . . many people today flee from the realities of power into psychological interpretations of social behavior in order to avoid the challenge of contemporary political faiths or to restore a wished-for malleability to politics by reliance on a new analytical gadget . Nevertheless , it should be equally obvious that a political realism that ignores the dimensions of character , that ignores how people interpret power configurations on the basis of their psychic needs , will only be useful in short-run interpretations and not always even there , " The Lonely Crowd , p. 179 . And see also , " The struggle of classes and societies may therefore be viewed , to some extent , as a struggle among different characterological adaptations to the situation created by the dominance of a given mode of insuring conformity , " The Lonely Crowd ,  | sensitive concern for the nuances of individual experience in the mass society . But it is not an image @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the psychological forces that can be attached to or detached from politics ? for reasons outside the individual 's control or awareness . " Politics seems to me increasingly carried on as a marriage de convenance between traditional political institutions and irrational psychological pressures . " ' 5 The analogy of the marriage de convenance is genteel ; but there are times when Riesman suggests that a variety of social constraints and interests exercise a shot-gun function in wedding personality to political decision . " In any case , his argument on the accidental and external character of the relations between personality and politics is inconsistent with his larger analysis of the emergence of socially standardized character types in history ; here , clearly , politics and political institutions constitute one of the forces acting on the development of personality : he shows , for instance , that the other-directed character is made to order for a bureaucratic career . ' ' ' The burden of Riesman 's analysis , however , is clear : he frequently uses psychology as a mode of apprehending the very essence of the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis . It is quite possible to employ psychology to extend our understanding of politics without asserting that explanations of an institutional sort are insufficient ; Riesman goes beyond a mere enlargement of our vision . He often sees decisive social conflicts being fought out in the psychological sphere , within and between personalities . ( And it can be said , at this point , that he seems to think values constitutive of social institutions , a view that  | and to the analyses it implies . But it is his beginning point , and carries with it much of what follows . Even when Riesman attributes the characteristics of contemporary political attitudes to the limitations of the situation , to factors given in the social structure , he sometimes does so in a psychological vocabulary ? thus the claim that the " crisis mood " of contemporary politics " ) inhibits the development of new political styles . And although he sets these styles in their historical context , he as quickly takes them out of it . His description of the reserve army of the apathetic points to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he holds that the other-directed characters are sometimes likely to accept the leadership of the political primitives . Riesman does acknowledge , of course , that long-term structural developments will determine the political use to which this psychological raw material is put . But his analysis of longterm structural developments also tends to dissolve these into psychological processes : we read of anxious businessmen , oversensitive politicians , of the eager and the apathetic , the generous and the resentful . Formally , the characterological struggle merges with others ; effectively , it is for Riesman the ultimate locus of political decision .  | Why Riesman 's preoccuption with interview technique , rather than with the problem ( which he surely recognizes ) of giving contemporary effect to the liberal aspirations for an informed and enlightened citizenry ? Why his fascination with the varieties of personal expression within a system of social constraints , rather than with the structure of those onstraints ? Riesman 's choice of problem has an obvious source : it is the old and honorable liberal concern with the late of the individual in society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will to alter society ? very possibly , as we shall see , because devoid of the capacity to do so . The want of external social focus is unbalancing : the result is an up-todate and subjective individualism . Unable to consider the maximization of the conditions of individual freedom , Riesman turns to the dimensions of the individual 's inner prison . Unwilling , however , to renounce the view that the individual can affect history , Riesman converts history into psychology - - but thereby gives the individual only a perverse kind of freedom . Riesman 's interest is almost exclusively in contemporary America ? and he gives it a universal justification by supposing that other societies must inevitably develop the same structure and the same problems . On the face of it , his view of politics is somewhat broader : he draws on America 's nineteenth-century past , refers to western Europe , to societies totalitarian and underdeveloped . Unfortunately , the analysis is too familiar ; he seems to project , backwards and outwards , the analytical conceptions he has developed to . deal with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal less complex than our own society . Then , we are told , politics and economics were kept separate : there were limits to the  | powers of early capitalist enterprise . Individuals had clear notions of their material interests ; the familiar notions of " self-help " allowed them to pursue these with all the energies their superegos could mobilize . Conflict between groups and classes was open and direct : few had difficulty locating themselves in the social structure . The view presents a number of difficulties . The separation of politics from other spheres of social life ( in particular , the economy ) will not strike many as an accurate characterization of the nineteenth century in America . Did not America , as well as Europe , know politically committed artists in this period ? In Europe , of course , there were old elites for the new middle classes to contend with ; in America , class structure was constituted by several overlapping strata , one rising after the other . It is unclear wily Riesman supposes that the " harmony between character and politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds that both character and politics have changed . And he does recognize one of the origins of other-direction in the old acquisitive society , with its own fusion of business and pleasure . The point of Riesman 's essay in history is to illuminate his characterological analysis ; fair enough , but it does represent a distinct crudification of history . Of more interest is Riesman 's treatment of totalitarianism . In opposition to apocalyptic views of totalitarian systems , he insists that the modes of resistance to them were and are utterly trivial : " apathy , corruption , free enterprise , crime . " A good part of his argument is intended , however , to justify the ideological apathy of the American people : this Riesman.  | secs as a prophylaxis against totalitarian infection . Yet Riesluau contradicts himself ? on the one hand , he attempts to cut totalitarianism down to size , picturing it as just another and more effective naked power system ; on the other , he uses it to exemplify the dangers of ideological commitment . The Cromwellian Bolsheviks , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideological character of Nazism . Riesman 's difficulties with totalitarianism seem to have been produced by his own ideological aims in discussing it : to warn the intellectuals against overinterpretationY1 ? in effect , against taking their own ideologies too seriously . It is striking that Riesman 's remarks on totalitarianism seem to have rather less connection with the rest of his analytical system than we might expect . His insight into the structural determinants of totalitarian success30 is a plausible and unexceptionable sociological hypothesis . I can not see why this discrepancy should exist ? possibly the massivity of the totalitarian phenomenon precludes explanations that are too exclusively psychological . Riesman 's view of western European society is straightforward enough : that it has been unlike the United States ( c hiefly with respect to the political class struggle and the differentiation of mass and elite in higher culture ) , but that  | it is increasingly coming to resemble America Riesman does not , as far as I know , try the opposite hypothesis : that America is beginning to resemble Europe , not vice versa . I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relevant . But the negative one is worth trying , not least within Riesman 's framework : suppose that other-direction means , for instance , that America is developing a new and shared life style of a kind long since rooted in Europe ? Riesman 's remarks about the underdeveloped societies are few , but not irrelevant to this discussion . He supposes that the Soviet Union has every chance of influencing these countries , because it is a model of rapid industrialization . But his explanation is curiously nonpsychological . The Soviet Union may also supply ? in the eyes of the new elites in these countries ? a model of disciplined national effort . It has the inestimable advantage , moreover , of never having occupied any of them . Riesman advises these countries to postpone industrialization and limit their immediate aspirations to improvement of agricultural technique . This is , in my view , effrontery ? and fairly unrealistic effrontery at that : Riesman himself supposes that only industrialization of an advanced type can bring about the possibility of human freedom , and , in any case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercy of the industrialized ones . Riesman is somewhat patronizing in discussing the " sloganized xenophobia " and " suspiciousness " of middle-class intellectuals in the mid-Eastern countries . " His view that they are compensating for their lack of spiritual community with  | their countrymen might be applied ( indeed , Riesman has applied it ) to the American intellectuals as Riesman 's remarks about these suspicious mid-Easterners were published after the Western interventions in Suez and the Lebanon , events that may suggest to some that the suspicion was not entirely without reason . Finally , Riesman finds the mobs in the mid-Eastern streets engaged in " pseudo participation " " 7 in the politics of their countries . But the leaders who can call out the mobs ( Nuri could not , for instance ) seem to have distinct advantages over their opponents ? and the emergence of the mob as a political force has , in recent years , altered mid-Eastern politics . Whether political and social " enlightenment , " which Riesman finds so conspicuously missing in the Middle East , is more prevalent elsewhere is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more length . Riesman sees that these populations have been torn out of their traditional context ; but his adoption of the term " transitional " " to describe them suggests that he visualizes their future development in unilinear terms derived from the Western experience . It is at least as possible that the emergence of these newly activated populations in world politics will alter the Future course of Western development . The chief difficulty in Riesman 's view of politics in general is his refusal of a consistent structural view of political systems . Sometimes the inconsistencies follow rather closely upon one another . In one essay , for instance , he describes law as social interest in its own right ? and proceeds to praise lawyers at the turn of the century for having the " courage " to endow corporations with powers not envisaged in the  | statutes and common law decisions . " 0 More striking , still , is his view that the organization of the economy in an advanced industrial society has rendered a Marxist analysis out of date : he confuses the specific predictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations , and of pauperization ) with the more general aspects of his theory . ( In this connection , it would be helpful if his view of Marxism did not tend to caricature.4 ' ) In fact , the minutiae of cultural and status differentiation observed by Riesman in contemporary America are not , on his evidence , uncorrelated with variations in class position ? if with small variations . But he moves back and forth between assertions about the ultimate determinants of behavior within the system ( on this level , he is rather closer to Marxism than is commonly supposed ) and statements about processes within its fixed limits.42 These categories are not joined , and the latter are frequently employed to answer  | questions of the former sort . All of this contrasts with the sober and unadorned analysis of social constraint in his earlier work : there the problem of equality is examined in terms of the relationships of power and economic advantage controlling the access to facilities formally free . It is about America that Riesman cares , in particular about the spiritual problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburbanized ) upper middle class . He assesses other groups and strata in terms of their proximity to this one , and he supposes that they are all inexorably moving toward the other-directed pattern . Riesman has a point ; the upper middle class has managed to imprint itself upon a lower-middle-class nation as the embodiment of the standard human type , so much so that the underprivileged in American society , encountered by Riesman in the Bridgeport trade school , " tend to throw up pathetic caricatures of the American cash customer , or the man of distinction ' in the whiskey ads . " But its cultural superordination is not , according to Riesman , accompanied by equivalent political status . Some part of the reason for the upper middle class 's lack of power , on Riesman 's analysis , is its psychology . Its members are fundamentally passive in politics , dutiful consumers of inside dope and occasionally manifesting spectators ' paroxysms of excitement at a critical moment in the game ? but ideologically thoroughly uncommitted . They occupy command or executive positions in a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone influence but power ; yet on Riesman 's account they shrink from the latter ? they prefer being liked to being obeyed . So striking is the deference of this group , in Riesman 's  | view , that its members allow themselves to be pushed around by those who are politically committed : the indignants , who lag behind them in the flow of historical time , and who arc on balance in less advantaged positions in the structure . The indignants , Riesman holds , are now the only Americans capable of generalized political emotion , but they lack the technical skills that could guide their overabundant energies to lasting political success . ( And , in any case , they are dying out . ) The present American political system , Riesman thinks , is structurally , if not quite shapeless , very indeterminate . The key to his account of it is his insistence on the historical importance of the characterological struggle . But psychological styles do not in fact compete politically , any more than do emotions or persons : the competition is over access @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions ? large and small . Riesman has given us some new , even profound , insight into the psychological content of ' some of the processes by which opinion is formed , mobilized , and manipulated . But the notion that the dynamics of opinion are decisive , that a plurality of wills resolve themselves into a system of political constraints ? this is a new version of the liberal political theory . Here , however , the nonrational ( or irrational ) individual substitutes for the rational one , and a host of affects , ego and superego functions serve as the scheme 's constants in place of the simpler conceptions of liberal psychology . Of course , Riesman makes the necessary qualifications : the characterological struggle adjoins or overlaps with other ones . But his analysis of these suggests that the characterological struggle is their motor . This is not the first time that psychology has entered political analysis , but the usual route of entry has been through the conception of ideology . Ideology , a system of ideas and values particular to some social  | group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adaptation : social psychology and sociology have , to date , met most usefully in this sort of analysis . Riesman neglects the formal analysis of ideology ; he eschews the category , in general , as an explicit mode of organizing data . The exclusion of ideology would appear to throw him hack upon two sorts of analyses . Either politics is a matter of iilore or less naked power relations , and/or it is a screen on which personalities project needs derived elsewhere . Not alone does Riesman alternate between these two sorts of approach to Amrican politics ; he does not in fact dispense with the analysis of ideology ? despite his reiterated contention that America 's political system is largely without it . Indeed , his description of the role of " personalities " in recent American politics attributes considerable weight to ideological factors ? sometimes , Riesman thinks , the personalization of politics is a consequence of the want of ideological coherence in American society . Riesman is contradictory on the substantive role of ideology in contemporary American politics . At times , he depicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The parties do not ask for agreement on ideological fundamentals ; this contributes to a certain political calm , since ordinary folk do not become excited and exercise their rights of veto . ( Riesman uses terms reminiscent of what the less critical Britons say of their own system : American politics rests on a procedural consensus and agreement on short-term goals . ) At other times , he is less sure that ideology can be dispensed with . In discussing the spiritual impoverishment of many of his contemporaries , he writes of the " vaguely re- called , half-dreamlike allegiances and prejudices serving most people for ideology . " He recalls , not without nostalgia , the 1930 's ? when the intellectuals provided the economically discontented classes with an egalitarian ideology they now reject . It is here that he asserts that political demands require ideological elaboration to be effective . Moreover , he occasionally deplores the absence of critical ideologies in America : he makes a plea for more utopian thinking . He notes that the absence of ideology may produce cynicism as well as political tolerance5i ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of neutrality in the social sciences.5 " Even his conception of " secret " or " undefined " marginality in the social structure is , by implication , a critique of some of his sanguine views on the absence of ideology . Where no general systems of ideas allow people to relate themselves to the whole , they may well relapse into secret and peevish modes of differentiating themselves from others rather than tackling the total context of their problems . And he does say that " an ideology can be fashioned out of an anti-ideology , as totalitarian parties have been fashioned out of the anti-party program . And a world is certainly ill-omened in which we must fear the enthusiasm of the young , and prefer their apathy , because we have learned ( 150 years after Burke ) to fear ideas in politics . " Riesman 's discussion of the social roles of the mass media is , of course , relevant to his view of ideology in American  | politics . His assertion that the media constitute a conspiracy to conceal the extent of political indifference in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " facts " and " attitudes " differently interpreted by those at different levels in the social structure ; indeed , the internal differentiation of the media makes this easier.56 But these processes allow us to suppose that the media are more effective politically than Riesman asserts , either as sources of or reinforcements for ( or both ) ideologies consonant with different positions in the social structure . It is difficult to see why he can find no more relevant criticism of the media than that they are insufficiently apolitical . The heterogeneous , often contradictory , elements in Riesman 's image of American politics are part of his central contention ; that a system of contending veto groups effectively prevents the concentration of power . Riesman find it difficult , if not impossible , to distinguish the leaders from the led . The veto groups are often coalitions of all characterological types , but they generally adopt the style of the otherlirecteds . There is an implication , here , of political stratification , but Riesman does not do much with it . Riesman 's catalogue of those groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but on Riesman 's account , this supposition requires qualification . The veto groups are special groups ; each has its territory , and they very rarely seek to influence national decisions . Indeed , the larger and more powerful the veto group , the more restrained its politics . " In the big leagues of the veto groups the limits of power are seldom tested by combat , though this restraint , resting , as I think , on psychological grounds , is easily rationalized in terms of power politics and public rela- tions . " But what brings these attitudes into being , if not the stabilization of power relations in the system ? Riesman 's entire analysis of the genesis of the characterological struggle , it will be recalled , tells us that it is possible only after the attainment of a high level of productive stability . Riesman does say that " while it may take leadership to start things running , or to stop them , very little leadership is needed once things are under way . " CO What is under way , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Riesman formally denies , and informally acknowledges . He does , after all , write of the " intractability of a mature politics " ? by which he quite explicitly means the concentration of the power to make critical decisions outside the hands of those most affected by the decisions . It is , therefore , a non sequitur for him to jump from the fact of special local power hierarchies ( California , Montana , Virginia ) to the conclusion that " any discussion of class and power on the national scene can at best be only an approximation . " Does Riesman give sufficient weight to the postwar interaction of internal and foreign politics ? There are times when he adopts an astonishingly simple view : the decisive factor in both the economy and the political system is preparation for war . He has also interpreted , albeit reluctantly , the public opinion poll finding that both elite and mass are willing to fight in Asia by saying that " a national consensus among all classes can be reached where decisive events , remote from both community leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is clear that the conception of  | an elite , and of " the top , " is not entirely consistent with the veto group theory . Riesman 's own view of America 's foreign policy has some interesting overtones . He is in favor of the intelligent and rational conduct of the cold war , but he notes with some distress that the question of appeasement " now becomes more insistent intellectually even while it becomes outlawed politically . " He is aware that the recent problem of civil I iberties is inextricably bound to the reaction of the populace to international tension . He notes that not popular will but institutional guarantees and elite resistance have prevented the total erosion of civil liberties . " ' This , he supposes , has brought about an alliance between the intellectuals and the enlightened conservatives against the newly risen masses . But the enlightened conservatives and the unenlightened masses appear to share many of the same foreign policy goals , however much they disagree on means . Riesman simply does not deal with this dilemma ; it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within which and not about which analysis proceeds . Meanwhile , Riesman has promulgated a rather idyllic picture of an American business system devoted to organizational morale , external public relations , and conspicuous production ? to nearly everything , that is , but profit . He insists on the inner uncertainty of the businessmen in the face of their intellectual and political critics , but he tends to overlook their real political experiences in the New Deal and the Fair Deal . Riesman argues that the intellectuals have to some considerable extent impressed the businessmen , although few intellectuals these days seem to be at work on a critique of business . In any case , the general improvement                     