@@773501

txt THE FIRST ELECTION BROADCASTS drawing the graph out horizontally it was possible to flatten the steepness of the rising curve so that it appeared almost a straight line . He also wanted to show that by using neither of these pieces of electoral trickery it was possible to produce what he called an honest graph ' showing the reality of the situation . All these arguments were to be criticised later in the Press and in letters to the newspapers . In the meanwhile my own problems were practical . Our caption artists were skilled in lettering , but they were not statisticians and had no experience of translating figures into graphs . By this time Christopher Mayhew and I had worked together for about six months on International Commentary ' and had become colleagues and friends . He had said that the drawing of the graph from the figures he had provided was easy and that anybody could do it . Why then could he not do it himself ? I thought he would understand the difficulties and agree readily . But no . He stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party representative . The BBC ought to carry out this work . I said that if he would translate the figures into a graph we certainly would . He said that if I continued in my refusal to translate the figures into a graph he would ring up the Director-General . I said that I would be delighted if he did . At long last , and with the disarming cheerfulness which made him a pleasure to work with , he agreed to draw the graph . And I agreed that the caption artist would copy this on to a caption card . Next morning the newspapers were full of what they called The Battle of the Graphs ' . The Economist4 in a long article under the title of Contest in Curves ' examined the various arguments . In a surprising sentence it said of the graph used in the Eden broadcast , It is true that the draughtsman made the curve steeper than it need have been by not using the whole of the horizontal axis , but some sharpening of emphasis is accepted practice in election broadcasts ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? This was the first television election . Few television viewers would be likely to be aware of or understand the sophisticated attitudes of The Economist when it stated that to represent the rise in prices by an upward curve is , after all , merely symbolic , and no one gradient is right ' . What , almost certainly , would impress most television viewers was the appearance of the graph on the screen and the way in which it was presented to them . If a reputable statesman such as Anthony Eden said in effect , Look : just see how steeply the cost of living has Ioo 1951 risen since the Labour Government came into power . This graph represents not my figures but those of a group of independent investigators ' , and showed a steeply rising line , the viewer would tend to accept this as evidence that prices had in fact risen steeply . The Battle of the Graphs ' in this first television election showed that visual material used in election propaganda sharpened the personal responsibility of political leaders for the material they presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on television which could be accused of being a fake and which could be publicly attacked as inaccurate his own reputation was involved ? not merely that of the party machine which had produced it . In a pamphlet a graph had a certain air of anonymity and was merely part of the vast output of paper with which electors are deluged at election time . But a misleading graph used by one of the leaders of a political party to support his arguments on television was quite another matter . ' this was highly personal and electors who were viewing would be more likely to trust the evidence of the graph because of the calibre of the man presenting it than they would a semi-anonymous leaflet . The tools of political propaganda on television became therefore more personal than such other tools as print because on television the politician himself was seen to be using them and in a sense was acting as a guarantor of their validity . If the television broadcasts of the 1951 election made it evident that politicians who used television to appeal to the electorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they used , it also made evident , to me at any rate , that there must be a touch clearer definition of the relationship between the responsibility of the BBC 's television producer and that of the political parties for the effectiveness on television of what the parties wanted to present . The differences with Christopher Mayhew over the graphs were not sensible and could have been avoided . They arose not only from the lack of facilities for the making of graphs within the television service at that time but also from the fact that neither the political parties nor those at Broadcasting I louse who conducted the high-level negotiations had given serious thought to the nature of television as a method of political communication . The seniors at Broadcasting House understood radio and were knowledgeable about microphones , scripts and the production of talk . They were at sea in anything to do with television . The political parties , even more at sea , found television a nuisance . IOI THE FIRST ELECTION BROADCASTS This was particularly true during a General Election campaign . Television was simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an added burden for party leaders . It was outside the experience of the officials who ran the campaigns . And it demanded of politicians a new kind of expertise which few of them possessed and some of them despised . These attitudes remained long after 1951 . The result was that negotiations between the BBC and the parties about the use of television for Party Political and Party Election purposes were conducted on a high plane of ignorance and impracticality . The handling of political broadcasting in television could not be regulated in detail as it was in sound radio because none of the senior negotiators understood the detail . So the precedents of 1951 remained . Each political party was to do what it pleased with its agreed television time and resources of the BBC 's television service were to be at its disposal . This was basically a healthy situation . It was ludicrous that in a democracy the political parties contending for the support of the electorate should not be able to use to the full the variety of new methods of communication which television made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use a second speaker or an illustrative excerpt from previous political speeches in a political broadcast this had to be considered at the formal yearly meeting between the political parties and the BBC . But in television any one party could decide at will whether it would have a dozen speakers in a television studio together with music , films , maps , diagrams , drawings and the use of outside broadcast cameras . Their decisions were not subject , as in sound , to what was effectively a veto by another party . But this greater freedom inevitably caused strains , and left a great deal of decision-making about practicalities to the television producer assigned to the broadcast . He or she might well find it necessary to say to the officials from Labour and Conservative Headquarters , or even to party leaders , that it was technically impossible to implement the broadcast in the manner in which they had planned it . Or to advise that though technically possible the result would be ineffective and that the points they wished to make would not register . Or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cameras in a suburban home so that the householders and their friends could be seen to be asking questions of a politician in a television studio , the request had come so late that it was almost IO2 ' 951 impossible to implement without disrupting a sports programme and depriving millions of viewers of a scheduled football match . These were some of the questions which developed as a result of tile experimental Party Election broadcasts in 1951 . Summarised , they were a greater freedom for any political party to use the new methods of communication for political purposes ; a greater responsibility for television producers of political programmes than for those of sound radio with greater consequential possibilities of friction ; and an increasing concern within the political parties about the attitudes and abilities of the television current affairs producers who were responsible for Party Political , Party Election and Ministerial broadcasts . 8 The Breaking of the BBC 's Television Monopoly 1952-1954 Discussions about the future uses of television for Ministerial and Budget broadcasts were taking place at the very moment when the new Conservative Government was considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the history of British broadcasting since it started in 1926 . A broadcasting system for television , differently financed and differently motivated , was to be set up which would be in competition with the BBC . The matter had not been one of the subjects debated by the parties during the election campaign of 1951 . It was a decision made by the leaders of the Conservative Party . Five years later Randolph Churchill wrote bitterly in the Evening Standard , l ' Never let it be forgotten that it was a Tory Cabinet which , during the illnesses of Sir Winston Churchill and Sir Anthony Eden , took the decision to thrust Commercial TV upon our country . The presiding genius at that Cabinet was the party 's outstanding Mr R. A. Butler . Let credit be given where credit is due . ' But in fact the new government had revealed the nature of its intentions almost immediately after its victory in the 1951 election . A powerful group had grown up within the party which was determined to break the BBC 's monopoly . The BBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December 31 , 1951 . Although the Attlee government had stated in a White Paper2 in July 1951 that the best interests of British broadcasting required the continuance of the Corporation substantially on the present basis ' , no action to renew the Charter and Licence had actually been taken before the election . The way was therefore wide open for the start of a commercial television service . And the commercial television lobby found the political support it required among members of the Conservative Party . 104. 1952 ? 1954 The split between the political parties over commercialism in broadcasting was not due to any liking in the Labour Party for the BBC nor to any interest in the development of television . Clement Attlee , invited with his wife by George Barnes to see an evening of television , sat , obstinately silent and disapproving , watching , with some of us in attendance , television output on a monitor at Lime Grove . At the end he briefly compared the BBC television service unfavorably with the excellent work done by the Workers ' Educational Association and departed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television was mainly a question of principle . The party was opposed to power being given to commercial interests in a medium which could affect men 's minds . Behind Conservative Party attitudes to commercial television , on the other hand , lay a good deal of suspicion and dislike of the BBC , which made them inclined to support any move to break the monopoly . The defeat of Winston Churchill and the party he led in the General Election of 1945 and again in the General Election of 1950 had been a shock to Churchill and to the Conservative Party as a whole . They could not believe that the country would have rejected Churchill , the architect of victory , for what they felt to be the lesser figure of Clement Attlee unless subversive influences had been at work . They sought for scapegoats . Among them was the BBC . Many Conservatives were convinced that the BBC had fomented a radical attitude in political matters and that , as an organisation , it was biased against Conservatism . Winston Churchill himself believed that the BBC was infiltrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BBC and the political parties reveal his almost obsessional preoccupation with this idea.3 No one knew better than Churchill that during the war it had been necessary for the British government to ally itself with whatever groups in Europe and elsewhere were opposed to Hitler and Nazi domination . Were there communist sympathisers among them ? They were all anti-Nazi : all against Hitler : all fighting for the same cause as British troops everywhere and as Winston Churchill . But , after the General Election of 1945 , a suspicion grew in Churchill 's blind that if , during the war , there might have been communist sympathisers in the BBC 's Overseas Services , similar attitudes might have existed within its Home Services . He persisted in this belief whatever the denials of the BBC ; whatever its conduct of enquiries and its presentation of the result of those enquiries to the political // parties . And some leading Conservatives , however much they criticised Churchill 's leadership of the Conservative Party , and however little they believed that the BBC was infiltrated by Communists ' , found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the BBC as an organisation was , in a favourite phrase , somewhat left wing ' . So , within the Conservative Party those campaigning for commercial television and the breaking of the BBC 's monopoly found receptive ears . All the more so because a commercial television service could be presented as a stroke for private enterprise and an attempt to give the public what it wanted rather than what those running a monopolistic service considered to be good for them. * 4 The result , inevitably enough , was that one of the first actions of the new Conservative Government which came into power in October 1951 was to reject the recommendations of the Beveridge Committee and also the Labour Government 's proposals as set out in the White Paper of July 1951.5 Instead of giving the BBC a new Charter and Licence for fifteen years , it issued a Charter and Licence for only six months ; this would last from December 31 , 1951 to June 30 , 1952 . And in May 1952 the Conservative Government issued a White Paper6 which was its own comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the usual tributes to the BBC . The White Paper said : The Government recognise that this effective monopoly has done much to establish the excellent and reputable broadcasting service for which this country is renowned and that the BBC have become an important fact of the structure of our national life . Their services must remain intact and the BBC should be the only broadcasting organisation having any claim on the revenue from broadcasting receiving licences . ' ' At the end of June 1952 , when the six-month Charter and Licence expired , the BBC should be given a new Charter and Licence , though for ten , not fifteen , years as the Labour Government had proposed . j There were regrets that the national post-war economic situation had prevented the capital investment necessary for the Io6 1952 ? 1954 BBC to pursue various developments in television and high frequency broadcasting : and pledges that it should have the first call on labour and materials when these became available . But a profound change of attitude was apparent in paragraph 7 of the White Paper . It said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the expanding field of television provision should be made to permit some element of competition . ' 9 The green light had been given to those advocating commercialism in television broadcasting . The decision made in 1952 proved irreversible . For good or ill , broadcasting in Great Britain would no longer be a public service monopoly . Once the principle had been abandoned in the case of television there was no logical defence for continuing it in sound radio . Implicit in the start of a commercial television service was the start of commercial radio whenever this appeared to interested groups to be sufficiently profitable . Politically , however , the new service would be unimportant . Although a political decision brought it into existence , it was expressly forbidden to deal with political matters in its television programmes . The White Paper of 1952 said : the new stations would not be permitted to engage in political or religious broadcasting . ' 1 ? The concept of the future of British broadcasting as held by the Conservative Government in 1952 and as outlined in its White Paper seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and repute ( the BBC ) : this would continue to handle political matters . From now onwards it would merely be supplemented by a profit-making commercial television service financed by advertisers , probably specialising in light entertainment , forbidden to deal with politics and religion and supervised by some sort of controlling body since It would be necessary to introduce safeguards against possible abuses . ' 11 But the processes of opinion-making and the national attitudes to the powers , danger and privileges of broadcasters which had created and shaped the BBC during the 1920S and 19305 now began profoundly to affect the simple concept of a second and competitive commercial television service as set out in the White Paper of 1952. 1n November , 1953 the Conservative Government issued a second White Paper on Television Policy.12 This , clearly , was a result of the I07 THE BREAKING OF THE BBC 'S MONOPOLY criticism of the policy which had been set down in May 1952.13 The new White Paper said : Many of the fears lately expressed as to the Government 's policy arise from a misconception of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is in order to inform Parliament of the Government 's views in greater detail that this further White Paper is being issued . ' 14 But what the White Paper of November 1953 revealed was not an amplification of the scheme as outlined in the White Paper of May 1952 . It was a total change of policy . What was now being proposed was not a second television service forbidden to deal with serious subjects such as religion and politics but a second Corporation which was virtually a mirror-image of the BBC . The controlling body , which the 1952 White Paper declared to be necessary as a safeguard against abuses , was now to be a public corporation . It would be set up by Statute for an initial period of ten years and , like the BBC , would operate under Licence from the Postmaster General . This new Corporation , the Independent Television Authority , would be governed by a Board of Directors , very similar to the BBC 's Board of Governors. * Like the BBC , it would be given independence in the handling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to be under the control of a public corporation there was now no need ( said the White Paper ) to ban it from producing programmes about religious or political matters.15 But the special position of the BBC was formally recognised : The proposal that there should be competition with the BBC is in no way a criticism of that body , of whose achievements the whole country is justly proud . It has been made clear throughout that the BBC would continue to be the main instrument of broadcasting in the United Kingdom . ' 16 The White Paper was issued on November 13 , 1953 . In March 1954 the Postmaster General issued a Licence to the Independent 1 o8 1952 ? 1954 Television Authority . On August 4 , 1954 the Television Act , which allowed a commercially financed television service in Great Britain for a period of ten years , became law . The decisive change from the ideas put forward in the White Paper of 1952 , altered in the White Paper of 1953 and formalised in the rules laid down in the Television Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be one of unrestricted commercialism ' . Public anxieties about the possible abuse by commercial interests of their right to enter people 's homes in order to persuade had resulted in a number of safeguards being written into the Act . The most important was the ruling that advertisers should not be allowed to control or influence the form and content of television programmes . They could buy television time and make television commercials ' . But these advertisements had to be distinguishable from ordinary television programmes and could be placed only at certain points during transmissions , for instance at the beginning and end of programmes and in the so-called natural breaks ' within programmes as , for example , between the acts of a play . Moreover detailed regulations were laid down about the amount of advertising which could be permitted in relation to programme time and which could be allowed in any clock hour ' . The Television Act was also more specific than the White Paper of 1953 in regard to the political coverage allowed in commercial television broadcasts . It forbade the inclusion of matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .17 This made it impossible for the political parties to buy time on television which they could use , for instance at times of elections , for party purposes . But the Act permitted the inclusion in commercial television of relays of the whole ( but not some ) of the BBC 's party political programmes ' . I8 The result was that the usual procedure in regard to party political and party election programmes came to be that these were produced , as before , in co-operation with the parties , by the BBC and were relayed ' by the commercial companies on the same days and at the same times as the BBC transmissions . The use of word relay ' was significant . It seemed to indicate the pre-eminence of the BBC in matters of party political television . It also appeared to endorse the statement in the White Paper of 1953 that the BBC would continue to be the main instrument of broadcasting in the United Kingdom ' . Also , in order to make these relays ' practically possible , representatives of the Independent Television Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political parties at which the length , number , placing and timing of party political broadcasts were agreed . But since the impact of political pronouncements in formal party political broadcasts was declining and the impact of appearances of politicians in ordinary television current affairs programmes was increasing , the arrangements under the Act of 1954. about the relaying of party political programmes were less important than other factors in determining the effect of the new service on politics . One of these was that the commercial companies were specifically permitted by the Television Act of 1954 to present balanced discussions and debates where the persons taking part expressed opinions and put forward arguments of a political character ' . This opened the way to the appearances of politicians , including Prime Ministers and Leaders of the Opposition , in commercial television current affairs programmes . Looking back it seems astonishing that so few of us at the production level were aware of the danger to the whole existence of the BBC which had become evident as a result of the attitudes to broadcasting within the new Conservative government and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that few of us really believed that a commercial television service would be started or that , if it were , it could be successful . It was obviously absurd for politicians to say as they did " that the BBC would not be affected if its monopoly were to be broken . But it took a considerable time for most of us to realise that the long-term question was whether the BBC and the standards for which it stood could survive at all . The possibility of the extinction of the BBC as we knew it was brought home to me sharply one day when a Junior Minister came to lunch with some of us at Lime Grove . Our audience figures had dropped alarmingly as a result of the first impact of commercial television . I asked him what would happen if the figures dropped still further ; if for instance only 20 % of the television audience watched BBC television and 8o % watched ITV . He said briskly that in such a case the government could not possibly insist that the BBC 's licence fee should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ask 8o % of the viewing population to pay for the benefits enjoyed by only 20% . This may not have been government policy though it made obvious commonsense in a democratic political system . I had not II0 1952 ? 1954 really expected any other answer . We must , I knew , keep up our figures if we were to survive . But I was taken aback by the apparent cheerfulness with which a politician who had some authority in broadcasting matters could envisage the end of the BBC 's contribution to the national life . And though startled myself , I was glad that some of the television producers who were present were able to hear the brutal truth from someone more influential than I was . A number of experienced television producers were then honourably ? but perhaps a trifle myopically ? mainly interested in creating programmes of cultural importance designed for minorities and it was vital that they should realise that unless their programmes were popular as well as valuable their chance of producing valuable programmes in the future might vanish altogether . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the BBC maintained its audience figures and yet the standard of its programmes and the values which animated them seemed no different from those offered by commercial television the public was bound to ask another question . What could any government reply to a statement which ran There seems no difference between the kind of programme we get from the BBC and from commercial television . If we can obtain programmes like this free , why should we pay licence fees so that the BBC can supply us with exactly the same kind of stuff ? ' Politically any government in such a situation would find it difficult to enforce the payment of licence fees to the BBC . The almost impossible task , therefore , which faced the BBC 's television service during the next few years was to maintain the audience figures and yet produce programmes of a standard which would be sufficiently different from that of commercial television to ensure that the public could be asked to support the payment of licence fees to the BBC . Some intellectuals , and many who wished to ensure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided a service which was socially valuable , pressed it to pay more attention to minority interests ; to patronage and promotion of the arts ; to educational programmes ; to religious matters ; and that it should ignore audience figures . We , who were in the business , realised bitterly that if we did so we should rapidly become a small specialised channel which would not be supported by the mass public and would not therefore be entitled to a licence fee paid by the public , but which , if sufficiently useful in its minor way , might be maintained III THE BREAKING OF THE BBC 'S MONOPOLY as a government service , government subsidised and therefore in the long run government controlled . The broadcast freedoms which had been won so painfully would disappear . And television , losing them , might in the long run carry the BBC 's sound services down too so that they also would be controlled by the government . The reality of broadcasting would be elsewhere . And the unrestricted commercialism which the Sykes Committee had rejected in 1923 would exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We understood , therefore , that everything the television service did had to be in a precarious state of balance . We could not expect to get many programmes of purely minority interest into peak hours . If a programme could n't make the figures would it at least add to our prestige and so justify the payment of our licence on the grounds that we were clearly not pandering to commercialism and interested only in the size of our audiences ? Public relations became more important . Presentation had to be brighter . And always we had to remember that the BBC and commercial television were judged by different standards . Many years later I heard a denunciation from a pulpit of a particular BBC programme . Afterwards I asked the preacher why he had not denounced equally an ITV programme which I personally had found far more distasteful . He said Oh , but we do n't expect that kind of thing from the BBC . ' This was true from the beginning . The BBC was generally expected to be more socially responsible than commercial television and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for us to realise all this . There were other more immediate effects . One was the increased power of television vis-avis Broadcasting House . We could always say and often did , in relation to some new idea which was a departure from BBC precedent , Well , if we do n't do it , they will . ' The second was the brain drain . There was no cadre of experienced television personnel in Britain other than those trained by the BBC . The television companies had to buy BBC production staff and engineers either with the prospect of greater personal opportunities or of larger financial rewards , or both . This had various results : one was that the standards of the BBC infiltrated commercial television ; secondly , and it was a related point , that there was a camaraderie at the lower levels between the television staff of the BBC and those of commercial television , however cut-throat the competition became at the top . Thirdly , there was a sense of expansion within the BBC . It lost many I12 1952 ? 1954 valuable people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result channels of promotion were opened up ; there were more opportunities for the young , a greater receptivity for new ideas . With all this , and perhaps it was the greatest justification for the start of a competitive television service , was the new sense of freedom among television personnel . If the BBC did n't like them , or if they did n't like the BBC , they could go elsewhere and , with their television expertise , find a living in some other group in which television played its part . This was more important to the permanent television staff employed by the BBC than to the actors , entertainers , writers and speakers to whom it gave contracts . Actors could , and ( lid , move between the theatre , television and films . This was equally true of entertainers who could appear not only in television but on the halls and in cabaret . Writers who provided scripts for television could write plays for the theatre , or books , or articles for the Press , according to their particular talents . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few other outlets . Their new freedom was important to them . And because they were free to go many stayed in the BBC with a new spirit . They themselves decided that their hearts were in what the BBC television service was trying to do ; there was therefore a new enthusiasm which could be harnessed . But a price had to be paid . The BBC was forced to do something , even if painfully and gradually , to see that its Civil Service-like staff and salary structure became more related to television market values . Wages and salaries went up . And the fees paid to everyone who appeared on television rose astronomically . Vast fortunes could apparently be made by people who invested in the new commercial television companies . Those who made this possible , the musicians , the entertainers , the writers , the actors , the stars which television itself had produced , as well as the owners of racecourses , football clubs and organisers of sporting occasions , all wanted a greater share of the television wealth which now seemed to be around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public service which could not afford to pay its stars the sums they could earn in the theatre or on films or even in Fleet Street . It had become a great money-making machine . This changed the whole climate in which television operated . Serious speakers and politicians , hearing of the high earnings of others , began to ask why their own fees should not be raised . Few politicians , even those who had backed the introduction of commercial // television , appreciated the fact that , in a commercial system , time on television is a commodity and that in the United States , for example , it was not normal practice for politicians to be paid for their appearances on the air . Rather the reverse . They were considered fortunate if they did not have to buy time . The BBC had always maintained that a politician should be treated like any other contributor and paid at the same rates . So , as fees went up , appearances on television had a double attraction for many politicians : not only could they reach a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sums they earned could be a very welcome addition to their incomes . But a more important result of rising costs was the effect they had on the relation between the BBC and the Government . A member of the Independent Television Authority once said to me jovially and triumphantly , Your trouble is that you ca n't increase your revenue as costs go up whereas we can . ' This was , and is , true . Among the broadcast matters over which the Government retained control were the number of broadcasting hours and the size of the licence fee . As television costs rise it is possible for the commercial companies to put up their advertising rates . But the BBC can not itself increase the licence fee upon which its whole existence depends . Any increase in the licence fee is certain to be unpopular . No government wishes to take unpopular decisions which may be politically damaging and so the BBC 's need for a higher revenue in order to pay for a rapidly expanding and increasingly costly television service caused fresh strains in the relationship between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any government might wish to interfere with the BBC 's day-to-day management , it was bound , when dealing with a request for an increase in the licence fee , to ask for figures to justify the demand . The result was that the BBC , accustomed to the periodic investigations of official Committees whenever its Charter and Licence were due for renewal , was now forced , because of the uneasy situation caused by a fixed licence fee at a time of rising costs , to face some kind of government investigation whenever it needed a higher revenue to maintain the services ? including a second television channel and the development of colour ? which were expected of it . The Corporation therefore became more vulnerable ; and this inevitably meant some diminution in its hard-won independence from government interference in its day-to-day running . 9 Developments in Television Political Broadcasting 1952-1955 In spite of the publication in May 1952 of the Government 's White Paper which foreshadowed a competitive television service and in spite of Sir William Haley 's departure* in June , the BBC pressed on with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of television forced the pace . We discovered that if Ministers felt that , with advantage to themselves , their parties and their policies , they could appear on television when invited to do so by the BBC , even in the unprecedented circumstances of their bring asked to reply impromptu , and in public , to unrehearsed questions put by journalists , then they would do so . So although in March 1952 the parties had formally refused to have either Budget or Ministerial broadcasts on television , nevertheless on July 11 , 1952 $ senior Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr Butler , took part in the first television Press Conference ' . He had never before pp eared on television and no Chancellor of the Exchequer when in office had ever taken part in a television programme . And for the next two years , though the parties continued to reject the BBC 's offer of television time and facilities for Ministerial broadcasts , Ministers of the Crown and Leaders of the Opposition appeared regularly on press Conference ' . Such appearances were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not subject to the rules agreed withthe Parties and set down in the Aide Memoire of 1947 . I put on paper in February 1953 some of the rather fine distinctions between formal Ministerial ' broadcasts on television and the appearrnccrs of Ministers and Opposition Leaders in Press Conference ' . This memorandum was written because I wanted to invite Mr // Macmillan , then Minister of Housing and Local Government , to appear in Press Conference ' on April 22 , 1953 . Two permissions had to be sought . No Minister could broadcast without permission from the Prime Minister . And since the Director of the Spoken Word , now Harman Grisewood , had the responsibility of clearing this with the officials at No. 10 , all invitations to Ministers had to have his agreement . In my memorandum I said : I obtained in June 1952 permission from D.Tel.B . ( George Barnes ) to invite Mr Eden to take the main part in the first Press Conference programme and if Mr Eden should refuse , permission to approach Mr R. A. Butler. * Permission was given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministerial broadcasts but as programme appearances . The decisive factors which made them distinguishable from Ministerial broadcasts or Party Political broadcasts were the following : ( i ) That the Ministers should be invited to take part in exactly the same way as any other personality . They would not themselves decide when to appear and would obviously have no right of appearance . ( ii ) That the subject and handling of the programme would be determined by the BBC and not by the Ministers . In " Press Conference " they would have to be prepared to answer unscripted such questions as the journalists should ask . ( The general area of questioning and the nature of the approach are , in fact , decided by the producer in conjunction with the journalists . ) ' We had recognised from the first that if Ministers were to appear on Press Conference ' there would be special problems both for us and for them . There were no rules of the kind which governed formal Ministerials ' and which laid down conditions for any right of reply from the Opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair and impartial . We interpreted this as meaning that we ought to try to preserve an overall political balance , so that if we invited the Chancellor of the Exchequer and he accepted , we should , at the same time , plan for the appearance of the Opposition spokesman on financial affairs , then Hugh Gaitskell . . I16 1952 ? 1955 I wanted , however , to avoid a Party Political type of tit-for-tat . I thought this would be bound to occur if , say , a Butler Press Conference ' were followed immediately by a Gaitskell Press Conference ' . Interest , I believed , would then inevitably be diverted from an encounter between the Press and the chief speaker to what the speaker in the second programme would reply to the speaker in the first . So I planned a kind of four-programme cycle with a Minister of the Crown being followed by a foreign statesman such as Ernst Reuter , the Mayor of Berlin , or a Commonwealth statesman such as Roy Welensky , then a figure from a different world , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosopher such as Bertrand Russell , and only in the fourth programme a representative of the political Opposition . We did not expect , or wish , the pattern to be as rigid as this . But it gave us a rough scheme upon which to work . In the event , because of the practical difficulties of fixing dates which would suit the other commitments of the main speakers as well as the need for the programmes to be topical , it was seldom possible to follow the scheme . So although the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared in Press Conference ' on July II 1952 , we could not arrange for Hugh Gaitskell to appear until November . It was known , however , that we had invited Gaitskell and that the difficulty was only one of fixing dates . This was important . What we hoped to achieve , and gradually did , was that politicians and spokesmen for the political parties should realise that we wanted to present a politically balanced series , but over a period of time , so that there would not be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared on television . This was helped by the fact that Press Conference ' was a questioning programme and not a platform for a single speaker . Expressions of critical , if not opposing , views were already built into it by the choice of the journalists who appeared . And it was not till 1954 , when Peter Thorneycroft , then President of the Board of Trade , was alleged to have been given such a soft type of questioning by journalists that the Opposition protested and demanded a compensating programme . * . // If achieving political balance without the strict procedures laid down for Ministerials ' was largely our problem , Press Conference ' created a different set of problems for Ministers . Certainly they did not have to face the practical difficulties involved in trying to present their cases without the help of a written script ; they need only answer questions , and this was a situation with which they were familiar and for which their training had equipped them . But now they were answering questions in an unfamiliar context , one which was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; nor were they in the privileged position of being the man on the platform dealing with hecklers down below . They were talking to a few knowledgeable newspapermen who were sitting beside them and asking questions which were often penetrating . The answers had to match the questions in seriousness if Ministers were not to seem lesser and lighter men than those who were questioning them . Moreover evasive replies were immediately seen to be so by the millions who were watching . Yet it was often difficult , and could be against the national interest , for a Foreign Secretary or a Chancellor of the Exchequer to answer frankly some of the questions which were bound to be asked by informed and information-seeking journalists . These were not briefing sessions where a Minister could give background information to journalists on a non-attributable basis . He was seen to be saying whatever it was he said . And he would be watched not only by ordinary viewers but also by representatives of the Commonwealth and foreign Press so that a slip of the tongue or an insufficiently considered reply given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow . The pyschological and political difficulties for Ministers appearing on Press Conference ' were those of taking part in what looked like a reasonably private and friendly encounter but which in fact was immensely public , within sight of a viewing audience which expected frankness when frankness was often impossible , and in the kind of close-up which made evasiveness easily detectable . To run a programme like Press Conference ' it was necessary to appreciate some of the strains it imposed on Ministers who were appearing on it . Without prescribed methods or rules of procedure we had to work out our own . Their object was to see that the situation was not made impossible for Ministers who might be in the middle of delicate international or financial negotiations but which 1 18 1952 ? 1955 would still allow programmes to be genuinely unrehearsed and unscripted . These rules were pragmatic , flexible and never written down ; but they became part of the unwritten practice of programmes of political interrogation on television . The first was a matter of attitude . We hoped that the questioning process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and personal attitudes of a Minister . If journalists felt that they were being fobbed off with an evasive or a merely routine answer to a serious question , they would pursue it . But there was no wish to set traps . And we made this clear to those we invited . In the early days some Ministers wanted to be told in advance what questions they would be asked . We always refused to do this . The programme would no longer be spontaneous and its whole purpose would be defeated . We might as well have the journalists read out their questions and the Ministers read their answers . Moreover there was the professional reputation of the journalists to be considered . If we gave Ministers a list of questions they would be certain to try to exercise some kind of censorship over them , to say that they did not want this or that question to be asked since it would be embarrassing , and not in the national interest , for them either to answer it or not to answer it . But the journalists knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put the key questions on matters which had already been canvassed in the Press and which the public would expect them to ask , they would appear to be either illinformed or to have submitted to censorship . They were , rightly , not prepared to be put in either of these categories . We tried to overcome these very real difficulties by two main methods . Though we refused to give Ministers ( or any other figure who appeared on Press Conference ' ) a list of the questions which were to be asked , we were prepared to indicate in general terms the areas within which there would be questioning . This was simply commonsense . It would be ridiculous to expect a Foreign Secretary , for instance , at a time when public interest was centred on the dangers of the Cold War in Europe or the position of the oil companies in Persia , to have at his fingertips the detail of negotiations currently being conducted in Latin America or Indonesia . There was therefore every sensible reason not to put a clever question which would force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the latest developments in such negotiations . No responsible journalist wanted to put trick questions of this I19 DEVELOPMENTS IN POLITICAL BROADCASTING kind . But journalists were bound to put questions which Ministers might find it embarrassing to answer in a session as public as Press Conference ' . If our advice were asked we suggested to Ministers that it was better to refuse to answer than to be evasive . Better still would be to make it clear in replying that the journalist asking the questions must know that it was impossible for a Minister to answer such a question at this moment . Unless such an answer clearly was an attempt to evade legitimate questioning most journalists accepted this type of reply . Ministers were differently and often revealingly adept in dealing with situations of this kind . One example was Aneurin Bevan . He appeared in Press Conference ' on March 26 , 1953 and was questioned by Andrew Shonfield , who often acted as participating chairman ; an American , Ed Newman , who was London correspondent of the National Broadcasting Company ; Malcolm Muggeridge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Punch , and Trevor Evans , then Labour Correspondent of the Daily Express . Bevan , since his resignation from the Cabinet in 1951 , had , in a sense , been in the wilderness but was a powerful rival to Hugh Gaitskell for the leadership of the Labour Party . He had attacked the Gaitskellite policies , particularly in matters of defence . A key question was whether he could also afford to quarrel with the Trade Unions . It is worth noticing the differences between radio and television as a method of communication on such occasions . Bevan was not a successful radio broadcaster , largely because he had a stutter . But when I first met him I was at once aware that his immense vitality and the warm generosity of his attitudes would , on television , make his stutter irrelevant . Silences , or impediments in speech , are of the utmost importance in sound radio . If a pause is longer than usual , while , for instance a speaker is trying to consider how to answer a question , the listener is apt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiddle with the controls of his set . But on television nothing is more fascinating than to look at a person who is thinking , who is revolving a question in his mind and trying to decide how to answer it . This is a genuine situation , real and immediate ; and the message of the act of thinking is conveyed visually by the expressions on the face of the man who is answering . Programmes of interrogation are , therefore , on the whole more successful on television than on sound radio . There is no interruption of communication ; sight supplements the spoken word . I20 1952 ? 1955 In a sense this is true also of impediments in speech . A stutter on radio can be embarrassing . Communication depends on being able to hear what is being said and a stutter becomes , so to speak , an interference in communication . But this is not true of television . Communication is not cut off since it is possible to watch the speaker as he struggles to communicate verbally . And if he is not embarrassed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not fully understand , a stutter can in fact add to , rather than detract from , the effectiveness of communication in vision . This is what happened in the case of Aneurin Bevan . He had a reputation for being both formidable and destructive . On Press Conference ' we had been prepared for this . But on this occasion he decided to be genial and avuncular . He steered the questions into paths which suited him and chased enormous hares down long corridors of irrelevancy . The questioners failed to pin him down and became exasperated . Then Trevor Evans asked an explosive question : ' Why is it that your group has been so free in denigrating personalities among the Trade Union leaders ? ' Bevan said , This is a mere repetition of newspaper headlines . ' Evans replied , ' Not at all , not at all . ' Bevan demanded , ' Where has there been a denigration ? ' Evans said , ' Well , the latest example was the criticism of Lincoln Evans for accepting the knighthood . Do you concur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did not concur he was denouncing those of his own followers who did . But if he said he did concur he would offend powerful colleagues in the Trade Unions . In the control gallery we waited , tense , to see what would happen . Ile looked reproachfully at Evans ; and said , ' No . No . No . ' Then he smiled broadly , lifted his finger , shook it in Evans 's face and said , ' You have been very naughty , as you know . You must not try to inveigle me into personal attacks on my colleagues . ' 2 There was a burst of laughter . It was impossible to pursue the question . He had handled the television situation with the superb skill with which he had handled others elsewhere . I maintain that such television broadcasts were and are valuable . It was clear to anybody watching that he was skating , however successfully , over some very thin ice ; that he was not going to accept the logic of journalists or any other logic except that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was so powerful a figure In British politics . This was no mean conspirator or stabber in the I2I DEVELOPMENTS IN POLITICAL BROADCASTING back , but a determined , skilful and generous man who pursued ends which were not ignoble with passion and humour through whatever channels were open to him . I do not know , and did not care , whether Aneurin Bevan 's appearance on Press Conference ' helped or hindered him in his struggle for the leadership of the Labour Party . I was only concerned to try to see that television revealed him , as faithfully as possible , to be what he was . The millions who watched , and judged , were accustomed to assessing character . This was part of their own expertise ; a talent they had to exercise in their daily lives , in making up their minds about who they should marry , how to deal with a foreman , a relative or a managing director . The basic approach of those producing programmes such as Press Conference ' was always that the public were good judges if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could add one more facet to those already existing ; to the records of action ; the newspaper profiles ; the reports of speeches . That , in the main , was what Press Conference ' was about . Until 1953 television coverage of political matters was largely confined to Press Conference ' and other current affairs programmes initiated and controlled by the British Broadcasting Corporation . The only formal use made of television by the political parties had been the three experimental Party Election broadcasts in the election campaign of 1951 . But on March 24 , 1953 , the parties accepted the BBC 's offer of television time and facilities for both Party Political and Budget broadcasts . The problems of Ministerial broadcasts and any future Party Election broadcasting were referred to a working party which was set up to consider them and to make recommendations before the next annual meeting between the BBC and the parties in March 1954 . The need to make immediate arrangements for Budget and Party Political broadcasts and the setting up of the working party to study the use of television for Ministerial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of the complex relationships between the BBC and the political parties ; in particular of the importance of the annual meeting with the parties ; of the Aide Memoire of 1947 and the disputes which had taken place from 1947 onwards about the interpretation of its rules in regard to Ministerial broadcasts and about such ancillary agreements as the fortnightly rule ' . I22 1952 ? 1955 The history of the Aide Memoire is very curious . This vital document* was a record of the agreements reached between the BBC and the political parties as a result of conversations in 1944 , 1945 and 1946 about the resumption of controversial broadcasting after the end of the Second World War . During the war and while the Coalition Government under Winston Churchill was in existence there was no party political broadcasting and the BBC 's own current affairs broadcasting had come under the general jurisdiction of the Minister of Information . By May 1945 the Coalition Government had been replaced by the Caretaker Government with Mr Churchill as Prime Minister . A General Election was imminent . The end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more be used contentiously in party political battles . Under these circumstances talks between the political parties and representatives of the BBC were inevitable . But the talks took place in a restrictionist atmosphere . Sir Ian Jacob , when Director-General of the BBC , wrote a paper for the Board of Governors in preparation for the annual meeting with the political parties in March 1953 , in which he said that in 1946 and 1947 it was felt that senior politicians were so opposed to any freedom in the handling , however impartially , of political affairs by the BBC that there was a real danger that the parties might come to an agreement that the Corporation should not undertake any political broadcasting other than the set Party Political broadcasts by Government and Opposition . To avoid this , ' he said , and to preserve some freedom for broadcasting the BBC had accepted various restrictions , including the fortnightly rule . ' 3 The BBC from the first had been restive about the terms of the Aide Memoire and had made representations to the political parties about the desirability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' and the definitions of Ministerial ' broadcasts . The political parties argued that the Aide Memoire was a binding agreement which could not be broken without the consent of the parties and certainly not unilaterally by the BBC . The BBC contended that the Aide Memoire , as its name implied , was simply a record of agreements made in discussion at a particular time . They quoted , in support of their case , a letter which Mr Greenwood , when Lord Privy Seal in the Labour Government , had written on January 3 , 1946 and which referred to the Aide Memoire . It said : // The Government do not think it desirable to attempt to reduce to written rules the principles which should govern the BBC in regard to political broadcasting . The principles to be adopted must depend upon good sense and goodwill , and it is as impossible to formulate exhaustive principles on paper as it is , for instance , impossible to define what conduct is unbefitting to an officer and a gentleman . The few short principles indicated should therefore be regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 Nevertheless at annual meeting after annual meeting the political parties refused to accept changes suggested by the BBC . The matter came to a head over the so-called fortnightly rule ' . Senior politicians in both Government and Opposition had been anxious that broadcast discussions of political affairs should not result in broadcasting becoming an alternative forum of debate to Parliament . So paragraph 6 ( iv ) of the Aide Memoire of 194.7 ran : ' No broadcasts arranged by the BBC other than the normal reporting of Parliamentary proceedings are to take place on any question while it is the subject in either House . ' S The vagueness of this paragraph made the rule almost impossible to administer and in July 1948 Government and Opposition agreed with the BBC that 6 ( iv ) should be construed as : ( a ) that the BBC will not have discussions or ex parte statements on any issues for a period of a fortnight before they are debated in either house : ( b ) that while matters are subjects of legislation MPs will not be used in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule restrictive and , in practice , difficult to operate . It affected all topical programmes and was creating difficulties in television discussions such as In the News ' . Information about precisely what subjects were to be debated in Parliament within any particular fortnight was not always easy to obtain and some topical broadcast discussions , arranged before the Parliamentary timetable had been finalised , had had to be cancelled at the last moment . The Corporation therefore continued to argue that the fortnightly rule ' should be abolished . But the parties continued to refuse . The long struggle over the fortnightly rule revealed the weakness of the BBC when faced with a united front by the main political 124. 1952 ? 1955 parties . This was demonstrated by subsequent events . The Corporation eventually came to the conclusion that it need not accept restrictions unless they were laid down in its Charter and Licence and decided that it should use its own discretion in regard to broadcast discussions about political matters which might be debated in Parliament . The political parties were informed of their intentions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BBC , Herbert Morrison ( Lab. ) and H. F. C. Crookshank ( Con. ) , was to produce what can only be considered to be a threat to the BBC by the political parties . The Corporation was warned that it was inadvisable to get into a position of public dispute with the Leaders of all parties in the House of Commons . ' More important than the discussions about the fortnightly rule ' were the arguments over the definitions of Ministerial ' broadcasts as laid down in the Aide Memoire of 1947 . The question here was not that broadcasting might become an alternative to Parliament as a forum for debate but that Ministers might use broadcasting to bypass Parliamentary procedures . If a Minister , particularly a Prime Minister , could make his statements on domestic or foreign affairs not to Parliament but by broadcasting , directly , personally and unchallenged , to individual members of the electorate the whole system of democratic representative government could be undermined . Parliament therefore was highly suspicious of the development of Ministerial broadcasting . That way could lie dictatorship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive in relation to the Legislature . So in the Aide Memoire of 1947 the right of Ministers to broadcast was acknowledged but careful definitions were laid down about the use of these rights and provision was made for giving the Opposition a right of reply . Paragraph 2 of the Aide Memoire ran : ' In view of their responsibilities for the care of the nation the Government should be able to use the wireless from time to time for Ministerial broadcasts which , for example , are purely factual , are explanatory of legislation or administrative policies approved by Parliament ; or in the nature of appeals to the nation to cooperate in national policies such as fuel economy or recruiting , which require the active participation of the public . Broadcasts on State Occasions also come in the same category . ' The rights of Parliament were apparently secured . Ministerial // broadcasts were to be mainly explanations of legislative or administrative policies already approved by Parliament or innocuous appeals for public co-operation which came to be known within the BBC as the Post Early for Christmas ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition were also made clear . Paragraph 2 of the Aide Memoire went on : It will be incumbent on Ministers making such broadcasts to be as impartial as possible , and in the ordinary way there will be no question of a reply by the Opposition . Where , however , the Opposition think that a Government broadcast is controversial it will be open to them to take the matter up through the usual channels with a view to reply . ' The Aide Memoire went on to specify in detail the procedures for a right of reply : As a reply if one is to be made should normally be within a very short period after the original broadcast , say three days , the BBC will be free to exercise its own judgment if no agreement is arrived at within that period . ' An extraordinary situation was thus created . The political parties in effect insisted that the British Broadcasting Corporation , itself ultimately responsible to Parliament , should adjudicate between the parties when they were in dispute about whether Ministers of the Crown had made a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . The position of the BBC was made all the more difficult because Ministers themselves did not adhere to the definition of Ministerial broadcasts and rights of reply as set out in the Aide Memoire . This was true of both parties . As early as 1948 Sir William Haley was pointing out some of the problems . The Minister of Health ( Aneurin Bevan ) at the time of the doctors ' plebiscite on the Health Service had wished his Chief Medical Adviser to broadcast and had demanded from the BBC an assurance , before they had even seen the script , that the Opposition would not be accorded a right of reply . The Director-General felt that it was impossible to decide in advance that a broadcast on a controversial subject , however factual and objective it might be , was not to be regarded as controversial8 . In 1952 Sir William Haley , in an internal memorandum in 126 1952 ? 1955 preparation for the meeting with the parties in March , stated that the definitions of Ministerial broadcasts laid down in the Aide Memoire ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had led up to it ) were laid down by way of illustration rather than intended to be a limiting definition of them. ? He quoted a remark of Winston Churchill 's which seemed to support this view . Haley said that when the BBC had pointed out how many Ministerial broadcasts there had been in the first years of the Labour Government , Mr Churchill took the initiative and said , The King 's Government must be carried on and broadcasting is a proper means to help to do this . ' I n practice leaders of both political parties continued to use the agreed rights of Ministers to broadcast not so much in terms of the definitions set down in the Aide Memoire as in the spirit of Winston Churchill 's pronouncement . The discrepancy between actual practice by Ministers in Ministerial ' broadcasting and the narrow definitions laid down in the Aide Memoire of 1947 left the BBC in a dillicult position . In cases of dispute its decisions were liable to be attacked by whichever Party felt aggrieved . Feelings often ran high . Explanations were demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done at speed since a reply , to be effective , had to be given within a few days of the original broadcast . For some time television was not directly involved in these troubles . But it was inevitable that Ministers , particularly those who had had some television experience , would soon want to use television as well as sound radio when making important statements to the nation . This happened in the spring of 1954 . On May 31 , Mr Anthony Nutting , Minister of State at the Foreign Office , wrote to Sir Ian Jacob suggesting that the Foreign Secretary , Mr Eden , " tumid give a talk on television after his return from Geneva about some of the issues which had been raised there . When asked to comment I proposed an appearance by Mr. Eden in Press Conferonce ' on either June i 1 or 18 or 30 and discussed these possibilities inli ) rnially with the Foreign Office . It was made clear to me that this proposal was not likely to satisfy Mr Eden . I was asked whether it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a single person as , by 1954 , Wan the practice for Budget broadcasts . But the method we had devised for Budget broadcasts was intended to suit an occasion when dillrriiig views were put forward on successive nights , starting with ihr ( : Iiancellor of the Exchequer , followed by the Shadow Chancellor // on the second night . What Mr Eden was now suggesting was that he should use the same style but without any prearranged expression of Opposition opinion . It seemed to me , therefore , that he was in fact asking for a Ministerial broadcast . I reported this within the BBC . On June 2 , 1954 , Sir Ian Jacob wrote to Anthony Nutting and pointed out that the political parties in March had once again rejected the BBC 's offer of television for Ministerial broadcasts and had felt that all Ministerial broadcasts should be confined to sound . ' ? So , by 1954. it had become clear that Mr Eden wanted to use television to address the nation but did not wish this to occur in circumstances where he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be hostile . Indeed , though after Sir Ian Jacob 's letter the proposal for a television appearance by Mr Eden in June 1954 was dropped , it was revived in November . Mr Eden wished to be interviewed on television on November 24 or 25 by one person with whom he would discuss the line of questioning in advance . These attitudes were a foreshadowing of the difficulties there were to be about Ministerial broadcasting during the Suez crisis . But that was not until 1956 . And now I must go back to the early months of 1953 when my own immediate concern was the devising of methods for handling the first television Budget broadcasts . The matter was urgent . These broadcasts were the result of the decision of the political parties in March 1953 that though Ministerial broadcasts should not be given on television yet television should be used for Budget as well as for Party Political broadcasting . And by March the Budget was almost upon us . Budget Day was to be April 14 . But already by March 27 Sir Ian Jacob had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chancellor is thinking in terms of a television broadcast on the third night . ' This meant that the Chancellor , Mr Butler , would give a sound radio broadcast on the evening of Budget Day as was the established custom . Mr Gaitskell , the Shadow Chancellor , would broadcast his reply , also in sound , on the following evening . But on April 16 there would be a television broadcast by the Chancellor and on the 17th by Mr Gaitskell . I was asked to suggest the form which the television Budget broadcasts might take . Aware that neither Mr Butler nor Mr Gaitskell would want to give a straight talk and aware too that both had I28 1952 ? 1955 appeared on Press Conference ' and were familiar with its format , I suggested that for each of these Budget broadcasts we might mount a special Press Conference ' with William Clark of the Observer as participating chairman and the rest of the team balanced in the party sense and chosen with regard to their background of interest in economic affairs . This proposal was put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaitskell preferred to have only one questioner , the same for each . The Budget broadcasts would therefore take the form of interviews . And it was almost inevitable that the interviewer should be William Clark . He had worked with me on Press Conference ' from the beginning and , though not an expert in economic affairs , was politically well informed , known to both Mr Butler and Mr Gaitskell and by now highly experienced in television . The format was agreed . But the practical arrangements were cornplicated . The Chancellor would have to slip out of the House of Commons for two brief periods , one for a preliminary lighting session so that we could try out the camera shots , and later for the broadcast interview itself ? which would be live ' . We had no television studio within the Palace of Westminster or indeed anywhere near it . The easiest arrangement for the Chancellor would be for the interview to take place in his own study in Number 11 Downing Street . But this would mean making an Outside Broadcast Unit available . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy demands on technical manpower and required a great deal of time to instal . It would be necessary to run cables into Number bring in cameras and fix lights and microphones in the Chancellor 's study during what was probably the busiest week of his year . Moreover Outside Broadcast Units were in great demand for ordinary programme purposes . Nevertheless this first television Budget broadcast by a Chancellor of the Exchequer was a special occasion and it was eventually agreed that an Outside Broadcast Unit and director could be made available . The van , which was the equivalent of a television control gallery from which the programme would be directed , could be parked at the back of the Downing Street gardens near the Horse Guards Parade ; and cables could be run through the garden of No. 11 into the Chancellor 's study . The question then arose of the milieu for Mr Gaitskell 's broadcast on Friday evening . He would not have to be in the House of Commons . There was no reason , therefore , why he should not come to // Lime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so . He would like the interview to take place in his house in Hampstead . I , too , hoped to arrange this because it would be proper to treat the Shadow Chancellor as nearly as possible in the same way as the Chancellor . But it was not possible . I asked the Outside Broadcast department whether the Unit which we were using on Thursday , April 16 , in Downing Street for the Chancellor 's broadcast could be moved to Hampstead in time for Mr Gaitskell 's broadcast on Friday , April 17 . They said that it could not be done . Quite apart from various other technical problems , it would be impossible to de-rig the Downing Street installations and re-rig them in Hampstead by the following evening . And a second Outside Broadcast Unit could not be made available without disastrous disruption of ordinary programmes . These were the decisive arguments . But in any case the Outside Broadcast Department could not see the point of going to all the expense and the effort of using an Outside Broadcast Unit to broadcast a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house . The broadcast from No. i i was an historic occasion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer answering questions about the Budget in the traditional residence of Chancellors of the Exchequer . In such a setting Outside Broadcast cameras could reveal visually something of the significance of the occasion quite apart from anything that was said . But an ordinary Hampstead drawing room could be reproduced perfectly well in a studio at Lime Grove with much less trouble and at a much smaller cost . Mr Gaitskell , faced with this situation , reluctantly agreed that his broadcast should take place in a television studio . The arguments of the Outside Broadcast Department were full of practicality and commonsense . But in fact the circumstances in which an interview takes place change in subtle ways the manner in which it is conducted . If Outside Broadcast Units are used on political occasions the man in office usually has an advantage over the man in Opposition . Even if we had been able to arrange that Mr Gaitskell 's Budget broadcast came from Hampstead the Chancellor would still have gained from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show him to be a senior Minister of the Crown . The historic settings of No. 10 or No. 11 in themselves clothe a Prime Minister or a Chancellor of the Exchequer with an authority which does not exist visually in a drawing room or a studio . And this affects the interviewer , however little he may intend it 130 1952 ? 1955 to do so . In a Downing Street interview he is seen to be asking questions of a man whose surroundings proclaim that he has been entrusted by the nation with power . If he seems brash or discourteous he will lose the sympathy of the viewer . Interviewers adjust themselves to such situations not in the content of what they ask but almost imperceptibly in the manner of their asking . This is not calculated . It is simply an instinctive reaction to the circumstances . And there is also the question of the host ? guest relationship . Mr Gaitskell , like other Opposition Leaders , had no official residence such as No. i i Downing Street and so he was bound to lose in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the broadcast had taken place from Hampstead he would have been the host and the interviewer his guest , just as Mr Butler was in Downing Street . Interviewers in such circumstances are aware that they appear as guests . " Their function is to ask questions on behalf of the television public ; but they must behave as guests to their host since that is the role in which they are cast by the circumstances in which they appear . In a television studio they are more at home than the politicians and so t heir roles are changed in small , subtle ways which are not deliberate . Mr Gaitskell was right , therefore , to think that the place from which his broadcast took place was of importance . This question of the milieu for political broadcasts on television continued to be a problem . It was raised again in relation to the Budget broadcasts of 1954 and caused some difficulty later when Sir Alex Douglas-Home as Prime Minister was interviewed in No. to Downing Street and Mr Wilson as Leader of the Opposition in a studio at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the content of the questions but in the fact that on television a slightly greater courtesy of manner was evident when a Prime Minister in No. io Downing Street was being interviewed by people who were his guests than in an interview conducted by the same interviewers in a television studio . Negotiations about the Budget broadcasts were not conducted with representatives of the Party organisations . Two groups of people , I found , were involved in relation to the Chancellor 's television appearance . There were those representing the Treasury and ' those concerned with Mr Butler 's timetable and with the practical arrangements for installing cameras , lighting equipment and so on in No. it . The Treasury discussions were with the Head of the Treasury 's Information Services ; those about the Chancellor 's // time-table and the practical problems at No. 11 with the Chancellor 's Private Secretary and with the various people responsible for the household . An advantage , I discovered , in trying to produce Budget broadcasts was that in the last resort one man made the decisions . The Chancellor might take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And in the end the discussions about methods and television styles took place directly between him and the television producer ? myself . And so it was for Mr Gaitskell . But Mr Gaitskell was in a more difficult position than Mr Butler . He could not prepare his sound radio or television broadcasts until he had heard the Chancellor 's speech in the House of Commons . And he had none of the cushioning apparatus available to the Chancellor : Treasury officials to provide figures ; Private Secretaries to answer telephones and fend off the Press . On the day of his television broadcast , I lunched with him and with William Clark in the latter 's flat in Albany . We had to devise for these interviews a method which walked delicately between the cross-examining style and the over-helpful stooge type of questioning . We did not want to echo , much less to forestall , the debate which was simultaneously taking place in the House of Commons . What we could do , taking advantage of the Press and radio coverage since Budget Day , was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical points which had been made of their respective standpoints and get each to comment upon them . That was what happened . It was a limited , but I thought a sensible , objective and did constitute an opportunity for viewers to see under questioning two influential politicians whose views and actions could affect the national economy and the lives of individual citizens . They came over very differently . Mr Butler , urbane and confident , obviously taking pleasure in being one of the long line of Chancellors of the Exchequer and in succeeding those others in No . I I. Mr Gaitskell in a Lime Grove studio , pale , strained and a little tense ; almost desperately sincere . Then , as on later occasions , I noticed the different look of the men in power from the men in Opposition . The whole apparatus of office creates a sense of ease and authority . Mr Butler swept up to No. 11 from the House of Commons in an official chauffeur-driven car . There were policemen outside the door ; inside were his secretaries and assistants from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lighting and sound engineers from 132 1952 ? 1955 the Outside Broadcast Unit were waiting . We had all been anxious , ( luring the preparations , not to disturb the household more than was necessary , not to trouble the doorkeeper with over-much coming and going , not to damage the furniture as it was moved around so that the cameras could get the most effective shots of the Chancellor and of ' William Clark and yet give some impression of the surroundings in which the interview was taking place . The whole atmosphere was in a sense hushed . Everything in the attitudes of doorkeepers and policemen and secretaries and members of the household made us aware that we were in the residence of the holder of an historic office , a man who by virtue of his position must be protected and cared for . Not so for Mr Gaitskell . If he did not wish to drive his own car from Hampstead to Lime Grove ( where parking was difficult ) we were prepared to send a car for him . This was costed against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his budget . When Mr Gaitskell ( or any other Opposition figure ) arrived he would let the receptionist know that he wanted the producer to be told . I would then come to meet him , take him into one of the reception areas on the ground floor where he and I and William Clark would make any final arrangements ; then up to the studio so that he could see the setting and so that the lighting engineer could adjust the lights and the sound engineer give him a voice test . The No. 11 broadcast was , so to speak , custom-built for the Chancellor . At Lime Grove Mr Gaitskell fitted into the complex machine of television production . These differences applied , of course , equally to the world outside television where none of the secretaries , cars , research facilities , official residences and civil servants available to Ministers were available to Leaders of the Opposition . But , since television is a visual medium , this difference tended to be reflected in the general air of those taking part . Jane Austen 's Emma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the bearing of those who arrived in a carriage from that of those who arrived on foot . I began to think that I could tell the difference between the bearing of those leaders of the Opposition who appeared in a television studio and those Ministers who were interviewed with the help of an Outside Broadcast Unit in their official residence . By the time the Budget broadcasts were transmitted I had started negotiations with the Conservative Central Office about the first // television Party Political broadcast . On sound radio there were normally twelve party political broadcasts each of fifteen minutes in any one political year ( i.e. between April 1 in one year and March 31 in the next ) . They were allocated at the annual meeting in a ratio determined by the proportion of votes cast at the last General Election . In 1952 the allocation for sound radio broadcasts was 6 for the Conservatives , 5 for Labour and 1 for the Liberals . There was no possibility of television , with its limited transmission hours , being able to accommodate as many as this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound broadcasts the Conservative and Labour Parties would each have 2 television broadcasts and also that each would have the right to take 2 of its quota of sound broadcasts as television broadcasts . Each therefore , if it wished to do so , could have 4 television party political broadcasts between April 1 , 1953 and March 31 , 1954 .. The Liberal Party , which was not represented at the annual meeting , was entitled to 1 party broadcast only . The meeting decided that they should have the right to take this on sound radio or on television or on both simultaneously . These arrangements were announced by the BBC on April 22 , 1953 . But by then the Conservative Party had already decided that it wanted to have its first television Party Political broadcast on May 1 and I was already discussing with Mark Chapman-Walker of Central Office the form it would take . Our prediction at the meeting on December 19 , 1952 that politicians and party organisations would want to present complex programmes on television had been correct . We had thought in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true of this first television Party Political broadcast . And I was soon alarmed by the unrealistic complications which the Conservatives were planning to introduce into their programme . The subject was to be housing . The chief speaker in the studio would be the Minister of Housing and Local Government , Harold Macmillan . Mr William Deedes , Conservative Member of Parliament for Ashford , a well-known journalist , would also appear . And Mr Macmillan 's Parliamentary Private Secretary , Mr Ernest Marples , who had been a building contractor , would present a specially shot film showing the new building methods which were being used to speed up the housing programme . In addition there would be stills , other short film sequences and introductory music . All this in twenty minutes . At the meeting with the Parties on March 24 no decision had been made about the length of television Party Political 134 1952 ? 1955 broadcasts but , though Labour would have preferred thirty minutes , the Labour and Conservative parties finally agreed that for the first year , as an experiment , Party Political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BBC we had come to some general conclusions about the responsibilities of the producer and of the Corporation in regard to those political broadcasts in television over which the parties had editorial control . The content was the responsibility of the parties though the producer could and should give any professional and technical advice which was required . As a result of my experience over the Battle of the Graphs ' in 1951 it had been agreed that any stills , graphs and other visual aids should be provided by the parties themselves . Similarly any film sequences which they wanted should be provided ( and paid for ) by the party organisations and not by the BBC 's film department . This was mainly because we had insufficient film resources for our own current affairs and newsreel programmes . 1 f we had to make films at short notice at the request of the political parties , and to their brief , we could only achieve this by disrupting our own programmes . Moreover , given the ignorance of film at Party Headquarters , it was highly unlikely that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibilities of friction because the film we shot and edited might well not match the ideas which officials and politicians conjured up in their mind 's eye . So we thought it better for them to get any film they wanted made by an outside comrnercial film company . We would give advice and be responsible lirr the transmission of any such film : not for its manufacture . But there were a number of other areas in which responsibilities Were far from clear . I outlined these , and the situation generally , in a memorandum which I wrote on April 21 , 1953 . It included the following points : ' ( a On receiving my instructions to look after the programme , I was told it was in the hands of the Conservative Central Office . Mr Chapman-Walker asked me if I would first discuss the proposed programme from the technical point of view with Mrs CrumEwing* and a young man ( who has , I believe , been through our training school ) whom they have got in as their technical television adviser , Mr Kneebone . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devised , I understand , at high level within DEVELOPMENTS IN POLITICAL BROADCASTING the Conservative Party , and which they were merely told to discuss with me in technical terms . It presented a number of technical and practical problems on which they wanted urgent discussion . My own view was that the whole scheme for the programme was misguided . It tried to get too much into twenty minutes ; having too many ingredients it would almost certainly be scrappy ; it asked far more of amateur speakers ( in using stills , in cueing in films and in commentary live to film ) than I would have risked asking of similar speakers in an ordinary programme . I let Mrs Crum-Ewing know that I thought the script was too complicated , but there was no point in discussing it in detail with her since she had no authority except to implement it . The script has since been greatly simplified , but it still , in my view , asks far too much of amateur speakers and runs considerable risks , therefore , of being technically untidy . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told me that the script had taken this complicated form for two reasons : i The Prime Minister* himself was taking a great interest in the programme and wanted to try out the technical tricks of television . ii Mr Macmillan was anxious not to do anything in the " Press Conference " style since he did not want the questioning to be hostile and a programme of this kind with " stooge " questioners would compare unfavorably with existing " Press Conferences " . He therefore wanted to try something quite different and with a good deal of illustration . I said that I thought that he was running into grave dangers in attempting anything as complicated as the script they proposed with amateur speakers . He said that this was an experimental programme and they were prepared to have a flop . I said that , unfortunately , it would be the BBC who would be blamed for the flop ? if there should be one ? not the Conservative Party , since the flop would take the form , to the public , of technical deficiencies ( e.g. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) which would look to the outward eye like a failing on our side ? not theirs . He took the point , but is very anxious indeed not to have the 136 1952 ? 1955 script changed or revised in any way . I feel myself , however , that we must be firm about this . I am aware that the situation is delicate . On the one hand we want to interfere as little as possible ? this should be their programme which we merely put on . On the other hand it would , I think , be disastrous if we gave an impression of incompetence on an occasion like this , merely because the Party script was unrealistic . ' I added a long list of minor decisions which I had made and , in a postscript , said : ' Since dictating this , Mr Chapman-Walker has asked me to come tomorrow morning at 10.30 to meet Mr Macmillan , Mr Marples and Mr William Deedes . ' I went . This was a Party occasion . A Minister was the chief speaker but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at our discussions . Indeed Civil Servants tended to treat these Party appearances of Ministers with a kind of lofty disdain . To most of them their Minister had , so to speak , two separate faces . One was that of their master , the head of their Ministry . To him , whatever they thought of his abilities , they behaved as loyal servants . But there was also the other face , that of the party political propagandist . They owed no official loyalties to him in this regard , washed their hands of all responsibilities , and left them to the party Organisations . Our meetings about television Party Political broadcasts in which Ministers were concerned took place therefore not , as in the case of the Chancellor 's Budget Broadcast , in the Treasury or at No. 11 Downing Street , but at Party Headquarters . And it was clear to me that no one single person seemed to be in a position to make a final derision about the content and style of the broadcast . I soon discovered that television Party Political and Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , between a number of very differing points of view . Party officials like Mark ChapmanWalker had to consider any particular broadcast in relation to party Strategy as a whole ; to political speeches which were being made elsewhere ; to the grass roots views of party workers ; to the need to mould what was being said in a television broadcast to specific political events ? forthcoming local elections , or a by-election , or a current crisis in regard to the farmers ' or the miners ' vote . In all these tnatters they were responsible to the Chairman of the Party , // then Lord Woolton . Often , even within the Party organisation itself , there might be conflicting views about what was best for the Party at any one moment . And sometimes , as in 1953 , the Prime Minister , then Winston Churchill , might have views which could not be ignored . Neither Lord Woolton nor the Prime Minister took part in any of the discussions at Party Headquarters about this first Conservative television Party Political broadcast . But it was apparent that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcast was largely due to the fact that it had been difficult to get agreement either on content or presentation and that having achieved it he did not want to start the process again on the basis of a revised plan . I found , however , that the attitudes of Mr Macmillan and Mr Marples were different from those of the party officials . On this occasion they were Party men speaking on behalf of their Party . But they were also politicians wanting to make a personal success of their television appearances . They were anxious , therefore , to have any professional advice which might help them and were prepared to take notice of it even if this meant making drastic changes in the proposed programme . They asked for my views and I gave them . Or at least some of them . At this stage , ten days before the broadcast , it was no use saying that I thought the whole programme unconvincing , even , in some respects , ludicrous ; that the title Winning Through ' was calculated to make viewers switch off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sequence presented by William Deedes , showing a house made of playing cards first falling down and then building up again , seemed unnecessary and more likely to make cynical viewers think that all promises made about housing were cardboard rather than excite their imaginations . These devices , bits of film , stills , diagrams and title sequences , had been agreed , commissioned by the Party and were in process of being manufactured by various firms and individuals . It was difficult to get them altered at this late date . In any case my role was to help the politicians and the party organisation to do whatever they wanted to do , not to change it . So I merely emphasised the practical difficulties for those appearing if they had to cue in so many different visuals . As a result the script was again simplified . The transmission took place on the evening of May i after a preliminary rehearsal of the 138 1952 ? 1955 speakers at Conservative Party Headquarters and a studio rehearsal at Lime Grove . There was nothing impromptu about this programme . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , predictably , had style , though the style was slightly histrionic and his Edwardian manner not very suited to television . Mr Marples , also predictably , was sharply professional , a man who knew about building . Mr Deedes was casually at ease . The visuals were adequate . There were no disasters . But the programme had that curious air of falsity which clings to Party Political and Party Election television broadcasts . It was impossible to believe it . This is a basic dilemma for the political parties when they try to use television for party political communication . The sense of falsity is far more important than any lack of professionalism . It is largely the result of the contrast between the appearances of Ministers and Leaders of the Opposition in Party Political broadcasts and their appearances in ordinary television current affairs programmes . When a Minister appeared in Press Conference ' and was questioned by journalists , he might answer the questions well or badly , but he showed that he was aware that such questions were in the public mind and that he must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party Political broadcast , he blandly ignored the existence of the problems about which he would have been questioned by journalists in Press Conference ' it became difficult to respect him or believe what he said . The public knew that such problems existed ; that the Minister 's policies in regard to them were being canvassed in the Press , discussed on radio and television and queried by the Opposition . The Minister must also know this . When he could put his own case on television why did he not deal with them ? Questions do not disappear from the public mind because a Minister does not choose to have them put . But it is not easy in a Party Political broadcast to query the policies of your own Party . That is the job of the Opposition . It could reply in its own television time . And often did . With the result that most Party Political broadcasts became black versus white statements with neither side admitting any weakness in its own case and each denouncing the other as black and representing themselves as whiter than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such broadcasts seemed less credible , less sensible and less statesmanlike than they did when they appeared in ordinary television current affairs programmes . // What was gradually emerging was the difficulty of transferring to television the traditional methods of party political campaigning without debasing the political currency and undermining the reputation of political leaders . Traditionally in a political campaign each party puts forward its own case . It is normal to leave the other parties to draw public attention to the weaknesses in yours and it is not thought dishonourable to leave out of party manifestos facts which do not support the party line any more than it would be for barristers to do so in a court of law . The public , like a jury , has a chance to hear the different cases put by experienced pleaders in the great political debate . And , like a jury , it can make its own choice between the cases presented to it . The conventions are so well understood that no one considers it odd that the government of the country should be entrusted to men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected facts of their election manifestoes and public communications . But television is different , largely because on it political communication is so continuous , so personal and so domestic . Political leaders appear regularly in all kinds of programmes . They are not distant figures on a platform or even the disembodied voices of radio . They are here in close-up in the sitting room . Viewers get to know the Home Secretary and the Minister of Defence and the Leader of the Opposition , are able to recognise their faces and their mannerisms , get used to the way they stand up to questioning . The individual viewer may like or dislike them , feel they are trustworthy or otherwise , agree or disagree with their attitudes ; but they are individuals , all of a piece . You know them . When they suddenly put on their Party Political masks and tell you palpable half truths they are at once different and diminished . In sophisticated circles the double image of the politician is understood and accepted . He can be both a man who is using all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also a responsible statesman who can be trusted , when in power , with the life and death and happiness of millions of individual citizens . But this double image is neither understood nor accepted by the majority of those who watch television and whose judgments are simpler and more human . Here is a man whom you have often seen on the television screen . He has carried , or may carry , great responsibilities . He is asking you to trust him with power over your life and that of many others . Why , if he is trustworthy , does he lend himself to what 140 1952-1955 seems at best a pointless and unconvincing piece of window-dressing and at worst an attempt to deceive the public by presenting what he must know are half truths and a biased presentation of facts ? Moreover the methods used by party and other officials to organise political broadcasts tended to emphasise the mask-like qualities of those appearing in them . A senior Labour politician , * retreating in obvious disgust during the preparation of a Party Political broadcast in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had only then had his section of the script given to him ; that he had had no hand in writing it ; that he did not agree with it and that he did not want to speak it . But he did . A party committee had been set up to handle the broadcast and he was persuaded that it was now too late to make any changes . A leading Conservative speaker , j- due to give a major broadcast on a complex subject , arrived at the studios for rehearsal and was handed a script which , it appeared , had been prepared laboriously ( luring the previous three weeks by a number of Civil Servants from the different departments involved ? including the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade , by officials from the Conservative Central Office and by representatives of their women 's section since the reaction of women was thought to be important . It was written in Civil Service language , stuffed with statistics , and the largely incongruous paragraphs , inserted to satisfy special interests , had been stitched together with unlikely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have put it across . At a moment ( luring rehearsal , when the speaker was trying to read a peculiarly fatuous paragraph , a young man from one of the government departments who was in the control gallery with me and with the other advisers ' , murmured complacently , I put that in because I thought it would get the women . ' Nothing could have been done to alter the script to make it even tolerable . So it had to be torn up . Work on it was started afresh by the principal speaker an hour or two before the broadcast though three misspent weeks had already been devoted to its preparation by a group of people who had different axes to grind and who did not understand television . And the speaker was forced to spend a good deal of his precious remaining time in smoothing the ruffled feathers 14I DEVELOPMENTS IN POLITICAL BROADCASTING of those whose cherished sentences had been thrown into the waste paper basket . Many politicians disliked taking part in broadcasts of this kind and , in particular , believed Party Political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The party organisations were aware that they were floundering in a medium which they still did not fully understand ; found them both expensive to produce and a strain to organise ; the administrators in BBC television thought them a nuisance because they made sudden , unpredictable demands upon BBC resources and disrupted programme schedules ; television producers tried to avoid handling them because they were not themselves in control and had to be responsible , as I had been in May 1953 , for the production of a programme which others had devised ; which they knew could not achieve what it was setting out to do ; and which it was not in their power to alter in any basic way without seeming to interfere in its political content which was strictly not their business . There were three main reactions to this unsatisfactory situation . The first was that the parties , instead of devising new styles of programmes for themselves , tried to present imitations of the most successful types of BBC current affairs programmes . This rose to a climax in the 1959 Election when all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that most successful magazine programme Tonight ' , with , at the Labour Party 's request , the deputy editor of Tonight ' , Alasdair Milne , in charge of production . The second was a movement within the parties , supported by a number of senior officials inside the BBC , to abolish Party Political broadcasts altogether and leave party political communication , at any rate between elections , to the appearances of politicians in the ordinary current affairs programmes of the BBC . I was one of those who opposed this idea . It seemed to me , as with Ministerials ' , that it was both wrong and dangerous to create a situation in which the leading politicians of the country could use the new medium of television to put their case to the country only when they were invited to do so by the producers of television programmes . The third was a much more profound reaction . As individual political leaders found that they could make frequent and less regulated appearances in ordinary television current affairs programmes and came to believe that these were more effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcasts , they readily accepted invitations to appear not only in Press Conference ' but in the other current affairs programmes which were developed from 1952 onwards . Most of these programmes were interrogatory . Quest ions were asked of Ministers and Leaders of the Opposition either , as in Press Conference ' , by a group of journalists or , as in later programmes , by interviewers employed on contract by BBC producers . And , in so far as these interviewers were asking the questions which they thought were in the public mind and trying to elicit answers on subjects about which they thought the public should be informed , they were in fact usurping some of the functions of the elected representatives who sat in the House of Commons . In this situation a number of members of Parliament , including notably some leaders of the Conservative Party , came to believe that the only solution was to televise Parliament itself . Though the proceedings of Parliament were conducted in public and the individual citizen had the right to watch them , it was in practice difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of being given a special entry card by a Member of Parliament or wait in a queue , shepherded by policemen , in the hope of getting a place in the public gallery . You , who had given these men power by your votes , were treated very much as intruders in a private club for the elite . And , to exercise even these poor rights , you had to be in London . So most people got their impressions of what went on in Parliament at second hand through the eyes of journalists . In a television age this was anachronistic . Television could give you a privileged seat and a first-hand view of all kinds of public events . It was inevitable that this should be required in regard to politics also . This inevitability lay at the back of the increasing development of television current affairs programmes . Without any deliberate intention but simply by following the trends which the existence of television demanded , these filled the gap created by the failure of the political parties to use television effectively for political communication . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities you were allowed occasionally to peep from a public gallery in the House of Commons . Any individual voter , whether he lived at Land 's End or John o ' Groats , could sit in his privileged seat in his own sitting room and watch them being questioned in public . But in a sense the position was intolerable . I felt this most deeply when senior politicians seemed to feel that their appearances in // current affairs programmes were so important that they found it necessary to drop hints that they would like to be invited . Sometimes more than hints . I was approached at a reception one evening by a senior politician , a man of great distinction and an ex-Cabinet Minister , who asked me why it was that he had not been invited recently to appear in any television current affairs programme . I said that I would mention his feelings to the producers responsible . He said he would be most grateful . Incidents such as these made me feel that something must be changed . And , as a long term solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be televised . But for this to be effective the proceedings of Parliament would have to be altered . And Parliament itself was not yet ready for change or willing to be televised . In the meantime an enormous responsibility rested on the television current affairs programmes in which politicians appeared ; and on the shoulders of the producers who were responsible for them . Io The Power of the Producer 1952-1955 Two factors affected in important ways the kind of television current affairs programmes which were produced during those years and the kind of producers who were put in charge of them . One was the attitude to television of the BBC 's news department ; the other was the continuing dependence of television in matters of staffing upon the senior administrators at Broadcasting House . The Editor of BBC News at this time was a journalist from New Zealand with the Maori name of Tahu Hole . He had been appointed in 1948 ; he did not understand the techniques of television production and appeared reluctant either to venture into the presentation of television news or to welcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programmes . He held a position of great authority . During the war the BBC 's overseas services , then under the ultimate control of the Ministry of Information , had fought and won a hard battle to defend their right to present accurate news even when this might seem to be against British interests , for instance by publishing abroad news of British losses and defeats . It came to be accepted that , even in war , the traditional integrity of broadcast news must be maintained . News should not be slanted ' . News bulletins must not be edited to suit the changing needs of war-time policy or say one thing in one place and something else in another . To do so would destroy their credibility . And by the end of the war the accuracy and truth of BBC news and its effect upon the underground movements in Europe had become a legend . When at the end of the war the Ministry of Information was abolished the tradition that the BBC 's news services must not speak with different voices lived on and came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the Corporation 's home news output must be centralised . There could be only one Editor of News . If news were sacred , BBC news , by intention and reputation , must uphold the doctrine with special fervour and in 1952 Tahu // Hole appeared to be accepted by many of the seniors at Broadcasting House as its embodiment . The situation was not a healthy one . Whatever the excellence of the Corporation 's motives in regard to its news services ; whatever the integrity of Sir Ian Jacob , its Director-General ; whatever the value of the strict codes of impartiality which the Editor of News imposed upon his staff , it was not sensible that all news broadcasting in Britain should be effectively under the control of a single individual . The television service escaped almost by accident from some of the rigidities of this centralised system . The vacuum created by the apparent inability of the Editor of News to create news services which were suitable for television was filled by the development of programmes over which he could exercise only a minimal control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to television 's newsreels ; all he could do was to make one of his news staff , Michael Balkwill , available as a liaison officer . He had not been able to prevent television presenting the results of the General Elections of 1950 and 1951 ; again all he could do was to allow Michael Balkwill to be the representative of the News Division on those programmes . Moreover , as a result of the precedents set by Foreign Correspondent ' and International Commentary ' , current affairs reporting in television had come to be done largely by independent commentators such as Chester Wilmot and Christopher Mayhew , who were employed on contract by the television service and who were not members of the BBC staff under the control of the Editor of News . The independence enjoyed by television in these matters was made possible because most of those in ultimate authority at Broadcasting House were aware that George Barnes , the Director of Television , Cecil McGivern , the Controller of Television Programmes , and people like myself who were concerned with television current affairs output , valued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news and current affairs . What was in dispute was not the validity of these standards but the methods by which they could be implemented in television as distinct from sound radio . And so long as television audiences remained small as compared with those for radio , the authorities at Broadcasting House , still pretty ignorant of television , were inclined to leave the running of even its current affairs programmes to television professionals . There were exceptions when party political pressures were brought 146 1952 ? 1955 to bear in relation to In the News ' or by the need to find a Conservative to balance Christopher Mayhew . But in the main those working in television current affairs were left to adapt as best they could BBC standards of fairness and impartiality to the different circumstances of a new medium . The result was that by the time t hose in charge at Broadcasting House began to take a serious interest its the handling on television of current affairs a number of precedents had been created within the television service which were difficult to change ; styles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and different attitudes to authority had emerged . This spirit of independence was reinforced by the nature of the current affairs production staff recruited for television in the early 1950s . By accident , not by design , this recruitment was largely my responsibility . In the summer of 1952 Cecil McGivern was asking liar more current affairs programmes than I could myself produce . He had wanted the various Mayhew series to continue , and we were already filming in South Africa , the Sudan and the Gold Coast for ' Race Relations in Africa ' , which was to start in November . He anted the Crawley project for a number of programmes about ndia to go ahead . For political reasons he wanted a series by a Conservative Member of Parliament to be ready early in 1953 . And r wanted Press Conference ' fortnightly . He realised that to achieve II this as well as keep an eye on the developments in television of arty Political and Party Election broadcasting and also consider how to improve methods of presenting the results of the next General Election was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , officially , there was no establishment for any increase in the staff of r television talks department . Unofficially , he told me to find help . n this situation we could not use the official methods of recruitment . But if I could find the right people he would , he said , fiddle it mellow ' . At the time I felt the need to do my own recruiting simply an tied burden . I approached one or two of my old colleagues in and radio and asked if they would care to come and work in television for a time . I thought , I said , that we could fix it . They fused . It was not easy for them to risk possible chances of promoin tier the hardships and uncertainties of television . Or to become learners at the bottom of the production ladder in a medium which ny of them still despised . So I had to look elsewhere . The fiddle ' which Cecil McGivern proposed limited the field of // choice . He could get round the establishment position by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find . They would not be members of the BBC staff . Whatever they were paid would come out of McGivern 's programme allowance and be charged as a cost against the particular programme upon which they were working . This meant that we could offer no security and no permanence of employment . Moreover , the amount we could pay out of a programme budget was small . No one whose feet were already upon the rungs of any journalistic or academic ladder would want to abandon his chosen field for so precarious a situation in so unknown a world . Only young people at the start of their careers would be interested . We would have to look for those who had had a certain amount of training in political affairs and who would be attracted by the chance of experimenting with communication in a new medium . I found three . One was James Bredin , a freelance journalist who had worked on the cinema current affairs series , The March of Time ' , and was writing occasional commentaries for the television newsreel . Another was Geoffrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debating tour to the United States , had worked for British Information Services in California . The third was Michael Peacock , then twenty-three and still an undergraduate . I had written to a number of friends in the universities whose judgment 1 trusted and who knew something about television and told them what I was looking for . Among them was Robert McKenzie , then a lecturer in politics at the London School of Economics . He suggested Michael Peacock , who had had part of his education in the United States , had finished his military service , had done some work for McKenzie in connection with David Butler 's book on the General Election of 1951 , and was about to sit for his degree examination . An academic career would certainly be open to him . But McKenzie thought he was perhaps too extrovert a character to be satisfied by academic life . I invited him , with some others , to come to the new studios at Lime Grove and help with an experiment I was making in the use of hidden cameras for television discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would also reveal a potential current affairs production assistant . It did . As we left Lime Grove I asked Michael Peacock whether he would like to come and work in television after he had graduated . He came on a three months ' contract and stayed for sixteen years . 148 1952 ? 1955 These three were the nucleus of what I was beginning to call my Current Affairs Unit . None of them had been through the broadcasting mill or had worked in sound radio . They found the rigidities of Broadcasting House remote , unreal and sometimes ludicrous . But t hose in command there were seldom encountered . In the meanwhile the three of them got on with the television job and , each in his own style and while still very young , became an experienced television professional . These were the new men ; the younger generation . They , and those who were added as the Current Affairs Unit grew , belonged to television . To them , from the first , television was a natural medium of expression . Many , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their first loves radio or the theatre , or devotion to the written word . They were aware of power and enjoyed it . But they wanted to exercise it with responsibility . Michael Peacock was the most ambitious . His abilities were obvious even during that first discussion session at Lime Grove . His years in America at school and college had had a great effect upon him ; he had learned to be tough , but with good manners ; he despised Oxford and what he felt to be the dilettante attitudes of Oxford men and revealed in action a clear mind , a respect for facts and a remarkable ability to express himself . The insecurity of a three-month contract did not seem to trouble him ; he knew that he had ability ; it would be interesting to try something new . If he did n't like it there would always be something else . He was much less personally creative than , for instance , Donald Baverstock , who was soon to come from the BBC 's Overseas Services to be trained in television and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unusually talented . They went step by step upwards within the BBC 's television service . And the complicated relationship between them , based on liking but streaked with rivalry , had a major effect upon television output within the BBC and , many years later , on Independent Television . These very different men had one thing in common . They were all of unmistakable quality . It was impossible to believe that any one of them could behave meanly or with emotional or intellectual dishonesty . It is what people are rather than the subjects about which they make programmes which in television determines the value of the output . A religious programme produced by a man or oman of mean spirit will inevitably be coloured by that meanness . A news report , however outwardly fair and accurate , can have little // value if it comes through the eye of an observer whose outlook is superficial and insensitive . That is why the choice of production staff and their relationship with the heads of programmes and all the hierarchical systems and personnel of a broadcasting organisation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than what became the practice after the start of commercial television ? totting up the number of hours devoted to educational ' programmes or drama or light entertainment which the BBC and ITV respectively had transmitted . Within the BBC the power of the producer is enormous , largely because much of the work of programme origination is his responsibility . Certainly , there is a constant two-way process . Broad , and occasionally specific , ideas come down from the Director-General and through him from the Board of Governors or the General Advisory Council to the Directors of the various services and the Heads of Departments . And at all levels there is constant discussion of programme output between producers and Heads of Departments , at departmental meetings , at other regular meetings such as BBC Television 's weekly Programme Board at which all the Heads of Departments review with the Controller of Programmes the achievements and failures of the previous week : the quality of the output , the lapses of taste , the allegations of inaccuracy or bias , the size of the audience as measured by Audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the Board of Governors . And there is a constant flow of memoranda of praise and blame to individual producers from Heads of Departments , Directors of services and the Director-General . But basically the creative upward flow was from producer to Head of Department and the Controller of Programmes . And the programmes from which the Controller could choose were as good or bad as the producers who had been appointed to the output departments ? drama and light entertainment ; outside broadcasts , including sport and public events ; talks , including current affairs , travel , science , documentaries and the arts . Producers therefore played a vital part in shaping the programme decisions of the BBC television service . This was essential if the Corporation were to maintain the creativity in programme output which was the reason for its existence . It was therefore welcomed and desired . But the problem of how to relate the creativity of producers to the ultimate editorial responsibility of the BBC was central to all its work . 150            @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 