@@7441

Lazarus , Emma , 1849-1887 : HARVEST . from September 1886 Grey orchards starred with fruitage gold and red , Field beyond field of yellow-tasseled corn , Rippling responsive to each breath of morn . Along the southern wall the dark vines shed Their splendid clusters , blue-black and pale green , With liquid sunshine through their thin films seen . In yonder mead the haymakers at work With lusty sounds the clear tense air fulfill , Rearing the shapely hayrick 's mimic hill , The dried grass tossing with light-wielded fork . Daylong the reapers glean the bladed gold ; High to the topmost orchard branches climb The apple-gatherers , and from each limb Shake the ripe globes of sweetness , downward rolled Upon the leaf-strewn ground ; and all day long From the near vineyard comes the merry song Of those who prune the stocks and tread the press . The spirit melts beneath the mastering sense Of supreme beauty and beneficence , Power divine and awful gentleness . No space for sadness in the heart to-day , Seeing the generous , faithful earth fulfill The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hedge were rosy-flushed with May . Yet at the threshold of fruition fain We pause to catch the savor once again Of sweet expectancy . The perfect year In fourfold beauty rounds itself at length , With golden fulness of developed strength , Into the sure , complete , unswerving sphere . This the result of frozen winter-rains , Of hard , white snows , of dull , loud dripping thaw , Of showers and shine of spring , of March blasts raw , Of glaring August heats ,  --  these dainty grains , This fruitage delicate . O sluggard soul ! What harvest reapest thou as seasons roll ? Mayhap to thee the slow results of time Bring also profit , though thy fruit , hung high , Escape the glance of careless passers-by , A seeming fragile husk of empty rhyme . Yet there are those who know what fed the root , What long , dull tedium as of wintry hours , What rapture as of spring-light after showers , Went to the ripening of this strange frail fruit . Defeat and hope , disaster , joy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same old train That follows every soul . No grafted seed , No alien harvest this , but a true part Of the whole being ,  --  soul and pulse and heart , That from the living bough is lightly freed . Emma Lazarus.                     