@@8105

Jewett , Sarah Orne , 1849-1909 : THE EAGLE TREES . from The eagle trees ( 1888 ) TO J. G. W. Great pines that watch the river go Down to the sea all night , all day , Firm-rooted near its ebb and flow , Bowing their heads to winds at play , Strong-limbed and proud , they silent stand , And watch the mountains far away , And watch the miles of farming land , And hear the church bells tolling slow . They see the men in distant fields Follow the furrows of the plough ; They count the loads the harvest yields , And fight the storms with every bough , Beating the wild winds back again . The April sunshine cheers them now ; They eager drink the warm spring rain , Nor dread the spear the lightning wields . High in the branches clings the nest The great birds build from year to year ; And though they fly from east to west , Some instinct keeps this eyrie dear To their fierce hearts ; and now their eyes Glare down at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with wild surprise , Where high in air they strong-winged rest . Companionship of birds and trees ! The years have proved your friendship strong , You share each other 's memories , The river 's secret and its song , And legends of the country-side ; The eagles take their journey long , The great trees wait in noble pride For messages from hills and seas . I hear a story that you tell In idleness of summer days : A singer that the world knows well To you again in boyhood strays ; Within the stillness of your shade He rests where flickering sunlight plays , And sees the nest the eagles made , And wonders at the distant bell . His keen eyes watch the forest growth , The rabbits ' fear , the thrushes ' flight ; He loiters gladly , nothing loath To be alone at fall of night , The woodland things around him taught Their secrets in the evening light , Whispering some wisdom to his thought Known to the pines and eagles both . Was it the birds who early told The dreaming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gold ? That he would fight a nation 's sin ?  --  On eagle wings of song would gain A place that few might enter in , And keep his life without a stain Through many years , yet not grow old ? And he shall be what few men are , Said all the pine-trees , whispering low ; His thought shall find an unseen star ; He shall our treasured legends know : His words will give the way-worn rest Like this cool shade our branches throw ; He , lifted like our loftiest crest , Shall watch his country near and far .                     