@@485656

Madeleine : An Autobiography . Harper and Brothers . THIS is a unique record of seventeen years of a woman 's life spent largely in houses of prostitution in the United States and Canada , not as a social worker , but as an inmate earning her daily living by the customary barter . Judge Ben B. Lindsey has written an introduction to the book pleading for a saner treatment of the " disease " of prostitution ; for a method of reform that will slay the sin and emancipate the sinner . That the " oldest profession " has thus far yielded no personal document of any considerable significance in literature is not strange . That sordor of civilization is a soil most unfavorable to the nurture of the intellectual faculties or the growth of esthetic emotions . It is clear that the author of " Madeleine " was an anomaly in her chosen calling from the very beginning . But the interrogation " How could she develop in those ghastly backwashes of human nature ? " lurches out at us from every page . Surely she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while she plied her stultifying trade ; but probably , one is tempted to say , she did most of her intellectual house-cleaning in the intervals when she was free from the sinister servitude of the Paphian Venus . At any rate that she did it at all is an amazing thing . She begins her narrative with an account of an early girlhood blighted by poverty and social isolation . The picture darkens upon her seduction by a careless sower whose seed fructifies in a distant city to which Madeleine has gone to work in a factory . Pregnancy forces her out of her position into dire poverty , then into clandestine prostitution . To a recognized house of ill fame it is now but a step and she takes it falteringly ; but finding the " madame " a benevolent old lady instead of a harpy , and the girls kindly and human , she accepts her new life with tolerable grace until the arrival of her still-born child . She then leaves the house , but subsequently enters another when a crisis in the family fortunes demands larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presently her family discover the nature of her occupation , and cast her off . From this time on she dwells in the tenements of many Baby-ions , her career closing at last while she is a proprietress in Canada . Here her regeneration strangely comes through her renunciation of drink in the presence of a priest who persuades her to renounce prostitution as well . This ends the autobiography . Rumor says that the woman has died since the publication of her book . The facts which " Madeleine " presents are well enough known to a generation ridden with vice commission reports and victimized by the " white slave " myth ; these facts , however , are intensely humanized by the spectacle of a woman who has captured our interest and sympathy moving familiarly among them . The narrative flows swiftly and discreetly from beginning to end . There is no over-emphasis upon the unpleasant or the morbid , no hysterics , no banal sentimentalism . The chief personages dealt with in the book are clear-cut silhouettes . The three " madames " are unforgettable ; there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she of the motherly advice , whose great ambition was to make girls comfortable ; Madame C , the French Canadian , most typical of the underworld , bejeweled , gorgeous in heavy velvet , suave and avaricious , " giving a friendly pat alike to the girls and to the customers , while the other itching palm reached eagerly forth to clutch their money " ; and the austere Lizzie Allen , dressed in stiff brocade , smiling her " wintry smile " and resembling a prim matron of some orphan asylum . Madeleine herself , as revealed in the autobiography , is marked by a dignified restraint which never gives way to the introspective bitterness or hysterical self-pity which one might expect . However , she is far from being a mere passive spectator of the dark forces which blast her life . She cries out in anguish again and again at the extraordinary price she is forced to pay ; but this woe of hers never descends to diffuseravings and melodramatic posturing . She is alive to the weaknesses in her character and refuses to proffer a deterministic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps . in the passages which condemn a far too numerous class of social-uplift workers who preach the charity of the Crucified One , and then stoop for a stone to fling . It is these " reformers for revenue only , " she says , who from stage and pulpit , press-and platform promulgate the great " white slave " lie . Her denial of the existence of a " white slave " traffic is interesting : " The one girl I never met in all these'years and in all the cities , and the countries that I visited was the pure girl who had been trapped and violated and sold into slavery and held a prisoner unable to effect her escape  --  the so-called ' white slave . ' " But doubtless the myth will long survive ; in such matters experts are not always listened to . As one lays the autobiography aside it is with a keen feeling of disappointment that the author has not chosen to trace the steps by which she regains her spiritual sovereignty . Because she has enlisted our respect and sympathy we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties that besiege her ascent . But she bids us farewell upon the threshold of her new life . She hints very plainly that her efforts at rehabilitation were almost frustrated by the persistent persecution of one of " the unto quid . " We long for graphic detail . Surely we need more concrete examples of such " goodness " to fling at the smug creeds of the upliftless uplifters  --  the very kind who will doubtless see in this instructive and most deterrent book something evil and dangerous .                     