@@745014

txt The Assembly got into a curious state of excitement yesterday over the proposition to create a public reservation of lands in the Adirondack region for the purpose of saving the forests from destruction . Mr. MISTED finally remarked that the House was too excited to consider the subject calmly , and it was made a special order for Monday evening , to give the members a chance to cool off . It is difficult to understand the occasion for excitement on this question , but there seems to be a suspicion of jobbery behind it . Mr. LITTLEJOHN said there was something behind it which he had been unable to discover , and he therefore could not give the reason for his objection to the bill . Mr. RICE made the ominous remark that if it were passed there would ' be occasion hereafter for curses more loud  --  and deep than had ever been pronounced on the new Capitol . He appeared to surmise that it would lead to enormous expenditures of public money . To persons interested only in the public aspects of this question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of the great tract of wooded country in the Adirondacks for the conservation and regulation of the sources of the principal rivers of the State and the water supply of the canals there is no manner of doubt . It is also certain that this value has already been impaired and is very seriously threatened by the indiscriminate destruction of the forests by lumbermen and charcoal burners and by fires started by camping and hunting parties . The lands already belonging to the State have not been free from this reckless devastation , and those belonging to private owners are denuded without the slightest reference to the interests of the people of the State . A considerable tract is already public property , and should be protected . More is needed in order to include in a public reservation all that it is necessary to preserve for the general benefit . The commercial interests of this city , as represented by the Chamber of Commerce , which are concerned for the protection of navigation on the canals and the Hudson River , have demanded that the State take charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no reason to suspect jobbery in the motives behind the movement here , and unless legislators themselves are the jobbers it is not easy to see why a measure can not be framed ? which shall protect the present State property and provide for such additions to it as may be found expedient for the purpose in view . The opposition seems to be inspired chiefly by the lumber interests , which desire to continue their depredations without regard to any consideration but their own profit . The danger lies , not in any carefully drawn measure for the protection of the forests , but in amendments . inspired by personal greed . Most of the lands are of so little value in themselves that the owners are accustomed to allow them to revert to the State for non-payment of taxes after they have stripped them of merchantable lumber , and there is no reason why great expense should be incurred in acquiring such tracts as it is essential to preserve from the axe and from fire . The arguments in the Assembly appear to rest on the assumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will not be enough in any commission created by it , to protect the State from plunder in an effort to save this great domain from the destruction of its chief utility . The difficulty is that the subject has been permitted to get into a muddle through the multiplicity of bills and amendments that have been introduced in which the public interest is complicated with private schemes . If there is danger of . jobbery , the Legislature alone is to blame . It ought to have intelligence and honesty enough to deal with the subject with sole reference to the great object advocated by the Chamber of Commerce .                     