@@781581

txt The Methodist meeting-house at Bridgeville , in this State , has long been in need of a bell . The young people of the congregation recently undertook to provide the money for purchasing a bell . They held weekly " sociables , " at which collections were taken up , and when the necessary amount of money was obtained they took it , to the Pastor . To their astonishment he refused to receive it , on the ' ground that dancing had been permitted at the , " Sociables , " and that money coming from a source contaminated by dancing could not be used for buying a church bell . The Bridgeville minister lean hardly expect that the majority of Methodists will share his peculiar views . They certainly are not supported by Scripture . When the Hebrews , on the eve of the exodus , accepted from the Egyptian 's testimonials of the willingness of the Egyptians to be rid of them , neither MOSES nor AARON suggested that Egyptian money was contaminated by pagan practices . So , too , when ELIJAH was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground that the ravens had brought him stolen meat , although , in view of the notoriously depraved character of ravens , there can be little doubt that ELIJAR 'S feathered friends fed him on. , meat for which they had omitted to pay . The Methodist denomination , like most other sects , has never inquired too closely into the character of the money given to it . The late DANIEL DnEw 's money built a Methodist theological seminary , but no Methodist asked how Mr. Dnaw obtained his money . Yet , if money voluntarily contributed at . a " sociable " can be contaminated by dancing , the money unwillingly contributed to Mr. DREW by men in Wall-street , who afterward danced with rage in the seclusion of their back offices ; must have been singularly sinful . The Bridgeville. theory as to the contamination of money needs further explanation . The Bridgeville Methodist minister does not appear to have decided whether money once contaminated by unholy associations can ever be purified . It seems reasonable to suppose that money which is unfit for church purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands . If this be true it will go hard with the Methodists who adopt the Bridgeville view , for there are very few banknotes and very few coins that have note at some period of their existence been mixed up in disreputable transactions . The very five-dollar bill which the Bridgeville minister received last week as a marriage fee may have been won at a gaming table , spent for rum , and stolen by a pickpocket before it came innocently into the hands of the bridegroom . That bill , if once contaminated , could never have regained its lost purity and become fit for a minister 's pocket Of course the Bridgeville minister has made up his mind to accept no more salary . He can not trace the history:of every dollar o'ff'ered to him from its origin in the mint or the Treasury printing-office to its appearance in the pocket of one of his parishioners . He will be liable , if he accepts a salary , to receive money that has been terribly contaminated , and as a conscientious man he must feel that money which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bell is still more clearly unfit to furnish it with a preacher . The only thing for this too conscientious minister to do is to refire to the wilderness , and trust that a pair of exceptionally honest ravens will supply him with game as to the ownership of which no question can arise .                     