@@743709

txt The Senate very rarely indulges in filibustering . Many almost interminable speeches are sometimes made by minority members in opposition to a measure advocated by the majority for the purpose of consuming time , but filibustering pure and simple , as it is understood and practiced in the House , is very seldom seen in the Senate chamber . Something very closely resembling it was witnessed , however , in the Senate today , and it was not used in vain . The Democrats refused , yesterday , to accept Mr. Eaton 's amendment to the Electoral count resolutions , because they preferred to consider , in a separate resolution , the question involved in that amendment , and it was understood this morning that they had determined to force this separate resolution through the Senate , even if its ' passage should require an all-night session . The resolution is one offered by Mr. Morgan some time ago , and it declares that the President of the Senate is not invested by the Constitution with the right to count the Electoral votes , so as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rejected . In the morning hour to-day , Mr. Morgan railed up this resolution . Some of the Republicans are in favor of the principle it contains , but it was agreed on that side of the chamber that there was no occasion at present for the passage of such a resolution . Mr. Morgan , who is already regarded by his party as a person who has been very successful in getting them into trouble , said that he was not well , and , to the great satisfaction of many listeners , intimated that he would not ask them to hear one of his monotonous speeches . Mr. Edmunds led the Republicans , and briefly stated his objections to the resolution . In the first place , no one suspected that there was an intention on the part of the President of the Senate to usurp rights which were not his , and Georgia 's votes had been provided for in the resolutions already passed . in the second place , the resolution was only a half truth . If it had said that neither the President of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor all three together , were invested with a right to decide that a State 's vote was or was not to be counted he would have agreed to it , for the rights o the . States in this matter ought to be carefully preserved . Mr. Thurman hoped the resolution would be passed without amendment . Every Senator 's mind was made up on the question , and this was a good time for the expression of opinion . Thereupon Mr. Edmunds settled back in his chair , and began the parliamentary struggle by moving to lay the resolution on the table and calling for the yeas and nays . The motion was lost by a party vote , Judge Davis voting with the Republicans . One o'clock having been reached Mr. Morgan was obliged to move for the postponement of calendar business . Mr. Edmunds again asked for the yeas and nays , and the motion was adopted by a vote similar to the preceding one . The Yeas and nays were also ordered on Yin Morgan 's motion to resume consideration of the resolution , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all-night session was inevitable . Mr. Blair then moved to refer the resolution to the Judiciary Committee . He was inclined to favor the resolution , but the older Senators had had more opportunities for forming an opinion , and he would like Instructions from Mr. Thurman 's committee . In reply , Mr. Thurman made the mistake of regarding the resolution as one from Mr. Morgan 's committee , and Mr. Edmunds informed him that it had come trom the Democratic caucus , a mysterious body which carried on Congressional legislation by means of meetings held on nights and Sundays . Mr. Edmunds continued his remarks in such a strain as to awaken the suspicion that he was talking against time ; and he was still talking when the morning hour expired . This made other motions and yea and nay votes necessary in order to displace the Indian Severalty bill . This bill was postponed , and the discussion continued . 21 : .. Hoar said that he would rote for such a resolution at the proper time , but it ought not to be allowed now to delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which so many broken-hearted widows were interested . Mr. Windom showed that the Senate was far behind the House in appropriation bills . " If you really want to save time , " said Mr. Hill , of Georgia , " quit talking and we will pass the resolution in 15 minutes . " Mr. Conkling asked where the resolution came from , and was told by Mr. Wallace , whom he called the charioteer of the Democratic caucus , that it came from Mr. Morgan . This led Mr. Conkling to make some sarcastic references to the caucus , and to declare that it was strange that the Democrats should , with such unanimity . support against appropriation bills a resolution which had the sanction of neither a committee nor a caucus . He cantinued to speak for some time concerning the phraseology of the resolution and the merits of the question involved ; saying that he would vote for it at a proper time . Mr. Conkling took the position which he had maintained before in regard to the President of the Senate , and said that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's votes than the Sergeantat-Arms had . He had no disposition to shrink from the question , but thought it unwise to press the resolution so late in the session to the disadvantage of appropriation bills . Three yea and nay votes were then taken ? one on Mr. Morgan 's motion to take up the resolution , one on Dir . Blair 's motion to refer it , and one on Mr. Edmunds 's motion to send it to Mr. Morgan 's committee . On these questions the parties divided as before . Mr. Edmunds then moved to amend so that the resolution should declare it to be the opinion of the Senate that the right in question was not vested in the President of the Senate , the Senate , or the House . This amendment was rejected . Judge Davis at first voted against it , but afterward withdrew his vote . Mr. Cockrell said he believed in the amendment , and would not vote . Mr. Thurman said he voted against It only because he desired that no amendments should be made . Mr. Whyte then declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , because he believed that the President of the Senate had a right to count the votes in the performance of a ministerial duty , on the theory- that there could be no disputed returns . He referred to his action , in accordance with this belief , when Andrew Johnson was President . At that time ho supported Mr. Johnson 's veto with seven other Democratic Senators , not one of whom now remained in the Senate . He held that the difficulty ought to be ' removed by a constitutional amendment , for the fathers had not foreseen it , because they bad not dreamed that there could be two . returns from the same state . Mr. Conkling then took the floor , and after some criticism of Mr. Whyte 's argument and some ironical allusions to his survival as the last rose of Summer and the last representative of the Democratic Senate of Johnson 's Administration , repeated at length his views upon the whole question , as expressed four years ago . By this time the galleries were well filled . At the conclusion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment which would reserve to the President of the Senate the right to count the votes arithmetically , but declare that he had no right to count them judicially . He desired plainly to separate the two propositions . The Democrats refused to allow this amendment to be made , and then a vote was taken on the main question of adopting the resolution . In the affirmative there were 33. and in the negative 1 , for the resolution . Thirty-one Democrats voted , and with them Mr. Hoar and Mr. Conkling . The sole negative vote was that of Mr. Whyte . The remainder of the Republicans failed to vote . It was announced that those who had voted were not a quorum , and after some discussion as to the rules ' a call of the Senate was ordered . This call disclosed a quorum . Mr. then asked for an enforcement of the rule concerning the voting of Senators present . Mr. Burnside moved to adjourn. but his motion was lost by a party vote . Mr. soon afterward moved to adjourn , saying he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morgan realized that the Democrats could not pass the resolution in spite of filibustering , simply because several Democratic Senators were bound by pairs , some for the day only and others for a longer time . He arose and said that , under the circumstances , the Republicans ought to release his friends from these pledges , but added that , as it was not probable they would do so , be would move to adjourn . The motion was put and was quickly declared to have been carried , although nearly all the Democrats voted against it . The Republicans departed in good humor . Some of the Democrats who were paired had thoughtlessly assumed the obligation for the afternoon , apparently thinking that a vote would not be taken until late at night . In allowing themselves to be tied hand and foot in this way , they again exhibited the remarkable tendency of their party to commit all blunders within the range of possibility . It is announced tonight that the Democrats will renew the contest to-morrow . 