@@781789

txt We owe to our esteemed contemporary , the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette , what it vouches for as a correct version of the manner in which the ex-favorite son of New-York came to be parboiled at the Hot Spring . The hotel-keeper had sent a small and timid boy to show how the water was to be tempered to the shorn statesman by means of a cold-water faucet . But at the bath-house - door , the statesman dismissed the boy in a tone and with a gesture which admitted no further parley . Mr. CONKLING 'S personal responsibility for the subsequent proceedings was , therefore , undivided and complete . The subsequent proceedings were the stalking of Mr. ComtLisa into the bath-house , and after an interval long enough to allow him to plunge into the untempered element , the appearance of his head at the bath-room door with the remark , " I 'm scalded , " issuing in. tones of unwonted shrillness and great carrying power from his finely chiseled lips . When he returned to the hotel and recounted the particulars of the ebulliency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told Mr. CONKLING , if Mr. CortgLitio had waited , to turn on the cold water , and Mr. CONKLING majestically made answer , " Well , Sir , I should have been a wise man had I waited . " It is gratifying to know that the ex-Senator was not in long enough to be done . He would not have been done if he had been a new-laid egg , let alone a statesman who would not be tender under three hours , even if he were gradually simmered instead of being plunged into boiling water , and who requires nearly as much boiling as the fowl which for two years has constituted his political diet , the tough and unpalatable crow . We trust that he experiences no considerable discomfort in sitting down , and that the only trace of his misadventure is a somewhat more vivid flush of pink on the periphery of the ear . But , nevertheless , this simple tale is a summary of Mr. CONKLING 'S political career . His precipitancy in getting into hot water in spite of his attendants has always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclaimed to his colleague , in the language imputed to Julius Omar : " Daresit thou , Toss PLATT , Lean now with me into this angry flood ? " Upon that occasion it seemed that a lesson had been given him which would suffice for the rest of his life against getting into hot water without putting his finger , or TOM PLATT , or some other unconsidered trifle , in first . He was certainly : in long enough to be done ? there never was a more thoroughly boiled ex-Senator . And yet here he is again , repeating in private life the errors of his political career , " meanly sneaking , " to quote what was said of another statesman , " out of difficulties into which he had proudly strutted , " and going off at half cock himself instead ' of letting on the cold water at full cock . He would , indeed , have been a wise man had he waited .                     