@@672131

txt The newspaper correspondents at Albany , who have a near - view of the proceedings in the legislative halls and in the lobbies and committee rooms of the Capitol and a quick perception of what is going on about them , appear to be strongly impressed with the idea that the action of the majority of the legislators is liable to be determined by the corrupt use of money . This is a very serious suspicion:to be entertained by men who are merely watchful and alert , with exceptional opportunities for observation , and who have no ' motives for attributing to the representatives of the people purposes which they do not entertain . If their suspicions are well founded we have a state of things - presented at Albany which is calculated to cause decided alarm . It has come to such a pass that when the interests of the people of the State , or of any part of it , come in conflict with those of great corporations or combinations of capital whose profits would be affected by legislation , the latter are able to gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been chosen by the people to guard their interests , and have sworn to do so faithfully . Have we reached such a scandalous stage of degradation in this State ? We certainly hope that the record of the session from this time on will not confirm the apprehensions of the Albany correspondents who appear to have so little faith in legislative integrity . They may be somewhat hasty in their judgment , and fail to discriminate with accuracy the motives which appear to actuate members of the two houses . They may be too ready to generalize , and . attribute to the majority purposes which are harbored by only a comparatively few , for unfortunately it can not be denied that there are men chosen to the Legislature every year who are constantly on the lookout for a chance to line their pockets . That is bad enough , but if it is true that corruption has come to be the decisive factor in legislation , whenever there is an opportunity for it to come into play on a sufficient scale , we shall have to bestir ourselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ruin . We are not disposed to prejudge the purposes of legislators in ' regard to measures upon which they have not finally acted , and they may yet dispel the suspicious that have been excited . But they will have to stand the judgment which their conduct may provoke , if public interests are really sacrificed to serve those of corporations and . capitalists in cases for which there can be no explanation creditable to their sense of honor and public duty . There are two measures pending which will afford a crucial test by which members of the Legislature will be judged . These measures affect the city of New-York alone . In regard to such measures honest legislators will seek to learn what the people of this city desire , what their public authorities approve , and what the real interests of the city demand . Die bill intended to give the Cable . Railroad Company the use of from fifty to seventy miles of our streets for its contrivances is opposed by property owners and taxpayers and by the people generally : It is condemned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conviction hero that it would not serve the interests of the public . Against this local opposition the Legislature can have no excuse for . acting . The scheme is supported only by the capitalists interested in it in the hope of making money out of the city , and by their paid lawyers and agents . It has already been favorably reported . If it is passed under the existing circumstances , corruption will be the only possible explanation . On the other hand . the bill intended to secure for the city an adequate system of rapid transit under the control and- direction of the public authorities has , at least in its general aim , the support of public opinion , of property owners , taxpayers , and the people generally . It is not only approved by the municipal authorities , but originated with them , and as to its serving the interests of the public there can be no question . It is opposed only by the cable company , which fears that it will militate against its own scheme , and . by the Manhattan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid transit as a perpetual monopoly . This opposition , proceeding from corporations and capitalists who have only selfish motives and only- pecuniary interests - to serve , can prevail only by corrupt means . The action of the Legislature upon these two measures will decide whether or not it is under the control of corrupt influences , and whether legislation is to be obtained or defeated by sheer bribery . When that question is determined , we shall knew whether we have reached the stage of degradation calling for some extraordinary effort to arouse the public conscience or not .                     