@@780925

txt The challenge sent Mr. Gebhard by Col. A. B. Cunningham , of the Globe-Democrat , to fight him a duel , bas caused a wonderful amount of excitement here , and the Quarrel is the general topic of conversation . Major Cunningham carried out his threat last evening to post Gabbard at a coward for not having accepted the challenge and giving him a chance to secure satis-faction . This afternoon Mr. Gebhard was called upon by THE TIMES 'S correspondent . He acknowledged that he had received a challenge from Major Cunningham the evening before . " What did you do with the challenge , Mr. Gebhard ? " " I handed it back to the gentleman who brought it , telling him that was sufficient answer . Cunningham insulted me by publishing an interview which never occurred . Under the circumstances there was nothing left for me to do but to brand him as a liar . The first time that occasion offered I did this ; and at the time of the occurrence he made no effort to refute the charge . That was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , and that was the time he should have fought if there was any fight in him . I have no reason for fighting him now , and I will pay ne attention to any challenge he may send or any card ho may publish ; but should be cross my path and assume a hostile bearing toward me . I will act promptly . You may depend upon that . " It is stated that Mr. Gebhard armed himself before he approached Major Cunningham in the hotel rotunda and that he is still ready for any emergency that may arise . A gentleman says the challenge was delivered to Mr. Geb bard about dusk last evening . At that time Mr. Gebhard was standing in the Southern Hotel office , talking with an officer of the hotel . Mr. Tobias Mitchell approached the gentleman . Mr. Mitchell has been connected with Globe-Democrat , but is now editor of the Register-Call , of Central City , Col. , and is at present visiting this city . Mr. Mitchell handed Mr. Gebhard the letter , which the latter immediately opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It demanded , in the usual form , an apology for the remarks Mr. Gaillard had made on the previous evening or the satisfaction which was due from one gentleman to another . The cartel wound up by stating that any answer could be sent through the writ9r 's friend , Mr. Mitchell , the bearer of the letttr . The communication was signed " A. B. Cunningham . " Mr. Gebhard read the letter and handed it back to Mr. Mitchell . He stated that he would not fight Major Cunningham ; that he had no apology to make . The return of the challenge was a sufficient answer , Mr. Gebhard said . Mr. Mitchell went away , but remained about the hotel more than an hour . It is stated by the friends of Major Cunning-ham that he intends to seek satisfaction iq another way , and it was hinted that he would assault Mr. Gebhard on sight , but that he was persuaded not to do this by Mr , J. B. MoCitil-lough , editor of the Globe-Democrat , who advised him not to do anything foolish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Southern Hotel haw , decided to exclude Mr. Cunningham from the house while Mr. Gebhard is there . Major Cunningham 's intimate friends believe that ie Mr. Gebhard does not leave the city before tomorrow night a tragedy will be the outcome of their quarrel . It is also said that Major Cunningham 's card , which was a somewhat mild one , would have been one of the fireeating order , but that Mr. McCullough gave advice which resulted in the writing of the more conservative epistle . In his card of this morning Major Cunningham states that there were reasons or the most potent and overwhelming character known to his intimate friends which prevented him from resenting on the spot the affronts offered to him on Tuesday night by Mr. Gebhard.                     