@@745820

txt There was something like a panic last evening at the Ocean Wave , a quiet hotel of moderate size , situated between the Ocean Hotel and the Brighton . For some time it was believed that a large number of the guests had been poisoned , and many at them are not sure yet that they were not . Soon after dinner one of the guests was taken sick with violent pains in the stomach , nausea , and vomiting . In a short time Mrs. Ryan , of New-York , and her three children were affected in the same unpleasant manner . and the sick list increased so rapidly that by midnight there were 27 cases , and all displayed almost similar symptoms . One or two suffered from purging in addition to their other discomforts . A 3-year-old boy named Burns was the greatest sufferer , and for some time his life was considered in danger . Drs . Harry Pemberton , S. H. Hunt , and Williams were summoned . The sufferers supposed at first they had cholera morbus , but the-leaning feature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few cases . Then it was feared that they were suffering from mineral poisoning , as the matter ejected from their stomachs contained traces of a reddish substance . This was subsequently found to be due to watermelon eaten at dinner . The hotel was turned upside down by the affair and it was 2 o'clock this morning before the physicians went away . Before going they held a consultation and endeavored to ascertain the cause of the trouble . They found that the dishes eaten at the meal were clam chowder , roast beef , roast veal , vegetables , milk , watermelon , and ice cream . The physicians were of the opinion that the sickness had been caused by the combination , but were unable to account for the fact that a number of the guests had , not been affected by it . Mr. Doyle , the proprietor of the hotel , thought the milk was the cause of the trouble , because every person , including a waiter and the cook , who had taken milk was sick . Mr. Doyle gets his milk twice a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several years . His theory is that the farmer disposed of his fresh milk somewhere else yesterday , and then procured for the Ocean Wave Hotel some stale milk which had been artificially freshened with chemicals . The Physicians thought there was a possibility that mild vegetable poisoning had occurred . The sufferers are all out of danger and are doing well to-night . 