@@780914

txt Strong opposition has been suddenly encountered to the ordinance MO k-leg the use of smoke-consumers compulsory . The ordinance has been long urged , and passed the Council and ; the Board of Aldermen by large ma-jorities . It now only wants the Mayor 's approval to become a law . Tim city has suffered greatly from the smoke nuisance . Business has been in-jured and the people subjected to great annoy-ance . Public sentiment has become very strong in favor of the compulsory introduction of smoke-consumers . Committees of ladies urged that steps be taken in that direction at once , and petitions with an almost interminable list . of names attached were presented to the Council asking for the immediate passage of a smoke-consuming ordinance . As at first drawn , the ordinance provided for the punishment of those failing to comply with its provisions by imprisonment or fine , or both . To this feature some of the maimfaeturers objected . and the imprisonment clause was accordingly stricken out , and the fine reduced from S1C0 to DSO . To-day a called meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given exclusively to a discussion of the smoke-consuming ordinance . There was a large number of manufacturers present who manifested the most decided opposition to the proposed law . It was asserted that its tendency would be to put out the fires in the large shops , and thus kill sonic of the principal industries of the city . The greatest possible good that could result from such a law , it was eleinied , would compensate in only a small measure for the injury tint was sure to follow its enforcement . This was followed by an arzument to the effect that none of the socalled smoke-consurniaz devices have been per . fected , and that they , being compulsory , would enrich the owners of these worthless patents to the great disadvantage and injury of our manufacturing interests . Friends of the ordinance were present , but they were few In number . They spoke , of the great annoyance which the smoke nuisance has become , both in the homes of the people and to all branches of business . and urged t bet its abatement had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had visited London and the cities of Europe for the express purpose of gathering information on that point . Before en adjournment wait had the discussion became bitter , and personalities wore indulged in . The hoard appointed a committee to receive complaints from all who consider the ordinance oppressive in its provisions , and to urge the Mayor to withhold his consent to its becoming a law .                     