@@672124

txt We publish this morning a letter from Mr. C. KIRCHHOFF , Jr. , an agent of the Geological Survey , who points out that in Mr. J. S. Moon 's letter of yesterday the quantity of American copper retained for home consumption was overestimated . Mr. KIRCHHOFF prepares the annual official statement of the production and consumption of copper in the United States . With respect to the duty on copper he writes : ' With our enormous exports it is difficult to understand how the tariff can have anything to do with the price here . Before the ** des Iklgtaux began operations we were on a parity with the world 's markets . " In spite of our great export trade in copper , the duty on the metal can be and has been used . to the disadvantage of American consumers . By means of it the American copper mining companies have compelled American consumers to pay for copper a price much higher than that for which the same brands were sold in Europe . Owing to the recent collapse of the Syndicate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we wish to point out that more than 3,500,000 pounds of copper were sold in London yesterday at prices " ranging , " as our dispatches ' say , " from ? 4034 to ? 41 ' 2 per ton . " Now , this is about 9 cents a pound . But on the same day the price of Lake copper for immediate delivery in this city was 16 cents a pound . We do not insist upon these figures as a measure of the difference that may be caused by an unjust use of the tariff , but it is true that the American copper mining companies can by combination compel consumers here to pay more than the price of American copper abroad . While the Syndicate controlled the production and sale of the metal there was but little difference between the price here and the price in London . Inasmuch as the selling price was fixed by the Syndicate , and was substantially uniform in all the great markets , our tariff duty ceased to affect it . But it is true that before the Syndicate began its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the completion of the contracts  --  the duty did serve as an instrument of extortion , and the protected American producers sold copper in London at a price lower than that which they required and compelled consumers of the same grade of copper here at home to give . It will be possible for these companies to do this again . The price will not in the near future be fixed by the Syndicate . If free and natural competition between producers in this country should now be restored , the price would fall to the average price of the three years preceding the formation of the Syndicate . But already it is said by persons connected with the companies that-competition in the home market will be suppressed by a combination of the American mines , and that in this way a high price will be maintained . It is probable that for some time to come there will be an abundance of copper for sale on the other side of the Atlantic at low prices , but it can not compete with American copper in this country except at a disadvantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty . If an American combination should be made , and if copper should be selling in London at 12 cents , the combination could safely exact 16 cents here and at the same time sell its surplus product abroad at 12 cents . This is what the tariff enables the companies to do when they have combined effectively . Of course we are speaking of some uniform grade of the metal , and are not taking into consideration the varying prices of the several qualities and brands . The mining companies have heretofore made such a use of the tariff and they should never be permitted to use it so again . Moreover . by combining with these French speculators to suppress competition and rob the people who gave ' them protection they have forfeited. all right to ask for legislative favor .                     