@@744366

txt It is understood that one of the subjects which that distinguished philosopher , Mr. HERBERT SPENCER , has come to this country to investigate is the condition of aged barbers . It is a subject that ought long ago to have attracted the attention of philosophers , and it is to be hoped that it will now receive a thorough and satisfactory investigation . Every thoughtful man must have been struck , at some time during his life , with the fact that all barbers are comparatively young men . A. barber that is apparently more than 30 years old is rarely seen , and a really old barber  --  say one of 40 years of age  --  can not be found in any shop in the Union . Why is it that all barbers are young ? What becomes of a barber when he begins to grow old ? These are questions which need to be answered , if one of the most remarkable mysteries of modern life is to be solved . The work of a barber is purely mechanical so far as hair-cutting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill must , of course , grow with the constant ex ' ercise of his profession ; and a barber who has shaved for ten years can give much more satisfaction , both to the public and to his employer , than one who has shaved for only two years . From this one would naturally imagine that old , or in other words experienced , barbers would be in great demand . Suppose a barber 's shop were to advertise that every one of its barbers had been constantly occupied in shaving for the last forty years . The public would naturally assume that such barbers possessed far more skill than ordinary barbers , and would he anxious to he shaved by them . Now , the fact that barbers retire from business as soon as they reach the age of 29 or 30 years , and thus voluntarily throw away the fruit of their professional experience , is certainly very curious and unaccountable . It will not do to adopt the hypothesis that the tonsorial profession prevents its adepts from growing old . It might be , and doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession and baffle prying curiosity that the constant use of tonic and the wholesome muscular exercise of shaving prevents a barber from growing old ; that many barbers who look to be only 30 years old are in reality 00 or 70 . The answer to this is simply that it is not true . Barbers never use their own tonic . They know what it is made of , and they wisely keep it exclusively for their customers . The act of shaving does involve a certain amount of exercise , but the man who shaves himself has just as much of this exercise as the barber who shaves another man . No one will pretend that men who shave themselves preserve the appearance of youth longer than men who are shaved by barbers , and hence we can not admit the claim that the act of shaving prevents men from growing old . Beyond any doubt barbers grow old just as all other men do , and the active barbers of the present day look young because they are young and not because they use tonic and shave other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to death at au early age tenable . No man can talk himself to death . It is the people to whom he talks who suffer . Doubtless the victims of the conversational powers of barbers are without number , but it is idle to suppose that a barber can shorten his own life by conversation . On the contrary , the largest and most healthy barbers are those whose conversational powers are conspicuously great , arid who give the most evident promise c. long and destructive lives . May it not be possible that there is a rule among barbers thai , every barber whose conversational powers begin to fall through lack of teeth shall promptly retire from the profession ? When we remember that the average American begins to lose his teeth at the age of 30 , this seems quite possible . Or may it not be that by the time a barber becomes 30 years old he is attacked with paralysis of the muscles of the throat , in consequence of excessive talking , and becomes utterly unable to talk ? This , of course , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some mode of life in which conversational powers are not needed . The most plausible explanation of the mystery of the non-existence of old barbers is , however , the theory that the moment a barber begins to lose his hair or to grow gray he is compelled to give up business . A little reflection will show us that no bald or gray-headed barber could possibly recommend tonic to his patrons . They would glance at his bald scalp or grizzled locks and would sneeringly reply : " Barber , heal thyself . " Such a barber would be a visible refutation of all the claims that are made in behalf of tonics , and would ruin the whole tonic business in an exceedingly short time . What becomes of the barbers who are , for bald or gray reasons , forced to abandon the profession before they grow old , is another and separate mystery . It is possible that many of them become book agents , a profession in which their unique conversational powers would render them eminently successful . This will seem the more probable when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always somewhat deficient in hair . It is a solemn thought that the man who urges us to buy a subscription book is merely repeating , with a slight variation , the speech in behalf of tonic that he was accustomed to deliver in his younger days . Such , however , is proba- bly the fact , though we shall do well not to assume that barbers become book agents until Mr. SPENCER 'S investigations are finished .                     