@@743900

txt Last week three of the thirty-two abjecfollowers of ROSCOE CONKLING in the Legislature of this State slipped the collar , and yesterday he seems to have permitted it to be removed from the necks of the rest . He had wreaked upon the Republican Party all the insult and all the injury in his power , and having proved his impotence to accomplish anything for himself , he finally succumbed to the inevitable . There is no doubt that he would have joined his forces with the Democrats if he could thereby have secured his own election , at no matter what cost to the Republican Party . He was equally ready to bid his men unite with the Democrats in an adjournment and throw the contest into the popular canvass to produce division and disaster . The former he could not accomplish because the Democrats would not consent to the bargain proposed , probably having no confidence in his ability to carry out his part of it . ' The latter the Democrats were ready for , but Mr. CONKLING apparently could not hold all his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meantime , the Democrats were threatening to absent themselves from the joint convention , thereby permitting an election in a way that would leave a band of stragglers in a pitiful plight with no chance to get out of the storm . So at last , after bringing upon himself what to any other man would have been the most galling humiliation and defeat , the ex-Senator " let up " on his wretched followers . The scramble which they made to get back into the ranks and take part in the victory over their own " great leader " was simply ludicrous . They were treated with the effusive generosity which is usually shown to prodigals and repentant reprobates . A conference was called to give them a chance to come in and accept the candidate long ago nominated by their party associates ; but no , that was the very thing they had been standing out against . The conference was not a caucus , but it might call a caucus , and they would come into that , take part in its action , and abide by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour and came together again as a caucus called by itself . That being accepted as sufficiently " regular , " the pleasing farce of nominating anew was gone through with , and every faithful Conkling henchman voted for his fallen master , but Mr. LAPIIA3/ having a majority of votes , his nomination was made unanimous . The , Conklingites , having been let down in the easiest possible manner , were received into the fold with rejoicing , and professed their happiness at the reunion of the divided family . There was much joy over the returned wanderers . albeit they showed small signs - of repentance and were mainly anxious for those things that pertain to their temporal interest . The reunited band of party brothers , after a due amount of embracing , went in together to the joint convention , all voted for the " regular " candidate , and ELBRIDGE G. LAPnAM was elected to the Senate of the United States in place of RoscoE CONKLING , resigned . The result is calculated to put Republicans and people generally into a considerate mood , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty will do well not to presume overmuch on the good nature which that result and the amusing incidents of yesterday will beget . These men have not been able to do the mischief they tried to do . The defeat of their purpose will prevent the division in the Republican Party which they did their worst to produce , and the completeness of that defeat will be a guarantee against any antagonism entailed by the long contest . Hence there will be no bitterness and no keen resentment such as there would have been if they had succeeded in any part of their purpose . And yet let them not think that their action is to be forgotten . Let them not imagine that they are to be restored to the confidence which they have once betrayed . The Republican Party can not afford to reward men for being false to its interests and unfaithful to its requirements . It may be , as Senator HALBERT said in his joy , that the reunited party will sweep the field in the coming canvass , but those who tried so hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have small share in any victory it may win . Every one of the Senators and Assemblymen who disregarded the will of their constituents and chose rather to obey the behests of a man who had abandoned his trust and betrayed his party should be content with . a back seat until he has shown unfeigned repentance and brought forth fruits worthy of it . The discomfiture of ROSCOE CONKLING is complete at every point . He set out to measure strength with the Administration of Gen. GARFIELD on the question of patronage . He was baffled from the start . He made his stand on the appointment of Judge ROBERTSON , and , being unable to defeat it , resigned his seat in the Senate , taking his colleague with him . He was apparently expecting approval from his State and his party . He received condemnation . He went to the Legislature for vindication by a re-election , expecting to be made a candidate by the Republican members . He failed , and by no device or persuasion could he secure the support of one-third of them . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was necessary for its legitimate work ; he has ruined the political prospects of at least thirty of its members ; he has alienated the entire Republican Party from himself , and he has failed in every effort that he has made either to advance his own interests or to revenge himself by injuring the party he could not lead . Meantime , the Administration has grown in strength and in the confidence of the people . New York has two Republican Senators of mediocre abilities , one of whom at least has not kept himself free from the reproach of preferring self-interest to public interest where the two were in conflict , but both are likely to be far more faithful to their duty as Senators and as Republicans than their predecessors have shown themselves .                     