@@743641

txt The citizens of Washington have organized a movement for the purpose of making an effort to induce Congress to take immediate steps to improve that portion of the city lying on the Potomac River . The property fronting the east bank of the river belongs to the Government , but in consequence of the utter neglect of the river that portion of the city has become a great nuisance , and the property is practically useless and valueless . For a great distance from the shore the river is very shallow , and at low water its bed is exposed . This causes foul exhalations , which are wafted across the Mall to the White House and the executive departments , causing great discomfort , and rendering that portion of the city very unhealthy . For several years every annual Message to Congress from the President has directed attention to the necessity of abating this nuisance , but Congress has done nothing to remedy the evil . To-dav a delegation of citizens , headed by Mr. W. W. Corcoran , called on the President to urge him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations made in his Message of last year for legislation to remove this bed of disease . The President assured the delegation that he was in full sympathy with the movement for the removal of this obstacle to the health and advancement of the city ; that he was convinced , from personal inspection as well as personal experience during a residence of four years within its unhealthy influence , that immediate steps should be taken for its abatement , and that he would again urge Congress to pass the necessary legislation to begin the work . The malaria with which Washington is afflicted during the greater Dart of the year is attributed to this foul marsh iu front of one of the best parts of the city , and it is mainly on account of its existence that many of the foreign Ministers refuse to reside here , except during the Winter season , when their presence in Washington is , in a measure , obligatory.                     