@@745683

txt We have not infrequently taken occasion to point out that the movement in favor of the silver coinage is a survival of the greenback movement . There is , of course , in the more recent movement a certain force , and a considerable one , derived from the direct pecuniary interests of the owners of silver mines . It is to this class that the movement owes most of its organization and of the concerted and systematic effort to sustain and extend it . But so far as it is a political movement in the sense that it springs from opinions held by any large part of the voters , it appeals to the class who were captivated . by the greenback idea . Their notion is that money is " cheap " in proportion as it is worthless . Greenbacks , which cost nothing but the expense of paper and printing , were as near p affection as they could hope to get , and they liked them the better the more there were of them , the less likely they were to be redeemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because it seemed to them that under these conditions it was easier to get them . They like silver now because they labor under the same delusion . It is not easy to argue down a delusion . Experience is the only thing that will dispel it , and that must be personal and immediate experience and not that of other people or of other times . The fact that other nations had tried the use of irredeemable paper money , and had suffered terribly from it , and the fact that our own people had tried the same experiment in various degrees and always with great loss , did not prevent the resort to the legal tender notes during our civil war , or their maintenance after the war , and it was only the firmness and sound sense of Gen. GRANT , while President , that stopped the further issue of notes . Worse than this , the poison of the greenback delusion so far penetrated the public mind and influenced popular opinion that ; nearly twenty years from the close of the war the Supreme Court was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the levy of a forced loan was within the discretion of Congress in time of profound peace and when the Treasury was overflowing . The decision was one to make the earlier Justices of the court turn in their graves , and the utter lack of anything like legal reasoning in the opinion by which the decision was reached left the naked truth apparent to all eyes that the Judges were simply obeying what they believed to be the popular sentiment and recognizing what they regarded as inevitable . When the demoralization caused by the use of Government paper money reaches such levels as these it is not surprising that the silver collar , worth but 80 cents and made by law equivalent to 100 , should have bewitched as many minds as it has . The present Secretary of the Treasury , following the example of several of his most eminent predecessors , has urged upon Congress the duty and necessity of depriving the notes of the United States of their legal tender value , and thus leaving them ill:law , as they are in fact and in equity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overdue demand debt should be paid , at the option of the creditor . That recommendation has been criticised as superfluous and ill timed , but it is neither the one nor the other . The legal tender notes are a bulwark of defense for the silver dollars . They foster and perpetuate the notion that the Government can create value where there is none . Within a very short time the New-York Sun has gravely put forward that doctrine , calling attention to the intrinsic worthlessness of the greenback and the fact that it is received by all for its face value as evidence that the force of law can more readily make 80 cents of silver really worth a dollar . So long as bold sophistries of this sort can be put forward by writers with confidence that many readers will not detect or oppose them , the truth avowed by the Secretary of the Treasury can not be too often urged by those having any influence or any responsibility in the finances of the Government . We are not likely to get rid of the depreciated silver dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the : people are made to become used to the circulation of real money . However long we may cling to the cheat of law-made money , and by whatever process we may be forced to abandon it , it is plain that we can not hope for any lasting system of sound currency so long as the greenbacks are in circulation under the present law . Mr. MANNING did an essential service in. giving the sanction of the Treasury Department to the right doctrine . Every such declaration , however barren it may seem at the time , strengthens the position of the Government and makes the complete triumph of the " cheap money " hallucination more difficult . 