@@745441

txt Some of the Southern papers are a little impatient over the delay in making changes in the civil service in the South , and this impatience is not entirely confined to the extreme partisan journals or to those which may be regarded as representing the mere average office-seeking propensity . This impatience is not unnatural , but we are convinced that it is unreasonable , and that a little reflection will show those who desire the right kind of a change in the Federal offices in the South that the very nature of the task to be accomplished requires the utmost care and deliberation in treating it . The curse of the Southern service , as a whole , now is that it is a partisan service . It would be but little gain for the best interests of the South that it should remain partisan , and that Democrats of the same stamp and with the same motives and tendencies should replace the Republicans . It would be a gain , perhaps , in some small degree , because even the most reckless Democratic partisans would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influence of the public opinion of the communities in which they livedin a way that most of the Republicans have not been . But this slight advantage would be more than outweighed by the great injury that would follow a display of reckless partisanship in that section . What the South needs now is precisely what it has needed for years , a body of Federal officeholders of good character and capacity , representing the Federal Government with dignity , and with credit to themselves and . to the Government , performing their duties faithfully , and holding aloof from mere partisan struggles . We have urged on every Republican President in succession the wisdom and necessity of providing the South with this kind of Government officials . Tlio principal motive for such a policy , apart from the general requirements of sound administration , was that it would tend very actively toward the creation of a strong sentiment of respect and attachment for the Union as represented by the National Administration . This motive is now replaced by the corresponding one that such a civil service in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have an active tendency to strengthen the respect and attachment of the whole country for the people of that section . This motive is certainly a very important one . Whatever may be its justice  --  and in the main it is now very unjust ? there is a deep-rooted feeling in the minds of a large part of the people of the North that the Southern people not only retain some of their animosity toward the Union , but that , politically , they have not attained a high level of capacity , intelligence , and self-control . Nothing would so surely and effectually dispel this feeling as the reorganization of the civil service in the South with Southern men of a high standard of fitness . We need not say that we have not the slightest doubt that such a reorganization is entirely practicable , and that Mr. CLEVELAND firmly purposes to carry it out . It would be a great advantage to the South itself ; it would be an advantage equally great to the whole country . The sentiment of distrust still lingering in the Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was inevitable that it should exist , and it has given way to an extent that ten years ago seemed impossible . Its disappearance has been largely due to the high character and the dignity and ability of many of the men whom the Southern States have sent to represent them in the national legislature . It can now be almost wholly removed by the appearance in the Federal service of local representatives of the same character . But the selection of these requires care and time . It will be marred by some mistakes , probably by many . But the more cautiously and thoroughly the work of choice is done , the better for the South and for the Union . We do not underestimate the value or necessity of a purification and elevation of the civil service at the North . We have labored for it for many years with all our ' energies . But all the motives existing for it in the North exist with far greater urgency with regard to the South . There it is not simply a question of good administration and purer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of cementing more closely and durably the bonds of union between the people of the whole country by instilling mutual confidence and regard . Some of the most unfortunate of the few errors of the Administration have come from haste , and from haste in the selection of Southern men for appointment . They have already been seized upon by the extreme partisan Republicans as a basis for criticism . And we may add that the worst enemies of the President , those in his own party who are seeking to persuade or force him to abandon his reform principles , are urging him to the repetition of these errors . The Southern men who appreciate the importance of the next four years to the progress of the South will not only await patiently the action of the President , but will do all that they can to aid him in making his action decisive in its results . 