@@744478

txt Among the evidences that the Democrats are destined to forfeit public confidence in time to save the country from the complete ascendency of the party in the national Government is the disposition developing in the House of Representatives to defeat the bill providing for the relief of the Supreme Court for no reason except that it will put in the hands of a Republican President the appointment of several new Circuit Judges . The provisions of this bill have become familiar to the countrylthrough the discussion which it underwent in the Senate at the last session . It is mainly the work of Senator DAVIS , of Illinois , whose long experience on the Supreme bench made him acquainted with the necessity of relieving the highest court of the burden which interferes with its efficiency , and whose thorough study of the subject enabled him to devise the most effectual measure of relief . It was also framed in harmony with suggestions made by ex-Justice STRONG , and is believed to accord with the views of the present Justices . Moreover , it is heartily supported and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associations of this and other States . In fact , it meets the approbation of men of the highest judicial and legal standing throughout the country who are capable of forming sound opinions on the subject . The bill passed the Senate at the last session after a prolonged and thorough discussion , and has been favorably considered by the Judiciary Committee of the House . It is therefore in a position favorable to its prompt passage , provided it meets with no factious opposition . Of the urgent need of legislation which shall relieve the Supreme Court and facilitate the disposition of cases in the circuits there is no manner of doubt . The need has been felt for years , but the magnitude and importance of the task . of meeting the requirements of the situation made its performance by Congress a matter of more than usual difficulty . It was desirable that partisan considerations should in no way vitiate the proceedings . Judge DAVIS 'S peculiar political relations , as well as his judicial experience and personal character , eminently qualified him to become the framer of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for supposing that he was swayed by any motive but a desire to meet the requirements of the case in the best possible manner . The general acceptance and approval of his work outside of Congress is the best evidence of his success . Indeed , there is scarcely any opposition to it in Congress that touches the merits of his plan . Such as there is proceeds wholly on those partisan grounds which ought to be excluded in the consideration of a measure of this kind . The Circuit Courts of the United States have an insufficient force for their ordinary work , and it takes about two years to reach a case after it has been placed on their crowded calendars.Then , if an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court , it is from three to four years before it comes to a hearing . These delays , which are increasing in length , amount in many cases to a denial of justice and a discouragement of efforts to maintain the rights of citizens . A large proportion of the appealed cases are of a class that might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if there were a competent appellate tribunal established for the purpose . The Davis bill provides for intermediate courts of appeal , one in each circuit , to be composed of the Supreme Justices assigned to the circuit , the Circuit Judgcs , and such District Judges as may be called upon in order to make up a tribunal of five members . The plan involves the appointment of two additional Judges in each circuit , which , in view of the need of a reinforcement of the circuit Judiciary , as well as the relief of the Supreme Court , is probably as economical an expansion of the judicial force as could be made to meet the requirements of the case . One of the merits of the plan is that it leaves the Supreme Court untouched and furnishes the ground for whatever further expansion and development the growth of the Nation may require . Now , this important scheme , which has thus far had nothing of a political or partisan character associated with it , is said to be imperiled because short-sighted Democrats in the House think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patronage which it involves . This would be possible only by delaying the needed reform for about three years , and there is more than an equal chance that such a delay , with other evidences of Democratic greed and wrong-headedness , would be fatal to the partisan purpose that inspired it . There is no reason for distrusting President ARTHUR 'S use of the power which would be intrusted to him by this bill . In most of his judicial appointments heretofore he has shown a high appreciation of the qualities required for efficient service on the bench . Men like Judges GRAY and BLATCIIFORD , whom he has placed on the Supreme bench , are known to the country as eminent jurists , and the public knows and cares nothing about their political predilections . The same should be true , so far as possible , of the new Judges , and there is no reason to doubt that the President would select them by the highest standard of fitness for their judicial duties . Democratic opposition to this bill can only be willfully factious and obstructive , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a party point of view .                     