@@743514

txt The colored people of Elmira and neighboring cities and towns united in a celebration here , to-day , of the emancipation of the slaves in the British colonies by the Wilberforce movement of 1884 , and also of the proclamation of Abahram Lincoln , declaring slavery abolished in the United States . The two anniversaries were merged in one celebration , and hundreds of colored people flocked into Elmira from 100 miles around . A long procession was had about noon to a beautiful grove where an address was delivered by Frederick Douglass , of Washington . Mr. Douglass at some length reviewed the progress of the work of emancipation , and showed how freedom had left the colored people . He then at greater length dwelt upon the political situation , and in a most logical , keen , and coavincing manner compared Gen. Garfield with Gen. Hancock , and clearly showed the broad:statesmanship of the Republican candidate as compared with the impractical and soldierly tendencies of the Democratic candidate  --  the candidate of the same old Democratic Party which could change its policy regularly once a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gray with crime , which sought to and well nigh sundered the Union . Mr. Douglass was frequently interrupted by applause , and his allusions to Garfield , Grant , and the other Republican leaders , were cordially greeted . He closed as follows : " Of the Republican Party I need not speak . It is the same as during and before the war ; the same enlightened , loyal liberal , and progressive party that it was . It is the party of Lincoln , Grant , Wade , Seward , and Sumner ; the party to which we are to-day indebted for the salvation of the country , and to-day it is well represented in its character and composition by James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur . I have no charge to give to the colored voters of this State . You are 15,000 in number , and your vote may turn the scale one way or the other , and say whether this county shall be ruled by a party of liberal ideas , . by justice and fair play , or by a party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bitter prejudice against the race to which you belong . Each colored voter of this State should say , in Scripture phrase , ? May my hand forget its cunning and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth if ever I raise my voice or give my vote for the nominees of the Democratic Party . " Mr. Douglass left Elmira for Rochester , and expects soon to go to Indiana to speak for Garfield and Arthur .                     