@@745354

txt The statement in the first part of the preamble of Gen. BARNUM 'S resolution proposing an investigation of the alleged " corrupt bargains and deals " in connection with appointments in this city presents no basis for a legislative inquiry . The fact that there are " certain legal proceedings commenced and now pending in several of the courts of the First Judicial District " is reason enough why the Legislature should keep its hands off and leave the judicial proceedings to take their course . It would be manifestly improper for it to meddle with the matter at present . The object of a legislative investigation is , or should be , to prepare the way for legislation . There is no intimation that there is anything in the case calling for legislative action , and that is evidently not the object aimed at by Gen. BARNUM 'S resolution . The existing law sufficiently provides for such offenses as are alleged against ex-Mayor EDSON and others concerned in the " corrupt bargains and deals , " and the question is whether the law has actually been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to inquire into it , but that of the courts in which proceedings have been " commenced " and are " now pending . " The matter is in the hands of the Grand Jury , where it belongs , and it is something worse than impertinence , it is a gross impropriety , for any legislative committee to interfere . Gen. BARNUM 'S proposition can have but one purpose , and that not to promote the enforcement of the laws , which is not the business of the Legislature unless further legislation is necessary for the purpose , but to embarrass the legal proceedings , befog the whole matter , and bring it to naught . We can conceive of no other object unless Gen. BARNUM considers it the business of the Assembly to ascertain for its own enlightenment how the bargains and deals were managed and whether all parties thereto got their share of the proceeds . The only pretense on which the Assembly can claim that it has ground for inquiring into the matter is contained in the allegation of the second preamble that certain Judges have given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deals and bargains , and may therefore be subject to impeachment . This allegation is a part of the political gossip of the case , and affords no present ground for taking action . The judicial proceedings will determine whether there was any corrupt bargaining or not , and until that is ascertained on proper evidence the Judges can not be implicated . The Grand Jury and the courts are far better instrumentalities for ascertaining the facts than any committee that the present Assembly could send down here . They have 4t. ** a fair share of public confidence , and may be trusted to conduct the inquiry with the sole view to getting at real facts and finding out whether there has been a violation of law , and of enforcing the penalties if such is the case . If the Assembly is after the Judges it is pretty sure to be inspired by political motives . Gen. BARNUM has never shown a zeal for purity in the administration of public affairs or of public justice that gives assurance of any elevated purpose on his part , and Mr. ERWIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first consideration with him would be partisan gain of some kind . There would be no confidence in an investigation set on foot in this way , nor in any committee that the present Speaker of the Assembly might name . The best interests of this community " demand that the judicial proceedings should not be interfered with and that the Assembly attend to its own business . The reputation of the Assembly itself requires that it should devote itself to the work of legislation and not attempt to create any new muddle in the politics of this city . The agencies at work here can take care of this matter , and if they find that any Judges deserve to be impeached they can be trusted to let the Legislature know , and to prepare the case much better than any committee appointed by Mr. ERWIN at the instigation of Gen. BARNUM would do it . 