@@744185

txt The country is to be congratulated that there is a fair prospect of a definite and rational reduction of taxation during the present session of Congress . Tho amount proposed is , it is true , not very large , but it includes all the reduction that could safely be made in the internal revenue list . Much more might be done in the tariff , and on the same principle that has guided the Ways and Means Committee in its action on the internal revenue , as may be easily shown . The reductions in internal revenue , as finally agreed upon by the committee , and as they will probably be accepted by Congress , embrace the following taxes , and will produce , according to the estimate of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue , the following changes in the yield : deleted table The principle on which these reductions have been arranged is that they are war taxes , imposed for a special purpose no longer in existence , and that they are in a marked degree impediments to business and burdensome to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been long regarded as particularly inexcusable . It is a direct tax on a most important element in all business transactions , and if the class who have paid it had been animated by one tithe of the aggressive feeling that demagogues so freely attribute to them , the tax would have been taken off years ago . It is , indeed , a curious commentary on the alleged greed and tyranny of capital that the associated bankers of the Union , representing a capital of some $600,000,000 , and deposits of nearly twice that amount , have been trying for a number of years to get abolished a tax of less than ten millions a year , and have wholly failed . The tax on bank checks in the form of stamps is not a matter of great consequence , either as to the amount paid or the distribution of the burden , but it is a considerable annoyance , and it is objectionable because , though small , it weighs more heavily , in proportion to the amount of business done , upon small dealers than upon large . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , like the stamp tax on all receipts for money and on all notes of hand and other papers , the country submitted without murmuring during the war and so long as they were regarded as necessary . The others have long since been dropped , as this one should have been . Its abolition now is a tardy recognition of a duty which Congress should have performed  --  at least four years since . The tax on matches has been maintained chiefly because no one class of considerable influence has exerted itself to get it removed . It is defended on the ground that it does not fall heavily upon any one person or group of persons , which is true . But it is , nevertheless , thoroughly indefensible for a rich and powerful Government to make an exaction which it does not need , and which is onerous in its nature , though but small in any individual case . A despotic Government seeking ways to bleed its subjects with the least danger of exciting resistance might impose such a tax logically and with reason , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to save those they represent from all unnecessary interference with the needs and comforts of daily life , and the match tax is certainly a constant interference of this character . As for the argument of the attorney of the Diamond Match Company , which now controls the match trade of the United States , that the removal of the tax would open our markets to cheap foreign matches , it is an argument for , and not against , the abolition of the tax . It is pushing the argument for " protection " a little further than common sense can bear to ask the intervention of the Government to maintain an avowed monopoly , which the Government has already built up . We are heavily taxed indirectly to maintain the profits of capitalists upon clothing , shelter , tools , and transportation , but at least the Government is only doing its duty in taking off its hand from the petty but universal necessity , matches . A like argument may be made in regard to the tax on so-called " proprietary " medicines other than alcoholic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerably with our foreign as well as domestic trade . We have said that the same principle that has been adopted with reference to these internal revenue taxes might be applied , and to a vastly larger extent , to the tariff . If the list of Customs duties were carefully revised to exclude those which were originally imposed to compensate manufacturers against internal taxation no longer in existence , it would be found that its dimensions would be very seriously curtailed . Many of its most objectionable features would be removed and ' others would be rendered comparatively tolerable . If in addition to this revision the tariff were purged of those taxes which interfere directly and unavoidably with the business of the country both at home and abroad , it would become a reasonable and acceptable revenue measure . We commend this suggestion to those who , like Senator HAWLEY , profess to be ignorant of what the revenue reformers really want . 