@@781676

txt Three months ago seven dogs were imprisoned in Newark . They have been closely watched , and to-day they are to be released . They were in good health when the doors of their prison closed on them , and they are in good health now . They have stubbornly refused to show any signs of madness . They have even declined to be ill . They are sound in lungs , stomach , brain , and spinal mar-row , and thereby hangs a tale , for these are the dogs-that were bitten by the dog that bit the four children who were sent deleted 6 lines peevish . He may have been displeased . Possibly he had been annoyed or frightened by some one . But he was mot suffering from rabies , for here are seven dogs which were bitten by him , and they are coming out of the pound , strong and hearty , and ready to sue some ' one for false imprisonment . The scientists and dog catchers who have had them under surveillance have chosen . an unfortunate time for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report to the Academy of Sciences in which the cases of the four Newark children were included among those which are examples of successful inoculation , and only two days have passed since our esteemed contemporary opened a subscription list . for the proposed international hospital in Paris . The dogs should have been con-fined a few weeks longer , and then.allowed to escape in the night . As we look back upon the days of December and January , how absurd.ap , pears the fuss that was made about the poor dogs I The Newark children were bitten about Dec. 1 . The dog was killed ; ' their wounds were cauterized. ; the dogs that had been bitten were shut up , and while money was being  --  raised to send the children . to Paris an attempt . was made to convince the people . of Northern New-Jersey that their part of the world was , - full of mad dogs . Rigid dog laws were enacted , or old ones were strictly enforced . Page after page of our esteemed contemporary blazed with the appalling record of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to a few ours that must have supposed that-some strange madness had . fallen . upon mankind . Strong men sickened and took to their beds if dogs were led by misplaced affection to lick their hands . It was a reign of terror for dogs and for those human beings who drew mental nourishment from the columns , of our esteemed contemporary . But with all this hullaballoo was there a single case of hydrophobia in this vicinity from the day when the Newark children were bitten ? Not one . But it was said that the dog which bit them was undoubtedly mad , and that rabies would be developed in the imprisoned dogs . Now that theory must fall to the ground . In short , the children have never been in any danger , and there was absolutely no foundation for the fright that caused so much excitement . Notwithstanding the shedding of floods of printer 's ink in the narration of stories about almost innumerable mad dogs and Many hairbreadth escapes of man and beast , there were no mad dogs , and no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dec 1 . The fact that the Newark . children have not suffered from hydrophobia can in no way tend to show that PASTEUR 'S method of inoculation is effective . On the other hand , if any one of them should hereafter suffer from hydrophobia , not having been bitten again in the meantime , it would not be unreasonable to look to PASTEUR 'S virus for the cause of the disease . But we do not believe that inoculation has done them any harm .                     