@@781757

txt The Egyptian muddle is growing darker and thicker than ever , and the only thing about it that is at all clear is that before very long something is going to happen , though nobody can tell what it will be . In trying to set forth the precise state of things in Egypt , it is well to begin with the position of TEWFIK Pasha , the Khedive . TEWFIK does not want to do anything . Ho was made Khedive for this purpose only . His father , the ex-Khedive IsmAIL , did things . He built railroads and opera-houses , and imported American officers and French ballet girls . Naturally , he spent a great deal of money , and France and England , being shocked at the spectacle presented by his extravagance and the low price of Egyptian bonds , requested him to abdicate . In his place they set up Tzwrix Pasha , with the understanding that he was to practice the profession of Khedive much as an insurance President practices his own profession , that is to say , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Egyptian affairs . Egypt has an Army . It is a very bad one , and has as yet done only one thing . This was to get a large part of itself slaughtered by the Abyssinians without even exhibiting intelligence enough to run away . Some time ago , however , it occurred to an Egyptian Colonel  --  one ARABI Bey  --  that it would be a good idea to mutiny and demand a little of the pay which is always promised and never paid to the Egyptian soldiers . The mutiny was brilliantly successful , and ARABI Bey suddenly found himself a great man , and as such under obligations to do something to sustain his reputation . Thereupon ARABI had himself made Minister of War , and undertook to govern the country . It is at this point that the difficulties of explaining the Egyptian situation begin . With TEWFIK doing nothing but drawing his salary , and ARABI ruling the country  --  or , in other words , collecting taxes  --  with the help of the Army , the situation would have been a simple one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of doing something , and as far as can be understood this something was to mutiny against ARABI Bey . It thus happens that Egypt is on the verge of a civil war between TEWFIK and ARABI , and that , as far as can be learned , the greater part of the Army sides with ARABI and only a few regiments have taken the Khedive 's part . When the fighting begins it is believed that ARABI 'S troops will immediately slaughter all the Europeans in Egypt , ARABI having lately adopted the cry , " Egypt for the Egyptians , " and quoted with warm approval WASHING:cores order to " put none but Egyptians on guard . " To prevent such a slaughter from taking place , England and France have both sent fleets to Egypt , and threaten to land troops and occupy the country . It may be assumed that neither the French nor the English Government . cares much about the dispute between ARABI and T.Ewsvr , but neither nation is willing that the other should become allpowerful in Egypt , and hence the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent one another from doing anything . Then there is the Sultan of Turkey . He is fitting out a fleet and intends to send it to Egypt to preserve order . This is an admirable way of dissatisfying everybody .. Neither TEWFIK nor ARABI wants to recognize the Turks as the rulers of Egypt , and neither France nor . England is willing to have Turkey possess more than a nominal sovereignty over that country . Of course , the Sultan will not be permitted to land troops at Alexandria without meeting with resistance from somebody , and , in all probability , he will not find a single friend in Egypt . As if there was not already sufficient confusion in Egyptian affairs , Italy is getting a fleet ready in order to protect Italian interests in Egypt . It is regarded as certain that if the French and English attempt to interfere between ARABI and TEWFIK the Germans and the Austrians will insist on taking part in the game . Then there is the ex-Khedive IsmAIL , who is now compelled to spend most of his time at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from eloping , and who is prepared to do anything in order to get back to his old place ; and , finally , there is a false prophet in the Soudan who is doing a lively buziness and who intends to conquer Egypt for his own benefit . The Schleswig-Holstein affair was clear as daylight in comparison with the Egyptian muddle . No man can attempt to comprehend the whole situation in Egypt or to foretell how it is to end without endangering his sanity . Are ARABI and TEWFIK and lsbrim and the Soudan prophet and the Sultan and France and England and Italy and Germany and Austria all to fight one another under the shadow of the pyramids , to the unspeakable astonishment of the famous forty centuries ? And if they do engage in such a complex battle , what is to be the result ? The Egyptian darkness exhibited by MOSES was nothing in comparison with the darkness which envelops the future of Egypt just at present , and could the former be suddenly brought back and mule permanent , it would be an immense relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one thing that ought to be done is for somebody to apply to the Supreme Court for the appointment of a Receiver . Judging from the experience of certain bankrupt corporations in this City , a Receiver appointed by our . Supreme Court would make it very certain that not a single one of the various persons and parties now claiming interests in Egypt would reap any benefit . He would rapidly get possession of everything of any value in Egypt , and in the course of a year Egypt itself would totally disappear , and with its disappearance the Egyptian muddle , which is now troubling every statesman and editor in Europe , would come to a complete and welcome end .                     