@@744587

txt The battle between the farmers and the milk-dealers is evidently about over . The farmers were fortunate in the time chosen for this demonstration . During the Easter season there is a largely increased demand for milk among the bakers . The effect of this is to make a limitation of the supply more speedily and severely felt . The grocers , restaurant-keepers , bakers , and all the cooks and babies in the City are more or less affected by the action of the farmers , and , moved by their complaints , the dealers are already showing signs of weakness . They talked very boldly at first , and proposed to show the farmers of Orange County that New-York could get along very well without a drop of their milk . They seem to have over-estimated their own firmness and the productiveness of other sources of supply . They have already offered the farmers 3i cents per quart for milk delivered during the last half of this month , the demand of the farmers having been for 3i cents for the entire month . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confer with the producers with a view to fixing a fair price for the whole year . These terms , or others similar to them , will probably be accepted by the farmers . The latter are well aware that the advantage rests with them . The loss they have suffered is distributed among so many individuals that it is but lightly felt , and sympathizing friends in some of the river towns have contributed money to be used in making the burden easier for those who were unable or unwilling to keep back their product . The war might be kept up for days and weeks , if that course were necessary . But the end sought has been attained . The price of milk has risen to ai cents per quart . The farmers have shown no disposition to make it a war of revenge , and they will now doubtless discharge their efficient " spilling committees " with votes of thanks , and relieve the milk famine in New-York City by loading the Erie milk trains with the customary burden of cans . No one who knows to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swindled by the average City vendor of " truck " will waste any sympathy on the milk-dealers . They have hitherto had things pretty much their own way , and have bullied the farmers and cheated the City consumers with admirable impartiality . Farmers have a reputation for shrewdness , and the word honest is sometimes applied to them in a sarcastic sense , but in their dealings with many of the City vendors they usually labor at a disadvantage . Much of their produce is of the most perishable nature , and must be sold at once for what it will fetch or be wholly lost . They are thus unable to regulate the supply , which is at times greatly in excess of the demand and again deficient . Of the favorable market created by the latter condition they are rarely able to take full advantage , owing to their inability to act in combination . So at the end of the season they find that they have been engaged a part of the time in hauling truck to market for prices which barely paid the cost of cartage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an adequate advance on more profitable kinds of produce . The milk farmers have now shown that they can take care of themselves , and the truck farmers will probably devise some similar means for their own protection . The issue of this milk war , whatever it may be , will not materially affect milk consumers , but it serves to call attention to the abuses which householders have to endure . The whole system of supplying New-York and Brooklyn with milk and vegetables is wretched . It is at times practically impossible to get table supplies of the perishable kind in eatable condition through the ordinary channels . By the time the tender vegetables and small fruits have passed through the hands of the various middlemen and have reached the final distributing point in the store of the family grocer they are for the most part wilted , stale , shrunken , decayed , dusty , . tasteless , and unfit to be eaten . They are tolerable and . tolerated only because of the impossibility of getting them in a fresh and wholesome condition . The best fruits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producers , when trustworthy ones ' can be found . A great many families pay producers double prices for vegetables , and nearly double prices for milk and butter . Uniform excellence in these articles is perhaps to be secured in no other way , but such a state of things is disgraceful . With proper organization and honest dealing every family in the two cities ought to have good butter , pure milk , and fresh fruit and vegetables at a fair price . Milk is one of the commonest of necessities , but in this City it has become , when rich and pure , a luxury . It will not be likely to improve in quality if the dealers are compelled to pay a higher price for it , and it would be well for the Board of Health to take extra precautions against adulteration and the sale of skim milk during the next month or two .                     