@@781521

txt The Brooklyn bridge has now been open not quite five months . It was assumed that the bridge would prove an enormous benefit to New-York , for reasons that never were particularly clear ; but , as the result proves , the bridge is steadily depopulating this City . Up to Oct. 1 , 1,865,800 persons passed over the bridge from New-York to Brooklyn , while only 1,519,600 came over the bridge from Brooklyn to New-York . In other words , the bridge has drained New-York of 346,200 more people than it has brought from Brooklyn . It needs only an elementary knowledge of slate and pencil to prove that at this rate New-York will be utterly depopulated in less than two years . Even if we admit that a small proportion of the 846,200 who have fled from New-York by way of the bridge since last May have returned by way of the ferries , two years would still be quite suffi-cient to entirely empty our City and to reduce it to a wilderness without even life enough to howl . This is a result very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us , and one which , to tell the truth , was foreseen by nobody . The . causes of this exodus of New-York people and their subsequent disappearance in the wilds of Long . Island can only be surmised . It could easily be understood that people should cross the bridge out of curiosity to see it , but the 346,200 missing New-Yorkers evidently crossed it with some other intention than that of merely gratifying an idle curiosity . Their motives , however , are now of little consequence , and the one absorbing question is what has become of them . We may assume that a certain proportion of the missing people were lured into TALMAGE 'S conventicle , witnessed one of his sermons , and were miserably preached to death . Any very unusual mortality from TALMAGE 'S sermons would , however , have attracted the attention of the health authorities , and as the health authorities have not interfered to check the Talmage pestilence , there is no reason to believe that very many of the missing New-Yorkers perished in the Brooklyn Tabernacle . It is extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell into the hands of the Long Island Railroad Company , and were straightway carried off to remote sea-side resorts on the east end of the island and delivered over to Summer boarding-house keepers , by whom they are still detained and experimented upon with clam-fritters . Still others may have reached the lowlands lying back of Brooklyn and contracted the local chills and fever to such an extent that they can not keep still long enough to ask for help , and can not control their movements sufficiently to make their way homeward . Finally , certain reckless New-Yorkers may have entered those of the Brooklyn horse cars which profess to connect the city with remote Long Island towns , and may still be journeying wearily toward Newtown or Bath  --  journeys which are believed to occupy ordinarily full six months . Even if by this supposition we could account for the disappearance of , say , 200,000 of our missing fellow-citizens , there would still be 146,200 to be accounted for . Are these unfortunate people living or dead ? Living they can hardly be or they would surely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to whom do they owe their untimely taking off ? There is a great and terrible mystery here , which must be solved without a moment 's unnecessary delay . In the meantime , is the Brooklyn bridge to be perverted from its proper use to a field for Col. PAINE 'S experiments and to be made the means of depopulating this City ? This is a grave question , but no one can read the report of Engineer MARTIN without perceiving that a drain of 346,200 in five months is something that our City can not endure for two consecutive years without becoming as silent and desolate as Thebes or Palmyra.                     