@@745361

txt Just after the close of the Summer term of the Highland Military Academy , in this city , last June , two of its graduating cadets , Frederick G. , of Chicago , and Henry W. Walling , of Detroit , eloped to New-Rochelle , N. Y. , and were married to two young ladies , whose acquaintance they had made during their afternoon leaves of absence from the academy . The boys were aged , respectively , 16 and 19 and the girls 10 and 18 . Other cadets abused their privileges by visiting liquor saloons , and at the beginning of the present school year Principal Metcalf decided not to allow the cadets to visit the city unless accompanied by a member of the Faculty . The boys , who are , as a rule , rather ungovernable , were restive under this order , and frequently applied in vain to have it rescinded . Finally on Saturday 10 of them left the school without permission and went to the neighboring town of Millbury , where they remained over Sunday . Yesterday they returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending word to the Principal that they would come back if their old Privileges were restored and they were allowed to.visit the theatre , the skating rink , and a cer- tain named billiard room on their afternoons out . If these privileges were granted . they agreed to give up any one of their number caught drinking or smoking . They informed the Principal they had solemnly swern not to return until ? they had gained their point , and thou not if any one of their number was expelled or degraded from his military rank . The Principal declined to treat with the'rebels , but notified their parents by telegraph . The Principal at first tried to ? have the police arrest and return the boys to school , but they declined to act without a warrant and the boys took legal advice and found the Principal could not swear out a warrant unless they committed some breach of the peace , which they have been careful not to do . The names of the rebellious students are John A. Bowman , A. A. Rhodes , James W. Van @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wis. ; Charles E. Bartlett , of Boston ; Frank Hyman , of Chicago ; Herbert W. Wells , of Wethersfield , Uonn . ? Irving S. Johnson , of Schodick Landing , N. Y. Ronald R. , of St. Paul , Minn. , and Frederick W. Seaverance , of Stratham , N. H. Bowman is the First Lieutenant of the cadet company , and the other rebels include all the non-commissioned officers of the company . Bartlett and Wells were returned to the school to-day by their fathers , but the others hold firm .                     