@@744127

txt The following letter was sent to President Arthur to-day by ex-Secretary Blaine : WASHINGTON , D. C. , Fob. 3 , 1882 . To the President of the United States : The suggestion of congress of all the American nations to assemble in the city of Washington for the purpose of agreeing on such basis of arbitration for international troubles as would remove all possibility of war on the Western Hemisphere was warmly approved'by your predecessor . The assassination of July 2 prevented his issuing the invitations to the American States . After your accession to the Presidency . I acquainted you with the project , and submitted to you a draft for such an invitation . You received the suggestion with the most appreciative consideration , and , after carefully examining the form of the invitation , directed that it be sent . It was accordingly dispatched in November to the independent Governments of America , north and south , including all from the Empire of Brazil to the smallest republic . In a communication addressed by the present Secretary of State ou the 9th of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate , I was greatly surprised to find a proposition g lookin to the annulment of these invitations , and 1 was still more surprised when I read the reasons assigned . I quote Mr. Frelinghuysen 's language : " The United States is at peaco with all the nations of the earth , and the President wishes , hereafter , to determine whether it wail conduce to that general peace which he would cherish and promote for this Government to enter Into negotiations and consultation fur the promotion of peace with selected friendly nationalities . without extending a like confidence to other peoples with whom the United States is on equally friendly terms . if such partial confidence would create jealousy and peace , the object sought by such consultation , would not be promoted . The principles controlling the relations of the republics of this hemisphere with other nationalities may . on investigation , be found to be so well established that little would be gained . at this time by reopening a subject which is not novel . " If I correctly apprehend the meaning of these words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we should hold in the United States a congress of the " selected nationalities of America . " This is certainly a new position for the United States to assume , and olio which I earnestly beg you will not permit this Government to occupy . The European powers assemble in congress whenever an object seems to them of sufficient importance to justify it . I have norer heard of their consulting . the Government of the United States in regard to the propriety of their so assembling , nor have I ever known of their inviting an American representative to be present ; nor would there in my judgment he any good reason for their so doing . Two Presidents of the United States , in the year 1881 , adjudged it to be expedient that the American powers should meet in congress for the sole purpose of agreeing upon some basis for abitration of differences that may arise between them and for the prevention , so far as possible , of war in the future . If that movement is now to be arrested for fear that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Government could not be more complete unless we should petition the European Governments for the privilege of holding the congress . I can not conceive how the United States could be placed in a less enviable position than would be secured by sending in November a cordial invitation to all the American Governments to meet in Washington for the sole purpose of concerting measures of peace , and in January recalling the invitation for fear that it might create " jealousy and ill-will " on the part of monarchical Governments in Europe . It would be difficult to devise a more effective mode for making enemies of the American Governments , and it would certainly not add to our prestige in the European world . Nor can I . see , Mr. President , how European Governments should feel " jealousy and ill-will " toward the United States because of an effort on our part to assure lasting peace between tho nations of America erica unless , indeed , it be the interest of European powers that American nations should at intervals fall into war , and bring reproach on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an additional and powerful motive for the American Governments to be at peace among themselves . The United States is indeed at peace with all the world , as Mr. Frelinghuysen well says , but there are , and have been , serious troubles between other American nations . Peru , Chili , and Bolivia have been for more than two years engaged in a desperate conflict . It was the fortunate intervention of the United States last Spring that averted war between Chili and the Argentine Repsiblic . Guatemala is at this moment asking the United States to interpose its good offices with Mexico to keep off war . These important facts were all communicated in your late Message to Congress . It is the existence , or the menace of these wars , that influenced President Garfield , and , as I supposed influenced yourself , to desire a friendly conference of all the nations of America , to devise methods of permanent peace and consequent prosperity for all . Shall the United States now Ulm back , hold aloof , and refuse to exert its great ' moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have not formally and finally recalled the invitations to the peace congress , Mr. President , I beg you to consider well the effect of so doing . The invitation was not mine . It was yours . I performed only the part of the Secretary  --  to advise and to draft . You spoke in the name of the United States to each of the independent nations of America . To revoke that invitation for any cause Auld be embarrassing ; to revoke it for the avowed fear of " jealousy and ill-will " on the part of European powers would appeal as little to American pride as to American hospitality . Those you have invited may decline , and , having now cause to doubt their welcome , will , perhaps , do so . This would break up the congress , but it would not touch our dignity . Beyond the philanthropic and Christian ends to be obtained by an American conference devoted to peace and good-will among men we might well hope for material advantages as the result of a better understanding . and closer friendship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of trade between the United States and its American neighbors is unsatisfactory to us , and oven deplorable . According to the official statistics of our own Treasury Department , the balance against us in that trade last year was $120,000,000  --  a sum greater than the yearly . product of all the gold and silver mines in the United States . This vast balance was paid by us in foreign exchange , and a very large proportion of it/went to England , where shipments of cotton , provisions , and breadstuffs supplied the money . If anything should change or cheek the balance in our favor in European trade , our commercial exchanges with Spanish America would drain us of our reserve of gold coin at a rate exceeding $100 , - 000,000 per annum , and would probably precipitate a suspension of specie payment in this country . Such a result at home might be worse than a little " jealousy and ill-will " abroad . I do not say , Mr. President , that the holding of a peace congress will necessarily change the currents of trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the American nations ; it will promote the reign of peace and law and order ; it will increase production and consumption , and will stimulate the demand for articles which American manufacturers can furnish with profit . It will , at all events , be a friendly and auspicious beginning iu the direction of American influence and American trade in a large field which we have hitherto greatly neglected , and which has been practically monopolized by our commercial rivals in Europe . As Mr. Frelinghuysen 's dispatch , foreshadowing the abandonment of the peace congress , has been made public by your direction , I deem it . a matter of propriety and justice to give this letter to the press . 