@@672159

txt The most sensational crime that Cincinnati has known for a long period disturbed breakfast this morning in the elegant Kenilworth flat house on West Seventhstreet . Eighteen months ago Morris J. Blanc came here from Boston , where he had neon the Superintendent of a pyrotechnio establishment . Blanc secured a similar position with the Dint Fireworks Company in this city . He had been divorced from his wife in Boston , ? leaving with her two children , but bringing one , Florence , a beautiful child of six , with him . Common report had it that he had still a third wife in England . He admitted cowing from England , but refused any information regarding his connections there , except that his father was immensely rich , a statement horns out by the fact that he was regularly in receipt of large sums from England , which he spent on the richest clothing and furnishings for his house . Last August , walking down Fourth  --  street , he was attracted by an unusually-pretty woman . with whom ne managed to scrape up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Overdiek , and the trial which released her from her husband was exceedingly sensational . After a courtship of but a few days , the couple were married and began housekeeping at the Kenilworth , the woman having a earl , Edith , about the age of Blanc 's daughter . From the first the couple disagreed , and soon Blanc became convinced of his wife 's infidelity . He would accuse her in the most violent language , and then his great love would overcome him , and he would ' forgive her . Friday night he traced her to a notorious house , where she was found with Harry Hoffman , a handsome gambler , who escaped . Blanc remained away from his home until last evening , when he returned and quarreled violently with his wife . Finally she declared she would leave him , and looked herself in a servant 's room . Blanc walked the floor all night . At 8 o'clock this morning , wnile Mrs. Blanc 's daughter had gone to the street , Blanc stepped into his wife 's room and asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whereupon Blanc shot her in the right temple . He then went to a front room , and calling Florence to his side , shot her while he kissed her . He then shot himself In the right temple . Both he and the child are dead and the woman is ( lying . Blanc left two letters , one to the public and one to his employer accusing Hoffman of ruining his home . 