@@780591

txt Gov . Hill has given up his scheme to build the Meegan-Manning antiCleveland faction in Albany into a hall organi nation , and has now set to work to weaken tho regular organization , which Corporation Conn eel D. Cady Herrick has directed since the Hon. Daniel Manning left local politice . A year ago Gov . Hill Insisted that Mr. Edward Meagan. the leader of the bolting Democrats in this county , should be appointed Corporation Counsel of the city instead of D. Cady Herrick , bu Mayor Thatcher refused to obey orders from the Capitol and appointed Mr. Herricic . When Mr. Herrick desired the place on the Supreme Court bench , made vacant by the election of Judge Peckham to the Court of Appeals Mr. Moegan had his revenge and frightened the Governor out of making the nomination , and Judge Mayhem , of Sehoharie , was nominated . Yesterday Prison Superintendent Austin S. Lathrop , who is spoiling a good reputation by merely registering Gov . Hill 's orders , appointed James McIntyre as State agent for discharged convicts at a salary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Democratic organization in the county . Until last Winter he hold the office of Deputy Commissioner on the Capitol and divided the patronage where it would do the most good to the regular organization . When Gov . Hill was trying to make a deal with Gov . Bed-well , of Maine , to , continuo work on the Capitol he was informed that the Republican Legislature would not vote a dollar unless McIntyre was removed . Gov . Hill summoned McIntyre and told him that ho must get out , but that he would be provided for . McIntyre accordingly resigned , and has been feeding since on windy promisee from the Capitol until a short time ago , when he gave notice that he did not mean to stand that diet any longer . The Democrats of Albany will soon elect their delegates to the State Convention , and Mr. McIotyro will be one of them . He was in a dangerous frame of mind , so , after a long search , the place of State agent for discharged convicts , ' which Mr. Henry L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Arnold was put out yesterday and Mr. McIntyre was put in , and Judge Muller puts one delegate for Hill from Albany on his roll . Mr. McIntyre , however , does not feel so sure of the compliment paid , and his new allegiance to the Hill machine was considerably shaken when he read today the following paragraph from Gov . Hill 's last message to theLogislature : " In addition to these offices . the abolition of which was recommended by me last year , there to the office of State agent for discharged convicts , which it is believed can with advantage be , done away with . The sum appropriated for the purposes of the State agent is $7,600. of Which it appears ho receives as salary and for expensas $3,500. thus leaving $4.000 for discharged convicts . in other words it costs the State $3,500 to distribute $4.000 . From investigation I ant satisfied that the duties of State agent can be better performed by the Wardens of the prisons , without any additional expense , and thereby discharged convicts will receive the full benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividing almost half of it with an official whose services are superfluous , to saythe least . " Mr. McIntyre knows that he can hold office through the Democratic State Convention and until the Legislature meets , but he also knows that his appointment will induce a Republican Legislature to adopt immediately Gov . Hill 's recommendation to abolish the office . He is wondering it Gov . Hill knows these facts also . Chief Civil Service Examiner Potts says he is not oe.rtaiu that this appointment does not come under civil service examination . He says the fact of its not being specified in the rules does not exempt it from examination . Re will look into the duties of the office , and will then be able to decide whether an examination is called for .                     