@@672245

txt THE BEHRING SEA SEASON . The recent arrivals of sealing schooners at Victoria show that the Behring Sea season is practically over . One vessel after ? another of the fleet that went out from that port in the Spring has . returned in safety , until at the latest accounts only four were still absent . Some , it is true , have been boarded by the Bush , and have lost their season 's catch ; but others have seen nothing of the revenue cutter , and have profited accordingly . Some have been visited , but have adroitly concealed their sealskins from the officer 's eye , or have been released because the skins wire not very fresh , and might possibly had been taken outside of the forbidden waters . The Kate had . been ordered to heave to , but was not searched because the sea was rough , and the Rusk could not lower a boat . The Japtain of one of the Dominion schooners even thought the Rush , was purposely lenient , and . only boarded sealers when she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exaggeration , but there is reason to suppose that the cutter has been far from severe . The dispatches sent by Capt . SHEPARD to the Treasury Department indicate the seizure of half a dozen vessels , five of them belonging to British Columbia , and all of these returned safely to port . The Black Diamond , the Pathfinder , and the Minnie carried their " prize crews " of one man each to Victoria , while the Lily and the Juniata had . not even one man put aboard . The J. G. Swan seems to have been the only vessel that really obeyed orders and gave herself up in an American harbor , and she was an ? American vessel . It would not be surprising to learn at the end of the season , after all the heated talk , that not a single British Columbian sealing schooner is in the hands of our authorities . Under , these circumstances it is rather strange to find a British military paper declaring that " the presence in the Behring Sea of a trustworthy vessel carrying a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to simplify the questions at present under discussion in regard to the seal fishery and its rights . " The fact is that there were half a dozen British war vessels within easy distance of Behring Sea , but the orders or the good sense of Admiral HENEAGE , or both , kept them from taking any part in the matter . The case has been precisely like that of the other fishery dispute on the Atlantic seaboard , in which our vessels felt aggrieved . at the pretensions of the Ottawa Government , and especially at their practical application in the form of seizures , fines , and detentions . But it never occurred to the Washington authorities to send " a trustworthy vessel , carrying a few guns and commanded by a , resolute officer , " to interfere with the fishery protection cruisers of the Dominion in the discharge of their duties . These cruisers had nothing whatever to do with the diplomacy or the intrinsic merits of the case , but were simply executing orders ; and for any damage wrongfully inflicted upon our fishermen there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the British Government . Pre , cisely in the same way for any wrong done by the Rush there is a , remedy ; but forcibly to prevent her from , executing her orders would have been a foolish and dangerous method of seeking to " simplify the questions " at issue . In the seal fishery , as in the mackerel and cod fisheries , it is a subject of congratulation that no rash act has precipitated trouble , and that another season has nearly closed without armed conflict , although the whole controversy remains unsettled . Reviewing the conduct of the Rush. ; it is clear that she has constantly ordered private sealers eut of the rvrohibited waters and has seized many skins from British Columbian vessels . But she has managed not to have any of these vessels on her hands thus far , and this fact , considering the release of such schooners after seizure in former seasons , is hardly to be regretted . In 1888 the Bush , under orders , made no captures at all . Last Winter 's action of Congress required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the whole have been rather cautious . Still , it will not do to repeat in 1890 the sort of policing attempted either last year or even in the season now closing . Such proceedings will never check seal poaching , and next Spring may see twice as many vessels fitted out for that purpose . It is high time to settle the whole controversy on a , common-sense basis , such as was proposed by Secretary Bai-ARD , when , waiving questions of geographical jurisdiction , he asked the co-operation of ' ' maritime nations protecting seal life . Had.this plan been taken up ' andpushed months ago , : the whole matter might perhaps have been settled . before the opening of another season .                     