@@743555

txt Parliament was prorogued to-day . The following is the Queen 's speech , read by the Royal Commission : MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN : It is with satisfaction that I find myself at length enabled to release you from your arduous labors . I continue to receive assurances of the most friendly character from all foreign powers . The failure of the Sublime Porte to execute , according to its engagement , the plan agreed upon in April last for the determination of the Ottoman frontier lying toward Montenegro , has caused unfortunate delays in the settlement of that question , and the treaty of Berlin has not yet taken effect in other points of importance which remained open at the commencement of the session . The Governments which were parties to that treaty , have communicated to the Sultan their judgment on the means of bringing to a satisfactory settlement the Greek and Montenegrin frontier questions , on the administrative organization of the European Provinces of Turkey , and on the principal reforms required in the Asiatic . Provinces , inhabited by the Armenians . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to place reliance on the fact that the concert of Europe has been steadily maintained in regard to the Eastern question , and that the powers which signed the treaty of Berlin are pressing upon the Sublime Porte , with all the authority which belongs to their united action , the measures which , in their belief , are best calculated to insure tranquillity in the East . I have not been unmindful , during the few months which have elapsed since I last addressed you , of the considerations which I have stated would guide my policy on the north-western frontier . of my Indian Empire . Measures have already been taken for the complete military , evacuation of Northern Afghanistan , and some progress has been made toward the pacification and settlement of the country . A renewal of hostilities by the Afghans under Ayoob Khan has rendered necessary further military operations in Southern Afghanistan . The prompt measures taken by the Government of India for the relief of the garrison of Kandahar , and the conspicuous ability and energy displayed by my officers and troops in the execution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained by the gallant force under the command of Sir Frederick Roberts , will , I trust , speedily bring to an honorable termination the war in that division of the country . I regret that it has not hitherto been possible to give you such information on the general state of Indian finance , and the recent miscarriages in presenting the accounts of military expenditure , as you would justly require before entering on a practical consideration of the subject . You may , however , rest assured that I shall redeem my pledge to supply you with this information at the earliest period in my power . No advance has recently been made in the project of a South African confederation , nor could any advantage arise from endeavors to press it forward , except in proportion to a favorable movement of public opinion in that portion of the Empire . The general state of affairs in South Africa , however , is , on the whole , satisfactory , except in Basuto-land , where I trust that a moderate and conciliatory policy may allay the agitation caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HOUSE OF COMMONS : I tender you my thanks for the liberal provision which you have made to meet the charges of the public service . MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN : I acknowledge with thankfulness to the Almighty the happy continuance during several weeks of fine weather for securing the harvest , which gives in many places reasonable promise of abundance . I am thus enabled to anticipate both a further revival of trade and some addition to the revenue of the country for the year ; and I dwell with especial pleasure upon the probable improvement in the condition of the people of Ireland , who have so seriously suffered from the previous failure of the crops . I rejoice also to observe that , notwithstanding the lateness of the period at which you began your labors , your indefatigable zeal and patience have enabled you to add to the statute-book some valuable laws . I refer particularly to your settlement of the long contested questions relating to the subject of burials ; to the Education act : and the act for better determining . the liability of employers ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground game , the repeal of the malt duty the Savings Banks act , and the Post Office Money Ordels act , and the measures for bettering the condition of merchant seamen , and providing for the safer carriage of grain cargoes . I trust that these measures may , under Divine Providence , contribute to the welfare and prosperity of my people . During the ceremony of prorogation , of the members of the House of Commons , about GO were present , including Premier Gladstone . Of the members of the House of Lords , besides the five Royal Commissioners , only one Liberal and two Conservative peers were present , together with about 35 ladies , none of whom were peeresses . The north gallery of the House of Lords was filled with spectators . The ceremony began at 2:10 o'clock P. M. , and was over at 2:27 . Parliament was prorogued until the 24th of November next .                     