@@743316

txt The practical conclusions reached by the majority of the Hepburn Investigating Committee are distinctly shown by the purposes of the bills which accompany the report . How far the provisions of these measures fulfill the . expectations raised by the general statement of their objects , is a question hereafter to be considered . It is evident , however , that the controlling forces of the committee are in harmony with public sentiment as regards both the nature of existing evils and the general character of the remedies to be applied . The members do not accept the doctrine of the railroad lawyer , that the Legislature has nothing to do with corporate management ; nor are they deterred by the difficulties of the task from an attempt to give effect to demands , in themselves eminently just , but as obviously unpalatable to the railroad power . Wisely dividing their propositions into a series of measures , each independent of the others though desirable for the preservation of their general effectiveness , the committee give the Legislature an opportunity of postponing or rejecting part without endangering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill regulating freight rates , with the view of stopping the discriminations , and the secret arrangements , of which the business communities have rightfully complained . Of the main facts connected with this branch of the inquiry , the testimony published during its progress furnished ample proof . Favoritism and injustice , involving loss and hardship to individuals and localities , were shown to be a practice so well established that nothing but the enactment of a stringent law can prevent its continuance . The companies , indeed , resent the interference as at variance with their rights and in conflict with their interests ; but ' the public sense of justice , which is outraged by capricious and , possibly , corrupt favoritism , revolts against a pretension that would make possessors of chartered privileges the absolute and irresponsible masters of the situation . Unaided by national legislation , what the State can do will necessarily be imperfect ; but to the extent of its authority the State can not too soon act in the direction indicated by the committee . ers as to restrain a jobbing manipulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily . Ordinarily , railroad bondholders in this country occupy an anomalous position . Their safety is nominal only ; their interests are controlled by representatives of the stock , and when a crisis comes they are as uniformly neglected . If those who furnish a railroad with the greater part of its money were allowed a voice in the selection- of Directors , they would obtain a degree of safety which they do not at present possess . The right of the State to protect the bonded capital of a company can not be weaker than the right to regulate the amount of capital stock ; and the equity of interference is greater in the former case than in the latter . So with bankrupt or embarrassed roads . Theoretically , the mortgage security is perfect ; practically , it is exposed to contingencies which largely detract from its value . Receivers ' certificates , for example , rank before it , and in other ways the mortgagee finds himself at a disadvantage . Is not the removal of this wrong quite as urgent a duty as the enactment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a State commission to supervise the working of the railroads and to enforce the provisions of law relating to them , is almost an indispensable accompaniment of the legislation proposed . It is not judicious to leave the enforcement of law , in matters of this description , subject to the exercise of a wide discretionary authority ; but so far as such authority is essential to the smooth working of the machinery constructed , a commission skin to that at work in Iowa and other States is preferable to the selection of any single officer of the State . When permission is sought to water stock , the judgment of three competent Commissioners is better than the individual judgment of the State Engineer . The same remark applies to the exaction of full and trustworthy statements ? from the companies . A commission should be empowered , not only to enforce literal compliance with the requirements of a fixed schedule , but to call for whatever other information is in the opinion.of the Commissioners necessary for the protection of public interests . If the projected reform extend no further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission to justify the promise , a very wholesome change will be effected . But the scope of the commission 's usefulness would be greatly increased , if the Commissioners be granted power to act as arbitrators in disputes growing out of the business relations of persons to the companies . Some provision of this sort , modeled after the Iowa plan , seems requisite , or the tediousness and cost of litigation will inure beneficially to the companies whenever disputes arise in the transaction of their business . The commission should be a guarantee against this chance of injustice . Passing to the finances of the railroads and to the policy applicable to consolidations and stock capitals , the committee might have been a little bolder without incurring the charge of wanton aggression . Between the capital of a company and the earnings that must be realized to maintain its credit , the connection is too close to be overlooked . The watering of stock implies an obligation to increase the income proportionately ; and thus the traffic of the community ? is taxed to sustain the consequences of corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The State may properly insist that it shall be consulted with reference to a proceeding which virtually entails an . additional charge upon its citizens ; and the committee 's bill does little ' more than . affirm this principle . It might go one step further with advantage . A- proposed restriction upon the capital stock as affected by consolidation is more specific . The whole policy of consolidation , however , is one that needs to be care , fully watched . Tendencies toward monopoly are multiplying on all sides , and that which Congress should regulate when inter-State roads are in question should be as sedulously guarded by the State within whose ' boundaries combinations and consolidations are effected . From these features of the committee 's legislative programme we miss two equitable features that were embraced in Mr. STERNE 'S cumbrous bill . It is as necessary to provide for the moteetion of bondhold- cates of inaction have been pluming themselves on tactics that would enable the party to face both ways at the same moment , the opponents of the policy upheld by the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack . Reported proceedings of the House Committee on Coinage , and of the Banking and Currency Committee , demonstrate the falsity of the supposition on which most of the Republican leaders rest their case . By the former committee a proposition submitted by an Iowa Greenbaeker has been converted into a bill directing and requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse gold and standard silver coin " equally in payment of all interest obligations accruing on the funded debt of the United States , and in payment of matured coin obligations of the Government , and in payment of current expenses . " Other action of the same committee indicates a disposition to retaliate on the New-York banks for their refusal to be parties to the silver fraud , and a determination to resist attempts to bring the intrinsic worth of the silver dollar to a juster ratio to the present value of gold . The Banking Committee , again , has initiated proceedings hostile to the national banks by affixing wantonly offensive and injurious provisions to a requirement for the formation of a coin reserve . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Finance Committee as further evidence of the critical conditions which beset the financial question . The day 's record of the doings of these House committees is quite sufficient as evidence of the fact . From the outset it has been manifest that the policy of inaction would fail to produce . the result desired by its promoters . The Bayard. resolution in the Senate , the refunding bills in the House , would under any circumstances bring up the varied phases of the financial question . There would not . necessarily be anything in the debates at variance with the do-nothing tactics of timid Republicans . They might still plead that affairs work so satisfactorily that any change involving disturbance would be wrong . But the enemy has not chosen thus to leave things to the chapter of accidents . He is not willing to lose the vantage-ground he occupies in an argument with temporizing Republicans ; nor is he inclined to play the hypocrite and pretend that he is satisfied with things as they are . With a frankness that does him credit , he announces his purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead of yielding to the suggestions of conservative financiers , and checking the dollar coinage until the silver problem be solved , he proposes to employ extreme measures to force silver upon the banks and upon the holders of coin-bearing bonds . No observant man can have doubted that sooner or later , if the coinage of the ninetycent dollar continue , the public faith will be imperiled . The failure to specify gold as the coin in which the interest and principal of the national debt shall be paid always has made payment in silver possible , and the contingency will remain , whatever meanwhile happens to the bill adopted by the Committee on Coinage . The only way in which the official but unauthorized declarations of the Treasury when the refunding operations commenced , and since , can be made good , is by a stoppage of the coinage of the debased silver dollar . Our very sagacious leaders shrank from the issue when they might have gained the substantial advantages incident to aggression in the cause of honesty . They must now meet it , whether they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fighting on ground chosen by assailants of the public faith . So will it be with other branches of the same general subject . We are but at the beginning of a contest that will Widen and increase in bitterness as the session goes on ; - long before it ends , the danger of trifling and temporizing in the presence of a formidable antagonist will be apparent to the most short-sighted of leaders . The integrity of the Government , in relation to the public creditor , is as deeply involved in the controversy yet to be settled as are the business interests of the country . Whether the particular measures now heard of lead to something or nothing ; whether their defeat be due to votes in Congress or to the veto of the President ,  --  the disquieting impression . they produce will remain . The only settlement worthy of the name must rest on sound principle , and before this can be effected a majority will have to be found in Congress superior to the arts of demagogues and tricksters , and . willing to subordinate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     