@@744697

txt Dr. Isaac Hathaway , the abortionist , was brought up from Mopsmensing Prison to . day to be present at the Coroner 's ; inquest on the remains of the 21 murdered babies which were dug up by the police in the cellar of a house recently occupied by him . The crowd which packed the Coroner 's office to get a look at the criminal saw a shabbplooking old Ivan . stooping and weak , attired in a very dirty shirt , and with hair and voluminous beard dyed in raven black , so as to throw off , apparently . 30 years of the 83 he has lived . The inquest began at 11 o'clock . Chief of Police Given detailed the substance of the confession made , by 9nna Emery , E. Hathaway 's reputed wife . who , he said , had told him that there had been 400 or ? . ) 00 cases of malpractice . Some of the bodies were buried in the cellar and others were burned in a stove . Anna Emory , a small , woman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her evidence , but spoke in a more composed tone as she progressed . She said she supposed she was legally married to Hathaway , although she had no certificate . She was five times a mother , and was ill several times through operations performed by Hathaway . She identified the instrument , and described the method of usipg it . Hathaway told her he had learned his criminal vocation when he was only 21 years old . Witness was present and assisted at some of the operations , for which Hathaway charged from $10 to $25 . Most of the children were born alive , but did not live . Hathaway took them away himself . Sometimes there were as high as 25 or 30 patients in one day , but the average was about 10 . The witness said she saw Hathaway sometimes bury the children and sometimes burn them , but never saw any thrown to the dogs , and never saw more than one dog about the house . ef , Benjamin Hathaway , the doctor 's son , 19 years old , said he saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infants ' bodies and bury them in the cellar . Other evidence was given by other witnesses , and then Coronor Janney , addressing the jury , said that from the nature of the instrument and other circumstances , be had no doubt that Annie Emory 's story was true . In 1881 be had arrested Hathaway and Dr. Miller for committing a criminal operation upon Mary Butler . a servant . and when be took them to her room she identified them . Miller got off and Hathaway was never tried . " I have no doubt , " said the Coroner , " be has killed hundreds of infants , and Possibly mothers . too , in the years he has been in the trade . " The jury found a verdict that Hathaway had been guilty of criminal malpractice in numerous oases . He was remanded to await trial . Anna Emory was also committed , in order to insure her appearance as a witness .                     