@@781058

txt A desperate stabbing affray occurred at Bayou Bo3uf station , on the Southern Pacific Railroad , near Morgan City , last evening about 7:30 o'clock . Mrs. Dubois , mother of the section boas at the station , had died , and a large number of friends were with the body ror the night . Mr. Leona Thibodaux was near the station , when a stranger ap-proached him and slapped him in an apparently friendly manner . Leona , told him not to do it again , as he had a sore on his shoulder . The stranger instantly stabbed him in the batik and neck severely . His brother , Nell Thibodaux , observing the difficulty , ran to the assistance of Leona , when he received a severe stab in the neck . Neil tired one shot at the would-be murderer from his revolver , but missed , ana the weapon then refused to work . The stranger then entered the railroad office and attached Telegraph Operator M. Thibodaux , son of the agent , stabbing him several times . Mr. Pennisaw , bearing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the stranger drove the knife into his heart , instantly killing him . Mr. Joshua Morrison , station tvateliman , was in the yard of the house where the body was , when he was attacked anti stabbed ten times by the man . Morrison has but one arm , and yet he succeeded in knocking the murderer down three times , but he was persistent and Morrison was badly cut . He was taken , with M. Thibodaux , to the city on the morning train . The stranger then stole a skiff that Mr. and Mrs. C. Aucoin had Just left to attend a wake , and he pulled out into the bayou . Mr. Almon ) , perfectly ignorant of the trouble , called to him to return , but he only replied : " You make me come back if you can . " Aucoin then ascertained the true state of affairs , and scouring assistance started in pursuit of the assassin . He was overtaken about one mile north of the station and told to come ashore . His reply was : " Make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time a vile epithet . A shot was fired at him but missed its mark . He yelled : " Shoot again . " Another demand for him to come ashore was made and received the same answer . A ball from a Winchester rine then struck him . He raised in the boat and fell overboard and was drowned . His body has not yet been recovered . This whole affair is an extreme mystery . The murderer was a perfect stranger to every one , and the theory is advanced that he was a lunatic and nntst have walked on the railroad to tho Boeuf . One party staled that ho was a short , stout man , with heavy whiskers , wore a red flannel shirt , and was barefooted . It has cast a gloom over the entire country in that vicinity , as the injured parties are all excellent citizens . The wounded are doing as well as could be expected .                     