@@672254

txt At least once a year there is a rumor that the Pope has made up his mind to abandon Rome . All the newspaper correspondents at Rome who are friendly to the Pope ? as nearly all of them are  --  telegraph to their respective ' papers that this time there is every reason to believe that the Pope is really going . The Roman Catholic press throughout Europe immediately says that he has been forced to take this step by the outrages inflicted upon him by the Italian Government , and that the ruin which it will bring upon Italy is hot the fault of the Pope . There is a fall in Italian securities in Paris which is followed by a similar fall on the Roman Bourse , and after a vast deal of nonsense haiheen talked and printed . about the Pope 's imminent departure he continues to remain in . Rome , and no more is heard until next time of his determination to depart . Two months ago this rumor was revived with the usual careful attention to detail and scenic effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not due again until about next April . Now , there is nothing more certain than that the Pope will never leave Rome ' unless he is carried away by force , as NAPOLEON carried poor old Pius away to France . The whole theory of the Roman Church requires that the Pope should remain in Rome , and . the loss of prestige which the Papacy suffered in the days when the Popes lived at Avignon is a warning which can not be lost upon the College of Cardinals . The Pope owes a good . deal of his prominence at the present day to the constant protest which he makes against the occupation of Rome by the Italian Government ; but if he once runs away and leaves the enemy in . full possession his protest loses half its force , and the Pope loses nearly all his political importance . There are thousands of pious Italians who are thoroughly loyal to their Government , and . who , nevertheless , greatly regret that the Pope considers himself ill treated , and that King and Pope can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . But let the Pope once leave Rome , and . those same people will experience a feeling of relief , since theYwill . no longer be daily reminded by the sight of the Vatican of the self-imprisoned Pontiff. %They would , so to speak , wash their hands of the whole matter , and the number of those Italians who are anxious to conciliate the Pope would be greatly decreased . As for Italy , there is no doubt that the Pope 's departure ' syould be a benefit to her . There is no nation that would . go to war with Italy for his restoration , and the Government would reasonably . assume that by his abandonment of Rome he had virtually abandoned his claim to the temporal power in that city . The pretense that he is a prisoner in the Vatican  --  a pretense assiduously kept up , although it is notorious in Rome that the present Pope frequently drives out after dark in. a carriage with closed blinds  --  would necessarily cease when he walks out of his " prison " and journeys unmolested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the anomaly of two independent Courts in the same capital , and in countless ways the inevitable friction between the Italian and the Papal parties would be diminished . So far from dreading the departure of the Pope or being in any way frightened by the rumor of his departure , Signor CRISPI would gladly place a special train and . a fast frigate at his disposal , and would welcome his departure as a piece of especial good . fortune to the Government . There is a great deal that is purely artificial in the laments made by the Italian supporters of the Pope . Outside of the priesthood , there are very few persons in Rome who would be willing to see the temporal power of the Pope restored . Since Rome became the capital of Italy its . population has increased from 225,000 to 415,000 . This has naturally brought about an enormous increase in the value of rents and of real estate , by which those of the Roman Princes who still adhere to the Pope have profited . For example , the Princes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporal power- restored , have made at least 20,000,000f. by the rise in value of their real estate since the Italian Army entered Rome . This they would lose were Rome to revert to its former position as the capital of a petty province , and however pious they may be , neither the BORGHESI nor the other nobles of the Papal party are anxious to throw away fortunes . The simple fact is that they profess to sympathize with the Pope 's claim to be a temporal sovereign for the reason that they know that the temporal power can never be restored , and that it is hence quite safe for themto affect to sigh for it . AEAfor the tradesmen and the laboring ' people , they would simply be ruined by a restoration of Papal rule and the removal of the Italian capital to Florence . The only earnest and thoroughly sincere advocates of the Pope-King are the clergy and a certain proportion of the women , but Governments are not overthrown and . armies defeated by priests and women . The rumors that the Pope is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his " claims " before the world . The Pope 's partisans understand the art of political advertising very thoroughly , and controlling , as they do , with two or three exceptions , all the newspaper correspondence from . Rome , they can easily represent Rome itself as in a state of consternation it the Pepe 's proposed departure . Whereas Rome , outside of clerical writers , doesnot , care a button whether the Pope goes , or ' stays , while . all the time everybody knows that nothing could induce him to abandon the Vatican . 