@@671934

txt THE WORKING OF DEMOCRACY . In his address before the Harvard chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa last week on " The Working of the American Democracy , " President ELIOT of Harvard University furnished at least one good theme for the reflection of the whole American people , especially at this time , when the Republic is approaching what is to be one of the most important elections in its history . Alter dwelling at some length on the innate strength of a democratic form of government , as shown by the history of the United States , President ELIOT touched lightly on the one great weakness of this system . of government in these words : " Experience has shown that democracy mast not be expected to decide wisely about things in which it feels no immediate concern . Unless its interests are affected or its sentiments touched , it will not take the pains necessary to arrive at just conclusions . To engage public attention sufficiently to procure legislation is the reformer 's chief difficulty in a democracy . Questions of war , peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national unity , dignity , or honor , win the attention of the many . Indeed , the kreatest political questions are precisely those in which the many have concern , for they suffer the penalties of discord , war , and public wrongdoing . But it is curiously difficult to secure from multitudes of voters effective dealing with questions which relate merely to taxation , expenditure , administration , trade , or manufactures . On these lesser matters the multitude will not declare itself until evils multiply intolerably . " In these few words are summarized the history of every great administrative reform which has ever been accomplished in the United States . and . the reason for the failure of reforms which the intelligence of the country indorses , but which are still unaccomplished . It is not that the American voter is too ignorant to recognize the necessities of democracy as an institution , when he is brought face to face with them , or that he is corrupt enough to refuse to vote for the changes which are necessary to make popular government a success . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble to look for flaws in the . structure of which he forms an integral part , and unless they are brought forcibly to his attention he will go on ignoring them and failing to take the remedial . action demanded , until it is too late to apply the cure . The politicians who lead the parties are well aware of this weak point in the American voter , and , as they trade on just such weaknesses they take good care to hide as far as possible the evils which the citizens would sweep out of existence promptly if they were once plainly brought before them . There comes a time , however , when " the evils multiply intolerably , " and then the patriotism of the multitude is pretty sure to declare itself in unmistakable terms . This was the history of civil service reform and it has been the history of every great administrative and legislative reform since the Republic was established . It takes the American people a long time to become aroused , but when they are once aroused to the necessity of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this slowness of apprehension is due to the character of the people , which is altogether too trustful , in a way . Private business in a new and constantly growing country like the United States makes great demands on the time of the citizen , and he is apt to forget his public duties so long as everything is apparently quiet on the surface . Political education , so important to a people who govern themselves , is neglected in the great struggle for social or business supremacy , and the affairs of the Nation are left in the hands of the politicians with a , confidence which would be charming in its simplicity were it not so dangerous in its possible results . This is the one great obstacle in the path of the American democracy  --  the indifference of the mass of voters to the economic principles of government . It was the rock which for years barred the way to a reform of the civil service ; it is th e obstruction which must be swept away before any great reform of the evils which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplished . Education is the great agent which must be relied on to conquer this indifference ; education , not simply through the schools , but through the patriotic press of the country , and through the men who aspire to be reckoned as statesmen rather than trimming politicians . The excessive burden of a war tariff in time of peace is one of the evils which has been preserved on account of this indifference of the mass of voters to which President ELIOT refers . The men who really suffer most from this evil have refused to ? look the matter squarely in the face until the system has taken such firm root that it now requires herculean efforts to destroy it . The brave utterances of President CLEVELAND in his last message to Congress have broken through the shell of this indifference , and another great reform is on the sure road to accomplishment . It is in such leadership as this , of statesmen who have the courage of their convictions , and . dare attack a wrong , however strongly intrenched , that the hope of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of popular government thus finds its corrective in the springing from the ranks of the people of the man for the occasion , and while leaders of this kind can be had , no fear need be entertained for the safety of democratic institutions .                     