@@781840

txt When Lieut . GREELY began , in August , 1881 , the lonely watch which he and his companions have been keeping in the icy wastes that surround the north pole , he impressed upon the officers of the vessel which had borne him to the station and which was about to return to this country the importance of making the most complete arrangements for his rescue . He forwarded his suggestions to the Chief Signal Officer . Foreseeing that those who should attempt to reach him in the following Summer might be unsuccessful , he asked that the expedition of 1883 should not leave Smith Sound before Sept. 15 , and should establish additional depots of provisions , so that there might be at least seven of these on the coast of Grinnell Land within a course of 800 miles . He also asked that the party should establish a Winter station at Life-boat Cove , and remain there , " keeping their telescopes on Cape Sabine and the land to the northward . " In the course of the Winter sledge parties should leave this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the line of provision depots , to assist him and his companions who might be perishing on their way southward . " No deviation from these instructions , " said he , " should be permitted . " The loss of the Proteus , the complete failure of the relief expedition , and the return of the Garlington party to St. John 's , impart a melancholy interest to these words of the brave officer who had undertaken to endure , with his brave men , the severity of two arctic Winters at 81 ? 40 ' north latitude . How far has the War Department been able to go in the direction pointed out by Lieut . GREELY when , with the gloomy Winter of the frozen north fast closing down upon him and his'little band , he bade good-bye to Capt . PrKE ? One year passed , and an attempt was made to reach the station . The relief party went northward in the Neptune , whose commander recently committed suicide . Ice barred the way , and nothing was accomplished except the storage of provisions at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were supposed to be living . In July last another vessel  --  the one that had carried the station party to Discovery Bay  --  steamed northward , accompanied by the Y antic as a tender . The instructions given by Gen. HAZEN to Lieut . GARLINGTON show that he knew how great was the danger to which GREELY was exposed . GARLINGTON was directed to " spare no effort to push through to Lady Franklin Bay . " If he could not get the vessel through the ice to that point he must try to communicate with GREELY in some other way , and must land at Lifeboat Cove , send the Proteus back to St. John 's , and prepare to remain on the shore of Smith Sound all Winter . In substance , the instructions were that he must communicate with GREELY if possible , and , if the vessel should become frozen in the pack , he must go into Winter quarters and continue his efforts by means of sledge parties to get his stores as far north as he could , and to travel still further in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the Proteus is under the ice , no additional stores have been deposited at Littleton Island , Life-boat Cove , or elsewhere , and the men whom Lieut . GREELY , if he be still living , expects to meet on the east side of Grinnell Land , coming in sledges to his relief , are now in the temperate zone . Gen. HAZEN 'S original instructions to Lieut . GARLUIGTON indicated that the Proteus should first try to push through Smith Sound , and that stores should not be landed and a Winter station established until a failure to get through the ice to the northward had demonstrated the impossibility of forcing a passage . Then GARLINGTON was to retreat to Life-boat Cove and take to the shore . It has been said , therefore , that in going northward without having first deposited his stores he was obeying his orders . It now appears , however , that supplement . ary instructions , hitherto unpublished , directed GARLINGTON to land his stores " at Littleton Island on his way north . " Another passage in these additional instructions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice , all except her officers and crew should remain on Littleton Island , It is plain that these supplementary instructions were disobeyed . If the provisions had been landed in accordance with these directions a base of supplies would have been established for both GARLINGTON and GREELY , and the relief party might not have been forced to undertake the perilous passage to Upornavik . That the provisions could have been placed on shore is shown by the statement of one of the party , who says that the cairns at Pandora Harbor and Cape Sabine , beyond Life-boat Cove , were examined before the Proteus entered tho " lead " which afterward closed and crushed her . The history of the expedition will doubtless be thoroughly investigated ; but just now the country is more deeply interested in the fate of GREELY and his companions than it is in any of GARLINGTON 'S errors . If GREELY is now alive , he is on his way southward , for he was ordered to abandon his station not later than Sept. 1 . It is a long and perilous journey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can rely are scanty . He will find no sledge party on the way to meet him , an &; no Winter station at Life-boat Cove . If he reaches a settlement the great task will have been done in the face of terrible obstacles . Even the boat left at Cape Sabine has been destroyed by bears . No aid can reach him except through the efforts of sledge parties going northward from Upernavik , and the Government ought to do everything in its power to send relief in this way .                     