@@744495

txt There was something more than a formal exchange of courtesies in the words of the outgoing and the incoming Governor at the inauguration ceremony at Albany yesterday . Mr. CORNELL , in his three years administration of the high office from which he has now retired , gave the people of this State no reason to doubt the sincerity of his declaration that it was his constant aim to fulfill his pledge to them and meet every requirement of a just and economical conduct of the affairs of the Government . That he has permitted neither private interest nor personal favor to stand in the way of public duty is now generally believed , and he had a right to speak with satisfaction of the results of his endeavor to meet the demands of an enlightened public sentiment . This endeavor is the key to Gov . CORlinLL'a success in the executive office . A man who has been trained in the field of practical politics and is surrounded by the influences which are begntten by the persistent self-seeking of politicians has difficulty sometimes in accurately apprehending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may go astray occasionally , even when he has the-most earnest desire to obey every well-considered public behest , but if he recognizes the paramount duty of executing the popular will he is not likely to go far wrong . It is of the very essence of our institutions that the people rule and have the right to rule , even though at times they may not be disposed to act with the fullest wisdom . They are always learning , their efforts are often tentative , but in the long run their intelligence and their instinctive regard for their own highest well-being will guide them more safely than any assumption of superior judgment on the part of their representatives . As Mr. Comma , said in his parting address , " all successful policies emanate from enlightened public sentiment , " and that alone will succeed " which has for its real and ultimate object the maintenance and promotion of good and honest government . " This has been the guiding principle of his administration , and he seemed to be so impressed with its soundness that it formed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last few months , he .. seems in no degree to have lost confidence in the justice of the public to those who serve it faithfully . To Gov . CLEVELAND directly he said , " The faithful discharge of conscious duty will be ample satisfaction and reward , and whatever circumstances or events occur , the public , whose servant you are , will not be unmindful or turn away . " The new Governor gave further evidence of his freedom from the narrowness of partisan feeling by frankly acknowledging the merits of the administration of his predecessor . A standard has been set for him which will in a certain sense make his course easier . It leaves him no great reformatory task to undertake , and while it will give a higher range to public expectation and make the sentiment of the people more exacting , to a conscientious magistrate it will afford encouragement . It will make it easier for him to resist the influences which would degrade the public service end interpose lower motives in place of those which make the public good alone their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected in the way of independence and rectitude , because to him much has been given in public confidence and trust . His career thus far has not been that of a politician or even of a partisan . He owes what he is to-day as a public man to popular confidence in his character , his purposes , and his presumed ability to adhere to the standard which he sets up for himself . That confidence has been shared by those who differ from him in general political views and affiliations . It was with their aid that the opportunity was given him in the city of Buffalo to make good the promise of his character , His nomination for Governor was due to a popular strength in which party service had no part , and it was not the price of any subserviency or any pledge . His election was in no sense a party triumph , arid he has a right to regard himself as the chosen Governor of the people of the State , as nearly irrespective of party as is possible under our system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his deep sense of the responsibility which now rests upon him . He has shown appreciation of the peculiar confidence that has been reposed in him and of the high expectation with which his official course is awaited . There can be no doubt of the sincerity and honesty of his purposes , and he should have that for which he modestly asks , the " forbearance of a just people " and the recognition of " patriotic endeavor . " All that he needs in himself is the degree of intelligence and administrative capacity with which he is freely credited and an absolutely unswerving adherence to the standard of action which he now recognizes . He may rely on the justice of the people if be allows no sinister influence of party to interpose between him and a faithful regard for their interests . There is every reason to look forward to a successful administration of the affairs of the State under Gov . CLEVELAND so far as it depends on the action of the Executive . 