@@781824

txt The counsel for the star route conspirators appear determined to make the prosecution of their clients seem a personal matter . At the first , when it was evident that the cases must be brought to trial , BRADY and DoRsEy could not be persuaded that they were to be treated with so much harshness and contumely . Then they turned their batteries of abuse upon everybody connected with the prosecution and with the trial , from the court and the Cabinet officers whose duty it was to look after the case down to the most insignificant person who favored the conviction of the accused , or believed in their guilt . it has ever since seemed impossible for the defendants to believe that they are prosecuted just as any persons accused of crimes are prosecuted . Perhaps the benumbing influence of the moral atmosphere of Washington has had its effect on BRADY , DORSEY , and the rest , so that they really believe that they have committed no offense in cheating the Government . Everybody who has the chance cheats the Government , ( so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for prosecution and perse-cution ? This is precisely the tone adopted by Mr. CARPENTER , one of the numerous counsel for the defense , in his opening speech yesterday . Alluding to the appearance of the Attorney-General in the court on behalf of the prosecution . Mr. CARPENTER said that it was " contrary to example , " as if the chief ' law officer of the Government had no right to appear as a representative of the Government in a case in which . the Government is the prosecutor . The defendants have chosen to assume that they are pursued by Col. BLISS , exAttorney-General MACVEAOII , and ex-Postmaster-General JAMES , and that the officers of the Government should stand back , as disinterested spectators , and sec that the fight is conducted according to accepted rules . Accordingly , the learned counsel felt outraged when the Attorney-General of the United States declared that he appeared as the mouth of the Government to urge that the case be heard and determined . This was said while the defendants ' counsel were trying by every possible trick and device to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CARPENTER loftily , and with much show of incredulity and amazement , demanded to know if it were possible " that the President could step from his high and lofty position and attempt to crush a poor defendant . " And if this were possible , argued this persistent beggar of the question , " would he have selected out of these defendants his friend , his familiar , his acquaintance , one with whom he was on terms of kindness and hospitality ? " Perish the thought . " Banish plump Jack ! " cries the quaking Falstaff , " and banish all the world 1 " It is evident that this despairing appeal to the good-fellowship of the President , tardy as it is , is only a part of the personal tactics to which the accused have continually resorted . In their view of the matter there is no Government in the case . The only prosecution is that instituted by malicious persons against BRADY , DORSEY , and other good fellows , whom it would be a wicked and cruel thing to worry . Therefore Mr. CARPENTER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as a man , in the name of common humanity , " he ( CARPENTER ) denied that the aforesaid CHESTER A. ARTHUR is engaged in a conspiracy to crush the jolly good fellows who stand at the bar of the court accused of various crimes and misdemeanors . It will be observed that the defendants can not realize that the President of the United States can regard DORSEY as any other than the " plump Jack " who was the recipient of a dinner at Delmonico 's in 1881 before his peccadilloes had been discovered , and while he was endeavoring to cajole the incoming President into putting a Dorsey man into the Post Office Depart-ment . Mr. CARPENTER , to strengthen his case , and to awaken , if possible , the slumbering chord of good-fellowship in the bosom of the President of the United States , was preparing to give a glowing description of the Dorsey dinner , of who were there , and what the then Vice-President said on that famous occasion . But the court would have none of it . The dinner was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of the country , " as the counsel had grandiloquently , observed . And the attempt to appeal from the President of the United States to Mr. CHESTER A. ARTHUR failed . Whatever may be thought of the genuineness of the alleged letter of DORSEY , said to have been written to GARFIELD in 1881 , it is evident that its publication now is a part of ; the personal tactics that caused the undignified reference to President ARTHUR by the defendants ' counsel yesterday . Mr. CAR:PENTER affects to believe that the President is the Government , and that he is too good a fellow to wish ill of his " familiar " and friend , the plump Jack of this comedy . And DORSEY , blindly reaching out for moral support , calls on ARTHUR , CONKLING , GRANT , and all whom he considers to be of the Stalwart line , to come to his relief . In the letter just now published by one of the ring organs , he reminds them that he badgered and insulted , GARFIELD , and lectured him about his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President-elect of those wicked , bad men , JAmEs , MACVEA0u , and BLISS . Does Mr. DORSEY think to stop the trial , or secure Executive clemency hereafter , or awaken his old friends , or make out his case as a martyr , by the publication of this stuff ? The star route trials are near their close . Notwithstanding the frantic efforts of accused and counsel , these trials have been proceeded with on their merits , on questions of law and fact . It is too late for plump Jack to bawl for mercy .                     