@@672073

txt A SOCIAL WANT . Observers of society in Now-York have frequent occasion to note and to deplore the lack of any suitable provision for a social need that does not seem to have attracted the attention of speculative builders and owners of real estate . In all the development that has taken place - within the past few years , both of the separate and of the " associated " dwelling , it has been rashly assumed that a dwelling was primarily a place to dwell in , and that it should be arranged and furnished with the object of making its inmates comfortable , and its space fairly divided between the rooms that are intended for the entertainment of visitors and the chambers allotted to members of the family . In theory this is all very fine , but in practice families of limited means who have business reasons for embarking in New-York society find it very grievous . It is ordained by the unwritten law of that society that its members must reside , with some exceptions not necessary to be noted , east of Sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited space inclosed by those boundaries and available in respect of latitude are such as to appall many of the persons who have the strongest possible motive for desiring to enter society . That motive is , of course , the marrying of their daughters to advantage , which may be said . to be the business basis of society everywhere , from Paris to Oshkosh . Since it is well known that girls are as prone to falling in love at a period beginning at the age of seventeen or eighteen as they are to catching the measles at an earlier period , the aim of the thoughtful parent of straitened means is that they shall be exposed only to eligible as well as infections young men . As the district just describel is the centre of eligibility , the thoughtful parents find it necessary to secure quarters in it after the girl or girls of the family have " come out " and until it is quite certain that they are not in demand . Success may crown their efforts the very first season ? it may be delayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally considered by prudent parents that their daughter has had a fair chance . and that they have done their duty by her . They feel that they are justified in retrenching and removing- to the comfortable obscurity from which they emerged to put her on the market to the utmost advantage , leaving her to pursue further investigations on . her own account . It will be seen that the want of a house in these cases is not that of a dwelling in the ordinary sense of the word so much as of a " stand . " A house with one story of rooms for the entertainment of possibly profitable visitors , to three of bedrooms , shows a monstrous and most wasteful sacrifice to personal comfort . All that is really needed is a spacious drawing room and a spacious dining room , with commodious offices in which the caterer 's men may arrange the banquets . A kitchen would not be necessary , for when not dispensing or accepting hospitality the family would naturally subsist on simple fare procured from the nearest bakery . Bedrooms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matchmaking householder . The frugal Chinese have given a valuable ' lesson in the economy of sleeping apartments . Tiers of bunks against the wall would not be available in many cases , but a series of closets under the roof could be arranged which would answer the same purpose at a small additional expense . In fact , it might not be really necessary for the family to live in the house at , all . They might repair to cheaper lodgings in a less fashionable neighborhood at the close of business hours in the early morning , returning to their happy home just before the opening of business the next afternoon . An apartment house erected in accordance with these principles in a really fasn. - ionablo neighborhood , and wasting no space upon ordinary domestic requirements , - would be a great boon to many anxious parents of marriageable daughters . It should of course be completely furnished , so that the family residences of its inmates in Greenpoint or Hoboken might be kept ready for their return as soon as their enterprise succeeded or it became manifest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculative builder must glow within him when he considers the effect of such an advertisement as the following in the daily papers:about the 1st of September : " To let , for business purposes , an apartment in the Circassia , consisting of ballroom , drawing room , and banquet hall . " The rush of applications would not only convince him that he was a shrewd man of business , but would give him the gratifying sense of being a public benefactor who had supplied a long-felt want .                     