@@781912

txt Our anti-Chinese friends on the other side of the continent will learn with satisfaction of the Irish proscription of the Chinese colony in this City . It is only quite recently that Chinamen began to arrive here in considerable numbers . It is not certain that their persecution in California had anything to do with their migration . It is quite likely that people who are sufficiently venturous to put the Pacific Ocean between themselves and their native land would dare further , and cross the continent in search of employment : . Labor is cheaper here , however , than in San ? Francisco ; though this is a busier country , perhaps , than that which has thus far given us only the overflowing of its " Asiatic hordes . " The number of Chinese in this City is very small . It will be many years , apparently , before the " invasion " assumes proportions so large that it will be thought necessary to invoke the aid of the Legislature or the Common Council , in attempts to deter the coming of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless , hatred of the Chinese springs eternal in the Celtic breast . In fact , the hospitable and generous Irishman has almost no friendship for any race but his own . As a laborer and a politician , he detests the Italian . Between him and the German-American citizen there is a great gulf fixed . So , when a little colony of Chinese , scarcely one thousand in number , settles in the midst of what has been an Irish-Catholic quarter , there springs up at once an active enmity against the new-comers . These are pagans , and when , like a swarm of migrating insects , they settle about one of the temples of the Roman Catholic faith , they are specially obnoxious to their neighbors . This is what has lately happened in Mott-street , where the handful of Chinese in the City had cast anchor . It was contamination to the church building . Therefore it was resolved that the Chinese must go . At least , they must go from the sacred precincts of the Church . of the Transfiguration . The owners of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Chinese neighbors , gave their celestial tenants notice to quit . There might have been , at least , an attempt to convert these heathen . There was a good opening for a mission to the China in Mott-street to accomplish what many selfsacrificing Roman Catholic missionaries have voyaged across the seas to do for the pagans . Abbe Hoc and his devoted companion braved greater dangers than any of the Mottstreet church-goers , in order to carry the cross to the Chinese . But the most natural thing for the Americanized Irishman is to drive out all other foreigners , whatever may be their religious tenets . The frequenters of the Church of the Transfiguration can not worship comfortably with a thousand pagans within hearing of their church-going bell . So the Chinese were obliged to go ; and they went . Well-behaved Christian people , let us hope , took the places of the evicted tenants . Clean , industrious , water-drinking gentlemen , who will vote for BLAINE , the great-hearted leader of the anti-Chinese party , moved into the tenements vacated by " the hordes . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the rain from heaven , on the just and on the unjust . This sacred shower shall be confined strictly to the generous , tolerant , and open-hearted people who hold through tickets for Paradise and acci dental policies against perdition . Our fellow-citizens of the Pacific States have greatly delighted themselves with the notion that the Eastern States might be inundated by . a horde of Asiatics . ? " Then , " said they , " you will know how it is for yourselves . " And it must be confessed that the picture of a colony of Chinese occupying the Stewart mansion on Fifth- avenue , or hanging their washing out to dry on the roof of the Union League Club-house , or burrowing in the cellars of the Italian palace of the Academy of Design , would not be a pleasing one . But New-York is a large place . Indeed , it is a big place in the sense of that word as used by the Boston man who said that Chicago was large enough to support a Young Men 's Christian Association , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty thousand Chinese in New-York would not convulse the community , although the departure of that number from . San Francisco would depopulate " Chinatown " and give rest to the Perturbed souls of KALLOCH and KEARNEY . We have seen , however , that a colony of one thousand . Chinamen , if massed against a Christian sanctuary . may cause commotion . Let us welcome to our free and happy land foreigners of every race and religion . But let the pagan give the church a wide berth .                     