@@744279

txt The question of reviving American shipbuilding and ocean commerce appears in Congress in a new shape , coupled with a proposition for providing a possible adjunct for our expensive but worthless navy . Senator Rom.rss , of New-Hampshire , proposes  --  not to do anything at present , but to have a commission of inquiry . He would have the commission consist of the Secretary of the Treasury , the secretary of the Navy , the Postmaster-General , three Senators and three members of the House , and the object of the inquiry is the practicability and expediency of securing the construction for commercial purposes of steel or iron steamships , convertible into vessels of war in case of need , and encouraging their maintenance by " fair compensation " for mail carriage on condition that they are built and owned in the United States , " under the supervision of the Government , " and subject to be taken at a reasonable price when needed for war purposes . We see in this remarkable proposition the return after many days of the bread cast upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully watching it the while and facilitating its drifting in the direction of Congress since he sent forth his argument in behalf of a " militia of the seas , " consisting of just such interconvertible steam-ships to be built by himself , with due encouragement from the Government . Two things are undoubtedly desirable for this Nation  --  a respectable navy , adequate for all the purposes of peace , including the protection of our commercial interests on the sea , and capable of forming the nucleus of an effective force in case of war ; and a merchant marine which in case.of need may recruit the strength of such a force both in material and men . But these two things are quite diverse in their character and immediate purposes , and can best be attained by very different methods . Such a navy as we need and ought to have should be provided by the Government and should be specially calculated for the uses which it is to serve . A merchant marine to be useful and profitable should be the product of commercial enterprise , untrammeled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be adapted for its special uses , but in case of war there would never be any difficulty in converting it into an effective force for the defense of the Nation . Now , instead of going directly to work to promote the maritime interests of the country , both in the naval and the commercial direction , by natural and logical methods , it is proposed to raise a commission to inquire into the feasibility of mixing them together and producing a commercial navy convertible into a belligerent navy . The main object seems to be to furnish a plausible pretext for maintaining a merchant marine by means of an indirect subsidy from the Government . With regard to this a question which precedes that of practicability and expediency is that of necessity . Is such a method necessary ? Of course , a navy for the service of the Government should be constructed by the Government and at the expense of the people . If the public funds are not wasted and an efficient navy suitable to our needs is produced , nobody objects to this . But a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we have every reason to believe that it would be produced if the Government would simply remove the difficulties out of the way . There is ample testimony to the effect that we could build steel or iron steam-ships in competition with the rest of the world if the burdens were removed from the raw materials used , provided they could be put to a profitable use after they were built . According to one experienced ship-builder , the difference in the cost of building ships at home and abroad is so trifling that it has no bearing at all upon the question of our maintaining a share in the carrying trade . The same authority declares that if the duties upon materials used in building and equipping ships were abrogated we could make the furnishing of vessels for the market of the world one of our most profitable branches of industry . ' But the chief difficulty in the way is found in the burdens put upon the carrying trade of the country , which simply crush the life out of it . It is not a question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our merchants they could not afford to use them permanently because it is made so expensive that they could not compete with the unburdened marine of other countries . Taxes , port charges , consular fees , and the thousand and one vexatious exactions and requirements which our laws put upon commerce make it impossible for it to thrive upon the seas . Besides all this , our general tariff restricts commerce and makes return cargoes a matter of uncertainty . Now , before we talk about encouraging the construction of steam-ships by an offer of special compensation for carrying mails on pretense of a necessity fot having them to convert to naval purposes , it would be wise to remove the obstacles out of the way of profitably running merchant vessels and give commerce a chance to stimulate ship-building into life . There is scarcely a doubt that if the trammels were stripped from cur carrying trade and it had a chance to expand , its requirements would very speedily set our shipyards at work and build up the great national industry which we have lost by our purblind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then be settled , and when we had a merchant marine there would be no difficulty in making it auxiliary to the navy in case of need , if there was any navy for it to gather about . The wisdom of sticking to our present policy and trying to stimulate ship-building and the carrying trade into activity by subsidies for mail service is similar to that of binding a man with thongs and loading him with weights and then offering him high pay as a letter-carrier by way of inducing him to stir about and do something else at the same time .                     