@@744997

txt The bill extending the bonded period of the distilled spirits as reported by the majority of the Ways and Means Committee to-day differs from the measure as originally introduced by the insertion of a provision requiring the.payment of VA per cent . Interest on the tax from the time it would fall due under the present law until it is paid . This isa concession on the part of the supporters of the bill to its opponents , audit is asserted that by it 15 or 20 votes will be gained which otherwise would have been cast against the measure . For this reason the amendment is satisfactory to the whisky meu who will now redouble their efforts to get the bill through the House of Representatives . Whisky manufacturers in Kentucky and other States are urging their Representatives in Congress to hasten action on the bill , declaring that if the relief it affords is to do them any good , it must be given within a very short time . Some of them complain of serious losses by the floods , weakening their ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the relief they ask Congress to give , the advocates of the bill nave discovered that after the great fire in New-York City in 1835 Congress came to the relief of the burned-out merchants by extending the time of warehouse bonds several years without asking for interest . It is also pointed out that in 1803 , 1805 , and 1807 Congress extended the time wen purchasers of certain public lands should settle for the same , the seasons given being that the times were hard and that more bad been charged for the lands than they were really worth . In this case , also , no interest was charged . The friends of the Whisky bill will endeavor to get it before the House next week . When it comes up for discussion it will be opposed not only by many Southern men , who are convinced that it is special legislation of the worst sort , but by all the members from the North who have constituencies who regard with aversion anything that can be construed into consent to the manufacture of or use of alcoholic liquors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if polled , would probably be found to stand opposed to the bill by a good majority . Mr. Herbert , of Alabama , will oppose it on the floor when it comes up . With Ohio and Kentuckyand Illinois members the support of the bill to extend the bonded period is considered one of the first articles of political faith , and it will undoubtedly get a strong vote from those States .                     