@@745928

txt Apart altogether from our natural preference as Americans that the America 's Cup should remain on this side of the Atlantic , it is a good thing for the sport of yachting that the efforts to take it awatshould thus far have been unsuccessful . International contests are not only the most exciting forms of yacht racing , but they are the most improving . But for them every nation would be apt to consider that it had reached . perfebtion , and . that its champion yacht was the fastest vessel in the world . The type which this vessel represented would be accepted as final , and experiments would . be made only to ? secure improvements in detail . From this failure of progress yachting has been freed by the existence of the America 's Cup , and the permanent provocation it offers . Until the Genesta came here after the cup the British yachtsmen were virtually unanimous in supposing that the evolution of the cutter had produced the swiftest vessel impelled by canvas that had yet been seen . The victories of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown that the British schooner yacht was not the fastest of her class . Ever since that time yachts built for speed have been cutters , and for several years racing has been confined to these . If the Genesis had come over without notice she would have found nothing of her class and rig to compete with , and she would have had most of the regattas in which she entered at her mercy , so great is the advantage of one-masted vessels over two . Her races , other than those with the Puritan , sufficiently prove this . Mr. BURGESS produced to oppose her , not a skimming dish , but what was virtually a new type , and the result was a demonstration that the new type would . beat the cutter , in yachting weather , at least five times out of six . This demonstration was emphasized by the victory of the Mayflower over the Galatea . The Thistle , whether her dimensions have been correctly given or not , seems to present in ? design distinct and important modifications of the cutter type , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the results of the last two contests for the cup . Such has been the good effect of international yachting . No such good effect could have followed , the reclamation of the cup if the Genesta : had found - as unprepared to defend it . It would have gone back to England to be sailed for under a system of allowances - which would have barred out American yachts and killed international yachting . This system if it has not produced has promoted the development of the cutter . It is entirely illogical and arbitrary since it virtually takes account of but two dimensions of a solid , and makes concerning the third . what is an entirely false assumption as to all the yachts which are raced under it . The system adopted by the New-York Club for the international races was very much more reasonable , being at least founded on fact . It would be difficult to devise a system under which English cutters and American sloops , whether of the Gracie type or of the Puritan type , could compete more nearly on even terms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the basis of this system  --  the computation of length and sail area  --  has been virtually adopted by the English dribs for the international regatta arranged to celebrate the Queen 's jubilee next Summer . Sonic such action was needed in order to secure a representation of American yacht ing . If the English ' clubs had applied to this regatta the rule they apply in their domestic races any vessel but a cutter , that is to say a very narrow and very deep vessel , depending for stability , entirely upon ballast , would have been so heavily handicapped that it would have been foolish to enter her for the race . A yacht should be taxed either according to her actual size or , as has been suggested by , a yachtsman in DIE Toms , according to her actual spread of canvas , or ? according to both . This last is done by the system under which the races of the Genesta and the Galatea were sailed , and under which , as it now appears , the international regatta is to be sailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Puritan and the Priscilla should not go to England and sail under this rule with a fair prospect of winning if they really deserve to win . With this regatta and the visit of the Thistle to our own waters the year 1887 should be fruitful as well as memorable in the annals of international yachting .                     