@@745518

txt A correspondent , whose communication is printed in another column , complains that traveling in the horse cars of this city is uncomfortable and inconvenient , and that some of the passengers are apt to be objectionable to others . This is no doubt true . It was for these reasons , among others , that a clamor was raised against the horse cars which finally resulted in the building of the elevated roads . Nearly all of the specific complaints of our correspondent are obviated upon these roads . That is to say , the seats are divided so that no crowding is possible upon them , and except at the very busiest hours of the day there is not much difficulty in securing seats . Inasmuch as all considerable distances in New-York may be traversed by the elevated roads our correspondent 's grievance is by no means so serious as it would be if the horse cars were still the chief means of locomotion . His remedy for the grievance is that the horse cars should be divided into first and second class , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a seat being secured as an equivalent . He is probably unaware that this experiment was tried before the elevated roads went into operation and completely failed . The ThirdAvenue Road ran a number of " palace cars " with comfortable seats for such passengers as chose to pay 10 cents in addition to the regular fare . There were not enough of such passengers to make the running of these cars profitable , and after a few months they were withdrawn . There is not the least reason to expect that any horse car company can be prevailed upon to repeat the experiment . There is no doubt that a public conveyance , accessible to everybody who has five cents to pay for a ride , will carry many objectionable people , dirty people , drunken people , and uncivil people . The remedy is not to provide additional horse cars for exclusive persons . It is that these persons shall take exclusive vehicles . Cabs cost more than horse cars , but cabs are now comparatively so cheap that a person to whose spirit the promiscuous horse car is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than have his feelings harrowed and his trousers daubed with mortar by contact with the vulgar crowd . To a very sensitive spirit there is even a want of delicacy in a cab . The cab is at everybody 's beck and call , and the driver is apt to be curt , if not positively rude , in his language and , manners . For such a person the most eligible device is to set up a brougham , with a man in livery , and keep it constantly in attendance . We strongly recommend our correspondent to try this plan . It will cost him more than five cents , but he will be able perfectly to protect himself against objectionable fellow-passengers.                     