@@781925

txt The citizens of New-York have a double interest in the coming election . Side by side with the contest for honesty in the administration of the vast interests of the Nation runs the contest for honesty and efficiency in the management of the affairs of the city . While the former involves the most momentous consequences for New-York , in common with the rest of the country , the latter , involves consequences to the people of this city alone of no ordinary moment . Its revenues are forty millions a year ; its debt exceeds $100,000,000 , and questions of economy and integrity in the management of its interests affect very closely the welfare of every citizen . Those who do not directly pay its taxes bear their full share of the burden in high rents and the high prices that taxation is instrumental n producing , and they suffer equally with others from neglect and mismanagement in those matters that affect the comfort and health of the citizens . Every in  - -  habitant of the city has an individual stake in good government here . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform in municipal administration , but it involved the risk of aggravating the evils that exist if the people did not rise to the task of putting good men in charge of their public interests . The question has now been brought to a direct issue . Mr. HUGH J. GRANT , as a candidate for Mayor , represents directly the politicians who by their methods have brought upon the city the evils from which it has long suffered . If elected he would be controlled by ? them , and the municipal business would be managed on the spoils principle to strengthen their power and support their minions , and there Would be extravagance , waste , and inefficiency on a scale unprecedented in recent years . The work of reform would not only be defeated for the time , but it would be rendered doubly difficult in the future . Mr. GRACE distinctly represents the reform purpose , and his election would mean the success of the movement which was begun in the Legislature last Winter . The choice is clearly presented in the candidacy of these two men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chances of the Tammany candidate . To a certain extent it is intended as a cover for trading Republican votes to GRANT , and to a still greater extent it is intended to keep them away from GRACE . It has no other meaning or purpose in the contest . The Republicans of this city very largely believe in and have hereto-. fore supported the cause of municipal reform . They have now an opportunity to . assure its success by voting for WILLIAM R. GRACE for Mayor . deleted paragraph                     