@@780597

txt The Mississippi River in this vicinity has passed the danger , point and a repetition of the great flood of 1881 is seriously . threatened . At that time the stage of water reached 19 feet above low-water mark , the highest ever known with one exception . To-night the water is 17 feet 4 inches and is still rising steadily . There are 80 miles of levees above and below Quincy , reclaiming 200,000 acres of the finest farming lands ih the Mississippi Valley . The strong wind which prevailed all day has washed the embankments in many places , and large forces of men have been required to keep them from giving way . Should a break occur in any of the . main levees thousands of acres of Winter wheat will be ruined and hundreds of fine farms wilt be seriously damaged . No serious damage has been done in this city excepting to railroad interests . Some of the large- manufacturing establishments along Front-street are experiencing inconvenience , and a rise of 12 inches more will compel several of them to shut down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northwestern Railway between Keokuk and Hannibal is under water in many places and all trains have been abandoned . There are several washouts on Quincy , Carthage and Buflington , and also on the Louisiana Branch of the Chicago , Burlington and Quincy , with every possibility that trains will stop running to-morrow . The Quincy , Missouri and Pacifier and the Hannibal and St. Joseph are also having serious trouble to protect their tracks . The waves are washing out the roadbed and drift wood is piled upon the tracks , adding to the danger of moving trains . Daring the past 24 hours the Mississippi River has risen a foot , and there is no probability of an immediate decline in the stage of water . A vast tract of land In Missouri bottoms , estimated at 25,000 acres . is completely submerged , entailing an enormous loss upon farmers in that region . At noon to-day the levee which protecti4Alexandria , Mo. , broke and vast volumes of water poured-into and completely inundated the town . In the main streets the water is from two to four feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in skiffs or upon rudely-constructed rafts . The first floors of many houses are covered with water , and the occupants seek the upper apartments for protection . No great damage or loss of property in the town is anticipated unless the water should rise to a height that would sweep buildings from their foundations , an emergency not expected . At Alexandria the Mississippi River is fully six miles wide , and in thevast inundated region numberless farmhouses are partially submerged and only accessible by of boats . Live stock has been driven to the bluffs eight miles distant , and much perish . able property has been removed to places of safety . It is estimated that the loss to the farming community will aggregate at least $300,000 . The water at Keokuk has - compelled almost a complete suspension of business in the lumber districts , the yards being submerged to a depth of five to ten feet . Railway tracks and switches are under water , greatly interrupting business and shipping . Railroad shops , roundhouses , and lumber mills are also sufferers from the flood . Between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chicago . Burlington and Quincy Railway are under water , necessitating the : abandonment of all trains . In many places the track has been undermined by the almost irresistible current , causing great lose . At Warsaw , Ills five miles south of here , several large factories have been compelled to close down . A high wind prevailed to-day and the waves have washed openings in the Warsaw levee , which protects 40,000 acres of Illinois bottom land . A report received that the embankment had given way could not be verifies . People living in the submerged districts and those threatened with inundation are observing every preeaution that will prevent-loss of life or damage to property . The Mississippi River has been above the danger line for four days and is steadily rising . At midnight the water was within nine inches of the highest mark recorded , Which was in the great freshet of 1880 . Several **27;30;TOOLONG have been compelled to close , and many families living in the tower part of the city are moving as rapidly as possible . The damage caused . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government water power dam connecting Arsenal Island with the Illinois is placed at over $200.000 . The Mississippi now divides at the head of the island . at Rock Island , and a current of 10 miles an hour carries water downward , endangering business blocks both here and in Rock Island . The Mississippi River from St. Paul to St. Louis has burst its banks and flooded the lowlands adjoining for miles inland , submerging farms , inundating towns and cities all along the course , and doing damage incalculable . In this city the water is now within three inches of the high-water mark of 1880 , which caused such fearful loss to prop : erty . The Milwaukee and St. Paul , and Chicago . Burlington and ' Northern Railroad Companies have been compelled to abandon theirlines from La Crosse to Savanna . The tracks run along the river 's edge between these points , and at present can not be found . In many places the roadbed has been washed away , and hueo land . slides from the towering bluffs have covered the tracks in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroad trains and are doing a land office business . In some places the river is ten miles wide , notably at Quincy and Burlington . Huge steamers now glide on their way over corn and wheat fields and past farm houses many miles from the main channel , tflus shortening the distance between points by escaping the bends iu the river . The situation in Dubuque is alarming . Hundrede of families are homeless . Everything movable is being swept away in the swift torrent . Many houses from which the inmates hAtily departed leaving their household effects behind have been swept down the stream with their contents . Mayor Burch has tendered the use of the City Hall to the homeless people . The Illinois Central is still operating , although its track for a mile south of the city is under water to thedepth of over a foot . Switches are operated by men in boats , and all yard work is done by the same means , the roundhouses and yards being located in the centre of a great lake . What is true in Dubuque is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Crosse . Keokuk , Burlington , Savanna , Quincy , and other river cities . To-night the water is reported at a stand . Additional rains will , however , augment the danger . The freshet is earlier than usual , high water generally coming in June . The weather has assumed a wintry character , and great damage to fruit is feared . Last night water froze in this city to the thickness of one-eighth of an inch . To-night the air is cold and another frost is expected . All fruit trees will be blighted . The prospect for early fruits and garden produce is gloomy indeed .                     