@@781181

txt An industrious young man , with very black hair , played several of Edward Harrigan 's popular airs on the big organ in Chickering Hall for about three-quarters of an hour last evening . Three iadies and three or four hundred men straggled tardily into the hall and listened to the music with evident enjoyment . The lights were turned up about 8:30 o'clock , and Mr. Edward L. Parris , President of the Young Men 's Democratic Club , walked to the centre of the stage , accompanied by ex-Speaker Alfred C. Chapin , the Hon. Isaac H. Maynard . and 20 or 30 others . At the suggestion of Mr. Willis S. Paine Dir . Parris was chosen to preside over " this Democratic mass and ratification meeting , " Mr. Parris shrewdly opened the ball by mentioning the name of Sameel J. Tilden , which aroused all the enthusiasm of which the small audience was capable . The suggestion ; by Mr. Parris that the Democratic victory in Ohio was great in its moral effects seemed to puzzle the hearers , some of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hon. Isaac H. Maynard , the Democratic candidate for Secretary of State , at once excited the sympathies of the audience by the pathetic inflection of his voice . He tremulously remarked that every political party must inevit , bly take its moral standard from the men who comprise and control IL Ex-Speaker Chapin spoke of the difficulties that beset a Legislature in its endeavors to patisfy the various classes of people . He believed that the last Legislature came more nearly abreast of the popular demands than any one of its more recent predecessors . It adjourned with no scandal hanging about it . and there was " no halo of mysterious affluence " stirronnding any of Its members . The . Hon. Dennis O'Brien , the Democratic candidate for Attorney-General , said that home rule , methods of administration , and measures connected with the domestic affairs of the ' people of the State were the questions directly involved in this election . " Eddie " K. Apgar worked himself into a dreadful state over the Idea that Ohio " had spoken . " He was sure that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Touching upon the Presidency , Mr. Apgar said that the nomination of such men as Senator Edmunds for President was a thing to be desired by all good citizens , regardless of party , The ' weaker hoped that the Democrats would continue to agitate , even If their meetings were slimly attended . The younger element in the audience made an unsuccessful attempt to get a speech from Assistant District Attorney John R. Fellows , who occupied a seat in the dress circle . Gen. H. C. King the resolutions that had been carefully prepared . Great disappointment was expressed by some of the managers of the affair at the meagreness of the attendance and the tame  --  ess of the speeches .                     