@@743755

txt Senator Astor this morning called from the table his motion to disagree with the adverse report of the Canal Committee on his bill for an improved system of towage on the Erie Canal , and to refer the bill to the Committee of the Whole . This motion , he said , involved the simple question whether or not the Senate was willing to take into consideration this question of steam towage of canal-boats , with the other benefits to be derived from his bill . If the motion prevailed , he intended so to modify the bill as to permit the experiment to be tried of the practicability of the scheme , under the approval of the Superintendent of Public Works ? all the expenses to be borne by the persons making the experiment . He did not ask this much as a favor , but as a matter of justice toward an enterprise affecting large commercial interests and attracting at the present time much attention from the people of this State . Should his motion prevail , then he intended to further move that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate . But what he should ask for at this session was simply a bill permitting the experiment of locomotive towage of canal-boats to be tried and its practicability tested . Should it prove a failure , no one could possibly be injured except those who invested their money in the experiment . Mr. Baker , Chairman of the Canal Committee , opposed the motion to disagee with the committee 's report , and tried to impress upon the Senate that the vote to be taken was for or against the original bill , and not , as Mr. Astor had explained , simply to allow the experiment to be tried . The facts of the case are simply these : When the bill was before the Canal Committee , one of the main objections made against it was that it was impracticable , and witnesses were examined pro and con on this point . Mr. Astor then proposed to the committee to report a bill allowing the experiment to be tried in order to test this point . A majority of the committee refused to do this , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Astor 's motion to disagree with the report was under discussion to-day , they still insisted , in spite of Mr. Astor 's assurances to the contrary , that the point to be decided by the Senate was whether it approved or disapproved of the original bill . Mr. Baker went on to say that it was a scheme to place the berm bank of the canal , from Albany to Buffalo , in the hands of a private corporation ; whereas the bill provides that the railroad to be built on the berm bank shall be constructed under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works , without interfering in any way with the use of the canals , and that as fast as it is constructed it shall become the absolute property of the State , subject only to the use for a limited period of the company building it . Mr. Baker said the Canal Committee thoroughly investigated the subject , and it was not proved before it that locomotive towage of canal boats was practicable . It had not been done on any canal owned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , for the bill ; the people had not asked for it ; only those were urging it who were interested in railroad matters . There were 5,000 boatmen and others who remonstrated against it . He read some resolutions adopted by the Produce Exchange , which he used as an argument against the bill , although the resolutions plainly showed that the persons adopting them were entirely ignorant of the provisions of Mr. Astor 's bill . In reply to Mr. Baker , Mr. Astor repeated what he said in the beginning , that the merits of the bill were not properly before the Senate for discussion on his motion . What he wanted was to get the bill , or the substitute , before the Senate , and then he would be prepared to discuss it on its merits . Mr. McCarthy opposed the motion , and also discussed the merits of the bill , without once alluding to the real question as presented by Mr. Astor  --  whether the Senate would permit a bill to be considered before it which simply proposed to try an experiment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an important enterprise . At the close of Mr. McCarthy 's remarks the vote was taken on Mr. Astor 's motion , and it was defeated by 17 to 14 , as follows : YEAS  --  Messrs . Astor , Birdsall , Bixby . Eidman , Forster . Halbert , Hogan , Jacobs , Lynde , Madden , Schroeder , Strahan , Winslow . Woodin-14 . Nevs  --  Messrs . Baker , Braman , Davenport , Fowler , Loomis . Lord , McCarthy , Mills , Murtha , Pitts , Robertson , Rockwell , Seebacher , Stevens , Wagner , Wendover . Williams-17 . AnszsT  --  Mr. Sessions . Under requests to be excused , all sorts of reasons were given by different Senators on their votes pro and con . Messrs . Woodin , Madden , Birdsall , Winslow , ' Forster , Jacobs , and Hogan were in favor of giving the scheme a hearing and a fair opportunity for discussion without pledging themselves in favor of it . At least three Senators said they had never heard of the bill before , and knew nothing about it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme that had been before the Senate six years , and was reported unfavorably every time . The truth is , however , that the project was never before the Legislature in any shape until three years ago , and the bill presented by Mr. Astor was never before the Legislature until this Winter . It was never reported at all until this session , but has always smothered in the committee , and but for Mr. Astor 's influence the same would have been done this year . Mr. Mills , in voting against the motion , gave the old reason that always used to be assigned for vetoing a bill by Gov . Robinson , when he could not think of anything else  --  that in his opinion it was " unconstitut. onal . " The bill to pay Supreme Court Judges $10 per day expenses when assigned by the Governor to hold court out of their judicial districts was discussed at great length in committee , and defeated by a vote of 20 to 8 . Mr. Forster offered a resolution , which was adopted , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a third reading without discussion last week , defining the term " land " for purposes of taxation , be recomitted to the special joint tax committee , in order to allow persons to be heard in cpposition to it . It is said that the surface railroad men all kick against the bill , on the ground that there is no sense or justice in taxing the rails laid down in a public street , and which are used by other corporations as well as by the public , as " land " or " real estate . " Besides , they say that some of the horse railroad companies in New-York pay a portion of their receipts into the treasury as a compensation for the use of the streets , while others pay nothing . These and other reasons will be urged before the committee against the bill as it now stands . Mr. Bixby introduced his bill , noticed in THE Tram to-day , abolishing the 10 per cent . reduction of salaries provided in last year 's bill , as it affects a portion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says these employes were the poorest paid men in all the City departments before the reduction was made , and , although he was in favor of last year 's bill as a whole , yet he thinks justice requires this exception . Mr. Hogan introduced a bill , emanating from some disappointed lawyer or litigant in New-York , which forbids a Judge of a court in a trial by jury , to rehearse the evidence given on the trial except so far as is necessary in laying down the law , and also forbids him from giving his individual opinion as to the character of evidence and the weight that should be attached to it , except in cases where he is authorized by law to direct what the verdict shall be .                     