@@743810

txt Italy is fitting out an exploring expedition . All large and prosperous nations occasionally do a little exploring ; not so much in order to discover anything as to show that they know what is due to their position . Italy , having become an independent State , naturally feels that she must explore , and , accordingly , is about to send an expedition to discover the south pole and annex all contiguous continents . The antarctic region has been greatly neglected in comparison with the arctic region . All sorts of nations have sent expeditions to find a north-west or a north-east passage to reach the north pole . Arctic exploration is in its nature cumulative . A new expedition is always on the point of starting to find the last precedent expedition , which has been permanently frozen up . Thus there is rarely a time when there is not a frozen expedition somewhere within the arctic circle , and a relief expedition about to be sent in search of it . The antarctic region , however , has attracted little attention , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or French explorer has discovered a new antarctic continent or sailed over a continent discovered by a rival . The Italians have shown a good deal of wisdom in selecting this unfrequented region as a field of exploration . There is no reason why the south pole should not be as much entitled to the attention and sympathy of mankind as the north pole . The Italians will have , over other explorers , the inestimable advantage of working in a part of the globe of which there are no maps , and hence they will have all the freedom in discovering new kinds of animals and curious native tribes which has hitherto been the sole privilege of the Central African explorer . When the expedition returns , it can publish a map of its discoveries , showing a fine large continent bearing the name of New Italy , with the south pole projecting from its centre and ornamented with the tricolor . Any imaginative draughtsman can make the new continent extremely attractive by giving it fine harbors , flourishing towns , and broad rivers , and by filling in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would reflect the utmost credit upon its discoverers , and upon the enterprising nation which fitted out the exploring expedition . It is , however , believed that Italy has a political object in sending out her antarctic expedition . For some time she has been very anxious to have an Italian colony in some part of the world . First she thought of New-Guinea , and an expedition was partly organized to conquer the island and make its groves melodious with hand-organs , when it was discovered that the climate of New-Guinea was fatal not only to all white men , but also to monkeys . Italy then determined to annex Tunis , and to have a firstclass African colony , but the jealous Frenchmen interfered , and are now busily conquer : ing Tunis for themselves . Taught by this experience , the Italians are determined that this time they will colonize a region where fever and Frenchmen are unknown . There is no doubt that the climate of the antarctic continent will prove to be cool and bracing ; and the continent itself is so situated that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all French colonies . If the French in Algeria and Tunis proceed to push their conquests southward , they must do so with the full understanding that Italy has placed a limit to their progress , and that if they try to reach the south pole they will find her awaiting them with guns and iron-clads . Once in possession of the antarctic region , Italy will be able to extend her conquests northward , on the plea that the safety of her colony requires the annexation of Cape Horn , Kerguelen Land , and other southern and friendless islands . She can begin this career of conquest with the vast advantage of having nothing in her rear except the pole with the tricolor flying from its topmost height . On the other hand , there is one serious disadvantage in discovering antarctic continents which may not have occurred to the Italian Government . There is no kind of land which is so wandering and uncertain as land within the antarctic circle . Commodore WILKES once discovered an admirable antarctic continent , full of rocky precipices , and as substantial in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir JAMES Ross sailed all over WILKES 'S continent without being able to find bottom with his longest lead-line . Ross , in his turn , discovered even q , still better antarctic continent , and placed on it two of the best volcanoes ? Mount Erebus and Mount Terror  --  that can be found anywhere on the surface of the globe . Nevertheless , it so happened that previous navigators had sailed directly over the Ross continent without even noticing the volcanoes . These facts prove that an indisposition to remain in any one place is a leading characteristic of antarctic continents . The Italian expedition may discover a continent and Make a map of it , but the next English expedition will prob . ably be unable to find anything but ice and water in the place where New Italy appears on the map . Either the Italians must take heavy anchors and chains with them , so that in case they discover a continent they can anchor it firmly to the bottom , or they must be prepared for the humiliation of having their new continent called a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rival expeditions .                     