@@745526

txt On Tuesday it seemed clear that the representative American yacht in the races for the America 's Cup was to be the Puritan . In a stiff breeze and in a sea-way the Boston sloop had the day before beaten her New-York competitor eleven minutes in a race of forty-five miles , which included all points of sailing . The tables are now turned . The run of the yacht club from Newport to NewBedford on Wednesday was made in a moderate and favorable breeze . In a run of thirty miles , with no working to windward , the Priscilla has beaten the Puritan ten minutes . It is thus made clear that the series of races already arranged will not be a mere formality , but a necessary preliminary to the choice of a champion to defend the cup against the Genesta . There were accidents , but they were so slight as scarcely to modify and certainly not to reverse what would otherwise have been the result . In working to windward in a stiff breeze it seems that the Puritan is the better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sparring and canvas than of model . In going free in an ordinary yachting breeze the superiority of the Priscilla is equally manifest , and probably proceeds from the same causes that make her inferior to the Puritan on the Puritan 's " day . " It seems that in moderate weather , at least , neither of the new sloops is any better than she ought to be for her size . The Gracie , which was nowhere in the race of Monday , would have beaten both of the bigger boats in the run of Wednesday if the run had been formally a race , the Priscilla on time allowance by a minute or two and the Puritan in actual time . But considering that the whole distance was made with a fair wind it is remarkable and creditable to all three sloops that they should have beaten the fast schooners that sailed against them . The doubt in which these several performances leave the comparative speed of the new sloops will give to the trial races an interest inferior only to that of the subsequent races for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attached to the performance of the Genesta on Wednesday . The object of her skipper was to acquire as much and impart as little information as possible . It is not very difficult for a vessel not engaged in a race to find out more about vessels that are racing than they can find out about her . The devices employed for that purpose on board of the Genesta seem to have been shrewd and successful .                     