@@781169

txt It is rumored that Arabi Pasta has withdrawn with the bulk of his army to Damanhour , leaving outposts at Kafr-el-Dwar . Great activity has been observed to-day within his lines , and this is constantly increasing . Egyptian soldiers , disguised as Bedouins , have carried off 10 cases of gun-powder from Fort Mukbebe , near Meks . Emissaries from Arabi Pasha have been preaching in the mosques at Mukbebe almost daily . It has been , therefore , decided to occupy the fort and also the fort commanding the road along the shore of Lake Mareotis , near which patrols of the enemy have frequently been seen . Forty soldiers under Major Eyre have proceeded a mile and a half beyond the furthest outlying picket in order to occupy a house on the bank of the Mahmoudieh Canal , opposite Mallaha junction . A scouting party last evening traversed a line of hitherto unexamined country , two miles beyond Ramleb , meeting nobody . It is believed the naval brigade is going to Ismalia . The garrison at Aboukir , having refused to surrender the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eight hundred soldiers are being landed from the troopship Orontes . Tho Orontes. after their disembarkation. will proceed to Pore Said and laud marines . It is doubtful whether Chorif Pasha will cement to form a Ministry for the Khedive . Admiral Seymour has addressed the following letter to the Khedive : " Regarding the false statements circulated by Arabi Pasha and those acting under his orders , I think it right to repeat that Great Britain has no intention of conquering Egypt for herself , or of interfering in any way with the religion or liberties of the Egyptians . Her only object is to protect the Khedive and Egyptians against the rebels . Great Britain is determined to sup-press the rebellion and restore order . I bog you will warn the soldiers not to obey the rebel commanders . The British Government advises Egyptians to regard Arabi Pasha and his accomplices as traitors to their sovereign and enemies of themselves and their country . " The authorities have expressed a strong wish that no details of operations which may help the enemy be given by correspondents . A conflagration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen from the harbor , the fire seemed to be larger than any that has occurred since the bombardment took place . It was outside the European district , and was confined to a native block of buildings near Zaptieth , which were found to have been fired by Arabs . After a few hours the lire was got under control . Arabi Pasha has written to the Sultan as follows : " I trust it is false that , as the enemies of Islam assert , Ottoman troops are coining to Egypt , as 1 should have to oppose them by force . " A letter from Arabi Pasha is published , in which he declares that any person found in possession of the proclamation dismissing Arabi Pasha from the Ministry circulated by the Khedive 's emissaries will be court-martialed . The army will do its duty , and defend the country to the last extremity . If the commercial and political interests of the powers do not induce them to stop the British invasion , a terrible struggle must ensue . Some Italians , Swiss , Germans , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) receive marks of confidence , notwithstanding British intrigues to depopulate Egypt . An official telegram from the rebel Government , dated Cairo , July 20 , says : " Armaments continuo on an extensive scale . Volunteers are arriving from Upper and Lower Egypt . Some chiefs of the Bedouins , who prior to the bombardment were known as partisans of the Khedive , have promised fidelity , and all the best crass of Mussulmans , including the Princes and Princesses of the Khedive 's family , now In Cairo , are aiding the Government . The ladies have formed a committee for the prepation of lint . The British have been defeated in two engagements , leaving 40 killed . " Arubi Pasha having sent for the Assistant Governor , the latter applied to Rear-Admiral Hoskins for protection and took refuge on a steamer . When Arabi ascertained this , he ordered the commander of the troops to take the Assistant Governor 's place . Thereupon the Governor became alarmed and also took refuge on the steamer . A telegram from Arabi 's Under Secretary of War at Cairo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English ship , the commander of the troops would be held responsible for order pending the appointment of a new Governor . ' rho commander of the troops is known to have stated , after tee bombardment of Alexandria , that he was awaiting orders to fire Port Said . The attitude of the natives toward Europeans continues most insulting . Tho soldiers are making threats . The vessels in the harbor on Tuesday were as follows : Five British , four French , one Greek , one Spanish , one German , and one Italian . Monday night the inhabitants of the Arab village hero , led by fanatical priests , attempted to enter the European portion of the town , but were repulsed by the The following day the French Consul applied to Admiral Conrad for protection for French subjects . The French Admiral subsequently asked Rea ? - Admiral Hoskins to make a joint occupation to preserve order , and this was arranged for . Tuesday night , when M. do Lessens suddenly returned from Ismailia , a violent scene occurred between him and the representatives of the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered Port Said his property ; that the Consul was a fool for asking for occupation ; that it was playing into the hands of England to do so , and that there was no danger , as ho had a guarantee of safety for French subjects from the officer commanding the Arab troops . When everything was ready for landing the French Admiral refused to carry out his part of the arrangement . M. de Lessees visited the Governor and Assistant Governor , who were still on board the Mongolia , and Rear-Admiral Hoskins , bus failed to bring them to his views . Reinforcements are arriving every night front Fort Guemil . The Governor says he considers the delay in occupying the town will ho fatal , as the Arabs are becoming stronger daily . The British corvette Orion has arrived , bringing instructions which completely modify the situation here . M. do Lessees protested against her entering the canal , but she entered without paying dues . A dispatch from Ismailia says that the British Admiral has declared that he will not land troops unless in company with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , declared on oath to the Notables that as long as he remained no French troops would - be landed . Arabi Pasha has repeated his declaration ' that he would not injure the canal as long as there was no foreign occupation . A very important seizure was made today of secret correspondence which passed , prior to the bombardment , between the military party and French officials . The correspondence was carried on through the agency of the Swiss adventurer Minet , a strong supporter of Arabi Pasha , and now believed to be at the latter 's came . The correspondence is said to prove incontestably that all suspicions entertained as to the military party being secretly supported by the French were well founded . The water in the canal continues to fall at such a rate that the city and the troops will in a week be entirely dependent on , the wells and cisterns and the condensers . Ono of the most precocious and sanguinary of the ruffians implicated in the massacres has been condemned to death by the native tribunal . Crushing evidence against him was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotion and indignation as ho recited the outrages ho had witnessed . Ho deposed that he saw the prisoner . who is believed to have committed 13 murders , dash out the brains of a European , whose nose and ears had already been slit by the mob . Ahmed Pasha . the Governor who r ecently ' attempted to allow two prisoners to escape execution , having again tried to obstruct the Police , Lord Charles Beresford called the Khedive 's attention to his conduct . The Khedive at once summoned Ahmed Pasha and rebuked him severely , and offered the Governorship to Zahic Pasha , who declined the position . The Khedive then : informed Ahmed Pasha that he would continue him at the post for a time , but he must scrupulously attend to the orders of Lord Charles Beresford . Ali Moubarak Pasha , at the request of the Khedive , telegraphed to Arabi Pasha to allow the other members of the deputation from Cairo to come ' to Alexandria . Arabi Pasha replied in brief but courteous terms that he had no objection to their coining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This morning news came that two delegates would arrive this evening . A train has now gone to Ramleh to receive them when they pass the enemy 's line . LONDON , July 27 . ? A correspondent at Constantinople telegraphs that the Sultan has decided to denounce Arabi Pasha as a traitor . The Sultan received Dervisch Pasha on his return from Egypt very coldly and complained that he did not persuade Admiral Seymour to delay the bombardment . Another correspondent says whether the Sultan finally indorses the recommendation of the Ministry to send troops to Egypt depends on the attitude of influential ulemas at Cairo . If they can be induced to recognize Turkish troops as protectors and not as enemies of Islam the Sultan will consent to an expedition . The conduct of Arabi Pasha also will depend very much on the attitude of the ulemas . It he is abandoned by them he will endeavor to effect some sort of compromise . A dispatch from Constantinople received at Berlin states that at the sitting of the conference yesterday the Turkish delegates declared the readiness of ' Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the identical note . The Porte does not advance any counter proposals , but merely expresses some wishes in regard to questions of detail . The dispatch adds that the first detachment will leave for Egypt within the next tow days . Another dispatch from Constantinople says that Lord Dufferin , the British Ambassador , has unofficially expressed the opinion that it is now too late for Turkey to intervene alone , but that there would be no objection to the military co-operation of the Porte . It is stated that he has declared it to be essential that the Porte , previous to the dispatch of an expedition , shou ! d declare Arabi Pasha a rebel . In the House of Lords this afternoon the address to the Queen approving of the calling out of the reserves was adopted . In the House of Commons debate was resumed on the motion for a vote of credit for the Egyptian expedition . The Right Hon. Hugh C. Childers , Secretary of State for War , said the arrangements for the expedition were exceptionally complete . As to the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and said ho was surd Parliament would be indulgent if morn money should be needed . Of the 10,000 reserves just summoned , 3,00 ( 1 , he said , would be sent to Egypt , another 3,001 ) would form a reserve corps , and the remainder would be drafted into regiments at home . lie hoped and believed that the campaign would be closed in three months . Nothing could be more complete than the concord between Great Britain and France . He concluded by appealing to the House to support the Government in its honest endeavor to promote the welfare of Egypt and to establish peace and order . The motion for a credit was carried by a vote of 275 to 10 . The steam-ship Dacca , with 5S0 marines , left Portsmouth to-day for Egypt . The Admiralty bas chartered the Cunard Line steamer Marathon for use as a transport . The Queen has given permission to the Duke of Teck to accompany Sir Garnet Wolseley on the Egyptian expedition as a member of his staff . Dispatches from Paris say that the committee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of credit of 9,500,000f. yesterday contains neither a majority for intervention nor a majority against it , but it rejected the credit because it was unable to agree on either policy . It depends entirely on M. do Freycinet whether the credit is carried or not . If lie is so ill-inspired as not to clearly make it a question of confidence ho will certainly fall . At a council of the Ministers M. de Froycinet stated that Turkey was ready to dispatch troons to Egypt in accordance with the conditions of the identical note . In the Chamber today M. de Freycinet announced that Turkey had ' accepted the proposal of the conference for Turkish intervention in Egypt . Ile said that ho was awaiting further information , and that the Government was anxious to consult with England . and lie therefore moved that the debate on time motion for a second vote of credit be postponed until Saturday . The Chamber assented . LONDON , July 28 . ? Dispatches from Alexandria say that , the Inflexible has gone to summon the Aboukir forts to surrender and to bombard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently arrived there have been ordered to Ismailia . The Quinnebaug alone remains of the American squadron . Lord Charles Beresford asks that acknowledgment be made of the immense services so generously tendered by the 120 American marines who were landed in Alexandria after the bombardment . Special dispatches from Paris foreshadow the abandonment of the vote of credit in view of Turkish intervention . The Mill News says it understands that Gen. Sir Garnet Wolseley will not await the arrival of the Turkish troops before pushing whatever advantage he may in the meantime have acquired . In the House of Commons yesterday Sir Stafford Iorthcote accused the Government of vacillation , hesitation , and neglect alike of the interests of the Khedive and of the Porte . He declared that if the Government had dealt with Arabi Pasha earlier , the recent events might have been avoided . The Government had delayed action until the last moment , and in the meantime had done all it could to irritate and offend the Sultan . But Sir Stafford telt sure that the vote about to ho given would adequately represent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the landing of troops could not have prevented the fugitive army from firing the town . MAnnits July 27 . ? The circular of the Marquis do la Vega do Armijo , Minister of Foreign Affairs , to the Spanish representatives abroad , instructing them as to the attitude they should assume in relation to the Egyptian question , shows the importance of the interests of Spain in the East . It refers to the extent of Spanish territory on the shores of the Mediterranean and the great Spcinish population residing in colonies most easily accessible through the Suez Canal , and declares that the interests of some of the great powers in the canal are of minor importance as compared with those of Spain . Circumstances are enumerated to demonstrate the right of Spain to be consulted when the Egyptian question is settled by Europe .                     