@@743455

txt A party is always more powerful than its leaders , and public opinion than any one party , and to this fact is due the presence of an unqualified , Well-defined declaration in the Republican platform in favor of the principles of civil service reform . The politicians at Chicago have little respect and less love for those principles . The majority of them would never think of applying the reform radically and honestly , and . regard it as a foolish , impracticable theory , if not a device of the enemy , for it is a peculiarity of the average politician that he can see in one and the same man a crazy fanatic and an astute political schemer , who in the first character would overturn all the traditions of practical politics , and in the second would establish the foes of the party in triumph on its ruins . Left to themselves , the Committee on Resolutions found nothing of interest in civil service reform , and ignored it as completely as if it had been a question of prehistoric politics . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of them naively complained that they ought to have had notice of the move , so that they could have invented something suitable to the occasion , that is , something pointing , as Mr. Hosea Bigelow would have said , " due south by north . " And there is only too little room for doubt that the cowardly evasion of the question by the committee , and their desire , if it must be met , to smother it in the ample folds of meaningless commonplaces , very fairly reflected the opinion of the majority of the Convention . But it would be a great mistake to suppose that they reflected the opinion of the party or of the general public . On the contrary , outside of those who have a direct or indirect interest in patronage , the great body of Republicans and of the public throughout the country approve the principles of civil service reform . And what is very important , those principles are far better understood than they ? were eight years , or even four years , ago . The Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to make them understood . Mr. HAYES 'S own declarations on the subject , though his acts have fallen far below them , have rendered the essential ideas of the reform familiar . The discussion of the President 's professions , as well as of his achievements and failures in carrying out his professions , have aided in this direction . And what has actually been done in New-York , in the Custom-house and in the Post Office , both in the application of the reform and in the evasion and violation of its principles , has contributed to the same result . The reform is no longer a mere theory ; it is not a scheme on paper ; it is a well-defined method , practically developed and actually in operation , with most favorable and conspicuous effect . The man who sneers at it to-day , in the spirit in which it was sneered at four years since , makes himself ridiculous . Well-known facts expose his ignorance and his stupidity . The man who is interested in it , on the other hand , and who wishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A distinct and potent public opinion has grown up on the subject , and it was in obedience to this opinion that the Republican Convention felt itself forced to accept the statement of reform principles submitted to it . Nor is it to be supposed that , because the Convention was compelled to adopt the civil service reform resolution by fear of the criticism which it dared not face should it be rejected , therefore its adoption will have no effect . On the contrary , the same wholesome prudence which dictated the acceptance of the resolution will keep the party , to a certain extent , faithful to it . The same criticism that would have been visited on the Convention had it dared to reject the resolution will be visited on the party should it dare to violate the principles to which the resolution commits it . We are not foolish enough to suppose that any of the gentlemen from whom can be chosen the candidate of the Republican Party has a very clear understanding of all that the resolution calls for , or a very strong desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an abiding confidence , based on careful observation of the course of events since this reform came prominently before the country , in the essential vigor of the reform itself , and in the tendency of the important truths on which it is based to compel respect . It is one of the disadvantages of a republican form of government that administrative reforms , however vital to the welfare of the people , can not be brought about by the unaided will of any small body of men in power , however high their position . But , on the other hand , it is an advantage of that form of government that when a reform . has taken an appreciable hold on the conscience and judgment of the people it is very difficult for those in office to overthrow or permanently resist it . Taking things just as they are , we are justified in expecting steady , if not rapid , progress toward a realization of civil service reform in the near future by the progress which it has already made . It would hardly be true to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is true that a good start has been made , and that the clear , comprehensive , and intelligent statement of the ground principles of the reform embodied in the Republican platform on Saturday is a landmark which will remain , and which can not be wholly disregarded . Meantime , the friends of the reform , which is to say , the friends of honest , economical , and efficient administration , are bound to do everything in their power to hold the Republican Party up to the level of the position which it has assumed .                     