@@743779

txt The American , whether man , woman , or philosopher , has an invincible repugnance to buying cheap seats at the theatre . Economy in other things is not considered disgraceful . Indeed , in many parts of New-England the less a man spends the more highly is he respected . When , however , it is a question of going to the theatre , all thoughts of economy are put aside . We feel that we should be indelibly disgraced were we to sit anywhere except in reserved seats in the higherpriced parts of the house . If we pay a dollar , or a dollar and a half , for a seat , we feel that we have done our duty , and for those shameless people who pay twenty-five cents to sit in the gallery we have nothing but pity and contempt . In the meantime we grudge the money which we pay for high-priced seats . There are few things which the average man longs for more than for free admission to a theatre . ? The man who feels that he can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often have his spirits so raised by the gift of free tickets that he will cheerfully spend ten dollars for a carriage and subsequent supper . Half of the people who sit in the orchestra chairs secretly rail at fate , which has made it impossible for them to save their money by sitting in the gallery . Could any one devise a plan by which the American citizen could sit in the gallery and preserve his self-respect and the respect of the public , the inventor would have a far better claim to the gratitude of the American people than has the inventor of the steam-boat or the inventor of the telegraph . Two bold and original Buffalo girls ? lineally connected , no doubt , with the Buffalo girls whom the poet of the last generation exhorted to " come out to-night "  - -  recently attempted to combine self-respect with seats in the gallery . Mlle. BERNHARDT was to play in Buffalo 9n a certain evening , and the two girls were determined to see her . The price of tickets was so exceptionally high that three days before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was attacked with diphtheria , and compelled , much against his will , to abstain from inviting his particular young lady to accompany him to the theatre . In the absence of young men the two bold Buffalo girls appealed to their father , but he peremptorily refused to squander his substance in theatre tickets at a riotous price . The two girls themselves had but one dollar ' and ten cents in their joint possession , and with this money they resolved to see BERNHARDT . The price of admission to the gallery was fifty cents , and it was thus within the means of the two girls . But how could they , the daughters of a respectable citizen , sit in the gallery , and how could they possibly go to the theatre alone . They pondered these questions long and thoughtfully , and at last one of them despairingly remarked : " If we were only colored girls we could go , and nobody would think anything of it . I declare I wish I could be a colored girl for this night only . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand idea . " Let us be colored girls for once , " she exclaimed . " If we black our faces and put on our old clothes we can go right into the gallery and nobody will know it . " The suggestion was enthusiastically received , and the two fearless Buffalo girls resolved to come out on the Bernhardt night in the blackest of cork and the dowdiest of garments . When evening arrived a severe headache attacked both girls , and they were compelled to bid their father good-night at 7 o'clock and to withdraw to their bedrooms . It did not take them long to thoroughly black their faces with burnt cork , and to array themselves in the style of the most flagrant and fashionable colored coquettes . Then , slipping quietly out of the back-door , they walked to the theatre , bought ten cents ' worth o f peanuts , and , securing tickets for the gallery , boldly made their way to that plebeian resort . The play happened to be one in which Mlle. BERNHARDT does not appear until the second act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found the first act decidedly uninteresting , in which opinion the rest of the house appeared to share . It thus happened that the audience chiefly occupied itself in staring around the house , and quickly noticed the two alleged colored girls , who were nervously consuming peanuts . Now , whatever may be our prejudices in regard to color , we as a people insist that every one should be fully persuaded in his own mind as to what his color is , and we do not like to see a parti-colored person who apparently has never been able to decide whether he is black or white . The two girls had accidentally rubbed the black off their maiden noses , and the audience indulged in loud and scurrilous remarks as to " then white-nosed niggers . " Before long fuller indignation began to express itself in paper-balls and other missiles , and the end of it was that the Police removed the two girls to the station-house and locked them up on a charge of disorderly behavior and violation of the ordinance against appearing in public in disguise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and were subjected to the humiliation of a night in the station-house , there was real merit in their plan . They have shown how it may be possible , with care , for respectable people to Bain the gallery . We have only to black ourselves with some preparation which will not be liable to come off when touched with a handkerchief , and we can sit undisturbed in the gallery , and suffer loss neither of the respect of our neighbors nor of our self-respect . Let us sympathize with the misfortunes of the two Buffalo girls , and at the same time honor the boldness and merit of their method of grappling with the problem of cheap seats at the theatre .                     