@@781610

txt The announcement that the German corvette Nautilus had annexed the Marshall Islands came simultaneously with the details of the agreement between Germany and Spain in the Carolines dispute , and in part furnishes a key to that agreement . The Pope 's decision , as arbiter , confirming Spanish sovereignty in the Central and Western Carolines was , no doubt , in strict accord with the documentary evidence in the case . The German claim upon the group of which Yap is the chief island was acquired by something like a sharp trick . There seems to be no doubt that Spanish vessels were first in the harbor for the express purpose of formally establishing the ancient Spanish claim upon the islands ; and the hoisting of a German flag by a landing party after sundown could hardly avail against any real right of prior possession . It is to the credit of Germany that she at no time sought to rely solely on this adroit device of her naval commanders for her claim to the Carolines . She wished the decision to rest on the broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessory rights in past times . Hence , also , she did not . make the insults to her representatives by the Madrid mob an excuse for breaking off diplomatic relations , but quietly accepted the apologies offered by King At , FONSO 'S Government without seeking to embarrass it by making demands which must arouse Spanish resentment . Germany , beyond doubt , honestly considered the Carolines ownerless , especially as Spain had not called in question the notes sent to her both by England and Germany ten years ago declining to acknowledge her sovereignty there . But she forebore to unduly press Spain , partly , perhaps , lest the Republicans should use the opportunity to dethrone ALFONSO . Prince BISMARCK 'S suggestion of Pope LEO as arbiter may have almost seemed like giving away his case , as Spain 's historic evidence included the acknowledgment of one of the Pope 's predecessors , ALEXANDER VI . The truth seems to be that Prince BisMARCK was not averse to acknowledging Spain 's right to the greater part of the Caroline Archipelago , provided he could obtain sufficient concessions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignity of a decision by arbitration to what , perhaps , could not wisely be conceded outright , lest it should seem a yielding to menace , while it won back Spain 's friendship and spiked the guns of the ultramontanes . Spain , in response , authorzed the Pope to offer Germany special advantages in the Carolines , including coaling and naval stations , freedom of trade , liberty of navigation , and the right to establish farming colonies . Above all , in the agreement definitely dividing the Carolines into three groups , and limiting the Spanish title to the central and to the western , or Pelew , groups , Germany secured the possession of the eastern , or the Marshall and Gilbert , groups , which she immediately annexed . England 's consent to this settlement seems to have been obtained by the concession to her of the same privileges as Germany 's in the Central Carolines and Pelew groups . Thus a dispute which at one time almost threatened war is peacefully adjusted . Our country has an interest in this settlement , and perhaps particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marshall and Gilbert groups . In these groups and in the Eastern Carolines the American Board of Foreign Missions has been working for more than thirty years . The islands there are independent , governed by native chiefs . The chief trade is in dried cocoanut and cocoanut oil . The Germans have trading houses at Jalinj and Likieb , in the Eastern Carolines. - The American Board has established between forty and fifty Christian churches in this part of the archipelago , a missionary brig going about from one to the other . The work at these stations , however , for the Marshall and Gilbert groups is now done by natives of the Sandwich Islands ; but at the islands of Ponape , Kusoie , and Ruk , in the Eastern Carolines , American missions proper are kept up , with schools and churches , while in all the church stations combined there is a membership of about four thousand persons . Thus the settlement of this European dispute becomes of special interest in America . Indeed , Spain has probably had much less to do with the Carolines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled , she will perhaps resume her old indifference toward most of them .                     