@@781725

txt Lord BEACONSFIELD steps down and At his advanced age it is not probable he will ever again hold the reins of power . It is now fifty-four years since , as DISRAELI the younger , he published " Vivian Grey , " and awoke to find himself famous . At any rate , he was very much talked about . His opinions , like his dress , were fantastic and outr ? . He was an eccentric character . " The Voyage of Captain Pompanilla , " " The Wondrous Tale of Alroy , " and " Contarini Fleming , " followed " Vivian Grey " in rapid succession , and , at the age of 27 , the son of an obscure Jewish literary man had made a distinct mark in the world . Admitted only on that plane of society where the people " stepping up meet the people stepping down , " he had none of the advantages of powerful patronage and influence , while his name and race placed an almost insurmountable barrier between him and the people he was destined to govern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought of becoming a book-seller 's hack , or of remaining an articled clerk to a firm of attorneys . The motto which he placed on the title-page of " Vivian Grey " ? " Why , then , the world 's mine oyster , which I with sword will open , " furnishes the key to his ambition and subsequent career . After many failures , which never disheartened him , he was elected to Parliament in 1837 , as member from Maidstone . His first effort in debate was a dismal failure . Sensational and theatrical - in manner , and much too bizarre and classical in matter , his speech was ' received by " the greatest debating society in the:world " with shouts of derisive , , laughter and ironical cheers . Thoroughly sat down upon , the orator resumed his seat , muttering the wellknown threat andprophecy , " The time will come when you will hear me . " How true were those words , and how well this prediction has been fulfilled , is known to all English-speaking people . But the brilliant master of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way through difficulties which would have discouraged almost any other public man of whom we have any account . His birth and blood placed him under a social ban . Sir ROBERT PEEL , the popular Premier , who " played upon the House of Commons like an old fiddle , " persistently suppressed him ; but he would not . be kept down , and the great Tory statesman himself at length yielded to the merciless satire and deadly ridicule - with which his brilliant antagonist bombarded him . At the beginning of his public career , Lord MELBOURNE asked him what was his idea hi entering Parliament ? what was his ambition ? " To be Prime Minister of England , " was the reply . Slowly , but surely , and with dogged pertinacity , and with . a temper which no slights or sneers could ruffle , he reached the highest position that has ever been held by a British subject . His first term of office as Prime Minister was brief . The Liberals swept the country in 1868 , and Mr. GLADSTONE took up the seals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , after holding place for a little more than a year . Once more in opposition and minority , DISRAELI resumed the leadership of the Tory Party in the House of Commons . It appeared as if he were doomed to serve long as " Minister of the Exterior . " But , little by little , the Liberal Premier 's majority wasted away under the persistent and resolute attacks of his adversary , and , early in the Spring of 1874 , DISRAELI was again summoned to Windsor . The insignia of office which he then assumed he has just laid aside . The ability of the new Premier to administer the Government was ' to be put to the severest test . His opponents confidently predicted failure . It is easier , said they , to attack than to frame a policy ; easier to criticise than to create . Just at this juncture , the never-settled , ever-recurring Eastern question began again to vex the cabinets of Europe : This gave ' , DISRAELI an opportunity to show whatever power of statesmanship he possessed . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of Semitic origin , his ideas , methods , and sentiments bore an Oriental stamp ; To make England great and respected by means of her Indian Empire was to him a natural and feasible policy . She had receded to the lowest place among the great military powers of Europe . It is doubtful if she could have equipped , for any offensive purpose an army of 150,000 men from her home resources . Compared with the great Continental armies , this was only a nucleus . . Let us note the bold and successful steps by which DISRAELI again placed England in the front rank among the nations . Without consulting Parliament , he purchased control of the Suez Canal .. There was much adverse criticism , but Frenchmen held the key to England 's Indian ' possessions , and it " was important to buy it as cheaply and quickly as possible , Then the Prince of Wales was sent upon an Oriental tour . It was a triumphal march , and greatly stimulated Indian loyalty to the home Government . ? The Queen 's Titles bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Minister , by this stroke , secured the royal favor . There are people who say this is not worth much , but the good will of the sovereign is worth more than the ill-will . Meanwhile , the Czar had declared war against the Porte . In entering upon the contest , he solemnly asseverated that he did not wage war for conquest , but to redress the wrongs of the Christian subjects of the Sultan . There could be no doubt as to the result of the contest . Turkey could not stand single-handed against the great Northern power . Constantinople was threatened . The Czar seemed upon the point of abandoning his promise not to make war for territorial acquisition , now that his dream of a Winter Palace on the Bosphorus was likely to be realized . DISRAELI 'S Eastern policy now developed itself . British iron-clads were ordered into the Sea of Marmora , and 20,000 Sepoy troops were thrown into Malta . He said to Russia , " Hitherto shalt thou come and no further . " The effect was startling . DISRAELI showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight for her . BISMARCK , who had seemed to take but little interest in the fight , was suddenly on the alert . England , with millions of money and millions of men , was again a first-class power in European politics . The German Chancellor considered that there might better be a confererence to discuss these new complications . out . It was called at Berlin , and in that distinthat guished muster of diplomatic talent Lord BEACONSFIELD was a conspicuous figure . It may not be said of him that he was that great and good Premier who ruled Britain prudently and safely , but it will be said of him that he was the bold , sagacious , and brilliant Minister who restored his country to the front rank among the great powers of Europe .                     