@@743881

txt The wisdom of teaching girls to swim is generally acknowledged , though , unfortunately , few girls have hitherto received the necessary teaching . At one of our large female seminaries , however , swimming has been made a part of the curriculum  --  if so manifest a bull may be permitted . The report of the Professor of Swimming proves that he has been during the past year very thorough and efficient in the performance of his duty , and shows most unexpectedly that there is a very close connection between the religious faith of a girl and her ability to learn to swim . Among the girls belonging to the seminary almost every Church and sect is represented . There are sixteen Baptists , twentyone Methodists , thirteen Presbyterians , ten Episcopalians , two Roman Catholics , one Campbellite , one Reformed Episcopalian , and three girls who have no particular religious belief . The oldest of these girls is 19 and the youngest 11 ; but it does not appear that age has anything to do with ease in learning to swim . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl and her sister , who is 18 years old , and the Professor gives it as his opinion that it makes no difference at what age a girl begins to study swimming , so far as her prospect of success is concerned . When we come to notice the connection between the religious belief of the girls and their capacity to acauire the art of swim- ming , we find that the Baptists largely excel all others . Fifteen of the sixteen Baptist girls learned to swim in three lessons , and from the first displayed a marked superiority over . their fellow-students . This was due , in the Professor 's opinion , to the fact that Baptists are early taught that no one can breathe comfortably under water . The first impulse of any ordinary girl who finds herself under water is to draw in her breath , with a view of remarking " Oh , my ! " and as a result she instantly finds herself choking . The Baptists , in order to avoid unseemly disturbances when administering the rite of baptism , instruct their female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under water , and must on no account say " Oh , my I " The girl who has been taught this lesson is unquestionably better prepared to learn to swim than are other girls , and hence it was to have been expected that the Baptist pupils of the swimming Professor would have shown a decided superiority . Next in proficiency came the Methodists . Sixty per cent . of the Methodist girls learned . to swim within a given time , while during the same time 50 per cent . of the Presbyterian girls and only 2 per cent . of the Episcopalian girls became swimmers . While we readily see why Methodists , Presbyterians , and Episcopalians should take to the water less readily than Baptists , it may seem strange that a Methodist should swim more easily than a Presbyterian , and that an Episcopalian should be so much inferior to either . According to the learned Professor , it is the back-hair element which explains this curious difference . The Methodist girl is very apt to wear her hair cut short , and the Presbyterian girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back hair is to evince a sinful spirit of conformity to the world . On the other hand , the pretty Episcopalian , finding nothing either in the Prayer-book or in the decisions of the first six Ecumenical Councils against back hair , takes delight in making herself as attractive in point of hair as possible , and hence is extremely reluctant to permit it to get wet . It is evident that no girl who goes into the water with her mind fixed on her back hair and with a firm determination to keep it dry can make any real progress in learning to swim , and we thus see that the relative quickness shown by Methodist , Presbyterian , and Episcopalian girls in swimming studies is ; primarily a matter of back hair . Of girls belonging to the Campbellite and Reformed Episcopal sects there is a lack of facts on which to base any theory . Neither the Campbellite girl nor the Reformed Episcopalian girl learned to swim . The former could not be induced to overcome her fear of the water , although she had been baptized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swim on the ground that she suspected the Professor of being a Romanist in disguise . The two Roman Catholic girls learned to swim , and their only fault was an excess of self-confidence , based , perhaps , upon a too vivid recollection of St. PETER 'S success in walking upon the water . The three girls who had no religious belief were excused from joining the swimming class at the particular request of their parents , who , being agnostics , took the ground that it was very doubtful whether such an art as that of swimming had any existence , and that it was not worth while to pay any attention to the matter . These facts are of great interest and of unusual importance to students of the new and popular science called sociology . They show us that swimming is a matter influenced to a very large extent by religion . It will be necessary for the Methodists , Presbyterians , and Episcopalians to take prompt measures to instruct their girls in swimming while they are of tender years , and to modify their views as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Baptists in proficiency in swimming . The next report of the learned swimming Professor will be looked for with eagerness , and it is to be hoped that it will give us new and sufficient data in regard to Campbellite and Reformed Episcopalian girls . 