@@746012

txt The enactment of the Inter-State commerce law gave the railroad companiesn. , a opportunity to throw off the heavy burden imposed by the practice of issuing free passes to thousands upon thousands of persons . The public did not know how great this burden had . become . Mr. CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS 'S statement before a Congressional committee that transportation by passes on the Union Pacific represented more than $700,000 a year in fares was a revelation to a vast majority of the people . But the recent discussion of the new law 's provisions has brought out statistics of the pass business even more surprising than those presented by Mr. ADAMS . An officer of the Burlington and Quincy Company says that 20 per cent . of his road 's passenger traffic last year was " deadhead . " The manager of another Western company asserts that in some seasons of the year 50 per cent . of the passengers on his road have traveled on passes . There are said to be 5,000 persons in Georgia who have used passes for years . Newspapers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania Company not long ago had 60,000 annual passes out , and that before the death of the late WILLIAM H. VANDERBILT the New-York Central had issued 30,000 passes in one year . Before the passage of the law the burden had been growing , and . it is asserted that many companies sought in vain for some satisfactory method of reducing it . Therefore they welcomed the prohibition set forth in the Inter-State Commerce act . " We jumped at it , " said one manager , " because the practice promised to paralyze our passenger business . " Such was the attitude of many companies a few weeks ago . But now it seems probable that the opportunity to put an end to the abuse will not be used as it ought to be used . There is a tendency to continue the granting of passes in almost all cases that are not expressly covered by the law . The act declares that it " shall be unlawful to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person , or to subject any particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any respect whatsoever . " It also forbids discrimination in rates as regards persons " in the transportation of passengers . " But there are certain exceptibns specified in section 22 , wherein it . is provided that " nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent railroads from giving free carriage to their own officers and . employds , or to prevent the principal officers of any railroad company or companies from exchanging , passes or tickets with other railroad companies for their officers and employ &s."; It will be seen that while inter-State passes may be issued to railroad officers , no exception is made for the benefit of the families of such officers . Nevertheless , many of the great railroad companies are now issuing passes for the use of the families of their officers and the families of officers of other companies . So far as these passes cover inter-State transportation the issuing and use of - them are clearly forbidden . The companies issuing them are giving special privileges to persons not entitled to them either in law or common fairness . Continued indulgence in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to violate or evade the law . We do not think that any exception even as regards railroad officers should have been made . President ADAMS said to the com-mittee : " I travel at times in the service of the Union Pacific Railroad Company and at times on my individual business . I should pay my faro in both cases . When I travel on my individual business it is for me to pay , and when I travel for the Union Pacific Railroad Company I ' ? ould put in a voucher for my oar fares just as I uo for my hotel expenses . But there is no reason why other roads should carry me for nothing simply because I am in the service of the Union Pacific . " This is good doctrine . The law does not enforce it , but its failure to do so furnishes no excuse for the granting of inter-State passes to the families of officers . At first it was proposed that the provisions of the law concerning passes for interState transportation should voluntarily be extended by the companies to transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in accordance with the spirit of the law . It would have been required if the law could have been made to cover State traffic . But the companies have receded from their original intention , and while the practice of issuing passes for State traffic has been affected by some restrictions , as a rule it has been decided that each company shall use its discretion in that field . For example , the Massachusetts roads have decided that annual State passes may be issued to State officers , members of the Legislature , policemen , Mayors , City Marshals , various county officers , landlords of mountain hotels , managers of camp meetings , reunions , and picnics , clergymen , and the families of the officers of other roads . An attempt should have been made to cut off all free transportation . It is an evil from every point of view . Who pays for the transportation of the man who travels on a pass 9 Those passengers who buy tickets . The railroad company 's officers simply say to the man who receives a pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will compel your fellow-passengers to pay for your ticket . " As a rule it is those who are least able to pay who are forced - to pay , and it is. those who can well afford to pay who are enabled to compel their companions to pay for them . " The railroad companies , " said President ADAMS to the Congressional committee , " have to make good the loss thus incurred by charging more to those who can not afford to pay . In my opinion 10 per cent . more has to be charged to those who do pay fares to make up for those who do not . " An . honest application of the antidiscrimination features of the new law to all State as well as inter-State traffic by railroads is needed .                     