@@745556

txt There were not less than 10,000 persons afloat in the course of the racing yachts . Immediately after the start a swarm of steamers and tugs , steam yachts and excursion boats , and big and small sailing craft , turned into the wake from the Bay and Narrows , from the Horseshoe , and below Sandy Rook , making a vast picture of bright and glistening color . After the first hour 's run many of the lighter craft turned back , not taking kindly to the Genesta weather that was tossing and foaming the green water . When all had dropped cut that could not venture into rough water there still remained about 15 excursion steamers , a score of tugs , a dozen or so steam yachts , and a few daring small boats . The colors of the New-York Yacht Club fluttered all over the Taurus , and on board there was a large crowd of enthusiastic and interested yachtsmen . They watched tho movements of the rival boats closely , and when the Gonesta , aftar sailing about an hour on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bows , there was no little excitement on board . Some people thought that there was to be a repetition or Tuesday 's accident , with the positions of the boats reversed . Everybody appreciated the manoeuvre . " That 's a clever dodge , " said one club man ; " a regular Yankee trick . I 'm glad I did n't go to lunch . I would n't nave missed seeing that for all the lunches that I ever expect to eat . " Sir Roderick W. Cameron and Mr. F. W. J. Hurst , who are believers in the Genesta , immediately drew their pocketbooks and announced their readiness to make a wager or two . They were not obliged to hunt for takers . Some of the cuttermen rejoiced in the fact that the rough sea and stiff breeze of the early part of the day were more favorable to the cutter than to the sloop , and believed that if these conditions bad hold the Genesta would have won . These people thought that the Puritan 's success was due In part to the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grumbled at the Regatta Committee for having fixed the limit of time at sev to hours . Generally , however , the Taurus 's passengers were believers in the Puritan first , la a and always , and saw nothing to be seriously scared about in the Genesta 's early advantage . There was quite a Boston contingent among the 400 or 500 people on the Taurus . Among them were W. D. Forbes , brother of J. Malcolm Forbes , T. Denny Boardman. and Mr. Lincoln , of the shipping house of Thayer &; Lincoln . Mr. Thayer , of Lancaster . Mass. , whose Winter residence is in Boston , and who was one of the contingent , said that he returned from Europe especially to witness this race . It is said that he told Mr. Burgess that if the sloop rounded the outer mark first he would give him an order to build a steam yacht . As the Puritan got there first Mr. Burgess has business ahead . The expense of chartering a club boat is so great that the members may go to the race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Taurus again . Police Commissioners French and Voorhis , Inspector Byrnes , ex-Alderman Masterson , Charles Storm , Deputy Clerk to the Commissioners ; Capt . Kip , of the Seventh Regiment , and Col. McClure , of Tiffany &; Co. , were among those on board the police boat Patrol . In activity of movement and general ubiquity the Patrol was conspicuous throughout the day . Capt . Smith . who has charge of the boat , kept beside his pilot almost constantly . Wherever there was a sign of crowding or of anything out of which an accident might come , the Patrol was quick to see it and to check it , gliding among the crowd or sending out a warning whistle of alarm . The : jurisdiction of the boat ended at Sandy Hook , but no one was disposed to question its authority beyond that point , and when it pushed to the front after the race had fairly started place was readily yielded there for it , the big steamers and the other craft spreading out in broad lines behind the little leader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excursion steamer Elm City were startled by seeing a man rush suddenly from one of the cabins on the upper deck of the boat , leap upon the rail , and then plunge into the water . A cry of " Man overboard " was raised , and in a few moments a boat was manned and lowered to the rescue . The would-be suicide was pulled out of the water in a half unconscious condition , but was soon revived on the steamer by the use of stimulants . The man 's name was not known and the officers of the vessel were very reticent in regard to the matter . He wore a uniform , however , and was said to be the Captain 's brother , There was a woman in the cabin from which he rushed so unceremoniously , and she was nearly overcome by the chock of the incident .                     