@@781159

txt Our French and Qerman guests are enjoying their brief sojourn in the city in a quiet and rational manner , visiting the various points of interest , and expressing pleasure with all they have seen . The French visitors , however , are reticent and cautious in venturing opinions on national topics , and all efforts to draw them out in these regards are failures . Beyond the merest formalities of compliment they are mute . They seem to have placed themselves on guard against interviewers , and , although they receive their newspaper visitors with becoming courtesy , it is evident they have arrived at the conclusion that still tongues argue wise heads . Assistant Secretary Hitt explains their position as being one of great delicacy . They are the guests of the Nation , and therefore it would be unbecoming to criticize our habits , customs , institutions , or practices . With the one or two exceptions of those who have previously visited the United States , they are essentially French in the extreme acceptation of the word , and , as a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or empire to a republic . While they enjoy a peculiar satisfaction in representing an ancestry which aided in the achievement of , American independence , they experience a greater gratification in the homage paid to the deeds of valor and high courage which animated their progenitors in defending the weak from the aggressions of the strong . They deeply appreciate the motives which actuate our Government in Inviting them to be present at the Yorktown ceremonies , but it is evident they regard our civilization as too new , and look upon all our belongings as of precocious growth . From what can be gathered by indirection , Et may be said that they were peculiarly gratied with their visit to West Point . While it would be unnatural to expect them to yield the palm of their old military institutions to our youthful national academy , they were nevertheless impressed with the fine discipline and martial bearing of the Cadets . Their examination into the course of studies and the carious operations of the West Point Academy was necessarily brief and cursory , but they ascertained sufficient of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . They were much gratified to meet Gen. Sherman , the members of his staff , and the chiefs of the several military bureaus , but some disappointment was manifested at the absence of Lieut. - Gen . Sheridan , whom they regard as a great military chieftain . A committee of French residents paid their respects to their countrymen , concluding the ceremony with the exhortation , " Viva les Etats Unis , vice la France , ViTO les deux Republiques . " It was suggested that while the two first sentiments found an undoubted echo in the hearts of our French visitors , the last might have been deemed superfluous and possibly malapropos . The German visitors are communicative and easily approached . They express great admiration at all they have seen , and are really bewildered at the generous and cordial reception extended them . They say they are overwhelmed with kindness beyond all expectation , ad 'd do not seek to conceal their satisfaction and pleasure . There was some jealousy exhibited by the German committee because their countrymen were not met at some point on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city with as much ceremony as the French guests . This reeling , however , was not shared by the German visitors , it having been explained to them that everything possible had been and would be done to place them on a perfect equality . it is a source of satisfaction to witness the pleasant relations existing between the French and German visitors . Whatever may underlie their feelings of antagonism , growing out of the Franco-Prussian war , there is nothinz repellant - visible . Each party , no doubt , feel they are on neutral ground , the guests of a Nation friendly to both , and showing equal honor to all . A member of the French party expressed his unqualified satisfaction that our people made no distinction between the French and German visitors , showing no preferences and avoiding all allusions , direct or indirect , to the late conflict between the two nations . Chief Forrester Steuben was enthusiastic over all he had seen , and , indeed , both French and Germans praised the wide and well-paved streets and avenues of Washington , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " War , and Navy Department building . Herr Steuben was greatly exercised over the slaughter of our trees . He said that while Ge ? - many , France . and other European countries were staying their woodmen 's axes , and using all endeavors to protect their forests , we were cutting them down in all directions , without care for the future . While conceding that we possessed large territory , and cur resources were almost boundless , he felt convinced that we would regret our extravaeance in thus despoiling our forests sooner zlian we anticipated . E.e further said that the teerman idea was to plant trees and increase their forestage , while here it was the reverse . Mr. Nathan Appleton arrived here to-day to invite the French and German guests to visit Boston and other cities of Massachusetts after their return from Yorktown . The invitation will probably be accepted .                     