@@781154

txt At a little after 2 o'clock this afternoon Gen. Chester A. Arthur , Vice-President-elect , came into the Senate Chamber , where he is to preside after the 4th of March . So familiar had his face become to every one that he was recognized at once in the galleries . He walked to a sofa , accompanied by Vice-President Wheeler , and for a moment the President of the Senate and his sucessor sat alone , side by side . Then Gen. Logan , Senator Anthony , and Senator Sharon , who , for a wonder , chanced to be in the chamber , approached them and greeted the distinguished visitor . Mr. Conkling next came up , and from that time onward took upon himself the task of introducing to Gen. Arthur the members of the Senate . The Republican members came up one after another , and the little reception in the corner soon attracted more attention than the proceedings of the Senate . Mr. Hamlin was reading in his seat . Mr. Conkling approached him , tapped him on the shoulder and told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a smile on his face , and was led to Gen. Arthur . There , for a momept , could be seen the present Vice-President , the Vice-President-elect , and Abraham Lincoln 's Vice-President chatting together . The first Democrat Mr. Conkling led to the corner and introduced was Mr. Davis , of West Virginia , and he was followed by Mr. Beck . Then Mr. Conkling went over to Mr. Voorhees 's seat and took from it Montgomery Blair , who was soon shaking hands with Gen. Arthur . Mr. Cockrell was then brought up and introduced . This closed the list of Democrats who were introduced at that time . For some time the visitor and Mr. Cockrell , who are of about the same height and weight , stood alone in conversation . Soon afterward Gen. Arthur took Senator Hamlin 's seat , which is next to Mr. Conklines . While there he was sought by Mr. Morgan , with whom he talked for some time , and also by Mr. Eaton and Judge Davis . When Mr. Blaine came in at 3 o'clock he cordially greeted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , apparently , had there an interesting conversation . They were afterward joined by Senator Ben Hill , of Georgia , who shook the coming Vice-President 's hand with great fervor . Mr. Eaton brought over and introduced Mr. Pendleton , once an unsuccessful candidate for the office which Gen. Arthur is to fill . After sitting for some time in the Senate Chamber the visitor departed . But for the ceremony of introduction those who did not know him would not have supposed that he was a stranger . He was apparently completely at ease and as fully " at home " in the Senate as any one who has been accustomed to its ways and faces for years .                     