@@780683

txt The Republicans of Cincinnati were beaten one year ago by 2,500 majority , because of the failure of the State Legislature to pass another law restricting the liquor trade . They were beaten again to-day by a majority nearly twice as great because , in the interval , amends had been made and such a law enacted . The indications at this hour ( 11 o'clock ) are that the entire Republican city ticket has been defeated by from 4,000 to 5,000 , and that even the candidates for ward offices , who supposed that they were sure of several hundred majority , have also been slaughtered . In the German wards heavy Republican majorities have disappeared in almost every instance and Democratic majorities have taken their places . In the American wards , where an opposite result was expected , the Republicans have no more than held their own . Capt . Ross , who , as the Republican candidate for the Board of Public Works , stood at the head of the ticket , concedes that he has been beaten by at least 4,000 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a still larger majority . The magnitude of the defeat will be better understood when it is known that one week ago the Democratic Party were is a miserably disorganized antd= disheartened condition and without an expectation of electing a single candidate on their ticket . The then apparently hopeless state of the party , was due to the efforts of the Committee of Twelve to abolish the primary elections and institute other reforms . About the middle of the week the State Legislature , which is Republican , passed the Pond Liquor bill , and the result is seen in to-night 's returns . The fight thus unexpectedly brought on was between the saloon-keepers and brewers , backed by a heavy German population , and the Republican Party . Thousands of Germans who never voted the Democratic ticket before voted it to-day , in order to rebuke the Republicans for interfering with the business of brewing and selling beer . So far was this disposition carried that Councilman Gramv , who was up for re-election in the Eleventh Ward , and is himself a saloon-keeper and widely popular was scratched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 800 or 000 was entirely overcome , and he is among the defeated . This was for no other reason than that he was running on the Republican ticket and a Republican Legislature had passed the Pond bill . A sin ! , , uJar feature of the day was that while the Republicans were fought so relentlessly because a tax bad been imposed on the business of liquorselling , the temperance people gave the party very lukewarm support . In many cases temperance Republicans actually voted the Democratic ticket because they regarded the Pond bill as a halfway measure and they wanted a cast-iron prohibition law . The only redeeming thing is that some Democrats , perhaps 500 , voted the Republican ticket because they believed that it was the liquor-sellers who deserved to be rebuked . CLEVELAND , April 3 . ? The vote in ' Clovelaud to-day has been unusually light , the chief and about the only work being done by the saloon men and brewers in getting out their employ es and every body else they could got their hands on . All the big West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as hacks in getting out the voters . The saloons are closed by law , and their owners have been at the polls in force . The temperance men and church people , on the other hand , have shown a woeful lack of interest , partly because of a lack of organization and partly because they are not satisfied that the Pond bill goes far enough . A few Democrats and a few Germans have voted the Republican ticket because of personal views on the temperance uuestion , but the great majority of both classes have stood by the Democrats . There has been little scratching , as the personal claims of candidates have been lost sight of and the whole work done on the main issue . The Democrats have undoubtedly elected 11 out of the 18 Councilmen , and the Republicans ' 7 . The city ticket , comprising Police Clerk and members of several boards , has probably gone Democratic by a small majority , although returns are not in such shape as will allow the making of figures .. Lapt year the Republicans elected their Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away for the time being . Tho Democrats are wild over the result , and say that the way has been paved for a Democratic Congressman from the Cleveland district and the election of a State ticket next Fall . While they agree that the Pond bill was the main reason for the change , they also say that general Republican apathy had something to do with it . The Democratic city ticket is elected by from 600 to 1,000 majority , with the possible exception of Police Clerk . COLUMBUS , April 3 . ? The unusually warm and pleasant weather to-day brought out a very heavy vote , and the best of order prevailed . The passage of the Pond bill at this time was a heavy load for the Republicans to carry , as it combined all the liquor interest against the Republican ticket . Judge Thompson attempted the independent dodge for Councilman in the Fourteenth Ward , but was buried by the Re-publican nominee . The greatest of interest was taken in the election to-day , there being a contest between the Democratic Mayor and the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats have elected their Police Commissioner , Trustee of Water-works , and other minor officers , while the Republicans have held their own in holding control of the Council , the most important of all . It was generally feared that this department of the city Government would he surely secured by the Democrats , but with all the aid contributed by the Republican Legislature hard work alone has saved the Democrats from making a clean sweep . As it is , that party is greatly disgusted to find that its expectations have not been realized .                     