@@745502

txt Some of the older Treasury officials are much annoyed at the discovery just made that anumber of fiftydollar compound interest notes issued in 1864 , and recently redeemed , bear upon their face the wrong date of the act under which they were issued . This is also the case with a lot of ten-forty coupons issued the same year , which are now found to be dated a year in advance of their enabling act . In passing upon the accounts and vouchers of the United States Treasurer the First Auditor 's office discovered a compound interest note already canceled which from its general appearance created the suspicion that it might be counterfeit . The suspected note , with a few genuine ones , was sent to the Bureau of Printing and Engraving for expert opinion . They were all pronounced good , but attention was called to the fact that the date of the act authoriVng their issue had evidently been changed on the plate . This caused First Auditor Chenowith to hunt after the act referred to , but he could not find it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 , 1864 . Further search among redeemed compound interest notes showed that some were apparently authorized June 30 , 1864 , and some July 3 , 1864 . In the Congressional Record of July 2 was found an act passed June 30. but nothing subsequent to that in the way of amendment rewarded the closest search . Secretary Manning could toll nothing about it , neither could Treasurer Jordan . Finally when all the officials got together the conclusion was reached that there was nothing fraudulent in the matter . Whoever had issu , yd the order for the engraving of the compound interest note plate had read the law passed June 30 , 1864 , in the Record of July 2 , 1864 , and had taken it for granted the act was passed on the date under which it was printed . Then employes who had been in the department during the war remembered that this error had been discovered in a few days and that orders were given to change the date on the plate . In all these years nothing had occured to call close attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First Auditor was certain at first that a grand steal had been unearthed , but now that it is satisfactorily explained he thinks that the circumstance is evidence of the condition of things at the seat of Federal Government during the last year of the war . The discovery has set the clerks in the department rummaging through a lot of old redeemed war issues . They have found that the date of the enabling aot of the ten-forty coupons was printed March 3 , 1863 , when it should have been 1864 . Other errors of this kind will probably be found , now that everybody 's attention is directed to dates . Controller Cannon does not think there is anything surprising in these cases , considering the time and circumstances under which the money was issued . Information has reached here that Surveyor Caldwell , of Cincinnati , in addition to his recent appointment of two ex-convicts , has now appointed a third who has a criminal record in several parts of the country , having been confined . in Hamilton County Jail one year , and having served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property under false pretenses . It has also just been discovered that Commissioner Colman , of the Agricultural Department , upon the urgent recommendation of Representative Converse and Capt . Barger , Chairman of the State Democratic Committee , appointed as State Agricultural Agent for Ohio a man who turns out to have been tried and convicted for stealing . He served nine mouths in jail in Lake County , Ohio . Ex-Gov . E. F. Noyes telegraphed yesterday his declination of the appointment by the President as Government Director of the Union Pacific Railroad . The reasons assigned for declining are not given out here , but it is presumed Gov . Noyes will furnish them . It is ascertained that the appointment was made at the solicitation of Gov . Hoadly , and that his recommendation of Noyes was verbal , not written . It is surmised here that the excuse given by Mr. Noyes for declining will be found to be an unwillingness to cause embarrassment to the Administration . Some of Gov . Hoadly 's friends are sure that he has asked Gov . Noyes to decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegraphed the President , cordially thanking him for the appointment to a seat in the Union Pacific Board , but declining to accept because of the embarrassment which the Administration might otherwise . experience owing to his connection with the Hayes-Tilden matter . Gen. Noyes says he has nothing to defend in his course in that contest , but there are friends of the President who claim to think otherwise , and are disposed to persist in their view . Gov . Hoadly is still uncommunicative as to his reasons for suggesting Gen. Noyes for the place to which he was appointed .                     