@@672037

txt Since GOETHE puzzled his readers with a theory of colors which no man of science has indorsed , the effect of bright hues upon human beings , animals and plants has been studied to little profit . GOETHE held that there Were only two pure colors , blue and . yellow . Blue is a background devoid of color or light with the intermediate atmosphere illuminated . Yellow is light seen through a thickened medium . Red is not a true color at all , but partakes of blue and yellow , and all the other parts of the chromatic scale are derived from these two . He would have followed with the utmost eagerness the experiments on which the once famous blue-glass craze was based . He would have found a remarkable bridge between his studies on the colors and those on the growth of plants could he have lived to hear the reports of the behavior of plants under glasses of different tints . The volume on Blue Glass for invalids , written by Gem PLEASONTON , would have found an earnest reader in GOETHE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the round of laughter that went up at the time that amiable mania was in fashion . Though the claims of extreme partisans like Gen. PLEASONTON , with respect to the magical effects of blue or violet glass upon the growth of human beings , their health and spirits , can not be substantiated , it is - very certain that colors do have some effect on plants and perhaps on animals . Experiments have not been accumulated in sufficient number to warrant any definite rules whereby the influence of colors can be turned to practical account , but there seems a reasonable certainty that the growth of plants can ' be retarded or increased by the use of glass of different colors whenever statistics shall be collected in sufficient quantity to allow of generalization . As the behavior of the rootlets and tendrils of plants is in many respects like that of the nerves in animals and men , it was natural for sanguine souls to jump to the conclusion that a given kind of glass would exercise a good or bad influence on the nervous system of one who should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a room lit by panes of that color . The sudden disappearance of the whim for blue glass points to disgust of many enthusiasts upon finding that if any influence exists that influence is not for good . The only place where blue or violet Danes are now to be seen in any number is Beacon-street , Boston , where the tinted glass is cherished with the greatest care , not for its supposed hygienic qualities , but because it is hold to be a badge of old family and of blood as blue as the sunbeam after it has suffered thereby a sea change . Perhaps it is this old glass in Boston houses which prevents the true Bostonian from seeing anything couleur de rose . If the influence of colors on human beings has come to be a joke , that does not prevent the idea springing up again with novel asp e cts . The Scientific American reports from Italy most curious experiments in this line on the nerves of the sick and insane which will be of incalculable benefit to humanity if found to be permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allessandria special rooms are arranged with red or blue glass in the windows , and red or blue paint on the walls . A violent patient is brought suddenly into a blue room and left to the effects of that color on his nerves . One maniac was cured in an hour ; another was at peace in his mind after passing a day in a room all violet . The red room is used for the commonest form of dementia  --  melancholy , usually accompanied by a refusal to take food . After three hours in the red room a patient afflicted in this way began to be cheerful and . asked for food . The importance of a few general facts like these in the treatment of the insane is obvious , for there can be no question that many cases of lunacy are curable if a diversion can be made before the malady becomes inveterate . Thus a large proportion of cases that begin gently , and even many that have a violent start , may be cured quickly through the eyes . For incurable cases the colored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milder . The philosophy of the phenomenon is of course a matter for speculation . Open air with sunlight often exerts a quieting effect on the insane ; it may be that the colored panes have some analogy therewith . Or , it is suggested , the only factor is the surprise of the patient at a peculiar environment . If there is no more in it than that the result8 will be slender compared with the effort made to effect the cure . But no one is likely to grudge a costly apparatus , even if it only serves to lighten for these unfortunates a little of that burden of despair which weighs them down . 