@@781642

txt We have no doubt that the explanation given in our letter from Rome on Sunday last of the motives for appointing in Europe the professors to be employed in the new Roman Catholic University at Washington was substantially correct . It is in keeping with the spirit and policy of the hierarchy that has its head at Rome , and the same spirit is constantly exhibited by the Catholic Church in this country in reference to matters of edudation . It is a fundamental principle of that organization that the power of the Church is above all human authority , and that unquestioning submission ' and obedience is due to it . It claims control over education wherever it can be asserted , and is strenuous in teaching the duty of subordinating every relation in life to the authority of the priesthood . There is no manner of doubt that the spirit and methods of the Catholic Church , so far as they are determined at Rome , are hostile to the institutions of this country , and that it is the aim of the Vatican to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church 's pretensions of the prevailing spirit of our institutions and the tendency to personal independence which it fosters , and it desires so far as possible to counteract that effect . There would be no difficulty in equipping an institution of learning at the national capital with competent instructors , who were at the same time zealous Catholics , without going to Europe for-them ; but if they were Americans they would be more or less imbued with the spirit of American patriotism , and they might promote the tendency to adjust the Church to  --  he institutions of the country , instead of trying to produce the converse of that result . What Rome wants at Washington is not an ' institution of learning for Catholics pervaded with the American spirit , but an institution from which that spirit shall be , excluded , and through which a warfare-against it may be carried into the lower seminaries and schools . The new university will be devoted largely to training teachers for the-colleges and.seminaries of the Church all over the country , and in order thatthe teaching and influence diffused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it must be placed under the control of men thoroughly subservient to that idea , and they can only be found in Europe . The plan of equipping the Catholic University at the American capital with professors from-France , Italy , and Germany only illustrates the general attitude of . the Church and its authorities toward popular education in this country . The aim is to educate the people first of all to obedience and submission to ecclesiastical control , and to make all other allegiance subordinate to that demanded by the Church , with its earthly authority emanating from the Vatican . There have been of late in various parts ' of the s country uneasy . symptoms of a renewed contest against the aggressions of Roman Catholics upon the public school- system , and . even inlayer of the suppression of the parochial schools of the Church . The motive of such a contest is not concern about the purely religious.doctrines of the Catholics or careabout what they teach in matters theological , but a feeling that they are trying to undermine the patriotism of the country , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a doctrine in regard to secular duties that is inconsistent with the faithful allegiance of citizens . We have no fear that Roman Catholic ecclesiastics can , through any university or system of schools , carryout the designs that are cherished by the head of their church at Rome or produce the revolutionary results at which they seem to be aiming . We believe the American spirit is stronger on American soil than the spirit of Ultramontanism can possibly be and will prevail against all efforts to subdue it to any authority but its own . We believe that progress is mightier than any reactionary force whatever . If the Catholic Church persists in inviting a contest between Americanism and . Ultramontanism - we have no apprehension as to the result , but it would be better for the spiritual interests and religious influence of that ' Church to avoid the contest . Within the field of theology and faith it has the same rights as any other Church , but it can hardly be allowed to assert its authority over citizens in matters involving their relations to the State .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          