@@780562

txt The British note in regard to Egypt proposes that , in order to avoid any abuse of the freedom of the Suez Canal , it shall be enacted that in time of war a limitation shall be placed on the time during which the vessels of a belligerent power are permitted to remain in the canal , and that no troops or munitions of war shall be disembarked , and no hostilities shall be permitted in the canal or its approaches , or anywhere in the territorial waters of Egypt , even in the event of Turkey being one of the belligerents . The recurrence of an emergency resembling the late rebellion is provided for by a clause excepting measures for the defense of Egypt from the above restrictions . Every power shall be bound to bear the cost of the immediate repair of any damage its vessels may cause in the canal . Egypt shall take all measures in her power to enforce the conditions imposed upon ships of belligerent powers using the canal . No fortifications are to be erected on the canal or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as curtailing the territorial rights of Egypt further than is expressly stipulated . Among other subjects the note declares the question of the suppression of slavery and the slave trade to be one which the British Government has much at heart , and that it will miss no opportunity of advising the Kbddive to take steps calculated to attain the end in view . PARIS . Jan. 15 . ? A Yellow Book has been issued . The final dispatch by M. Duclerc , Minister of Foreign Affairs , dated Jan. 4 , says : " England 's attitude compels France to resume her liberty of action . " A dispatch of Lord Granville , the British Minister of Foreign Affairs , dated Doc . 13. says : " There is no reason why , after the disappearance of the control , France and England should not continue to exercise a beneficent influence in Egypt . " In the Chamber of Deputies to-day , M. Duclerc , Foreign Minister , presented the Yellow Book . He stated that during the Egyptian hostilities the attitude of Franco was to England that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppression of the rebellion France favored the re-establishment of the status quo . Pending overtures from England , the latter having wished alone to assume the task of regulating the situation , France resumed her liberty of action , the Government being certain that this course would meet the approbation of the Chamber . The Journal des Debats says : " England has practically taken possession of Egypt . We may regret this , but we have no right to protest against exclusion from an arrangement since justified by our own abstaining from intervention . " CAIRO , Jan. 15 . ? Baker Pasha reports that the Police organization of Alexandria is utterly bad . and suggests the introduction of a small body of highly trained constables , chiefly from England , the remainder to be natives .                     