@@744362

txt The Prohibitionists are keeping up their reputation for intemperance in speech and action . The Bloomington Convention did pretty well in this respect , the exploit of Mr. Finch , who made false accusations against two prominent public men , being especially famous . But the National Prohibitionists ' Convention promises to eclipse even the Bloomington gathering . The proceedings to-day were marked by the grossest personalities . G. T. Stewart , of Ohio , is reported as follows : " He could see little use in electing Prohibition State tickets and at the same time sending liquor-drinking statesmen to Congress , such as Allison , of Iowa ; Edmunds , of Vermont , and the Maine delegation . " This statement is pronounced by those who know as utterly groundless , malicious , and scandalous . It is of a piece with the fanatical libel on Lieut. - Gov . Hamilton and the coarse assaults on Commissioner Raum and Senator Logan that were made and applauded at Bloomington . In his speech to-day at the opening of the National Convention , Mr. Stewart detailed the objects and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who subscribed to its principles must cut loose from the national liquor crime parties and burn the bridges behind them . He traced the history of the Republican and Democratic parties and held them responsible for the liquor crime being enthroned in the Government . If it had not been for the dram-shops there would have been no civil war . Now these parties raise the old war-cry at every election . This movement was not sectional , but embraced the whole country . The Rev. John Russell , of Michigan , was chosen temporary Chairman , and immediately upon the completion of the temporary organization the Rev. E. K. Young , of Iowa , arose to put a question to the Chair . He said that the delegates from Iowa were thoroughly in sympathy with the principles of prohibition , but were opposed to the formation of any third party . They , therefore , wi-hed to know , before handing in . their credentials , whether they would , under the call , be entitled to seats in the convention , as they did not wish to appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they would have to do in case none but those willing to join a third party were eligible to seats under the call . He wished to say tbat they were in thorough sympathy with the prohibition movement . The Chairman explained that under the call none but those who could act with the Prohibition Party were entitled to seats , but no doubt the delegation from Iowa would be entitled to seats in the convention for consultation and conference . Senator Kimball , of Iowa , arose to explain the attitude of the Iowa delegation , but was decided to be out a order by the Chairman . A delegate from Iowa arose to protest against the delegation from that State being smothered , but was called to order by the Chair , who said that the gentleman from Iowa would be heard at the proper time , The call of the roll for the . appointment of a Committee on Credentials , e0ns Disting of one from each State , showed 21 . States to be represented . The States not represented were California , Colorado , Connecticut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mississippi , Nevada , New-HampTexas , North Carolina , Oregon , Rhode Island , Texas , Vermont , Virginia , and West Virginia . At the afternoon session Mr. Tanner , of Alabama , said the negroes there were a unit in their opposition to prohibition . In his own ( Limestone ) county prohibition prevailed , and be had been elected on the prohibition ticket . In two years he fully expected to carry the State of Alabama for Prohibition . The Rev. Mr. Plum , of Hannibal , Mo. , wanted the women to take muskets in their hands and destroy the saloons . This lively advice was greeted with equally lively applause . Mr. Plum said the strongest Prohibitionists in Missouri were old-time Virginia and Kentucky Democrats . Miss Frances Willard and Miss Plakbe Cozzens declared that ' the ballot for women must go hand in hand with the prohibition movement and demanded a plank in the platform to that effect . . The report of the Committee on Credentials allowed 341 delegates in attendance . This report dodged the question raised by the Iowa delegation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the report resolutions pledging everybody present to assist in the thorough organization of the new party and extending fraternal greetings . A fight occurred over a set of motions to add the names of several women to the committee . The greatest opposition shown was tothe nomination of Miss Frances Willard to the Committee on Resolutions . Her friends spoke of her as the mother of the Prohibition Party , and those opposed to her said " Gammon . " A motion was made to lay on the table all the , nominations of women , except Miss Willard 's , and that lady immediately repudiated any honor that did not acknowledge the claims of women . Everybody talked at once , and the scene was more like a bear garden than it needed to have been . The names of Mrs. Lathrop , Miss Cozzens , " Mother " Stewart , and other prominent workers were laid on the table , but that of Miss Willard was added to the list , and the lady did not repeat her refusal . After permanent organization had been effected by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . and a long list of Vicepresidents , the convention adjourned . for the day . The question of forming a third party is now the main issue , and from the unwillingness manifested by the convention to eject the Iowa delegates . because of their fidelity to the Republican organization in their State , it was evident that an attempt to organize a new party would meet with strong opposition . 