@@745357

txt Mr. Hurd stirred up matters in the House to-day and alarmed not a little the advocates of the Blair Educational bill . As a privileged question he offered a preamble , reciting the fact that certain appropriation bills had originated in the Senate , including the Blair Educational bill ; that these were on the Speaker 's table , and were originated in the Senate , in violation of the exclusive privilege of the House to originate revenue bills and a resolution directing the Judiciary Committee to report whether the Senate has power to originate such bills . Mr. Hurd spoke with earnestness against the assumption by the Senate of the privilege of originating appropriation bills . The bills which were local and personal were not objectionable , but the Educational bill , appropriating $100,000,000 for a great public purpose , should be examined to determine whether the Senate possessed the power it was attempting to exercise . He asserted that bills appropriating money were bills for raising revenue , for until the appropriation had been made it was not revenue to the Government . From 1078 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had denied that the power to appropriate money belonged exclusively to the House of Commons , and since the beginning of this Government the House had maintained its prerogative to originate general appropriation bills , and had not surrendered it by passing Senate bills appropriating money for specific purposes . L. M. Herbert , of Alabama , who interrupted to ask whether any distinction could be found in the Constitution between the power of the Senate to originate bills appropriating specific sums for specific purposes , or specific sums for general purposes . Mr. Hurd answered that the Senate had no power to originate either . To adopt the doctrine contended for by the Senate would be destructive of the object sought by the founders of the Government  --  the power given to the Representatives over the people 's money . When Mr. Hammond , of Georgia , had directed attention to the fact that a similar task had been put upon the Judiciary Committee of the Forty-sixth Congress , and that it had decided , by a vote of 10 out of 15 , that the Senate had the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Engraving and Printing , Mr. Reed spoke against the motion and in condemnation of the obstructive rules of the House , under the operation of which it was becoming impossible to transact any business . Mr. Hiscock , to whom Mr. Willis yielded a few moments , occupied them in quoting Seward and Sumner , speaking in the Senate , as opposed to the assumption or exercise by the Senate of the power to originate appropriation bills . Mr. Willis , plainly annoyed by the attempt of Mr. Hurd to shelve his pet bill , complained that Mr. Hurd had waited until a very late day to press his demand for an inquiry . Mr. Hurd had only a moment left to close the debate , and he employed it simply to quote Garfield as having said in the House that it would be it dark day for the Republic when the House surrendered to the Senate its exclusive privilege of originating appropriation bills . With some asperity in his voice Mr. Willis demanded that Mr. Hurd 's resolution calling for an inquiry be laid upon the table . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 123 voted no . Two-thirds of the affirmative votes were east by Republicans , while only 11 Republicans voted in the negative . They wore : Messrs . Anderson of Kansas , Davis of Illinois , Hiseock and Parker of New-York , Ochiltree of Texas , Ranney and Whiting of Massachusetts . Strait a. , 1 Washburn of Minnesota , Weaver of Nebraska , and Wilson of Iowa . Mr. A. J. Warner moved a reconsideration of the vote , and Mr. Willis promptly moved to lay that motion on the table . Another roll call was ordered , and by a yea and nay vote the Hurd resolution was effectually put out of the way by a vote of 141 to 113.                     