@@743762

txt The time has come when humane people must rise up and come to the help of oppressed American poets . It has suddenly become the fashion of public school children to celebrate the birthdays of our poets . Of course , such celebrations are instigated by designing teachers . No small-boy cares a straw about the poetry of LONGFELLOW , WHITTIER , HOLMES , or EMERSON . If he knows anything about these estimable gentlemen , he regards them as tedious persons who never wrote dime novels , and who have never gained any notoriety in walking-matches . As for the . school-girls , they firmly believe that there is no poetry ? worth reading outside of the works of TENNYSON , Mrs. BROWNING , and the GOODALE sisters . To suppose that a heterogeneous collection of small-boys and little girls voluntarily assemble themselves together to celebrate the birthday of any one of our leading poets is little less than preposterous . Such celebrations must necessarily be the work of their wicked elders . The feature of these celebrations which is peculiarly atrocious is the telegram which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few days before the celebration the teacher writes to him , and telling him that the children propose to honor his birthday , begs that he will send them his thanks and a neat little sentiment in verse by telegraph . In most cases the unhappy poet feels unable to resist . . He fancies that if he does not send the telegram the children will be disappointed , and sooner than disappoint them he squanders a good marketable poem on them . This poem the teacher straightway takes to the local newspaper office , sells it for what it will bring , and immediately selects a fresh poet as his prey . If this sort of thing is permitted to go on no American poet will have time to write anything except verses ' of thanks to public school children who do not care whether he ever has another birthday , and , on the whole , rather regret that he was ever born . In the interests of American literature , our poets must be protected and a stop put to their oppression at the hands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extend this system of verse robbery to European poets . There exists in Chicago two clubs formed for the study of the French language . The members of these clubs meet weekly and converse exclusively in French . They have become quite fluent in the use of such phrases as are found in the " Chicago French Grammar . " Those familiar sentences , " Have you the pork of my uncle ? " " Do you love the ham fried ? " or " Have you the sausages of the butcher or the spare-rib of the shoe-maker ? " are spoken at these club meetings with an ease of manner and an accuracy of accent which it is believed no Cincinnati or St. Louis club could possibly rival . It is painful to have to mention that these two clubs hate each other bitterly . They even descend to mutual abuse . The members of the " Pork Packing Club " assert that the French spoken at the meetings of the " Corn-fed Ham Club " would be unintelligible to any Frenchman , and the members of the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Packers " ' do not know a word of French , and that their meetings are really devoted to secret games of poker . When the recent birthday of VICTOR HUGO was approaching , the " Corn-fed Ham Club " resolved to celebrate it , and thus prove that they were familiar with French literature and passionately- devoted to romantic poetry . They hired a genuine Frenchman to read a selection from HUGO 'S poetry , and they induced a Frenchwoman not wholly unconnected with the millinery business to assume the dress and character of the Muse of Poetry , and to crown a bust of VICTOR Huoo , and recite a French ode in his honor . The chief attraction of the entertainment was , however , to be a telegram of thanks from the venerable poet himself , which was to be received while the celebration was in progress , and to be read and translated by the milliner . A letter was , therefore , written to M. HuGO , ' explaining what it was desired . that he should do , and inclosing four dollars to pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the club would generously pay the telegraphic charges . Three selected members of the rival club were then invited to the celebration , so that they could feel properly humbled by the greatness of the " Corn-fed Ham Club , " and could convey to their fellow-members a truthful account of the splendors of the Hugo celebration . - On the appointed day the " Corn-fed Ham Club " and its invited guests , numbering some two hundred , met and proceeded with the celebration . The hired Frenchman read with great success  --  and as he was believed to be one of the members of the club , their proficiency in the French language was greatly admired . The milliner appeared in a classic dress and crowned the bust of the poet , exciting great enthusiasm thereby . At this point it was expected that the telegram would be read , but to the great distress of the club no telegram had arrived . The Frenchman was again made to read , and the milliner was induced to sing a song , but still no telegram appeared . Finally the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to some misunderstanding Mr. HEWGO had not sent the message which he had been asked to send , and that he would then and there declare that any man who would pocket four dollars of other people 's money and then refuse to earn it by sending a telegram for which he was not expected to pay , did not deserve the respect of citizens of a free country . Our poets need to show a little of the independence of the great Frenchman , and to take the ground that they will not send a line of poetry to any public school teacher . no matter if the children celebrate a fresh poet 's birthday every Saturday afternoon throughout the year .                     