@@781845

txt deleted 27 lines These latter he held through the three ballots . and until they were disposed of by the bargain with BLAME . He had 10 from Missouri , 2 of which left him after the first- ballot , 3 from Louisiana , 2 1-2 from Kentucky , 2 from Texas , and 1 each from Alabama ; Kansas , North Carolina , Pennsylvania , Tennessee , and Virginia . The nucleus . of EDMUNDS 'S support was in the delegations from Vermont , New-Hampshire ; Massachusetts , Rhode Island , New-York , and New-Jersey . These States gave him 68 of his 93 votes on the first ballot , and of the other 30 , 7 came from Michigan , 6 from Minnesota , 6 from Wisconsin , and 6 from Missouri . The other 5 were from Arkansas , Indiana , Pennsylvania , and Montana . His Eastern support held quite firmly to the last . The chief interest attaches to the strength of the two leading candidates . It is asignificaut fact that the President 's support came mainly from the South , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Federal office-holders . His greatest strength was shown on the first ballot , and the fact that votes afterward dropped away is significant of the weak hold which he had upon the people . Of the 72 delegates fain his own State , after all the efforts of the office-holding and office-seeking machine , he obtained but 31 . This fact alone was fatal to his pretensions . Of a similar character with these were his 11 delegates from Pennsylvania and 9 from . Indiana . These were ' small minorities of the delegates from those States . Wisconsin gave him 6 of her 22 votes . Outside of these four States and these 57 votes he obtained only insignificant fractions of delegations from the Northern States . The only exception is New-Hampshire , which gave him 4 of her 8 votes . He also obtained 4 from Kansas out of 18 . His other Northern votes were 1 from Illinois , 2 from Massachusetts , 2 from Michigan , 1 from Minnesota , 2 from Nebraska , and 9 from the Territories . This makes his total Northern strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the whole . This is less than Mr. EDMUNDS 'S support in the same section . Of his total vote of 278 on the first ballot 196 came from Southern States which have little or no chance of choosing a Republican Elector . There is , unfortunately , no doubt that Mr. BLAME 'S strength was derived mainly from Republican States , and represented a predominant sentiment , in the party where it is strongest . He received from the start the entire vote of California , Colorado , Iowa , Maine , Nevada , Oregon , and West Virginia . He had 47 delegates from Pennsylvania , 28 from New-York , 12 from Kansas , 15 from Michigan , 7 from Minnesota , 18 from Indiana , 21 from Ohio , 10 from Wisconsin , 8 from Nebraska , and 9 from New-Jersey . Aside from Illinois and , Ohio , which presented candidates of their own , he had a majority of the delegates in each ' of the decisively Republican States of the West . From the South , excluding Delaware and Maryland , he had s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates , and one-half of the Texas delegation , together with 7 Tennessee and 5 1-2 Kentucky votes , were for the Plumed Knight from the start . Outside of these States he had only here and there a Southern vote . BLAINE was evidently the choice of the party in the Republican States as at present constituted and as represented by its delegates in the National Convention of 1884.                     