@@744348

txt The dispatch which we published yesterday morning from Columbus does not give an encouraging view of the political situation in Ohio from a party stand-point . According to our correspondent the Republicans of that important State have got a considerable amount of hard work to do if they expect to succeed at the Fall elections . The difficulties with which they will have to contend are quite varied . In the first place , the legislation of last Winter in regard to the liquor question has had the effect of estranging the Germans and exciting the active hostility of the liquor-dealers , while it has not at all satisfied the Prohibitionists . In the second place , the negro voters , or the negro politicians , are discontented with the share that has fallen to them in the distribution of patronage . In the third place , the Irish contingent , who , it seems , were enlisted under the Republican banner by Gov . FOSTER , three years ago , have similar grounds for complaint . And , finally , there are grave faults remembered of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corruption were only too clearly proved to . exist , and as if this were not enough Major BUTTERWORTH has gone home and commenced an aggressive-defensive campaign on the issue of the River and Harbor bill . BUTTERWORTH will be remembered as the champion , self-appointed Perhaps , but furnished with official ammunition , of the Administration against the criticisms of Representative BAYNE , of Pennsylvania . BUTTERWORTH appears to . have lost confidence in the President , for he asserts that no one can honestly and intelligently find fault with the River and Harbor bill , though the President found a great deal of fault with it , and explained his dissatisfaction very intelligently and sustained it by his veto with entire honesty . Now , a party with so many minor embarrassments , one of whose principal leaders openly takes issue with the national leader of the party on a question like this , can not be said to be in a satisfactory condition . And if , as we are constantly reminded by men of the Butterworth stripe , there is no salvation for the country or for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is evident that the case deserves the immediate attention of the Republican leaders , whoever they may be , in Ohio and elsewhere . The present state of affairs is the more melancholy because there is probably not a State in the Union where the Republican Party has been treated with so much " practical politics " as in Ohio . The facts which our correspondent so clearly set forth agree with current history in showing that the party in the State has not been seriously embarrassed or retarded by any of those foolish considerations of principle to which the theorists of the East attach such undue importance . From the moment  --  not definitely ascertainable  --  when Mr. SHERMAN began his struggle for the Presidential nomination and the other Ohio great men fixed their eyes on various important points in the political horizon , the Republicans of Ohio have been " led " with reference to the most practical ends of practical politics . Whatever could be done for the " cause " by the ingenious dispensation of Patronage , from diplomatic posts to Post Offices , and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspected of having opinions , has been . clone . The excellent predecessor of President GARFIELD , while quieting the appetite of the East for reform in the civil service with the east wind of admirable professions , distributed the politicians of Ohio broadcast over the globe wherever an embassy or a commercial agency offered an opportunity of purchasing their fidelity or repaying their partisan or personal services . And since his political demise Ohio Republican conventions and Legislatures , swayed for the most part by the office-holders , have pursued a course calculated to excite the admiration of those who believe that political professions are only counters in the great game in which offices are the stake . When the quixotic editors of the East have ventured to suggest that the party would get on better with more sincerity , manliness , and honesty in its conduct , and less truckling and intrigue and trafficking in patronage , they have been reminded that this sort of political transcendentalism might be all very well on the Atlantic seacoast , but that it betrayed a hopeless ignorance of the conditions of success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that the cis-Alleghany critics have taken this sort of rebuke quite humbly , and have left the Ohio " leaders " pretty well to their own superior tactics . It is discouraging to find that the result is not so reassuring as we could wish . The theory that the voters were in the main fools , Sled by sharpers who must be bribed by offices to bring their following to the polls , does not appear to have worked well in practice , and as it was nothing if not practical , as its only possible excuse for existence was success , there arises a painful doubt as to whether , after all , it was the right theory . Right or wrong , it is , according to BUTTERWORTH , to be followed . That elegant statesman announces that the Ohio view of politics is that the Treasury is a cow , whose hind quarters ought to be on the western slope of the mountains , in order that it may be conveniently and freely milked from the neighborhood of Cincinnati . Like many another figure of rhetoric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Treasury is only the bag . It is the tax-payers who fill it , and such " mg " as BUTTERWORTH and his companions have lately indulged in may well result in kicking . The effect may not he agreeable to the milkers , but if the Republican Party can not be rid of the class represented by 13urrEnwount and KEIFER in any other way it will bear the consequences of their discomfiture with much philosophy .                     