@@781810

txt We yesterday called attention to Mr. CLIFFORD LLOYD 'S letter in the London Times , in which he proposes that both the Viceroyalty and the Secretaryship for Ireland shall be abolished . About the propriety of abolishing the viceroyalty there can be no dispute . It is an inheritance from a condition of things in which , so far as the transmission of intelligence was concerned , Dublin was much further from London than San Francisco now is . When the Irish were in rebellion , which is their normal state , and when the representative of English power in Ireland was the accredited agent of the sovereign , it was quite proper that he should go to Ireland , limited only by general instructions , to apply-the policy of the sovereign to circumstances as they arose . Now when Dublin is fewer hours away by-mail than it then was days , when electric communication is instantaneous , and when the sovereign reigns but does not govern , the justification of the Viceroyalty is-taken away . We have already given our reasons for failing to agree with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that a special Secretaryship for Ireland tends " to perpetuate the notion of divided interests . " It is hard to see how any good can be done by acting upon an assumption so notoriously contrary to the fact as the assumption that the interests of the two countries are not divided , and that Irishmen are merely so many Englishmen separated from their countrymen by the breadth of the Irish Channel . It would be a fine thing if this assumption could be made to represent the facts ; but it is not a fine thing to frame the Government upon . the fiction that it represents the facts . The Irish demand some organ of Government in Ireland which will represent the people of Ireland as a nationality , if not as a nation ; and this is what Mr. CLIFFORD LLOYD , in common with every other Englishman who undertakes to devise measures for ' conciliating Ireland , declines to give them . Mr. LLOYD is distinctly against the restoration of the Irish Parliament . The measure of local self-government he proposes is the institution throughout Ireland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every power of local government except " the administration of justice , the-preservation of order , and the imposition of taxation . " That is to say , he would keep in London the control of the courts . and of the police . As to " the imposition of taxation , " if he means that the modes of raising revenue should be left to the imperial Parliament , the reservation is reasonable ; but if he means that the local board should not have the power to raise and spend moneydor local purposes without the sanction of Parliament , the reservation strips-the local boards of all substantial power . A county board would have less oontrol over local affairs than a Board of Supervisors over-the affairs of a county in this State . Nothing less , it is evident , will satisfy the people of Ireland than.the powers possessed by the Government of one of the States of this Union . Mr. CLIFFORD LLOYD 'S project is intended to satisfy the Irish people or it has no intelligible intention . It is open to the usual objection to English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not take account of what the Irish think would be a redress of their grievances . At present the Irish insist upon an Irish Parliament to deal with Irish affairs . To tell them that that will not do at all , but that you are willing to give them something that will be much better for them than what they demand , will have no effect at all in reconciling them to your Government .                     