@@745407

txt It is announced that the British Government is discussing the wisdom of buying American mules for use in Afghanistan in case of war with Russia . It is natural that a Government about to go to war should examine and test all weapons of offense or defense that are worthy of notice , but it is more than doubtful if mules would prove of any service in an Afghanistan campaign . The mule is essentially a defensive weapon , and is of little use against artillery . A mule battery might repulse a charge of Russian infantry , but if attacked at long range by modern artillery it could inflict no damage upon the enemy . Even the long-range Texan mule , which can hit an object no larger than a saucer at a distance of thirty-five yards , would be utterly ineffective at a longer range , and it is probable that troops armed with almost any modern breechloading rifle would be able to place a mule battery hors de combat without sustaining any loss . A position which can only be taken by assault might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the fighting in Afghanistan should be in the open , as nearly all of it doubtless will be , mules would be of little or no service . In the Egyptian campaign , on the other hand , mules would prove an invaluable weapon . The Arabs under OSMAN DIGNA have no artillery , and their tactics are always offensive  --  and usually extremely so . In the battles that the British have fought with the Arabs , the latter have uniformly attacked the former , and , although the assailants have often been repulsed. there has always been great danger that the British square would be broken . The Arabs hurl themselves on their adversaries regardless of rifle bullets , and it has been necessary to repulse them by hand-to-hand fighting . Now , if every British square were to be formed of mules , planted with their hind legs outward , it could never be broken , no matter how impetuous might be the Arab attack . The British soldiers could remain at their ease in the centre of the square and amuse themselves by watching the mules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only would great quantities of Arabs be killed in their tracks , but those hurled into the air by upward kicks would produce confusion in the ranks by falling heavily on their comrades . In comparison with the heels of a regiment of mules the British bayonet would be a feeble weapon , and no square defended by a double row of mules would ever be broken .                     