@@781675

txt The Porte has now a perplexing problem presented to it  --  a problem that recalls the one it undertook to solve in 1877 , with results to itself so disastrous . The revolution in Roumelia , though hitherto bloodless , has led to unquestionable infractions of the treaty of Berlin . No doubt Prince ALEXANDER , in assuming sovereignty over " South Bulgaria , " as he quietly rechristens Eastern Roumelia , does so , as his proclamation announces , in accordance with the wishes of its entire population , except the deposed Governor-General , GABRIEL Pasha , and some other officials . But whatever the popular ardor for annexation to Bulgaria , the treaty of July , 1878 , recognized Eastern Roumelia as an integral part of the Turkish Empire , though with administrative autonomy . Prince ALEXANDER 'S act in confirming STRAVSKY , the provisional Governor who had been set up at Philippopolis , was a violation of the treaty , as are his measures to punish opponents of the new sovereignty he assumes . The Porte is entitled by treaty not only to political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its frontiers if necessary , although the public peace is to be preserved by native and local constabulary and militia . Yet we now see the Roumelian militia mobilized for junction with the Bulgarian Army , many Russian officers being found in both , and Prince A TaT3CANDER 'S troops have occupied the Balkan passes . ? But while these gross violations of the Berlin treaty would justify Turkey in marching its army into Eastern Roumelia and restoring its authority , it has remained . for several days in a dilemma . It finds treaty stipulations on one side and fears that the sympathy of Christendom is on the other . There were grave reasons , too , for the Porte to suspect Russian and possibly Austrian complicity in the affair . The conference of the Czar and Emperor FRANCIS JOSEPH at Kremsier , and the long conference , a few days after , of Prince ALEXANDER of Bulgaria with M. DE QIERS , are too ' recent not to arouse Turkish suspicions of complicity . The Porte , too , can imagine reasons enough for the secret hostility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of a general war , to secure absolutely Bosnia and Herzegovina , while Russia , which may have a special desire to interrupt or complicate the pending Anglo-Turkish negotiations of Sir HENRY DRUMMOND WOLFF , has certainly a general purpose of driving the Turk across the Bosphorus and taking his place . Turkey , however , probably suspects Russia rather than Austria , as the union of Bulgaria and Roumelia has always been the policy of , the former and not of the latter power . Thus the hilarity of St. Petersburg , over the annexation and the irritation of Vienna are both likely enough to be genuine . Bulgaria is already so thoroughly Russian in sympathy and influence , partly through gratitude for the country that gave it freedom and partly through material interests and intercourse , that the addition of Roumelia to it would be only less than an equal addition to Russia 's , own territory . But Austria 's interest is not that of seeing a consolidation of Bulgarian power on the Balkan peninsula , with Prince ALEXANDER accepted as sovereign . Yet even if Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy through hope of gaining Bosnia and Herzegovina as her reward , even if she acquits Russia also of officially instigating the revolt , and accepts the Kremsier , Skierniwice , and other conferences as fortuitous coincidences , still she has had reason to hesitate . The very supposition that the rising has been purely local , not originating beyond the borders of the two countries involved , has grave suggestions of its own . Why should not other surprises occur , and other movements as dangerous ? While the single Turkish army corps now at and around Adrianople , reinforced by a like body of troops at and near Constantinople , could easily disperse Prince ALEXANDER 'S combined militia forces and hold the line of the Balkans , the first move of this sort might stir up a general uprising in the peninsula to aid the Roumelians , and Macedonia and Albania might be in arms . Turkey 's last war took from her more than half the area in Europe absolutely dominated by her , and nearly one-half the population . She may well pause before a contest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , would , seem to be that of calling upon all the powers that signed the Berlin treaty , for their sakes no less than her own , to authorize and aid her to prevent its stipulations from being trampled under foot .                     