@@780558

txt The defeat of ex-Mayor Joseph H. Cooper , of this city , the Democratic nominee for member of the Assembly from the Second District , by Dr. Thomas Chattle , the Temperance candidate , by 30ti majority , is a great surprise to the Democratic stronghold , which polls generally 2.000 majority , and since the formation of the district has never met defeat except at the hands of ex-Speaker Sherman B. Osiatt , who is popular with all factions . Mayor Cooper was sacrificed by the " great defeated " ex-Assemblyman George W. Patterson , of Asbury Park ; by Mayor Bradley , of Asbury Park , and by the Long Branch school ring . While ex-Mayor Cooper 's brother ( Thomas Cooper ) was the Treasurer of the Long Branch School Board , the Red Bank Register , by publication of the frauds of the school ring , caused him to make restitution . Mayor Cooper did everything he could to break up the school ring , and accordingly met with opposition from Dr. Chattle , Secretary of the School Board , who , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bitter Demo-. crat , and received the support of ex-Assemblyman William H. Bennett and Public Prosecutor John Lanning , both Democrats . Iu 1878 George W. Patterson , after leaving a convict 's cell for having appropriated the county funds , was fostered by a corrupt Democratic convention as candidate for Senator . Mayor Cooper protested against the nomination of the exconvict , and refused to support him , as did many other Democrats . A fusion ticket was then placed in the field , and ex-Judge George W. Beekman , an Independent Democrat , was elected over Patterson by a big majority . In 1881 the Democrats , through the aid of the late Hon. Miles Ross , again placed Patterson in nomination , and again to the disgust of respectable Democrats . The Republicans placed in nomination John S. Applegate , a sterling Republican of Red Bank , and , with the assistance of such honest Democrats as Mayor Cooper , Senator Applegate was elected by nearly 3.000 majority in a Democratic district usually carrying it with from 2,000 to 3,000 majority . The Republicans at large regret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of school ring notoriety , Prohibitionist , and Democrat . Mayor Cooper is known to be hostile to the infamous Water-front bill , No. 167 , of which bill the last Democratic Representative from this district , David Bell , of Matawan , was its spokesman , and because of such opposition , he ( Cooper ) met with the hatred of the Central New-Jersey Railroad authorities . In the Democratic nominating convention , the agents of the Pennsylvania Railroad and Central Railroad of New-Jersey did everything possible to further the nomination of Lafayette Schanck , of Wall Township , who was supposed to be one of their earnest supporters of the bill so feared by Hudson County . Failing in Schanck 's nomination they tried to prevent Mayor Cooper 's candidacy . PHILLIPSBURG , N. J. , Nov. 11 . ? It is said that Dr. Bond , who ran as an Independent Democrat for Assembly in Warren County and was defeated by 23 votes by Isaac Wildrick , regular Democratic nominee , intends contesting Wildrick 's seat before the Legislature . The contest will be based principally on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a candidate for the office until the morning of election , when he withdrew . In the districts referred to , especially in Oxford . there were ballots containing the name Frederick Wildrick with " Frederick " crossed out . They were counted for Isaac Wildrick , and there are rumors that the word " Frederick " was crossed out after the ballot had been cast . Other suspicious and irregular proceedings are mentioned . It is a significant fact that though the Oxford polls were only three miles from Belvidere , the county seat , the returns were not made until Thursday .                     