@@780685

txt Mr. Hutchins C. Bishop was ordained a Deacon this myrning in All Saints ' Cathedral hero by Bishop Doane . His papers , which were declared unsatisfactory in Maryland , had been approved by the Standing Committee of Albany . Morning Prayer was read by the Chancellor , Dr. Dean , and by Canon Fulcher . The Bishop preached on the reality and identity of the Church . Mr. Bishop was presented by the Rev. C. B. Perry , of Mount Calvary Church , Baltimore . The ordination occurred after tile Epistle , which was read by Mr. Perry . Mr. Bishop , after the laying on of hands , read the Gospel . The Bishop continued the celebration , which was entirely choral . The Rev. Mr. Bishop preached tonight at St. Paul 's Church , Troy , on the invitation of Dr. Francis Harrison . He expects to take work for the present under the Bishop of Albany . Mr. Bishop was a member of the colored congregation of St. Mary 's Chapel under the care of the Rev. C. B. Perry , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been trained from about the age of 12 years in the day school of that congregation , and continued , at the request of the late Bishop Whittingham , to pursue his studios under the direction of the Rev. Mr. Perry , until , in September , 1878 , he passed the full literary examination and entered with credit the general Theological Seminary in New-York . He continued his studies for three years in that institution , and was graduated with honor in 1881 . In duo course he presented his testimonials , required by the canons , to the Standing Committee , namely , one from the Rector and Vestry of Mount Calvary Church , and one signed by the Rev. J , S. B. Hodges , Rector of St. Paul 's Church , Baltimore , and by the Rev. Dr. Richey , Professor of Ecclesiastical History in the General Theological Seminary , New-York , and made formal application for admission to the Deaconate . This application was denied by the Standing Committee on the ground of Mr. Bishop 's High Church views , a majority of the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secular and religious newspapers in Baltimore followed and the feeling in the matter is still warm . It is probable that he will eventually go to Baltimore , and then it will be seen whether or not Bishop Pinkney , who sides with the Luw Church people , will inhibit him from officiating in the Diocese of Maryland .                     