@@743777

txt Since the passage of the bill for the protection of life and property and the Arms act the condition of affairs in Ireland has undergone important Changes . The Land League has practically broken down . The coercive measures passed in Parliament put a check upon its power for mischief in Ireland , and it is now engaged in a feeble and fruitless propaganda in England  --  though it is noticed that its zealous agents in this country are quite as active in collecting funds as they were before the League went to pieces . A stop having been put to Boycotting and the terrorizing operations of the League , the tenants have begun to pay their rents again and to put themselves under . instead of outside of , the law of the land . The lately despised and down-trodden landlord , too , has resumed his usual vocations ; at least , . Mr. FORSTER declares that there were 215 evictions last month . It is high time , therefore , that Mr. GLADSTONE brought forward his Land bill . Parliament has granted him the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland . But the imprisonment of agitators is no redress for the wrongs of the Irish tenantry , and the Ministers have been not unjustly criticised for their delay in introducing remedial measures . The Land bill is now ready , however , and Mr. GLADSTONE will explain its provisions to the House of Commons to-day . The summary which the cable brings us shows that the bill follows , in the main , the lines recommended in the report of the Royal Commission on the working of Irish Land laws . It is no mereorecasting of the act of 1870 , but a new law drawn by the light which has been shed upon the condition of Ireland by the events of the last two years , and in its liberal recognition of the rights of tenants and its curtailment of those powers which landlords have used mainly for evil going quite beyond anything that even a Liberal Ministry would have dared to propose ten years ago . The bill embodies those three principles which all intelligent and unbiased opinions unite in declaring to be the only possible groundwork for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sale , fixity of tenure , and fair rents . These three are practically one  --  fixity of tenure . One of the strongest of the affections of the Irishman is for the soil he cultivates , and even under hard conditions he will accept permanence in his holding as a boon . Freedom of sale will be chiefly valuable to him as a protection against being driven off his land , an injury which a landlord so disposed might easily find means to inflict upon him even under a law nominally giving fixity of tenure ; and the provision for fair rents further confirms him in this right by depriving the landlord of the power to evict him by rack-renting . The criticisms of the land-holding class and their political sympathizers will be directed principally against the section referring the question what is a fair rent to a court of law in all cases where landlord and tenant are unable to agree upon it ; for , of course , Irish landlords will insist that the privilege of wringing from the tenant his last penny is inalienable . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of interference with the freedom of contract , such , for instance , as would have been involved in the adoption Of Mr. CHARLES RUSSEL 'S proposition to fix the rent of holdings once for all time . It can not reasonably be complained that freedom of contract is unjustly interfered with by the bill . The courts , under this provision , will give a supposably impartial decision ; they will fix a fair rent , and if the landlord is dissatisfied with that he thereby shows that if left to deal by himself with his unfortunate tenant he would have made a bargain based on extortion . The period for which the valuation of the court of reference holds good  --  fifteen years ? is so short that neither party is likely to suffer much loss from rise or fall in the value of land . It is vastly wiser , too , to settle each individual case on its merits and at such time as it shall come up for judgment than to prescribe fixed periods for a general revaluation . This latter plan , though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest objections . The clause providing for the sale of tenures will be found advantageous to landlords scarcely less than to tenants , as it will furnish the means of recovering arrearages of rent , which , from bad farming or shiftlessness on the part of the tenant quite as often as from the greed of the landlord , frequently accumulate till they form a mountain of debt . To the tenant this gives what has long been denied him  --  legal recognition of his proprietorship in improvements which are the work of his own hands , and of his right to a share of what has been called the " unearned increment " . in the value of his holding , an increase , that is , resulting from the growth of railroad facilities , the springing up of villages , &c.; Compensation for disturbance is simply a forced sale of the tenant 's holding , and the new bill fixes it , upon a sliding scale , at figures which will pretty effectually prevent any general abuse of the privilege . To all these safeguards of the tenants ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they naturally imply , the right to a home from which the landlord can not eject the occupant who keeps his contract , for a term of fifteen years , and which may be retained beyond that limit by observing certain conditions . Fixity of . tenure . will prove the most potent agent in the reformation of the habits of the Irish tenantry and in the removal of their most grevious burdens . It will encourage industry and thrift ; it will make savings banks a necessity in Ireland ; and it will tend to the raising up of a class of occupying proprietors quite as much , perhaps , as the bill for State aid to purchasing tenants which Mr. GLADSTONE is to introduce later in the session .                     