@@743999

txt A statement is published to-day , evidently inspired by Assistant Postmaster-General Tyner , which sets up the remarkable claim that Mr. Tyner was the first person tto direct attention to the star route frauds , and that his report of August , 1879 , which was laid before Mr. James immediately after the latter assumed charge of the Post Office Department , furnished the material upon which the investigation instituted by Mr. James was conducted . The publication alluded to states ' hat Mr. Tyner is preparing a defense which will be laid before the President ; that in this defense Mr. Tyner will say he " made his report on the star route frauds to Postmaster-General Key , with the advice that the matter should be investigated thoroughly ; that Key took the report to Mr. Hayes and consulted with him in regard to it ; that Hayes , disliking very much to rake up any scandal during his Administration , advised Key , for the sake of harmony in the party , to go no further in the matter ; that Key then gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the request of the President that it be dropped , and instructed him td make no official record of the report , but to lock it up in his safe for the time being ; that he ( Tyner ) did so under protest , and as soon as James came in he took it out of his safe and handed it officially to Mr. James . This , Mr. Tyner declares , was the first information that James had of the existing star route frauds . He further says that James took this report and began an investigation , which was based entirely on the discoveries reported to him by Tyner. " hatever may be the facts regarding what is alleged about Tyner 's report having been laid before Postmaster-General Key and President Hayes , it is absolutely untrue that Mr. Tyner handed the document to Mr. James as soon as he came into office . The report was not dragged from his safe by Mr. Tyner until last June , when he gave it to Mr. James as a confidential communication , and before it was so produced Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information furnished through the columns of THE TALES , and Gen. Brady , Auditor , and others , had been removed from office in consequence of the developments made . Mr. Tyner 's report was laid before President Garfield by Mr. James , with Mr. Tyner 's consent , and , upon reading it , President Garfield refused to regard it as a confidential communication and turned it over to the AttorneyGeneral with instructions to that officer to assist the Postmaster-General in prosecuting the investigation . It is likely that that portion of Mr. Tyner 's explanation which alleges that his report was submitted tePostmasterGeneral Key and President Hayes is as destitute of foundation as that portion of it which relates to its submission to Mr. James . No explanation which . Mr. Tyner can maize will be sufficient to relieve him of a share of responsibility for the successful perpetration of the frauds or save him from removal from office . Mr. Tyner , by his report of August , 1S79 , shows that he was cognizant of the fraudulent methods being practiced in connection with the postal service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frauds were being exposed in Congress , Mr. Tyner was daily on the floor of the House exerting his influence to shield Brady and to secure the passage of a deficiency appropriation of nearly 52,000,000 to continue the frauds . It is singular that Mr. Tyner did not produce his report at that time , and thus save the Treasury from further plunder . The President fully understands this entire matter , and the request for Mr. Tyner 's resignation was the result of a thorough inquiry into that gentleman 's official conduct . Noth ing that Mr. Tyner or his friends . can do will save him , and Mr. Frank Hatton will he nominated to-morrow or Tuesday to be First Assistant Postmaster-General . The story that Gen. Grrnt interceded with the President for Mr. Tyner 's retention is also untrue . Gen. Grant has not uttered a word in Mr. Tyner 's behalf , but on the contrary joined in recommending the appointment of Mr. Hatton as his successor . In an interview with the President yesterday , Mr. Tyner , discovering that he could not continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Railroads , which office is now vacant , but this request was peremptorily refused by the President .                     