@@780717

txt Under Sheriff Thomas Farrell of Jackson County , Wyoming , who was recently in Montana with a requisition for Charlie Brown , charged by Wyoming authorities with larceny , makes a statement which contains some severe strictures upon Gov . Leslie of Montana . The latter is charged with using his official influence and knowledge to prevent the capture of the notorious prisoner wanted by the authorities of Wyoming . Farrell also asserts that the Governor sought to shield Brown because - of the fact that his son was acting as attorney in the requisition case . Farrell claims that for some reason the Governor seemed inclined to dishonor his requisition papers and kept him waiting in Helena for more than a month . Three requisitions were sent for by the Sheriff before the Governor would honor the papers . When he finally honored them Farrell started for his man , who was at Great Falls . Arriving at Sun River Crossing , where Brown 's headquarters were , he found that the game had flown . Farrell says that when Brown was first arrested ho hired as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confident was the latter of winning his ease that he made a bargain with Brown that if he cleared him he was to receive $100 , otherwise not a cent would be charged . Farrell also asserts that Attorney Leslie made his boast that the requisition papers would not be issued by the Governor . At Sun River Farrell says he discovered that a telephone message had arrived four hours ahead of him , dated Helena . addressed to Devine , which stated that " the warrant had been issued , " and was signed L. " This put Brown bn his guard and he rode away . Farrell alleges that a telegram was sent by Gov . Leslie himself . Gov . Leslie says that Brown did have a civil suit some time ago in Cascade County , and the Governor 's sun was his lawyer in that ease . and the Governor knew it , but ho never heard until yesterday that his eon had anything to do with the defense or management of Brown 's case , on account of which a. warrant was issued upon the requisition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law to justify the Governor in issuing a warrant for the arrest and transportation asked for , and hence the refusal complained of . It is not true , the Governor says , that he telegraphed to " Devine " at Sun River or anywhere else , nor did he telegraph any one or write to any one with a view in any way to interfere with the arrest of Brown .                     