@@743690

txt A resolution , introduced and ably advocated by Mr. ERASTIIS BROOKS , of Richmond County , has been adopted by an almost unanimous vote in the Assembly of this State calling on the Judiciary Committee of that body to report on the expediency and constitutionality of so amending the election laws as to make a practical application of their requirements to voting in primary meetings . The object of the reform contemplated is to secure the largest possible gathering of qualified voters in their several towns , wards , or districts , and the freest exercise of their choice in the selection of candidates for local offices , and of delegates to conventions which are to nominate candidates for the higher offices . Of the need and desirability of the reform there can be no doubt . There is question only as to its practicability and the means by which it can be brought about . It is a notorious fact that in the cities and most of the larger towns nominations are now made not by the citizens who have the right to vote , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bidding . Candidates are placed before the people in the selection of whom they have had practically no voice , and the only choice presented lies between the parties in whose name the nominations have been made . In this City the primary action of the Republicans is taken by a numbe ? of associations whose membership constitutes less than one-tenth of the voters of the party . With the Democrats the primary meetings are still less representative of the people . They are to all intents and purposes in the control of local committees , whose composition and authority emanate from a central body which dominates the whole action of the party . There is nothing but the irresponsible will of the managers to prevent the packing of caucuses and the voting in them of persons who have no right to cast ballots at an election in the same district . The abuses to which the caucus system has become subject are indeed too notorious to call for enumeration . It may be said that there is nothing to prevent citizens from enrolling themselves in ? the organization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence upon its preliminary action . But there is much to prevent it . Even their own apathy and their reluctance to enter into contests with the men who have obtained control of the machinery , with no legal means of enforcing their rights , are causes for abstention which deserve consideration . Men may be too indifferent or too fastidious to join in the necessary struggle and to use the means for making themselves heard and felt which alone would be effectual , when they would be willing and glad to attend a wellordered meeting where their rights were under protection and take part in proposing or voting for candidates for public office . Where there is no regulation by law the unscrupulous , the violent , and the overbearing have a great advantage . Cliques of interested politicians become powerful , arrange their slates . and rush them through by tricks and devices which decent men are unable or unwilling to cope with . The feeling that it is useless to attempt to do . anything at ' primary meetings , or that there is no chance of receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens . is not wholly without justification . It is for this reason that the best citizens are apt to keep away from them and to leave the work of making nominations to the politicians , relying on the coercion of public opinion to prevent them from putting forward absolutely disreputable candidates and reserving their right to reject the nominations at the polls . How inef ? fectual is the reliance on public opinion to prevent undesirable nominations everybody knows , and it is often too late at the polls for anything but a choice of evils . Much of the staying at home on election day and of the chronic division and discontent in parties is due to the fact that nominations are not made by the mass of voters , . and that often their wishes and preferences are hardly considered . If the caucus system can be reformed and primary meetings brought under the regulation of law , many of the evils and abuses with which our politics is cursed will be eradicated . There can be no doubt that , if such regulation should prevent the voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure orderly methods of proceeding , and protect every person having the right in the expression of his views by voice or ballot , a much larger proportion of citizens than at present would take part in the primary business of politics . If they did not , they would at least lack their present excuse . But they would , and the result would certainly be an improvement in the character of party organization and in the candidates selected for public office . These candidates would cease to be the creatures of professional politicians and become representatives of the people in their several parties . It is the selfish interests and motives of those who engage in politics for gain or aggrandizement that give rise to the most flagrant evils of the time , whereas the great mass of the people may be relied on to act for the general well-being so far as they understand it . The effect of making nominations the work of the people would be far-reaching . Not only would it be likely to improve the quality of candidates , but it would make those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility to the people . The power of public sentiment would bear upon them with grenier force , and in their official action they would be more apt to consider the wishes and interests of their constituents rather than those of leaders and managers upon whom they were no longer dependent . If official patronage and the control of primaries and conventions could be taken from the class of professional politicians we should speedily find a vast improvement in the sanitary condition of the body politic . It is to be hoped that Mr. BROOKS 'S proposition will not slumber in the committee , but will receive the consideration it deserves and result in some practical measure of reform .                     