@@744522

txt The drowning and burning of the traveling public - was practiced with eminent success last week by a German steam-ship company and an American railway company . The press is naturally very indignant , and . demands to know how long passengers will be carried on steamers which are sure to sink if they are run into , and on railway cars heated in such a way as to insure the roasting of passengers in case the train is wrecked . Such inquiries are always made whenever any great steam-ship or railway disaster takes place , but they never receive any satisfactory answer . The drowning of nearly four hundred people in the German Ocean and the burning of a score of people in the California railway accident were calamities that might have been avoided by the use of proper means , but it is extremely improbable that there will be any improvement made in the construction of vessels or the heating of railway cars in consequence of them . No matter how much ships . that sink and cars that burn may be denounced by the newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenor of their way just so long as no organized and efficient effort to secure the safety of the traveling public is made . The Cimbrict was undoubtedly as well built as most other ocean steam-ships . That is to . say , she had the usual worthless water-tight compartments , which are too large  --  with the solitary and occasional exception of the forward compartment-to be of any real service . So long as steamers are provided with only one screw the middle compartment , in which the machinery is placed , can not be divided longitudinally , and must be large enough to sink the ship in case it is filled with water , and so long as passenger steamers carry vast quantities of freight , which must be handled rapidly at each end of the route , we need not expect to see them provided with enough water-tight compartments to render them unsinkable . It is perfectly practicable to build a ship with so many water-tight compartments that she can not be sunk . This has been done in the case of the great Italian iron-clad the Italia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pieces , any one of which will float for an indefinite period . As soon as the freight and passenger business are separated at sea as they are on land , and as soon as passenger steamers are built with twin screws and longitudinal bulkheads , such disasters as those of the Cimbria and the City of Brussels will be made impossible . This has not hitherto been done simply because there is no organized demand for it . Steam-ship companies find it profitable to cling to the old methods in spite of an occasional loss of a ship , and the public forgets disasters at sea almost as soon as they are over , and exhibits no sign of discontent with steamers , that are sure to sink like lead when they are run into by other vessels . Were there sufficient reason to suppose that the public would patronize a line of unsinkable steamers at prices which would compensate the owners for their inability to carry freight , such steamers would be promptly built . If the traveling public is really determined not to be drowned it has only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steamers will at once be provided . The railway men continue to heat their cars with stoves and to light them with kerosene lamps , because the public is at ordinary times perfectly satisfied with stoves and lamps . ? dr . VANDERBILT once tried the experiment of lighting his cars with candles , but the traveling public abused him for his alleged parsimony and demanded to have the kerosene lamps put back . Of course , when a car-load of passengers has been roasted by an upset stove the railway companies are violently abused for heating their cars with stoves , but a month after the tragedy is over the public is again perfectly satisfied with the stoves . A coal stove heats a car to that unbearable degree of heat that the traveling . American citizen demands . No other method of heating.would satisfy him , for without the sight of a red-hot stove he could not be convinced that he was comfortably warm . Were the stoves to be taken out , and the cars to be heated either with steam from the locomotive or with hot water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insist that they were not warm enough , and that the company was too parsimonious to provide its cars with stoves . Of course , in time , even the grumblers would become convinced that they could be comfortable without searing their eye-balls by gazing on a red-hot stove , but the removal of the stoves would at first be a very unpopular measure . The railway companies know this , and they naturally continue to heat their cars with stoves . They are far too intelligent to confound a temporary outcry made by the press just after the occurrence of a railway accident with the real wishes of American railway travelers . No great reform has ever been carried out in this country without organized effort . People might have remarked to the end of time that the spread of slavery was objectionable , but it would have continued to spread had not the Republican Party been organized to opposo it . We shall never have unsinkable ships and safe methods of heating railway cars until an organized effort is made to secure these reforms . If we had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradually educate people up to the belief that it is worth while to be carried over the sea and across the land without danger of death by drowning or burning , and it would convince steam-ship and railway men that it would be profitable to render trawedies like those of last week impossible .                     