@@743377

txt The Senate Exodus Committee to-day began the examination of John H. Burch , a colored ex-State Senator of Louisiana , and one of the Republican Presidential Electors of that State in 1876 . He began his testimony by stating that the exodus at one time last year slackened somewhat , but since tee State election in Louisiana last December it has largely increased . He said the effort made last Winter by the Democrats in the Legislature to pass what was called the " Chain-gang law , " and the uncertainty of the status of the colored people under Democratic rule prevented many from making the usual labor contracts in January and February of this year . and that the result of this is already observable in the large number of colored people who have moved from the planting districts into the cities and towns lying on the banks of the rivers , so as to take advantage of opportunities for transportation to the West . The proposition to pass the Chaingang laws and other measurep intended to abridge their industrial rights , Ate negroes believed were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a system of peonage , and hence the Controlling idea with them is to get away from the State before this is accomplished . He grouped the causes of the exodus under five different heads , namely : First , a fear on the part of the colored people of class legislation against them by Democratic legislators ; second , the fear of interference with their educational privileges ; third , the uncertainty of obtaining homes and insecurity in retaining them ; fourth , interference with their religious and personal rights ; and , fifth , their fear of disfranchisement . In elaborating these points he stated that homes and education have made the immigrants to this country the peers of the best of American citizens , but the immigrants found homes and education in the Northern and Western States , and not in the South . With the example of the effect which practical ostracise , social degradation , and industrial serfdom have had upon the people of Europe ? with the evidence of their progress and advancement under the political protection , industrial equality , and educational advantages afforded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it not improbable that the protection of his people in all their rights would produce the same effect upon them that it has produced in the case of the Irish and German and English immigrants that have found homes and educational advantages and civil and political rights in this country . He believed that in right and justice the experiment should be tried . It would at least stop the exodus of his robs , which is undoubtedly subject to the same impulses which founded the United States . and which threatens to depopulate Ireland . Referring to the great change in the political complexion of voters in some parishes within the last few years , as shown by election returns , he mentioned Ouachita Parish , where , in 1876 , from 1,200 to ' 1,500 Republican and 400 or 500 Democratic votes were cast , while at the last election the leading Democratic candidate polled 1,976 , and the Republican candidate only 11 votes . This and similar changes , he said , were accomplished by Democratic County Returning Boards . From five to seven Police Jurors were formerly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats passed a law authorizing Gov . Nichols to appoint five additional Police . Jurors in each parish . Those appointed were all Democrats , and this gave the Democrats a majority of Police Jurors , or county returning boards , as he called them , in every parish in the State , with one exception , and in this exceptional parish the Republican majority was driven away by armed Democrats . He thought it was not necessary for the Democrats to use force now to carry elections , as the legal machinery they have devised enables them " to count out any one they choose . " The witness was asked by Mr. Voorhees to explain how it is that in so many parishes where the colored Republicans outnumber the white Democrats they do not defend themselves and prevent the wrongs it is alleged they suffer from . In reply , Mr. Burch stated that when it is remembered that these white Democrats are the same people who , when engaged in rebellion , it required the expenditure of millions of treasure , the loss of hundreds of thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subdue ; that while it is borne in mind that ever since the collapse of the rebellion the whites have kept up their military organizations , and an army of them , drilled and trained fighters , today , it is absurd to expect the negro . with a hoe in his hand , to resist these men . The committee adjourned until Wednesday , when the examination of Mr. Burch will be continued .                     