@@780864

txt The leading produce markets were less active to-day and averaged lower , though there was early a little upward spurt in provisions and corn . There was not much demand for anything on the floor , and the markets looked as if they were settling down toward the quiet phase of the holiday season . Provisions were rather quiet and irregular . Pork advanced 5 to 7V2 cents , fell off 15 to 20 cents , and closed 10 to 15 cents below the latest prices of Thursday . Lard averaged a decline of about 10 cents and meats 2V2 cents . The British markets were quoted dull , but hoes at the Union Stock-yards were stronger on a smaller supply , and the idea that the arrivals will only he moderate between this and the New Year . New-York sent some selling orders hero for produce , the senders possibly thinking , as some do here , : that smaller receipts of hogs may bring lower prices , as the trade will relax when the pressure is over . Other outside operators were apparently holding off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not care to do much beyond providing for January deliveries . At one time there was a fair demand for May . the early drop permitting the filling of seine lhuited orders , but that was soon over . There was little shipping inquiry for either lard or meats . On the afternoon call pork and meats declined 10 cents , and lard 236. to 5 cents . Wheat was dull and declined s , to cent from the latest prices of Thursday , closing tame . Loudon quoted a decline of ad. per quarter on cargoes off coast , and our receipts were a trifla larger than those of the previous day . There was a shade of stifiness early in sympathy with corn , but it soon vanished , and the market thereafter was about as flat as it could be and preserve its identity as a market . There was a little changing over on the near futures , to provide for January deliveries , and some haying for t lay . There was no material change in the selling prices of car lots , except that red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the afternoon call the market dropped 1/2 to 5/8 cent , and closed tame . Corn was less active:and irregular . within narrow limits . The market for this month advanced cent to 1 cent , but fell back to cent below the latest prices of Thursday . The other futures , except May , sold up to about the same extent , and all had lost the advantage by the close . London reported a decline of 9d. por quarter . and our receipts were a trifle larger , with very small shipmeets from store . But New-York jumped up above 2 cents early in the day , and it was at once generally said that the year deal in that City is just preparing for a grand spread .                     