@@743461

txt The question of securing a fair representation of the voters of a political party in conventions which are to name the candidates for office for whom they are expected to vote goes far deeper than the ground of the recent contention at Chicago in regard to representation by districts or by States . In a field so wide as that occupied by a National canvass it can not be expected that a majority of the whole mass of voters of one political faith will , under ordinary circumstances , be agreed in regard to the best and strongest candidate . When there is some one man made more conspicuous than all others by his public services or his identification with the particular issues on which an election is to turn , this may be the case . If it be so , it is a matter of momentous consequence that the methods of political action shall be such that.i the popular choice within a party shall be able to secure expression . But if , as is generally the case , there are several men of eminent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be filled are nearly equal , there will be varying preferences , based on local pride or differences of opinion regarding the relative importance of qualities or services for which one or another is specially distinguished . Then there should be an agreement involving the sacrifice of the less widely diffused preference to that which is stronger and more general . This can be effected only by delegates in actual convention , after the functions of the constituents in the expression of their choice have been discharged . But the delegates should still be the choice of the constituents , and be ruled , so far as may be , by their sentiments and wishes . How to secure this in the most perfect manner is the real problem . Delegates are wanted who will feel their responsibility to the people , and not to leaders and managers who are striving to promote their own designs and gratify the ambition either of themselves or of some great man on whose favor they feel dependent . Delegates sent by the people to a convention should feel that they are commissioned by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their behalf , and not to be moved on a chess-board to suit the exigencies of a game played by party chieftains . To secure this independence and this sense of responsibility should be the purpose of any plan of representation adopted . Selfish combinations on . the part of aspiring leaders should be made as difficult as possible , and the question of control should appertain to the numerical- majority of the delegates and not to the ascendency or influence of this or that great political manager . The power of the people should displace the manager 's machine and the majority should be the only political " boss . ' Approximate perfection in party representation involves more than is implied in the contention as to States and districts . A State convention may or may not fairly represent the will of a party in the State as a whole , and a district may be misrepresented as well as a State . It is not enough that a delegate shall be chosen somehow and by somebody within a district . He should be the choice of the voters thereof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn from a somewhat extensive constituency , within which there may be variety of preferences and of feel- ing . How shall these find a fair expression , and what is the ultimate unit ? In constituting a National Convention , it may not be practicable to go further toward the mass of voters than a convention of delegates representing a single district , but how shall this be made up ? To leave the matter there is not to make popular representation secure . It may be even easier to manage and control district conventions , and secure machine-made delegates through them , than through the larger bodies whose constituency is a State , unless means are taken to make them truly representative . How far can the committee of a national party organization go in its work of securing a fair representation of the voters ? Supposing it to be animated by the best of purposes , and only anxious to secure the fullest freedom of political action and the most perfect method of representation , it can do little more than suggest or recommend . It may say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and district delegates by district conventions , but the mode of constituting these conventions remains to be settled . The same questions and principles are involved if it is a candidate for Congress or for a State or local office who is to be nominated . In pursuing the representative idea down . to the mass of individual voters , we come to the primary meetings as the real starting-point . Here is where the power to nominate is first delegated . Here the voters commission certain of their . number to act for them in district or State conventions , and exercise their choice under due discretion. - It is at this fountain head , too , that the machine begins its work , and that managers and wirepullers set the deviation from the actual popular choice , which , by the time the final nomination is reached , may be as wide of the mark as if no popular action had been taken and the leaders had themselves agreed upon candidates . Here , at the beginning , is the great source of evil from which the defeat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be removed by a regulation of primary meetings by law so as to secure a full and free expression of party sentiment under all the safeguards of the ballot-box.                     