@@744025

txt There are always a few scientific persons who are extremely anxious that some one else shall undertake to explore the polar seas . Arguments , setting forth the possibility and desirability of reaching the Pole or of discovering the North-west Passage , have to some extent lost their force , so far as the Governments of Great Britain and this country are concerned , and the only sure method of inducing those Governments to send out polar expeditions is first to induce , some private explorer to go to the frozen seas and lose himself , and then to demand that Government expeditions shall be sent in search of him . This method has proved so successful in the case of the Jeannette that we might plausibly characterize her  --  as a species of explorating ground bait , scattered vaguely over the Arctic Ocean to tempt Government vessels to sail in search of her . The scientific heart ought to be gladdened by the numerous expeditions that have already been sent after the Jeannette , and the fact that none of these have so far accomplished anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous Government explorations in the Arctic seas that no cheerful scientific person will be in the least disappointed thereby . There are two objects which scientific persons have in view in urging men to risk their lives amid the ice of the Arctic regions . These are the discovery of the North Pole and of the North-west Passage . If there is anything that is well established it is that the North Pole is inaccessible . The theory of the existence of an open polar sea deserves precisely as much credit as the late Capt . SYMMES 'S theory of an open Polar Hole . It is true that Dr. KA:cies steward , MORTON , professed to have seen the open sea with his personal eyes , and the picture given of it in Dr. KANE 'S book needed only to be embellished with a steam-boat or two and a few Esquimaux schooner yachts to closely resemble a picture of the Bay of Quinte . Unfortunately , this admirable and picturesque open sea did not wait to be seen by subsequent explorers , but vanished before Capt . NARES could do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that has been collected by polar explorers goes to prove the truth of Capt . NAttEs 's theory that the way to the Pole is barred by vast masses of paleocrystic ice , over which neither sledges nor pedestrians can pass . The moment we discard the theory of the open polar sea  --  a theory which has absolutely no foundation outside of the imagination of theorists of the Symmes variety  --  we are shut up to the conclusion that the North Pole can never be reached . The only remaining object which can justify further Arctic exploration is the discovery of the North-west Passage ; or , rather , the actual performance of the feat of sailing around the northern coast of America . That this is practicable has been proved by the discoveries of FRANKLIN and MCCLINTOCK ' , but the feat still remains to be performed . It is safe to say that it never will be performed by Government vessels . Experience has pretty clearly shown that there is something in the education of naval officers which does not fit them for Arctic exploration . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loses his vessel is in a much worse situation than is the master of a whaler whose ship is crushed by the ice . The naval officer is trained to habits of extreme caution , whereas a dash of recklessness is a necessary part of a successful explorer . Undoubtedly the Government ships that have been sent to the Arctic seas have been admirably equipped , but the very thoroughness of their equipment has made their commanders ready to winter in the ice rather than to thrust their ships into unknown channels with the imminent risk of never finding their way out . The recent cruise of the steam whaler Arctic , of Dundee , ought to furnish a hint as to the true way of Arctic exploration . The whaler , taking advantage of an open Summer , penetrated in search of whales nearly to the point where the Erebus and Terror were abandoned , and her Captain asserts that had he not been more anxious to fill up his vessel with oil than to perform a great feat of exploration , he could readly have made his way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters a fleet of steam whalers , small but strongly built vessels , low powered , and consuming but little coal . Their masters have become accustomed to navigating among icefloes , and know far more about that sort of navigation than any naval officer entering the Arctic circle for the first time can know . Had there been a reward of $20,000 offered to the first vessel which should make the North-west Passage some one of these steam whalers would have earned it long ago . Such a reward would be much smaller than the cost of a naval expedition , and it would be a constant temptation to adventurous whalemen . Were it now to be offered , we may be reasonably sure that the first steam whaler that should find the channels leading westward from Smith 's Sound comparatively free of ice , and should also ' find whales scarce , would prefer to make a dash after the reward of $20,000 rather than to risk returning home with an empty ship . There can be no objection to this method of encouraging Arctic exploration . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out costly Government expeditions , either in search of au open polar sea which does not exist or of a North-west Passage which there is little probability that any Government vessel will ever discover . It is a work of humanity to search for the Jeannette , but when that work is finished , let us send no mere men to perish like the crews of the Erebus and Terror . A reward offered to ambitious whalemen will accomplish more than the Navies of Eng:and and America can accomplish , and it can be earned with comparatively little risk , since the attempt will only be made when an exceptionally open Summer gives fair promise of success .                     