@@780585

txt For 30 years Mrs. Rachael Aim Bushman and Mrs. Marinda Thompson , residents of South Byron , in this county , have known each other , and for 18 years they have lived in that village in houses that stand side by side . A fence divided their premises , but in it was a gate , and they frequently paid back-door visits to each other in the most Unconventional and neighborly way . Their relations were always friendly , with absolutely nothing to mar the serenity of their meetings Until August , 1885 , notwithstanding the disparity in their conditions so far as the possession of worldly goods goes . Mrs. Bushman was the wife of Andrew Bushman , a carpenter by trade , who toiled hard for the living of his family , which includes two sons and a daughter . Mrs. Thompson became a widow a few years ago , and her husband left a good-sized estate . She and her adopted daughter , Mrs. Sarah Peck , now also a widow , lived together on the interest of the estate . Early in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Thompson says she was awakened by a noise just outside of her house . She arose , and , looking from a window , she saw a woman with an armful of wood leaving her woodpile . She watched the woman , who went through the gate in the line fence and up on to the back steps of Mrs. Bushman 's home . Then Mrs. Thompson says she heard a door open and shut . Half an hour later the woman came again , and was in the act of picking up more wood when Mrs. Thompson raised the window and cried out : " Have n't you got about enough of that wood ! " The woman was frightened away . Mrs. Thompson met many friends in the next few days , to whom she related in detail the story of the great fright she had experienced on Monday . night . She said the woman was short and tnick set , wore a faded calico dress , and had a bald spot on her head . Her friends knew that that was a description of Mrs. Bushman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bushman was the thief l " she was asked . Her answers to such a question varied . On Friday Mrs. Bushman heard that Mrs. Thompson accused her of stealing wood . She was shocked and hardly believed the story . The next day , she went out calling . While she was at her sister-in-law 's , Mrs. Thompson arrived there . The latter had just erossea the threshold , when . bowing frigidly to Mrs. Bushman , she exclaimed : " Why , I have n't seen you since I saw you stealing my wood . " Mrs-Buslnan gasped for breath , and . replied indignantly , " I never stole a stick of your wood in my life . " " I saw a woman taking my wood Tuesday morning , " was the rejoinder . " and the woman went , through my back yard and up on to your back steps , and'I 'll swear to it . " The conversation was brief , and the old ladies parted . Early the next week Mrs. Bushman consulted a lawyer , and on the following Weduesday Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for alleged slander . The case came to trial in the Circuit Court in Batavia , before Judge Childs , on Tuesday last . and about 30 residents of South Byron , mostly women , to whom Mrs. Thompson had told about the loss of her wood , were among the witnesses for the plaintiff . Mrs. Thompson and her daughter were the only witnesses for the defense . Mrs. Thompson denied that she had ever said Mrs. Bushman was the woman she saw , and testified that she did not mean to insinuate that she was the thief . The case was given to the jury to-day , and after four hours ' deliberation a verdict in favor of Airs . Bushman for $3,500 damages was rendered . The case will be appealed . The result of the trial is gratifying to nearly everybody in South Byron .                     