@@745790

txt The managers of the Brooklyn Bridge will doubtless get the New-York extension done one of these days . All they need now is time and . money enough . We can not say just how much more time or money they require , and impatient people should . remember that the task is at least as great as that of building a block of elevated railway , which few responsible contractors would undertake to put up much faster than at the rate of a mile a month . It should be remembered , too , that the bridge people learned what was wanted within the first two years of operating the railway , and readily took up the idea after it had been made familiar to their minds by discussion by people not closely or directly concerned in the management . This gives us room to hope that an early beginning at agitating a reform of scarcely less importance may be fruitful of results within the lifetime of the present President and engineer . Most of the people who ride over the bridge will grasp the suggestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the aid . of the diagram which doubtless hangs within the cozy offices on Sands-street . So Mr HOWELL and Mr. MARTIN can also follow our remarks without even taking the trouble of going to the bridge . If they will look on their diagram they will see that passengers for the Brooklyn Elevated Railway are obliged . to descend and ascend two pairs of stairs , turn two corners , and take a walk before arriving at the point where the bridge railway should deliver them . If the honorable President and intelligent engineer will further deign to glance at their traffic returns they will see that this discomfort  --  unnecessary discomfort , as we venture to call it  --  is daily inflicted upon 9,096 poor people who have done nothing to deserve such mistreatment . In round . numbers nearly four millions of people every year are thus thrown into frames of mind not merely unchristian , but ominous for the personal safety of somebody whenever the pent-up volume of rage bursts forth . Having followed us thus far , Mr. HOWELL , who gives his whole mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of whom everybody speaks well of , will doubtless be glad . to learn how they can oblige four million people , beginning from to-morrow and without spending a penny . By further study of their diagram they will learn that after the cars discharge their passengers from New-York they are immediately switched to the exact spot where the elevated railway passengers should be landed . All that is necessary is to let them ride there . Instead of shouting " All out ! " the brakemen might merely say , " Passengers for the elevated railroad keep their seats . " The switching would begin more quickly by just the amount of time saved in disembarking the passengers for the railway . And there would be no confusion between embarking and disembarking passengers after the switching , because the traffic is so largely one way in. the morning and back in the evening . This is a much bolder suggestion on our part than the one that the bridge engineers could build a gutter . We record it to their credit that they did build the gutter within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now let them , with the aid of their map , begin to think this matter over , and . possibly the New-York and . Brooklyn approaches may be reformed together .                     