@@781677

txt While railroad managers are making protests against the features of the Inter-State Commerce bill which prohibit pooling and charging more for short than for long distances under like conditions , and getting the help of such commercial bodies as the New-York Chamber of Commerce , it will be well not to overlook the existence of actual wrongs and abuses which these provisions are intended to remedy . The correspondence which we published yesterday between President PORTER , of theNorth Chicago Rolling Mills , and the officers of the Southwestern Railway Association and the Union Pacific Railroad Company throws a strong light on certain railroad methods which certainly call for correction . The Union Pacific Railroad Company has an agreement with the Atchison , Topeka and Santa F6 and the Denver and Rio Grande whereby a division of all Colorado business is made between the parties to the agreement , to the exclusion of other competing lines . One result of this agreement is the refusal of the Union Pacific to carry steel rails from Chicago to Colorado intended for the Colorado Midland , except at rates which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when for nearly half the distance  --  to Kansas City  --  they are only $3 a ton , ' . the Union Pacific practically re- , fuses a business which President PORTER declares would amount to from $200,000 to $300,000 , one-half profit . The purpose of the refusal is - to prevent the building up of a rival to the Denver and Rio Grande Road . An incidental effect is to interfere seriously with the legitimate . business of the Chicago steel manufacturers and to hamper the development of the railroad interests of Colorado . It alai results in throwing away profitable business Which the Union Pacific might have at a time - when it is pleading poverty as an excuse for having its obligations to the Government placed upon a more favorable basis . The treatment of President PORTER 'S appeal for justice by President CHARLES FRANCIS AnAMsisworthy of the worst days of theUnion Pacific management under JAY GouLD and . SIDNEY DILLON . A still more flagrant instance of the in- ' justice wrought by the Colorado pool is set forth in the first annual report of the Railroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of the tripartite agreement with the Atchison , Topeka and Santa F6 and the Denver and Rio Grande , the Union Pacific refused to interchange traffic with the Denver and New-Orleans line under arrangements for through rates and a continuous shipment . At a - time when the Jotter was prepared to guarantee from a single shipper business which would amount to a trainload of freight a day . for months and lead to other profitable business , the Union Pacific obstinately refused to provide for it . It refused . to furnish stock cars at Pueblo for cattle to be carried . over its own line when it was furnishing the Denver and Rio Grande all it wanted . and had others by the score lying idle on side tracks at Denver week after week . The interests of shippers at Pueblo and Colorado Springs were seriously injured , and the business of the whole region interfered with by unjust discrimination through an agreement which was not intended . to maintain stable rates but to prevent competition with a party to the pooling agreement . The appeal of the Colorado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the same cavalier manner as the more recent protest of Mr. PORTER . Mr. ADAMS , the President of the Union Pacific , seems to be a different man from CHARLES Fn Ards ADAMS , Jr. , Railroad Commissioner of Massachusetts and writer on the abuses of railroad management of years ago . " I can not understand , " says Mr. PORTER , " how a sincere and honest man could have written the articles Mr. ADAMS did , and advocate the principles he did as a Railroad Commissioner of Massachusetts , and now make such communications as President of the railroad . " Commissioner FELLER , of Colorado , in writing to Mr. ADAMS , quoted to him his own language concerning pooling abuses used at Portland , Oregon , as follows : " The railroad management which undertakes in that way to hamper the natural freedom of trade is not minding its own business . Whether it is making a fortune or not it does not deserve to make one . " ' According to the representations of its President the Union Pacific is not now making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enunciated , it does not deserve to make one . Its conduct in making discriminating rates , in refusing traffic , and in'trYing to crush competition in connecting lines should . be taken into account when it claims to be treated with tenderness in its relations with the Government . The abuses in railroad management ; of which such cases as those referred to above are samples , have also an important bearing on the protests against the InterState Commerce bill .                     