@@671710

txt Justice BRADLEY , of the United States Supreme Court , has decided against the power of the State of New-Jersey to obstruct the Government of the United States in the exercise of its authority to regulate commerce between the several States . That is the simple ground of the decision rendered at Trenton yesterday , upholding the act of Congress which authorizes the construction of a bridge across the Arthur Justice BRADLEY holds that the power of Congress to regulate foreign and interState commerce is supreme , and so far as the exercise of that power is concerned there are no States . It makes no difference whether the commerce to be regulated and facilitated is carried on byiwater or by land . Congress has the same power to authorize and provide for the bridging of streams or passages of water that it has to authorize and provide for the improvement of navigation or the connecting of bodies of water by artificial waterways , a power which is not denied . Several questions were raised in this case by the Attorney-General of New-Jersey , which are disposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supremacy of the United States in this matter of regulating inter-State commerce . In the first place it was contended that a corporation formed under the laws of another State could not enter the State of New-Jersey for the performance of any of its functions without the consent of that State . But it is held thatif Congress has the right to construct a bridge or to authorize its construction under the exercise of its power to regul'ate inter-State commerce , of which the court had no doubt , it can use any agency for that purpose that it may see fit , whether it is a , corporation organized under its own laws or those of a State , and no State can obstruct it in the exercise of its power . It was claimed that the concurrence of the State authorities was necessary to the exercise of this power , but it is clearly shown that that would involve a qualification of the rights of the National Government in a matter over which its authority is made supreme and absolute by the Constitution . This can not ? bp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of having exclusive jurisdiction conferred upon it with reference to a certain matter , while at the same time any State could obstruct the exercise of that jurisdiction , and practically nullify an undisputed power of Congress . The claim that the State had riparian rights and a power of eminent domain over lands under water which can not be ignored is disposed of by a reference to the same principle . Those rights and . that power can not stand in the way of the exercise of the authority of the United States in a matter in which its jurisdiction is supreme and absolute . If it is necessary for it to exercise a power of eminent domain higher than that of the State in order to carry out its purposes in pursuance of its authority to regulate commerce , it can exercise that power . Otherwise the State could again obstruct it by setting up its superior authority and raise a barrier against the exercise of one of the exclusive powers of the National Government . The matter is very clearly and strongly presented by Justice BRADLEY , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision comes from the member of the Supreme Court whose home is in New-Jersey , and is concurred in by the District Judge , whose jurisdiction is exclusively in that State . They are not at all , likely to ignore any of the just rights and claims of the State . The doctrine established by the decision is a national one , and is likely to be sustained by the Supreme Court , whither the question is to be taken on appeal . Of the soundness of the doctrine there can scarcely be a question , and we doubt if any question would have been raised but for local and private interests . New-Jersey has been striving to retain upon her soil the termini of the railroad systems which connect almost the whole of the country to to the south and west with the great port of New-York , and has shown extreme jealousy of the establishment of the terminus of one grey line upon Staten Island . But I even a stronger effort has been made by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company to prevent its great rival , the Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbor . From these selfish interests has comethe opposition to the Staten Island bridge , and it would be absurd if they were to prevail against the supreme power of Congress to regulate commerce between the States , and prevent a work which has an ? obvious and important relation to the development and facilitation of the commerce of the whole country . 