@@743667

txt The " commuter " who travels daily on the railway train between the City and his country home is a peaceful and contented person . Otherwise he would not be a commuter . The irascible anti peevish man who tries to be a commuter grows angry over what he calls the wretched mismanagement of the railway , and early shakes . the cinders from his shirtbosom and returns to his residence in the City . The commuter , on the other hand , asserts that he lives on the best managed railway in the country , and when he runs off the track , or is delayed by some other accident , he points out that a delay of an hour or two once in six months is as nothing compared with what the resident of the City suffers daily from horse cars or sloppy pavements . But on this cheerful and contented commuter some day descends the snow blockade , and straightway he becomes , as it were , another man , and wishes he had never been born . It is a remarkable fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mile or two of the commuter 's home . He leaves the city in the afternoon full of confidence that in an hour he will be at his comfortable fireside , but when the lights of his village are almost in sight his train suddenly runs into a snow-bank and comes to a dead stop . At first he is amused and interested . He remarks that " they wo n't be there long , " and gives the other passengers a comparative sketch of the historic weather of the last twenty Tears . After a while he exclaims that this stoppage is really extraordinary , and that he must go and see what is the matter . He buttons his coat , puts his head out into the howling storm , and returns , having seen nothing , and somewhat depressed in spirits . An hour passes away , and a casual brakeman passing through the car gives the information that the snow is six feet deep , and that nothing can be done until the snowplow , which has been telegraphed for , appears . The commuter immediately recovers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be along in a little while , and will clear the track in no time . The faith that all snowbeleaguered railway passengers have iu the snow-plow is touching . In their ignorance they imagine that the use of a snow-plow is to clear the track . Nothing could be further from the truth . The snow-plow is an invention of the Adversary designed to aid the elements in blockading railway trains . a always makes its way to within a hundred yards of the blockaded engine , and then runs off the track . The rumor that the show-plow is close at hand renders the commuter even jovial . He jokes about the blockade , and calls on his companions to take notice of the warmth and comfort of the car , and to admit that they are far better off than they would be were they in a City horse car . His spirits are , however , suddenly and finally dashed by a. second brakeman , who says that the snow- ; plow is off the track , and that no one can , tell how long it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour of the blockade is a gloomy : . one . The commuter. ; several times remarks that he ca n't stand this , and is going to walk , but he invariably returns after a brief absence covered with snow and convinced that he does not enjoy wading through nocturnal snow-drifts in a storm . In his heartened state he loses all his original pride and independence .. He abases himself before the train-boy , whose prize packages he has hitherto spurned with contumely , and he begs him to say " what the prospect is . " The train-boy explains that as soon as they get the snow-plow on again they will go right along ; that men have shoveled away the snow-bank , and that if the snow-plow can be got out of the way all will be right . The commuter also seizes on every available brakeman with the inquiry , " Say , when are we going to get out of this ? " But the answer is what the lawyers would call void for uncertainty , since it depends on the remote contingency of getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth hour of imprisonment the commuter becomes a wholly changed man , and betrays the ferocity that has for a life-time lurked unseen in.the depths of his soul . He wants to know why they ca n't smash that old snow-plow to pieces , and thinks that if the Directors of the company could be dumped into a snow bank and kept there all night it would do them good . Even the announcement that another engine . has arrived to help them and has in its turn gone off the track does not cheer him , and he begins to manifest a bitter contempt for the way in which the company pretends to light and heat the car . The entire body of passengers are by the beginning of the fifth hour in a state of demoralization . The women have removed their hats , and are curled up in reckless positions on the seats , trying to sleep , and utterly careless of appearances . Tile men wander up and down the aisles , and say they do n't believe the company cares what its passengers suffer , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By and by the pangs of dinner deferred seize upon them , and they lose all their reverence for the moral law . They go into the express car and break open whatever package contains anything eatable . Foremost among them is the once orderly and peaceable commuter . He breaks open a box of crackers with fiendish joy , exclaiming that the railway company will have to pay the damages , and will find that the snow is an expensive . luxury . He would even break a window were it not for fear of the cold . The sixth hour of the blockade arrives , and it is now discovered that the snowplow is on the track , but that the extra engine has used up all its coal and water , and that a third engine must be sent for to drag it out of the way . The train-boy now thinks that " we may get out of this by morning , but you ca n't tell much about it . " At this point the commuter , casting the last shred of his former self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invokes a terrible fate on every one connected with the railway , and especially the Superintendent . He says in a loud voice that he has had enough of this nonsense and is going to walk home , and thereupon , clutching his inevitable brown paper parcel , he plunges up to his waist in snow , and reaches the station , wet and exhausted , about two minutes after the train , which has at last broken loose from the suow- , bank , draws up at the platform . The melancholy thing about a snow blockade is not the delay , the inconvenience , and tile suffering which it entails , but the moral wreck of the commuter . He never retrieves himself , but , conscious that he has forever forfeited his commuting character , he takes the first opportunity to remove to the City , and enrolls himself as au active enemy of railwttys and country life .                     