@@672218

txt It is stated here this evening by those in a position to know something of what is going on that Martin Burke has confessed to State Attorney Longenecker and Chief Hubbard his participation in the murder of Dr. Cronin , and he has promised to go on the stand at the trial and tell all he knows . It is also said that when Judge Baker habeas to-mor- , row morning calls the abeas corpus proceedings by which Senator Kennedy and Lawyer Forrest , Dan Coughlin 's attorney , seek to gain access to Burke , whose counsel Kennedy asserts he is , there will be presented to the court a letter from Burke , written this evening , saying ' that Kennedy is not his counsel , and he has no desire to see him or any other lawyer . If these reports are true , one of the most desperate games played in the Cronin ease has fallen through . Lawyer Kennedy , who wants to get at Burke , is a State Senator in Wisconsin . He appeared in Chicago before Burke left Winnipeg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burke arrived here he was rigidly secluded and nobody was able to see him . Kennedy protestedr saying that as Burke 's counsel he had a right to see his client . To-day he obtained a writ of habeas corpus and that was argued before Judge Baker late in the afternoon . The petition recited the facts concerning Burke 's removal from Winnipeg and went on to say that the prisoner was brought to Chicago in charge of Chief of Pollee Hubbard , that he arrived hero on the night of Aug. 5 , but that instead of being taken to the county jail as directed by the extradition papers he was brought to the Harrison-street police station , and was there , by direction of Chief Hubbard. locked up in what is known as the " sweat box , " a place in which he can not be kept under the sanction of the law , as ne is now detained there without legal process . It is also charged in the petition that repeated demands have been made on the Chief of Police by the attorney to be allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He asked that Burke be taken to the County Jail , the place to which be was legally consigned , which request was also refused . ? The writ was returnable at 3 o'clock . and at that hour all the parties interested and a large crowd of outsiders were present in Judge Baker 's court room . An army of bailiffs was drawn up In line outside the court room and the crowd was thickly sprinkled with policemen In citizens ' clothes . Every eye was bent on the door as Chief Hubbard made his appearance , but it was not the Chief nor the legal representatives of the law the crowd was anxious to see . It was Martin Burke who was looked for . But the curiosity of the crowd was not rewarded . The prisoner was just then lying snug and safe behind the bars in the Harrison-street station , and by a peculiar legal technicality this disobedience of the writ was justified in the eyes of the court . The point was that the writ was directed against Chief Hubbard , when by the terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Officer John Collins . Them could be but one ruling , and that was against Kennedy . The lawyer was nonplussed , but Lawyer Forrest , whose eagerness to have an interview with Burke indicates that he regards the case of his own client , Coughlin , as desperate , came to the rescue . The ruling , however , was made , and the two lawyers secured another writ directed against Collins and returnable to-morrow morning .                     