@@744089

txt As Mr. BLAINE 'S diplomatic instructions come out , in broken installments , it becomes more and more apparent that the late Secretary of State had marked out for his department a vigorous foreign policy . Whatever else may be true of the hopeless confusion into which Gen. HURLBUT has precipitated the diplomatic representation in Chili and Peru , it is certain that Secretary BLAINE 'S intentions were to make the influence of our Government felt in the quarrel in a heavier and more emphatic way than could possibly have been expected by those who are familiar with the traditions of this Republic . Ordinarily , an American Secretary of State would have counseled a Minister of the United States to abstain from every act that might justify even an insinuation that our Government was not impartial ; and the Minister would be straitly advised that , while moderation should be urged upon the victor , no officious meddling with the affairs of either combatant would be permitted . Nothing like this was given to guide Gen. HURLBUT . He was not only allowed to threaten one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible of fulfillment , but he was so instructed by the State Department that he was able to fall back upon the Secretary of State as the high functionary really responsible for the extraordinary performances of the United States Minister to Peru . The late Secretary , although he may not be held responsible for the erratic proceedings of Gen. HURLBUT , evidently threw conservatism to the winds when he began to shape the foreign policy of the Garfield Administration . His correspondence on the subject of the interoceanic canal discloses the workings of a bold and vigorous mind . But that correspondence , in its temper and tone , is utterly foreign to the methods heretofore adopted by Americaa diplomatists , and is wholly out of harmony with the traditional foreign policy of the Government of the United States . Mr. BLArmis 's invitation to the republics of Central America and South America to send delegates to Washington , for the purpose of forming a defensive league , ( if such a circular was really sent , ) is quite in keeping , with the lofty spirit of adventure by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported scheme is not by any means out of keeping with Mr. Br.Ariut 's other brilliant plans for the advancement of his country 's interest in other lands . It is quite like Mr. BLAINE to have conceived of something like an American league which should be able to array a solid front against any and all imaginary outside enemies . He would organize , so to speak , a new party in the politics of the globe . In what other and unexpected directions Secretary BLAINE had pushed his venturous bark of diplomatic intrigue it is impossible to say . It is probable that there are new surprises in store for us . But those who affect astonishment at these revelations must have known , if they knew aught of Mr. BLAINE 'S mental habits , that he could no more have contented himself with the dull routine of the State Department than a high-mettled courser could endure the monotonous drudgery of a bark mill . Mr. BLAINE was at his best when he led a phalanx ( the smaller the better ) in the House of Representatives , plunged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion and dismay into the camp of the enemy by his audacious and fearless charge . He suffered something of an eclipse when he was translated into the Senate . In one sense this was a promotion , and it was a source of elation to Mr. BLAINE 'S numerous admirers when his long service was rewarded by the Senatorship . But this promotion was a loss to the House . It was an increase of Mr. BLA.LNE 'S honors to the diminution of his activity . But when this restless politician was put into the State Department , the climax of his paradoxical misfortunes had been reached . At last , the bull was discontentedly standing in. the china shop . But , although a policy of aggrandizement for the Republic was just what was to be expected from Mr. BLAINE , it must be admitted that such a policy is wholly at variance with the idea of a democracy . Our territorial expansion has been gradual , and has been accomplished ( save in one instance ) without violence and without intrigue . At this moment , the operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world with a sentiment that resembles apprehension for the Republic of France . Such a scheme as this would have been natural enough in the hands of an imperial Government of France . But territorial conquest , or unnecessary foreign wars , are not consistent with the maxims that usually govern the temporary rulers of a democratic people . We must credit Mr. BLAINE with a sincere purpose to magnify his country 's greatness to all the world . But we can not fail to see that he utterly mistook the temper of our people and the spirit of American institutions when he entered upon his vigorous foreign policy . " Peace with all nations , entangling alliances with none , " is as good a maxim now as it was when the Republic was yet young , or as it was when Mr. SEWARD had it painted in letters of fire on the State Department in Washington . To depart from the conservative policy indicated by this wise rule is highly dangerous for the Republic . Under any possible circumstances , Mr. BLAINE made a mistake when he became Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the country has made a lucky escape .                     