@@743422

txt There was a social gathering at the Delavan House the other night between a few New-York politicians and a number of more or less ? rural legislators . The de21ared object of the meeting was to reach some preliminary understanding about the kind of legislation which was needed to help the Republican Party in this City ; its real object was to secure an agreement by which certain . Republican leaders in New York could obtain , conjointly with Tammany Hall , the control of a good deal of patronage which , in colloquial phrase , is at present " lying around loose . " No minutes of the meeting were kept , and it is probable that even the most earnest temperance advocates who participated in it would have found some difficulty in giving a connected account of all that was done or said . The general impression , conveyed through the agency of a good deal of disjointed talk , and still more abundant champagne , was that it was the imperative duty of a Republican Legislature to improve the position of their party in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain a larger share of Municipal patronage than the party at present possesses , and that Republican newspapers as well as Republican voters were not only ready but anxious to support any legislation designed to accomplish that end . By way of aiding the sober reflections of the participants in the Delavan . House convivial conference , it may not be amiss to present to their notice a few simple considerations . In. the first place , they will probably recognize the fact that no Republican newspaper which has any character to lose will be likely to refrain from making a most emphatic protest against the imitation by a Republican Legislature of the tactics of TWEED , and in the next , they can easily satisfy themselves by some little study of the mutations of the Republican vote of the State , as affected by the vote of this City , that all interference with the Government of New-York in. the interests of trading politicians has proved as much a partisan blunder as a betrayal of public interests . For the dead-lock in the exercise of the appointing power , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For reasons best known to themselves , they have consistently acted with the Tammany Aldermen in refusing to confirm all nominations , good , bad , or indifferent , made by Mayor COOPER . The Mayor has been scrupulously anxious to nominate Republicans of fair character to fill the places already occupied by Republicans of doubtful character , and to select reputable Democrats for places now filled by Inore or less disreputable Democrats . Without indorsing the wisdom of every , choice he has made , it may be said , with . entire justice , that his nominees have been defeated simply because they were either not the choice of the Republican junta who control the Board of Aldermen or of JOHN KELLY . To take the Police Board , which Li regarded as the key of the political situation , as an instance , there never has been , nor ' is there now , any difficulty in getting the Mayor to nominate as a successor to Mr. WHEELER such a man as JOEL MASON , HUGH GARDNER , or JOHN D. LAWSON . These are the names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published , - and they , represent , ' very fairly , the kind of men who would be perfectly acceptable to nine-tenths of the Republican voters of New-York . That the other tenth  --  and that is a very liberal estimate of its numbers  --  should persist in ' keeping Mr. WHEELER in office . merely because he is a less scrupulous partisan than any Commissioner whom the Mayor is willing to nominate is , to say the least , a very offensive kind of dictation . It certainly does not constitute a sufficient ground for the attempt to convince Republicans from the country that the chance of polling a full Republican vote this Fall depends on placing the power of nomination to City offices in other hands than those of the Mayor . The dimensions of that vote in 1880 , as in other years , will depend very largely on the recognition by Republican managers of the fact that the party 's title to confidence in affairs of national concern will be tested , by its fidelity to certain well-established principles of honesty and ability in City administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' on the perpetuation of an alliance between Tammany Democrats and " machine " Republicans gives the lie to every profession of reform " which the party can make in regard to larger interests , and alienates the support of all who are disposed to test parties by their performances rather than by their professions . It is no argument to say that the other side is guided by no more exalted principle of action than the expediency of securing as large a share as possible of the spoils of office . It is the peculiarity of a large body of sincere Republicans that they will not support leaders who degrade the party name by using it for corrupt ends , no matter what may be the , consequences of their revolt . The patronage of New-York City is no doubt a tempting prize for a score or two of professional politicians . The good government of New-York is a matter , of vital moment to thousands of self-respecting Republicans who are taxed to provide the stakes of the game . And intelligent men of both parties , or of neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can be no good government in this City while its affairs are made the football of special legislation at Albany , and while the chief business of political tricksters is to deprive the people of the remedy against misgovernment provided ' for them at the polls . A champagne caucus may be a pleasant entertainment in its way , but it is not precisely the most acceptable method of regulating the municipal concerns of a million and a quarter of people , or of disposing of the annual expenditure of forty millions of their money .                     