@@745985

txt The members of the Senate at Albany ought to understand clearly the attitude of the opponents of the Civil Code . It is to the principle of codification that they make objection rather than to the particular application of that principle which Mr. FIELD has made . The ineffectiveness of their specific criticisms shows this . It would seem that setting out to make a fight against all attempts to reduce the common law to a written form they have scrutinized this code merely to find fault of suitable gravity to serve as illustrations - of their theory that the chambers of the law should be securely locked against the people and the keys committed only into the hands of the Judges and the lawyers . A close historical parallel to the course of these modern custodians of the law may be found in the behavior of the Roman Patricians in their fight for a similar object more than 2,300 years ago . We cite a Roman precedent with full confidence that it will be received with the utmost respect by those who oppose the code , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for their fetich . We assume that every Senator knows his Roman history well enough to remember that the Plebeians had to make a long and hard fight to secure for themselves equal rights with the Patricians , and even after the establishment of the office of tribunes of the people , with the power of veto over manifestly unjust decisions of the Patrician magistrates , the Plebeians were still practically helpless on account of their ignorance of the law , which was known and accessible only to the Patricians . The following passage from IHE 'S History of Rome ( Vol . I. , page 188 ) shows the remarkable similarity of the policy of the Roman Patricians about 462 B. C. to the policy adopted by some of the lawyers of New-York in 1887 : " The knowledge of the law was guarded as a sacred mystery from the profane eye of the Plebeians . It was cultivated in the Patrician families as a kind of secret science , and , like the precepts of a priesthood jealous and ambitious of power , it was strictly preserved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principles and formulae of law was one of the greatest supports of Patrician authority , and kept the ignorant masses in a state of dependence from which even the protection of the tribunes was not able to deliver them . It could not therefore be long after the establishment of the tribuneship before the Plebeians felt the necessity of putting an end to the exclusive possession of the laws which the Patricians enjoyed and to make them the common property of the whole nation . This could only be done by writing them down and making them public . A proposal was accordingly made in the assembly of the tribes by the tribune C. TERENTILIII8 AREA ( 462 B. C. ) to appoint a commission for the purpose of committing to writing the whole of the laws . " This proposition , as TUNE says , was by no means revolutionary , but was , on the contrary , conservative . Nevertheless , " the Patricians opposed with all their strength a measure which would wrest a powerful weapon out of their hands . " This weapon was wrested from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten years the code proposed by TERENTILIUS was formed and adopted . As it is perfectly well understood that Gov . HILL will sign the bill enacting the Civil Code if it shall be presented to him , it now rests with the Senate to say whether a few worshippers of moldy traditions shall be allowed to prevent the State of New-York from securing the benefits of a reform which has already been accomplished in a majority of the civilized countries of the earth . It is for the Senate to say whether a knowledge of the law of property , of contracts , and of negotiable securities shall remain " a sacred mystery " with the lawyers , or whether this law shall be reduced to the form of a statute where it may be consulted and understood by any man of ordinary intelligence who has need of the knowledge to guide him in his business ventures .                     