@@743766

txt The session of the Senate to be held to-morrow is likely to be more interesting than those of the last few days . Mr. Voorhees will probably deliver his speech against the national banks , and the Republicans will attempt to elect new officers in the places of the present Secretary , Sergeant-atArms , Executive Clerk , Legislative Clerk , and Chaplain . After the Journal had been read today , Mr. Voorhees again offered his resolution , on which he intends to hang his speech , and Mr. Morrill raised against it a point of order . Mr. Voorhees had been searching the records of the Senate , and ho had before him a mass of manuscript , in which were set forth the precedents which , in his opinion , established his right to offer the resolution at a special session and to , submit remarks upon it . Mr. Sherman said he hoped that the Senate would allow him to present these precedents before deciding upon the point of order which had been raised . Mr. Ferry argued briefly against the consideration of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that if Mr. Voorhees persevered , a financial debate would be brought on , and the session would be greatly protracted . Mr. Voorhees was allowed , by unanimous consent , to present his list of precedents , which was long and convincing . In the course of his remarks he showed that Mr. Ferry , who yesterday and to-day argued against the propriety of the action which Mr. Voorhees intended to take , had offered in a similar special session a resolution abstracting the Island of Mackinaw from the public domain and setting it apart for the use of the people of Michigan , had spoken at length in support of it , and had secured its passage . To this Mr. Ferry did not respond . At the conclusion of the presentation of precedents , Mr. Morrill withdrew his point of order , and said that the Republicans were ready to discuss this or any other question . Mr. Sherman did not assert that Mr. Voorhees had no right to offer and speak upon the resolution , but remarked that he believed Mr. Voorhees 's good judgment would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad a discussion as his resolution and speech would necessarily cause . Such a discussion would make a long session . Mr. Sherman will probably discover that his confidence in Mr. Voorhees 's good judgment has been misplaced .. The resolution went over under the rules until to-morrow . Mr. Dawes then carried out the action of the Republican caucus by offering several resolutions , providing for the election of George C. Gorham , of California and Washington , to be Secretary ; Harris H. Riddleberger , of Virginia , to be Sergeant-at-Arms ; Charles W. Johnson , of Minnesota , to be Chief Clerk ; James ' . Young , of Pennsylvania , to be Executive Clerk , and the Rev. Dr. Byron Sunderland , of Washington , to be Chaplain . The customary objections were interposed by Mr. Pendleton for the Democrats , and these resolutions went over until to-morrow . The Senate then went into executive session for half an hour and then adjourned .                     