@@744367

txt When the Legislature of 1873 decreed that " it shall be the duty of the Controller to publish in the City Record , two months before the election of charter officers , " certain ample details of the receipts , expenditures , and obligations of this City for the year ending the first day of the month in which such publication is made , that body may be presumed to have been desirous of giving the people of New-York a clear idea of how their affairs had been managed by public officers who were about to demand a renewal of their confidence . Had chapter 335 of the Laws of 1873 been part of a general system of responsible City government in which not only the amount of taxes levied during the year , but the results derived from them , could be traced to the agency of certain officers , it might have ? been a valuable contribution to the ; general body of Municipal legislation . As two-thirds of the annual tax levy of New-York is fixed without reference to any action which can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount not raised by taxation for the execution of public works is purely a matter of administrative discretion based upon legislative sanction , the utility of an annual statement from the City Controller for the year ending Aug. 1 is not quite so obvious as it might be . Still , it has its uses . " . For example , a taxpayer may have mastered the elementary principle that the City debt of New-York may be roughly divided into long bonds payable from taxation , short bonds payable from assessments , ' and revenue bonds or discounted tax receipts issued to meet expenses in advance of , income , and yet find himself entirely at sea in the attempt to ' analyze the " annual report of the Controller . If he ever knew anything about chapter 383 , Laws of 1878 , which figures so largely in the debt statement , he has probably forgotten that it was intended , first , to relieve the City from paying an unusually large slice of its debt in one year , and next , to facilitate the conversion into long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Temporary Debt , " but which , from one cause or other , had become part of the permanent burden of New-York tax-payers . There is no longer any " Temporary Debt , " in the old sense at least , in the Controller 's statement , though there are still outstanding some $7,000,000 of assessment bonds issued prior to June 3 , 1878 , which are payable chiefly if not solely by private property-owners to whom the money has been lent for street or other improvements in their immediate neighborhood . It is impossible to say what proportion of the bonds issued for local improvements since June 3 , 1878 , is chargeable to the general tax-payer , and what to the adjoining property-owner . That is to say , the ordinary reader who comes to this report with " . the amount of information which we have indicated can not possibly make any intelligible analysis of it . Should it occur to him that the City is , in many cases , the adjoining property-owner assessable like private owners for local improvements , that will only increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the fund which represents the repayment by property-owners of the sums lent them by the City for the making of streets , sewers ; or other improvements of a purely local character , he will be reminded that he is meddling with subjects which transcend the intelligence of the mere tax-payer . Enough for him that the gross debt of the City was about a million and a half more on July 31 , 1882. than it was on July 31 , 1881. while the net debt was nearly $1,900,000 less . Whether the $2,300,000 increase in the cash and securities in the sinking fund was due chiefly to contributions from assessments , to the increased productiveness of City revenues , or to the smallness of the sum required to meet the annual installment for redemption of the City debt , it is not for the ordinary tax-paye : : to inquire . The tables are before him , but as not more than half a dozen men in New-York are capable of analyzing them , he may safely take refuge in his " average " ignorance . Of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's report shows all and more than the law requires , and that the breaking down of the distinction between the assessment bonds or " temporary " debt and the permanent obligations of the City is one for which Controller CAMPBELL is in no way responsible . What the contents of Thursday 's City Record do not show would take much more space to explain than the seventeen pages therein devoted to the ; annual report of the Finance Department . We may repeat that among other things the report does show that Controller CAMPBELL is able to collect the City taxes more promptly or to administer City revenues more wisely than his predecessor , since there is outstanding a million less of the revenue bonds of 1881 than there was of , say , 1877 , while a million less have been issued in 1882 than in 1878 . It shows , moreover , that while the City can borrow money for current expenses at 3 and 3+ per cent. , it has had a debt saddled on it by the combined agency of Ring thieves and Democratic financiers which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Less than one-third of the existing debt of the City falls due before 1896 , and it is , of course , absurd to expect the holder of a bond not terminable at the discretion of the debtor to surrender half his interest without some tangible equivalent . The interest on the City and County debt of New-York still represents about a third of the annual Municipal budget , and it should never be forgotten that this , like many more of our burdens , is due to the public toleration of a set of political and stock jobbing thieves who debauched the judiciary , bought the Legislature , and controlled the Executive of the State of New-York.                     