@@781308

txt Gen. Beauregard , in to-morrow morning 's Picayune , publishes a letter filling a page of that paper in answer to the late attacks upon him by Jefferson Davis and Col. William Preston Johnston by the statements published by the latter , whose father fell at Shiloh . Gen. Beauregard makes a careful analysis , citing ample and sufficient authority to show a degree of misapprehension on the situation at Shiloh hardly pardonable in a man of any military education and experience . Ho says : " I will not fatigue your readers by again going over ground already so often traversed . My article of April 17 gave a clear statement , based on irrefutable proof , concerning the concen. tration of our troops at and near Corinth . I. showed there who planned and effected that concentration , who planned tee battle of Shiloh , how it was fought , why it resulted in a drawn victory , to say the most of it . Neither Mr. Davis nor Col. Johnston have succeeded in impairing the validity of the facts there sot forth . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beyond their power , say or do what they may . I have never tried nor presumed to convince Mr. Davis , Col. Johnston , or their immediate personal friends of the fallacy and shallowness of their version of the incidents My object is to enlighten not them , but the public , which is discriminating and clear-sighted , and to assist the student of history in his earnest , unprejudiced endeavor to arrive at a just conclusion . I have no doubt as to what that conclusion will eventually be . In his speech of the 26th of April in New-Orleans Mr. Davis stated that Gen. Johnston had planned the battle of Shiloh , and sent him a telegram , which was lost , which described it just as it was fought , the only battle in ' the world 's history that was fought as the General expected . ' The conclusion to be drawn is that for the support of his assertions and arguments as to who planned ' the only battle in the world 's history that was fought as the General expected , ' it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some kind or other to fall back upon , with no copy , no duplicate in any telegram book , and the original of which had been seen by none but himself , and which none but himself , we are led to believe , could decipher . " The alleged cipher dispatch from Johnston quoted by Davis as lost , it is demonstrated , must have been a myth , as the records of the telegraph office at Corinth are a part of the Adjutant-General 's archives among Gen. Beauregard 's papers . Gen. Beauregard asserts with great precision that the making out of the order of march had been left to him and had been accepted by Gen. Johnston without a single modification . Gen. Johnston had offered to place Gen. Beauregard in full command of field movements , but the latter refused to accept the charges . It is readily conceded that Gen. Johnston had previously applied to the War Department and to some of the Governors of the Southern States both for men and arms , but it is a known fact also that beyond a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endeavors , while documents show that at Gen. Beauregard 's call they came by the thousands from Louisiana , Alabama , Mississippi , and other Southern States . Later on ho says : " , No one with the least knowledge or experience of a battlefield , especially in a densely wooded country , and with an army composed principally of volun-teers and new levies , under gallant but inexperienced officers , can possibly believe that the commanding General could with impunity , at the very outset of a battle , and before his reserves had reached his headquarters , start off in full haste to take immediate charge of his extreme right flank , distanced some one mile and a half from his centre , to lend into action the attacks of brigades and divisions , without leaving some responsible representative in charge of the general movements of the whole field . Search the histories of all great battles , and not such an example could be found . Yet some injudicious friends maintain that Gen. Johnston did commit this most egregious error . Ms greatest enemy could have said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assert most emphatically that he did nothing of the kind . for before ho rode forward to take command of that special part of the line where he lost his life he intrusted the general management of the field , especially the centre and the lett , to myself , his second in command . " In concluSion the General says : " I will now close this article , and must do so with . out touching upon several other points which it would have been very easy to refute . One word , however , to Mr. Davis . Were I his friend I would advise him to intrencn himself behind the kindly consideration which all in the South are willing to give him through patriotic motives on account of the position he once held , and to abstain from animadversion upon others , so as to keep the door closed upon criticism of himself , for in the eyes of the student of history and of all the risinggeneration , who will be swayed by no personal feeliugs of friendship , his conduct of the Confederate affairs will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer avoided that his management of them was unwise , unstatesmanlike , and most deplorable upon all essential points , as can be easily proved . I will here definitely take leave of both Mr. Davis and Col. Johnston . I decline to enter into any personal controversy , and have written these articles with no other view but to correctly establish some misrepresented historical facts , This has been done , and I desire to state distinctly that I will go no further in the papers . "                     