@@781213

txt The National Billiard Association convened here yesterday . It was the tenth anniversary meeting of the organization , which was so ' busy with its own stirring affairs that probably few of the meinhers realized that the day was also the sixteenth anniversary of the death of Michael Phelan . The meeting was elose and exciting for those members residing in the Keystone State , bat to members residing elsewhere it was another case of " taxation without representation . " the retiring President , James Palmer , taking the view that there should be no voting by proxy . as the organization is a chartered one . The effect of this action is to accord absent members their pro rata share of the legal responsibilities , while denying them a voice on the most important day of the year as affecting responsibilities . Its tendency , if not counteracted at the next annual election or later , will be td ' make the organization local , as it originally was , instead of nationaL It bad been known for more than a month that unusual efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Massey and Thomas Foley of Chicago , John Miller of New-Orleans , and John D. O'Connor of NewYork forwarded their proxies . Tun TIMES five or six weeks ago stated that a lively fight was anticipated . It was contemplated to enter a protest against the denial of the right to rote by proxy en the strength ofa written opinion from a lawyer who has heretofore served as counsel for the association , and which opinion was formally read at the meeting yesterday , but calm minds , foreseeing that litigation might result in the disruption of the organization , advised submission to the views of the presiding officer , and balloting began . It proved a. sharp call between the heads of the Bitd and Fair tickets , although it had been thought that the only man on the regular ticket ( Fair ) who was , in billiardistio parlance , to be " pounded , " was the tireless man who has been Secretary since the organization in 1877 , and who has fought " pool for drinks " in Philadelphia as others have fought it elsewhere . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and by one vete also Mr. Bird was elected President . The remainder of his ticket was defeated . It is understood that the proxies , to the number of about 20 would all have been cast for the ticket , headed by Mr. Fair , which would have made a clean sweep . The officers chosen were : Christian Bird , President ; William J. Rockhill , First Vice-President ; II . W. Collander , William M. Dodds . C. E. Mussey , and John Miller , respectively , VicePresidents for New-York , Pittsburg . Chicago , and New-Orleans ; Pincus Levy , Treasurer , and John Creaban , Secretary . The . reports for the year showed the association to'be in good condition . The sum expended in benefactions for the year just closed was $387 , or $83 50 less than dues paid in . The amount in the Treasury is $1,038 73.                     