@@743466

txt After another day 's struggle in the House , the Carlisle Sugar bill remains suspended in a position from which it can not be extricated until the next session of Congress . The further progress of the bill was resisted by the same obstructive methods which proved suerPssful yesterday , and when the House took a recess until 10 o'clock to-morrow morning , it was still held back , through a failure of all efforts on the part of its friends to muster a sufficient number of votes to second the motion to suspend the rules , which requires a majority vote . During the struggle over the bill there was a sharp and angry passage between Messrs . Conger and Frye , which was highly enjoyed on the Democratic side . Mr. Conger charged that the bill was devised to protect foreign labor at the expense of American labor . Mr. Frye replied that he was a tariff man , and favored the bill , and that there was not a word of truth in Mr. Conger 's statement . To this Mr. Conger retorted : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or any other gentleman . " Members crowded around the two disputants , and great confusion and excitement prevailed , which the Speaker was unable , for the time being , to check . In reply to Mr. Conger 's remarks , Mr. Frye said he had stood as long and as faithfully in defense of tariff as the gentleman from Michigan , and when that gentleman attempted to maintain against the people a charge of from 50 to 80 per cent. ? on sugar , he was not a tariff man , nor a friend of the tariff . This was greeted with applause . When it subsided , the Speaker succeeded in forcing members to resume their seats and in restoring order , after which the dilatory proceedm " gs were continued against the bill . While the filibustering movements against the Sugar bill were continued through the day , they were frequently suspended in order to permit reports from conference committees and messages from the Senate to be received , and to dispose of other public business , which is privileged under the rules . Mr. was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other business might be taken up , but he persistently refused . He knew very well that no progress could be made with ? the Sugar bill , but insisted on maintaining it before the House , in accordance with an understanding with Speaker Randall and other leading members on the Democratic side , for the purpose of keeping out the numerous suspicious measures which arc always brought forward in the last hours of a session . So long as Mr. 's mot ; on to suspend the rules was maintained undecided before the House , a similar motion could not be made to pass any other measure , and while uncertain and vicious propositions were thus excluded no obstacle was presented to the consideration and passage of necessary public measures . Finally the House became weary with this exasperating dead-lock , and a motion for a recess until tomorrow morning was made . This was resisted by those who had measures which they were anxious to have acted upon , and every possible effort was made to prolong the session , in the hope that the desired opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those members who desire to secure the passage of bills to authorize the construction of public buildings in their respective districts were particularly earnest and active in opposing the ratans , and banded together to accomplish the common object . They could not , however , muster sufficient strength to defeat the recess , although they maintained their struggle for nearly two hours by various parliamentary devices . The advocates of public buildings and other schemes will , doubtless , renew their efforts in the  --  morning , but their prospects for success will be no better then than they were to-day . While the filibustering movements against the Sugar bill have resulted in defeating a vote on that measure , they have , at the same time , served to protect the Treasury and the people against that class of bills which are usually crowded through Congress in the excitement and confusion of its last hours . The Sugar bill will go over until December , when it will tome up as the unfinished business on the third Monday of that month . 