@@672100

txt THE CABLE RAILROAD SCHEME . The men behind the cable railroad job have adopted new tactics this year in their efforts to set that dilapidated scheme on its feet again . It is represented that they are a new lot , with virtuous intentions , and not the discredited gang of former years , but we notice that the original schemer , CHARLES P. SHAW , is still looking after the business , and he has become an adept in working the lobby . Instead of trying to smuggle their bill in under false pretenses , they come out with a bold front and present it openly . With the hired assistance of Mr. GEORGE BLISS , who is a power in the Eleventh Assembly District of this city that aspiring young politicians dread , they have induced a man of reputed integrity and . public spirit in the person of ROBERT RAY HAMILTON to introduce their bill in the Assembly and pretend to like it . We believe that Mr. HAMILTON means to be honest and will not countenance corrupt methods , but he is making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have it employed to back up this scheme tR the Legislature . Mr. HAMILTON professes confidence in the character of the men who are now interested in the cable project ; he professes to believe that their purposes are all right , that their scheme is a good one , that the bill contains safeguards for the. , public interests . and that it is not to ' be ' promoted by corruption . In all this he only shows how mental views may be distorted and the conscience benumbed by political pressure from a dreaded " boss . " If left to his own inclination , we are sure that , he would have taken a different view of his duty as a representative of this city . The main consideration in all this business is that the cable project , set right down upon its merits , regardless of the men behind it or the Means used to promote it , is not a good thing for the city and is not wanted by its people or its authorities .. It would be a new obstacle in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No single stop in this scheme from the day of its inception to this moment has been taken in response to a public demand , but all hove boon instiscated by-capitalists who desire to make profit from the use of our streets . The scheme originated with certain Standard Oil Company capitalists whose chief agent was CHARLES P. SHAW . He got un the petition for the appointment of the Rapid Transit Commission in 1883 , and it was virtually a petition in the interest of the cable schemers and not in the interest of the public . Three of the five Commissioners appointed were secured in their behalf and the other two resigned rather than approve the plans when they had been developed . One of the three who remained became Secretary of the Cable Company when it was incorporated , and SHAW , who had . acted as counsel for the commission , became counsel for the company . The routes laid out and the privileges granted wereprecisely those asked for by the projectors , and in several points existing law was violated to suit them . SHAW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , and is reputed to have used corrupt means in an effort to defeat it that the cable project might have a clearer field . Property owners along the proposed lines protested vigorously against the elevated and surface roads , and there was no hope of getting their consent . Two . successive Boards of Aldermen refused the consent of the " local authorities , " and when it was granted by a third under suspicions of corrupt inducement the resolution was vetoed by Mayor GRACE . Of the three'Commissioners appointed by the Supreme Court to determine in lieu of the consent of property owners whether the public interests demanded the construction of the roads , two were believed to be ' interested in the scheme . - One had been a petitioner for the Commission under the Rapid Transit act and bondsman for one of them , and . another , Mr. WILLIAM C. TRAPHAGEN , has been notoriously in the service of the cable crowd ever since . After eight months of spasmodic hearings , in which the ' strongest testimony was against the project , a report was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to confirm on the ground that the public interests would not be served by the construction of the proposed . roads , and on the further ground that the incorporation of the Cable Company was invalid . This latter conclusion was afterward sustained by the Court of Appeals . Since then efforts have been made to induce the Legislature to rehabilitate the shattered . concern and secure for it privileges which it can not get under existing laws . For five years all the forces of public sentiment and of interest in real rapid transit have been fighting hgainst this scheme . Now , when it ought to be dead beyond all hope of resuscitation ; when there is some chance for getting genuine rapid transit , if no new obstacles are put in the way , the ghost of this old . job arises and asks the Legislature to , give it new life and force it upon the city in spite of its resistance . New capital is said to be behind it , new legal and political talent is hired to help it along , and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names to give it an air of respectability . Mr. HAMILTON , who has been winning golden opinions for standing up bravely against jobs and fighting for the interests of this city against corrupt and selfish assaults , has succumbed and consented to help on this outrage . It is a disheartening spectacle , but it is to be hoped . that the Legislature will heed the voice of the people of this city and regard . their wishes and their interests in spite of the humiliating submission of the honorable member from the Murray Hill district . It should refuse to resurrect the cable scheme , because it ought never to have lived , and , having once with much difficulty been slain , should be left to " lie in cold obstruction and to rot . "                     