@@745861

txt Judge Brown , of the United States court , this morning handed down his decision in the case of the United States against John Craig on the action brought to recover a penalty of $1,000 provided for in the " Assisted Immigration act " ? of Feb. 26 , 1886 . Mr. Craig imported ship carpenters from the Province of Quebec during the shipyard strike of last Spring . Defendants ' counsel had interposed the objection that the entire law against importing labor was unconstitutional . The question as presented to the court involved not only the Craig case , but was a test upon which the whole law was to stand or fall . In an elaborate opinion the court overrules all the points raised by the defendant . The act in question declares that for any violation of its provisions the person , partnership , company , or corporation violating the same by knowingly assisting , encouraging , or soliciting the immigration or importation of any alien or foreigner into the United States to perform labor or service of any kind under contract , express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offense the sum of $1,000 . The contention of the prosecution is that the act is a valid exercise of the power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations . The defendant claimed that this act is not a valid exercise of the power of regulating commerce , inasmuch as it forbids the encouragement and solicitation of an act which still continues to be perfectly lawful in itself , viz. , the immigration of alien laborers . The court declined to take this view of the case , and held that if Congress was the power to regulate commerce it is difficult to conceive why Congress may not inhibit the immigration of any class of persons which may seem to it undesirable additions to the population of the country . Repeated instances of this kind of legislation are to be found in the revised statutes , and , so far as is known , none of them have been challenged as beyond a constitutional power of Congress . But conceding that the contract only is illegal and void , and the immigration lawful , there is no principle which forbids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration of foreigners shall be unlawtul , and imposing a punishment upon those who adopt that method . The decision then answers the objection that Congress has no power to punish Craig 's act , as it was done in a foreign country . The court decides that the law is against the " assisting , encouraging , or soliciting aliens to migrate , " and not to the contract with them . The immigration must actually occur , however , or there is no offense . Soliciting immigration without success would not be an offense . Even if the cause of action accrued wholly on foreign soil the action could be maintained if the defendant was found in the district , as it is a civil action to recover a penalty or debt . In such cases the action may be brought wherever the defendant is found . The conclusion is reached that the court has jurisdiction and the demurrer is overruled .                     