@@744972

txt The coincidence of the opening of Parliament and the reception of bad . news from Egypt has brought about the most absurd Parliamentary " crisis " on record . According to precedent and expectation there should have been three or four days of debate on the Conservative amendment to the address in reply to the Queen 's speech . After that , the minds of some members being freed , and those of the rest presumably enlightened , there would have been a division in due form . But , as would be said in Congress , " the slate was smashed . " The leaders on the Ministerial side were all ' called away to a conference on the contradiction given to the Queen 's speech by the day 's news . The Ministerial difficulty would have been the Conservative opportunity ; but then , as we pointed out yesterday , and as they took pains to verify the night before , the Conservatives have no leaders . The result was that their amendments to the address were voted down , in a House almost unprecedentedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 77 to 20 , and they can not re- open the question without the permission of the Government : The Conservatives are in a very furious condition of mind , as is shown by the proceedings had in - the House yesterday . As was to be expected , the members most enraged were those whose minds were to have been freed , rather than those whose minds were to have been enlightened , by the progress of the debate . Eminent among these was Lord RANDOLPH CHURCHILL , one of many young English politicians who admire the career of DISRAELI too much for their own good . He went so far as to give notice of an amendment to the address demanding the removal of the Ministers in favor of others who would talk back instead of merely voting down their revilers . This proposition being ruled out , the irrepressible young man moved that the House adjourn " for the purpose of calling attention to urgent public business , " which seems a singular adaptation of means to ends . This motion was seconded by Mr. CHAPLIN , our Lincolnshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , is much agitated at the insanitary condition of cheap American beef . It was supported , ostensibly more in sorrow than in anger , by Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , but nevertheless the Conservatives could not even secure a division upon it . All this Parliamentary disturbance looks from this distance like a tempest in a teapot . The close of the debate on Tuesday was evidently the result of accident and not of design . If it had been the result of design , however , it would have been perfectly legitimate . There is nothing but prudence to prevent a Parliamentary leader from letting his opponents talk and relying upon the voting power of his own forces . Under Sir ROBERT WALPOLE that was the rule in the House of Commons . It would not do now as a rule , but it has worked so well in this instance that it would not be surprising if it were occasionally adopted hereafter when the majority is secure , and the situation , considered from the dialectical point of view , unpleasant . Lord RANDOLPH CHURCHILL may be pardoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House " that he should be prevented from discharging a speech with which he has carefully loaded himself , but there is no reason why anybody else should partake that opinion , or why his Conservative colleagues should share his wrath , as it appears they decline to do .                     