@@781713

txt Under New-Jersey law , all State officers are entitled to ride free over all railroads in the State . This is not by virtue of passes issued to members , but by virtue of the standing of the individual members . The Speaker of the House of Assembly , Capt . STONEY , has had an unfortunate and trying experience while testing the value of his official prerogative . He took passage on one of the trains of the numerous roads that are leased by or are tributary to the Pennsylvania Railroad . He showed a variety of free passes , all of which were refused by the conductor , who , after a disagreeable altercation , ostentatiously and offensively paid from his own pocket the fare of the Speaker of the New-Jersey House of Assembly . The railway official publicly announced his intention of putting the Speaker off the train when next he traveled that way , unless he paid his fare or showed a satisfactory free pass . The Speaker is so large a man that he rather invites a personal encounter , and dares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train . But the majesty of the sovereign State of New-Jersey , one must suppose , would shrink from a personal encounter with any railway ' official whatever . Not wholly unlike Speaker STONEY 'S case is that of ex-Commissioner ULRICH . While he was yet a Commissioner of Emigration it was Mr. ULRICH 'S habit to journey frequently to Albany to look after the interests of the Commissioners of Emigration , who were constantly threatened with a diminution of fees and privileges . The Hudson River Railroad Company gave Mr. ULRICH a free pass , not because it was possible that the Commissioner could influence legislation for or against the corporation , but because he was an official of the State of New-York whose journeys were ( presumably ) public errands . Mr. ULRICH , on one of his peregrinations , had his coat torn and his hat irretrievably mashed . He has brought suit to recover a sum equal to the value of these articles of apparel . The railroad corporation demur on the around that free passengers are carried on a contract exempting the company from damages in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while so being transported without payment of fare . The lesson of these two cases is obvious . The NewJersey Speaker would avoid all possibility of dispute or insult if , sinking his legislator and waiving his New-Jersey official privilege , he traveled like a private gentleman and paid his fare . The world would never have known that Commissioners of Emigration traveled deadhead if Mr. ULRICH had not exposed the discreditable secret by suing for his hat and coat .                     