@@745578

txt Desparing of any authentic indorsement of the action of their convention from the President , the Hill Democrats on Monday resorted to forgery . An anonymous Buffalo person , described as " one of the former associates of the President , " was represented to be the possessor of a letter from President CLEVELAND , written the day after the adjournment of the Saratoga Convention , and " strongly indorsing the Democratic State ticket . " " The gentleman who received it was somewhat surprised , " says the accomplished fabulist , " as he had not solicited the President 's views regarding the State ticket . " His ' surprise was quite natural . But he was an honorable gentleman , and he refused to give the letter to the press . He " understood that the President regarded it as confidential , and not intended for publication . " There is a touch of genius in that . The author of this pleasing tale has a great career before him as a writer of verisimilitudinous fiction . It would be so like the President to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious for the success of the Hill-Jones-ofBinghamton ticket that he could n't sleep nights , but begging him to keep it to himself . To get the letter before the public and yet seem to respect the President 's e confidence was a problem . The gifted inventor of the fable solved it by a master stroke . There was a member of the Buffalo Club , it seems , a fellow with a prodigious memory , who had read the letter and had " memorized its contents enough to give an idea of its language . " We reproduce the memorized version of the letter as it appeared in the Hill Democratic newspapers yesterday : " Naturally , you will desire to know how I regard the ticket just nominated at Saratoga . Gov . HILL and Messrs . O'BitinN , Clutetiv. and SWEET , you are aware , are warm personal friends of mine , and I would be the last one to wish them any ill success in November . With Mr. COOK and Mr. FITZGERALD I have only a passing acquaintance . Their friends tell me they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from other sources I believe this to be true . I find myself this Fall in a singular position . I am quoted very extensively as not being in harmony with the head of the ticket . ' This is no surprise to me , for such allegations were made when I was in Albany and a year before I came to Washington . Not deeming them worthy of notice then , I shall surely pay no public attention to these allegations now . I always voted the Democratic ticket , and expect to vote for Gov . HILL and aid his election by personal and not official influences . With me no differences of the past ever existed that would allow me to so far forget myself as to wish any political harm to a single member of the New-York State ticket . This is the position I take , and do you not think it is a good one ? I firmly believe Gov . Hill 's per- sonal friends as well as my own understand just my feelings , motives , and hopes for Democratic success this Fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its reputed author yesterday , and he at once pronounced it a forgery . No such letter had ever been written by him or by any one else in the White House . This was a somewhat discouraging outcome of the first effort of the Hill Democrats to secure the Executive blessing upon their attempt to force the New-York Democracy back into its old wallowing-places , and the gloom of their disappointment will not be dispelled by the authentic statement of his position which the President yesterday made . The Buffalo forgery represents the Democratic idea of what a Presidential indorsement ought to be . The President 's ' idea of the formula appropriate to the existing circumstances is quite different . Here is the statement he authorizes : ? " The President is a Democrat . and it is strange that any person should question his position . He earnestly desires the success of bis party in the pending election in New-York as well as elsewhere , and any assertion to the contrary is utterly and maliciously false . " This is merely a restatement of the position of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES three months ago . It is a formal expression of the interest a Democratic President feels in the success of the Democratic Party " in New-York , as well as elsewhere . " It is the least the President could do . Three months ago the President said that , as a Democrat , it would be exceedingly gratifyng to him to see the party to which he is attached victorious in the State election . Notwithstanding HILL 's nomination the President has not changed his mind . How do the Hill Democrats like this indorsement ? Is it warm , hearty , and spontaneous enough for their purposes ? We commend to their special study the terms of unaffected admiration in which the President speaks of Gov . HILL personally and as a public man . That will help the Governor among the Administration Democrats . THE TIMES accepts this reiterated statement as a perfectly sincere expression of the President 's desire for the success of the Democratic Party in the New-York election . Any departure from the strictest " regularity " by the occupant of the Executive chair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position similar to that of Senator EDMUNDS and many other prominent Republicans last year , when they shut their eyes and voted the Republican ticket . Tim TIMES , fortunately , acknowledges no obligations to support the unworthy candidates of any party . It heartily supports the reform Administration of President CLEVELAND , and it will continue to support it by doing its utmost to defeat DAVID B. HILL , who was nominated by a combination of Democrats who are now opposed to the President 's policy with Democrats who last year opposed his election ; and the fact that the President still desires the success of the Democratic Party in New York as earnestly , perhaps , as he desired it three months ago , in nowise alters our purpose to labor for the defeat of the unworthy candidate of that party . The sincerest friends of the President probably desire Mr. HILL 'S defeat more earnestly than he desires his election .                     