@@743980

txt It is singularly fortunate that the celebration of the anniversary of the surrender at Yorktown , following as it does very closely upon the death and burial of GARFIELD , should be the occasion for recalling a pleasant line of memories and of awakening a new train of associations . The wonderful national and international episode of which the beloved President was the inspiration and centre moved toward the Republic the hearts of all nations . Nevertheless , it must be acknowledged that none were so near to us in that time of sorrow , anxiety , and depression as the English peop:e , from . Queen to commoner . It is true that we had the tender sympathy of men of all lands in that triaL From almost every corner of the globe came messages of affectionate interest and of solicitous inquiry , and when the blow fell it seemed to " eclipse the gayety of nations . " But , as we turn instinctively to home and kindred , when some bereavement comes near us , as individuals , we looked to England for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any people . Then we learned , as we have never realized before , that our natural allies are those who speak the English language . The celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the surrender at Yorktown brings before the mind of every man familiar with the history of his country a striking picture of the great military event which terminated the American war of independence . And one of the conspicuous features of that dramatic finale to a long and exhausting contest was the presence in this country of many volunteer officers from France . These brave Frenchmen did not fight for the mere love of adventure , nor for the gratification of any of those selfish and ignoble desires which too often urge men forward in the paths where military glory may be reached . They did not even have for a motive that fierce patriotism . which burned in the breasts of our forefathers . They fought upon a foreign soil , for a country in which they had no stake , and in whose political independence they had no personal share . They chivalrously lent their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspiring . They fought for the abstract idea of liberty . They shared the fatigues , privations , and labors of the patriot Army , and when victory was won they returned to their own homes across the sea , satisfied with our success and rejoicing in. the sacrifices which they had made for the new-born Republic . Early French explorers , voyagers , and pioneers have left their traces all over the Republic . From Maine to the great lakes , and from the head-waters of the Missouri River to the Gulf of Mexico , there must forever endure the names of the adventurous Frenchmen . D'AULNEY , DE LA TOUR , Du Q17ESNE , LA SALLE , HEXHErIll , IBERVILLE ? these familiar names recall chapters of the early history of this continent filled with romance and crowded with strange interest . But when we think of LAFAYETTE , ROCHAMBEAU , DE GRASSE , and D'ESTAING , it is impossible to repress a thrill of patriotic exultation that these gallant and unselfish men should have been so intimately associated with all that ' long train of events which led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we needed friends . Their substantial aid and their strong sympathy with our struggling cause are now a part of our country 's glory . The anniversary of the conclusion of the war ought , among other things , to revive our gratitude to the noble-hearted Frenchmen who helped us to gain our national independence , and who made the name of their own country forever dear to every grateful American . It was but yesterday that we were grasping the hand of sympathy stretched across the Atlantic to us in our sorrow from Old England . To-day we are welcoming , with cordial friendship , the representatives of another race , a race to which we are allied by the strong tie of gratitude for help in time of need . The American Republic is fortunate in its friendships . It is fortunate in that , while it has entangling alliances with none , it is at peace with all nations . The position , political theory , and mission of the Republic remove it entirely from all contact with the jealousies , rivalries , and suspicions which harass other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again over the troubled peoples of other lands lose their force before their spent waves touch our shores . Our friendship is not sought for the purpose of gaining advantage by one nation over another . An alliance with the American Republic is not a compact which threatens the peace of any people beneath the sun . In the catholicity of American public opinion all faiths and all political forms find kindly toleration and intelligent consideration . The Republic is not only the refuge of the oppressed of all countries , but the everopen land into which all men may enter and be at home . This has been so thoroughly exemplified of late years that when any great trouble or any notable event has befallen us millions in other lands have turned their eyes hither . It is the land in which their own kindred have made themselves new homes . As a nation , we have passed through many stages of growth .. We have deserved the criticism ( and even some of the ill-nature ) which has been lavished upon us . But today , the most powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every land beneath the sun , at peace forever , we rejoice in the sympathetic friendship of all the nations .                     