@@743926

txt The unphilosophical , wealthy young man who finds himself on the lower deck of a Sunday excursion steamer , wedged in between the broad back of a lady from the Emerald Isle and the rotund side of one of our esteemed German fellow-citizens , is seldom entirely happy . The most determined efforts to refrain from any reflections not in harmony with advanced theories of liberty , equality , and fraternity will not always enable him to resist the conviction that he is out of his element . There is something he does not quite relish in the loud talk and laughter of the dense throng about him , a visible lack of the highest polish , and a free and unaffected display of careless home manners which his taste does not approve . His delicate nostril is offended by the rank fumes of three-cent cigars , mingled with innumerable other odors arising from more or less recent consumption of garlic and onions , and the absorption of lager beer , pea-nuts , bananas , and fruit of all kinds then actually going on . The babies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ; they are also apt to be younger and nearer than he likes . The colored waiter from the bar shouts out the list of his wares with unnecessary frequency and loudness , and the excrutiating string band plays altogether too popular airs just at his elbow . He can not gaze upon the sea for the maze of heads about him . His surroundings are too distracting to permit of his thinking peacefully and profitably . He can do nothing but study the faces about him and pray for a quick passage . It is for these reasons that Sunday excursions on the waters around New-York have become almost wholly " popular " in. character . The pampered sons of first families are no longer to be found on the Sunday boats to Long Branch . Coney Island , Rockaway , or the Hudson River landings . These facts can be stated without the least fear of wounding the feelings of the class who are usually spoken of as the masses . In this free country the common people , even the commonest and poorest , have proved that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They need no patronizing friend to speak for them , or to see that they are not deprived of their rights . So they crowd upon the Sunday excursion boats in swarms , utterly indifferent to what those who call themselves their betters may think of them . It is not of the slightest consequence to them whether the few born heirs to millions who chance to be among them are sweet or scornful in their looks. : The honest Teuton mother never loses her reason or manifests any extraordinary chagrin if her child rubs his bread and butter on the white duck trousers of one of these superior beings . s The truckmen , lager beer vendors , cigar-makers , mechanics , and small tradesmen of New-York are always and everywhere just as good as anybody else , and they know it . This is precisely as it should be in a free country . It is particularly gratifying that the Sunday excursions on ' the Water have become thoroughly popular .. ; : They ought to be for the advantage ' and enjoyment of the wage-earning classes , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what vacations 1'are . , They have seized hold of the idea of the " Sanitary Sabbath " . : with a readiness and unanimity which speaks well for their intelligence . It is better for a working man to take his wife and three , four , or five children to Rockaway on a Sunday , at a cost of a dollar or two , than to spend that sum or more in " sending out " for beer and other things . ' If a wealthier class of excursionists have been crowded out of these Sunday boats by the multitudinous inpouring of family parties . they stand in no special need of sympathy . There are week days enough for them , and they are mostly able to get into the country for a few weeks during the Summer . In the matter of pleasure-getting ' and recreation , as in social matters , in this country , there is a national system of classification which works with little friction and without affronting anybody 's sensitiveness . Every man can have what he can pay . for and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter ; respect every man is his own judge , and not many mistakes are made . Coney Island admirably illustrates this classification with its shading off from the expensive and luxurious hotels of the east end to the less pretentious inns and clustering shanties of the middle and western sections . The distinctive marks of the varying localities are so evident , even to a stranger 's eye , that few people get , out of place at Coney Island , and . if they do the mistake is easily rectified . 