@@745862

txt To-day 's examination shows the damage by last night 's gale in this city to fall not short of $50,000 to buildings , breakwaters , &c.; A new church and part of the new Music Hall were blown down , and boathouses , icehouses , and bathhouses were washed away . About a mile of the New-York Central tracks was torn up , overturning and smashing a train of freight cars . That part of Buffalo known as the Island and the adjacent territory lying on the lake front is today a scene of utter desolation . Probably 400 persons living in this part of the city are without homes . Many storm adventures are told . In the water near the Lake Snore tracks , almost a mile from its proper location , is the house of John Quinn . When the lake began to rise Quinn and his wife were driven from the house and took refuge in the limbs of a tree . John Edwards , a neighbor , whose house was flooded out , tried to get into the tree , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body was found to-day half buried in sand . A toll-gate lodge on the turnpike near the Lake Shore Road was floated off its foundations . The keeper and his wife seized their three little children and spent the night drifting about at the mercy of the storm . The floating house was often sub merged by the waves , which ran unprecedentedly high . ' The two younger children died of exposure before morning , when the rescue tugs reached the house and took the family off . A number of drowning cases in the immediate vicinity of the city are reported . From 50 to 100 houses , saloons , and other structures were totally wrecked by wind and water . The Tifft farm docks of the Lehigh Railroad are under water . The entire fleet of the City Yacht Club is sunk or stranded . Not in 40 years has the water risen to such a height . Canal boats were lifted from the canal and are left dry on the towpath . A relief fund has been raised for the people whose homes are washed away . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Below the Falls the river rose 10 feet between 9 P. M. and midnight . The steamer Maid of the Mist was carried with the rising tide to the level of her dock at midnight . To keep her from dashing on the rocks steam was made and the boat ran out into midstream , where she steamed about in the eddies until morning . The landings on both sides of the river , , were washed away , and a waiting room on the American side , a light structure on the dock , which contained the ferry company 's iron safe with papers and $200 in money , was swept off by the flood and carried down in the Whirlpool . A restaurant on the Canadian side met a like fate . In the village of Niagara Falls the tin roof was blown off the International Hotel , and many fine trees on the State Regervation were wined . Every town on the Niagara and.on the south shore of Lake Erie as far west as Erie has suffered serious loss . 