@@745085

txt The American squadron in the Mediterranean has arrived at Tenedos . From there Rear Admiral Baldwin , the commender , telegraphed to Gen. Wallace , American Minister to Turkey , that it was his intention to come to Constantinople . This announcement created a decided sensation in Government circles . Assym Pasha , one of the Ministers of State , informed Gen. Wallace that the trades permit the Porte to stop American ships at the Dardanelles , as America did not sign the treaty of ' , Paris , which regards the Dardanelles as a free sea . It is doubtful whether Gen. Wallace will ask for a finnan to permit the passage of the vessels . The Ottoman Minister at Washington has protested against the bill before Congress which provides that American Consuls in the Turkish Empire shall have jurisdiction over all cases to which Americans are parties . Other nations , he pointed out , claim consular jurisdiction only when both parties to a dispute are their own subjects , while America wished to extend it also to eases in which one party was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims in this regard . Another dispute has been created by America 's official indorsement of Gen. Wallace 's views in denunciation of the treaty of commerce which the Porte made in 1883 as invalid . Gen. Wallace has renewed his protest in regard to the petroleum stores . This protest is now made more powerful by the stronger protest of Russia . - WASHINGTON , May ** attention of Senator Pendleton , the author of the Senate bill to establish consular and other courts and to define their jurisdiction , was , called to-day to the above dispatch from Constantinople . He said lie bad not heard of any protest , and that if one had been made it was doubtless based upon a misapprehension . The bill , as it passed the Senate , was a comprehensive one , prescribing the method , and in part creating , the machinery for the trial of cases to which American citizens were parties in various parts of the world . In studying the subject he had found an appalling state of confusion , growing out of the great variety of treaty provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicial functions devolved upon officials who were not selected and were often in no way qualified to be judges , which officials were , in the absence of definite instructions and legal limitations , often left to act upon their own arbitrary discretion , even to the extent of passing the penalty of death . The measure was designed to secure to American citizens everywhere trial for offenses in accordance with the principles which obtain at home in place of the present irregular and arbitrary methods . In some countries our powers were limited to the trial of civil cases alone ; in others jurisdiction was accorded to Ministers and Consuls in criminal cases , where both parties were Americans , and yet in others only where the offender was an American . No power , however , had cause for complaint , inasmuch as the bill provided only for the enforcement in the several countries of its provisions in whole or in part to the extent to which the United States is authorized by treaties and capitulations of the said countries to exercise jurisdiction . The treaty with Turkey provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States should not be arrested and put in prison by local authorities , but that they should be tried by their Minister or Consul and punished according to their offense , following in this respect the usage observed toward other Franks . In no way was the attempt made in the bill to give interpretation to the treaty , that being the function of another branch of the Government . Mr. Pendleton expressed the hope that the bill , which was now on the Speaker 's table of the House , would be acted upon during the present session . Its importance could not be overestimated . Congressman Hitt , of Illinois , ex-Assistant Secretary of State , who has charge of a similar measure pending before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs , said that a curious controversy had been in progress between the two Governments for more than 80 years , and volumes of correspondence had been sent and received upon the subject . The original treaty with Turkey was framed in 1830 . , The document which was submitted to the Senate for ratification conferred ample jurisdictional powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which American citizens were parties , but when the Dower was sought to be exercised , : 30 years ago , the Turkish authorities made the point that the Turkish version contained no such provision . The discrepancy appeared to have grown out of the translation of a certain Turkish word . This , Mr. Hitt assumed , was the basis of the Ottoman Minister 's protest . In a case at Smyrna , which arose under the treaty , it was found impossible to reconcile the conflicts of jurisdiction , and the alleged criminal was placed in jail , from which he escaped during the night , both parties conniving at it , as the only way out of the entanglement. 