@@781315

txt The weekly Nationalist papers throughout Ireland publish the usual reports of the proceedings of the various local branches of the League , despite the fact that under the terms of the new Crimes act the editors are liable to imprisonment for publishing the reports , which teem with violent denunciations of the Government . The Lord Mayor of Dublin has issued an appeal for funds to defend and sustain the large manner of political prisoners it is expected will soon be in jail under the Coercion act . United Ireland . publishes the text of the official circular issued by the Irish Government to the police in 1880 respecting the line of conduct they were to pursue with respect to League meetings . This circular directs that where Government reporters attend such meetings the officers in charge of the police present shall request of the Chairmen of the meetings accommodations for the reporters on the platforms . If the requests be granted , the circular makes plain , police escorts armed with batons are unnecessary . In view of this United Ireland accuses the Government of breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . The deputation of English members of Parliament visited Youghal to-day , where they were welcomed by 7,000 persons . Several speeches were made , in which the speakers denounced the action of the police at Mitchellstown . A Government reporter was present . Several English delegates delivered addresses at a meeting in Cork this evening , held under the auspices of the League , the Mayor presiding . A small sum was charged for admission , and the proceeds will be devoted to a fund for the relief of the families of the victims of the affray at Mitchellstown . ' LONDON , Sept. 22 . ? A troop of hussars , a detachment of artillery , and a large force of police have arrived at Mitchellstown . Magistrate Eaton has issued a proclamation prohibiting the holding of any public meetings during the sitting of the pollee court , stating that any meetings held in violation of this prohibition would be forcibly dispersed . Copies of the proclamation have been served on Mr. John Dillon , member of Parliament , and Mr. Thomas P. Condon , ( Home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tipperary , both of whom are now in Mitchellstown . Mr. Dillon One declared his willingness to address a public meeting and to repeat Mr. O'Brien 's conduct in spite of the Government . A public meeting is being arranged to bear addresses from Mr. Dillon and Mr. Condon . A conflict is teared if the Nationalists Persist in carrying out their intentions . A dispatch from Mitchellstown this afternoon states that Mr. Dillon and Mr. Harrington have given pledges that no public political meetings shall be hold in Mitchellstown during the present trial . Mr. Michael Davitt sailed from Queenstown to-day for New-York on the White Star Lino steamer Britannic . Mr. Davitt. before going on board of the steamship , granted an interview to a correspondent , in the course of which he said : " The doctors have ordered an ocean journey to brace me up . My present visit to America is of a strictly private nature , and I do not propose to make any public appearances while in the United States . I want as much rest as I can possibly get . ' Upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The order for the suppression of the Irish National League will neither intimidate its members nor in the least degree set back the popular movement . It is simply impossible now to crush the movement . That would mean to put in prison three-fourths of the people of Ireland . The immediate outlook is gloomy in the extreme . I look with anxiety upon the coming Winter , believing as I do that the action of the Government will provoke widespread discord . If the people tamely submit to be deprived of the right of public meeting and freedom Of speech they will show themselves to be unworthy of home rule . , We must fight ; we must make sacrifices for the principle of self-government . I have already served nine years in prison . On returning to Ireland I have a good prospeot of putting in more years in prison . I believe that every earnest Nationalist is ready to do the same . I never found a people readier to make sacrifices for a national cause . I never knew of any people in the world more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infinitely more agreeable if we were enabled to continuo the struggle in a peaceful , constitutional manner . But the Tory Government will not let us . A policy of deliberate exasperation has been determined upon by the Salisbury Ministry . Upon them rests the responsibility for coming events . By far the worst feature of the present situation is the Government 's plan of resorting to the worst kind of coercion in the interests of the landlords . They admit that the present dual ownership ought to be abolished . They recognize that the existing system is a complete failure . Yet the movement of the Irish leaders to reform the land tenure is declared illegal , and they themselves are denounced as criminals . " William J. Evelyn , ( Conservative , ) member of Parliament for Deptford , threatens to resign his seat in the House of Commons rather than support the Government 's cruel measures in Ireland : Mr. Smith , the Government leader in the House of Commons . has written Mr. Evelyn a letter promising that a full inquiry shall be made into the Mitchellstown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             