@@744084

txt It would be far pleasanter to be able to announce at the opening of the new year that the miserable scandal which has been exposed in the Post Office Department had been brought to its proper ending by the recovery of the stolen money and the punishment of the plunderers than it is to go on with the work of exposure . But a task of this kind is never a light one , or one quickly got through with , and so long as the men who have disgraced the Government and robbed the Treasury are outside of prison walls it is the right of the public to have all the information that can be given them , to have it in intelligible shape , and in such a way ' as shall most help that strong popular feeling on the subject that still remains necessary to the completion of the work now so well in progress . The eminent counsel employed by the Government , led and sustained by the Attorney-General , himself familiar with the whole subject , will still be aided by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . In pursuance of this conception of the requirements of the public , we lay before our readers this morning a series of tables , by which , at not too great cost of time , they can obtain a general impression of the extent of the grosser star route frauds , the various chief " combinations " among the contractors , the regions in which they laid their toils , and their respective shares of the booty . By the first and principal one of these tables it will be seen that BRADY , taking 415 out of some 9,000 routes , issued orders which very nearly tripled the pay for which contracts were made . The original contracts were for a term of four years . They were advertised by the department after what ought to have been , and after what professed to be , a careful survey of the probable service required and the proper pay therefor . Each contract was let , under assumed competition , to responsible persons , and heavy bonds were taken for its performance in strict conformity with the letter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority and all necessary machinery for guarding the interests of the public and for securing prompt and accurate service in accordance with the plan laid down . Yet within a few months , by the various devices already fully described in THE TIMES , these contracts were practically replaced by others , , entered into without effective competition , requiring the payment from the Treasury of over two millions more of money , the greater part of which was distributed among the members of a small number of powerful and influential rings . No person with business capacity enough to run a retail grocery can fail to see the utter impossibility of any such set of transactions having been carried out in good faith or for any other than a swindling purpose . Take , for instance , the 134 routes given to JOHN W. DORSEY and his partners , at a total original price of $143,169 42 . To these are added $479,638 79 , bringing the total annual pay up to $622,908 21 . Here was a sum of nearly half a million of dollars , an increase of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distance to be covered was actually reduced by over 1,000 miles , or more than one tenth . It is simply absurd to suppose that any such changes could have been honestly made . Our readers already know by what tricks they were brought about  --  the bogus petitions , the false affidavits , the official connivance , the transparent perversion or impudent evasion of the requirements of the law . It is not a case of misjudged liberality or of extravagance , or even of neglect . None of these can explain the facts . It . was a case of dishonesty , of men , set to . guard the Treasury opening its doors to the thieves and helping them to the plunder . We shall not refer to ' the other groups whose operations are described in the tables . They are of much the same character , and the plundering was done in practically the same bold fashion , which appears very clearly on the face of the tabulated figures . Our readers will also find in other tables some of the " temporary " contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precautions of the law and escape its restrictions . These are not on so ? extensive a scale , but they are in their nature equally outrageous . They show . that the same gang worked these smaller breaches in the Treasury that were engaged in the larger and more lasting operations . These tables , with their explanations , and with the facts which we ' have already published in detail , are sufficient to give the public a correct general impression of the work which lies before the Attorney-General : and his assistants and associates . If these gentlemen do not succeed in bringing the authors of the frauds to book , it will be a miscarriage of justice which the American people will naturally regard with deep regret , and with no little apprehension for the future .                     