@@745668

txt The mere fact that the Gibbs committee refused to go into an investigation of the manner in which the consent of the Board of Aldermen of 1884 was obtained for the franchise of the Broadway Surface Railroad has caused a demand for an inquiry into that transaction which might not have been made but for the trepidation produced when the committee was brought face to face with the question . Charges of corruption had been floating about , but they had failed to fix attention . When , however , the call for an investigation was made and produced evident alarm not only among local politicians and the railroad managers but even in the committee itself , attention was concentrated upon the matter , and a general belief was raised that there must be some foundation for the charges . Had there been none , the railroad company and the implicated persons would have been prompt to invite inquiry for the purpose of clearing away unjust suspicions . The committee would have had no occasion for hesitation , and Senator MCCARTHY would have had no fear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee to go into the subject has caused a very emphatic demand for an investigation which shall be searching and complete . But the demand is for that kind of an investigation only , and it should be made by men of honesty and courage who can have no motive but to lay bare the facts and see that justice is done . If a Senate committee is appointed for this purpose it should be composed exclusively of men of this kind . If a man who has acquired a reputation as a " striker " like Senator COGGESHALL were at its head or anywhere in its ranks there would be no confidence in its purposes and no hope of a satisfactory result . The committee should be appointed by President PITTS , who could be trusted to make it up with a view to an absolutely honest and thorough investigation , and no better man could be found for its Chairman than Senator COMSTOCK . He acquired valuable experience last year on the Gibbs committee , and was the only member of that body who displayed the qualities needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to get at the facts in the most effectual way , without fear of hurting anybody or anybody 's friends . With men of the same temper associated with him he would make the inquiry serve the purpose for which alone it should be instituted . Ordinarily charges of bribery are a very difficult matter upon which to obtain positive and conclusive evidence , but in this case we have reason to believe that if the right kind of a committee were to go to work in the right way they would overcome all difficulty . It is quite possible that direct evidence of the clearest kind could be secured . It is certain that the projectors of the railroad enterprise and those concerned in its management could be compelled to disclose the uses to which the capital of the company was put . They could be made to produce their books and accounts , show the amount of money expended in establishing the railroad line , and the purposes for which it was expended . The legitimate cost of a railroad of the kind and length of that laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accuracy . If a large amount was expended in excess of that cost the fact can be found out , and it ought to be possible to discover what was done with the money . There is another line of evidence that might be effectively worked . Men whose standing and circumstances are so well known as those of the members of the New-York Board of Aldermen do not acquire sudden wealth without leaving traces of their acquisitions . If it can be shown that men who voted to grant the franchise in question shortly after appeared to have possession of unwonted means and made investments which they were previously unable to make , those facts will not be without significance . We believe it to be quite possible to lay bare the facts and circumstances attending the granting of this Broadway franchise in a manner that will be altogether convincing . The only thing needed is the power with ? which the Senate is competent to clothe its special committees , and an earnest purpose to pursue the inquiry without regard to where it may lead . Everything depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up so as to command confidence from the start and give assurance of success in ascertaining the truth , whatever it may be , and it can be so constituted as to lead to a predestined fiasco . The latter would be disgraceful to the Senate and a discouragement to every effort to expose corruption . Surely nothing is more important to the common weal than purity and honesty in the exercise of public trusts , and every corrupt betrayal of the people 's interests ought to be ruthlessly exposed and relentlessly punished . Let us by all means have this investigation , but let it be thorouah and honest .                     