@@781490

txt The tribute paid by M. DE FREYCINET to Gen. BOULANGER , who was a member of his own Cabinet as well as of the present one , is , so far as it goes , reassuring , inasmuch as it represents the War Minister to be acting in entire subordination to the Government 's policy . But the conclusion drawn by La France that " whatever opinion may be entertained of Gen. BOULANGER 'S character it is no longer time to discuss his influence  --  it is absolutely necessary to stand by him and support him , " seems hardly warranted . This officer has attracted a great deal of attention since 1884 , but nothing in his career makes it certain that he has the capacity to overthrow and punish the empire of Germany . He is a favorite with the army , ambitious , active , and self-reliant . Ile has done much , too , to perfect the organization of the French military establishment , and has shown administrative ability at its head as striking as his personal gallantry in his somewhat limited experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , would not entitle BOULANGER to the support of his countrymen in bringing on a war which they do not desire , or about whose timeliness they have any misgivings . Last year La France litilltaire , the organ of the War Minister , declared that " in five years Gen. BOULANGER will make the German Princes tremble on their thrones . " But that is a different matter from undertaking the task now . The.true danger to the military establishment of Germany must be looked for within her borders , and thus far there is no evidence of deterioration in that splendid military weapon with which MOLTKE smote successively the empire and the republic of France , crushing the one at Sedan and conquering the other at Paris . At that time France was not only forced to accept such a defensive frontier as the Germans were willing to grant , but yielded up large areas , so that to-day she has 7,500,000 less population than Germany from which to draw her fighting men . Iler national debt , too , is three times as great as Germany 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-half heavier . These facts may well be taken into consideration by those who see only that France has perhaps one-fourth more men with the colors to-day than Germany . When the reserves come out Germany will at the last extremity have more men to resort to , provided she can keep her hold on Alsace-Lorraine . Indeed , her reserves now ordered out to drill with the repeating rifle would make the numbers of the two armies thus in the field about equal . It has been suggested that BOULANGER counts on an . advantage in weapons . But so far as can be ascertained the substitution of repeating rifles for single-loaders has been at least as complete in the German as in the French Army , and the former may even have the greater supply for the reserves . Much has been said of the wonderful high explosive with which BOULANGER has been experimenting for the bursting charge of shells ; but the Germans may have the same compound or one as destructive . While , also , with other things equal , a new weapon like the needle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have no such effect , as NAPOLEON found with the mitrailleuse . In short . while France is vastly better prepared for war than in 1870 , there is no evidence that she yet has the degree of readiness to insure success . But without it the folly of supporting BOULANGER in any policy that would.precipitate war is obvious . It is only fair , however , to say that he has not as yef been tempted into marring any ultimate purpose of a war with Germany by premature demonstrations . The existing indications are rather that the provocations may come from the side of BISMARCK and . MOLTKE , who perhaps think it better to strike France before she is fully ready . Meanwhile the people of the two nations as a whole are showing no eagerness for war .                     