@@781472

txt As the news columns of THE TIDIES has lately set forth , Mrs. EMMA J. FEARING has got possession of the equity ear of a court in Baltimore , and is pouring into it a singular tale of woe . Her story is that she inadvertently married a mulatto in 1878 , and lived happily with him for some months , when she surprised his secret by coming upon the " tin-type " of his nephew , whose unusual darkness of complexion was evident , although she had herself given billth to a child , about whose personal appearance there was nothing suspicious . But she so wrought upon her husband with the tin-type that he confessed that he had African blood in his veins , and , was , in point of fact , a light mulatto . This is a queer and questionable tale . Mrs. FEARING tries to render it credible by declaring that she was brought up in NewBrunswick , which will no doubt account for a good deal , and that she " had never heard of such a being as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her husband was a mulatto , some dreadful image of a mulatto rose before her mind which " mortified her beyond expression , " and dashed her cup of connubial happiness to the ground . After having , with the reckless gayety of despair , plunged for a while into the society of her husband 's brother and her husband 's brother 's wife , both " light mulattoes , " and of the child whose " tin- type " had for the first time roused her to a sense of her miserable condition , she concluded to begin a suit to have her marriage declared void . No doubt there is something unpleasant for a Caucasian in the knowledge that she is doomed to pass her life in a coffeecolored society by reason of having married one of its ' members . But if all wives who did not approve of the kindred and acquaintance of their husbands were therefore to apply to have their marriages an- , nulled , the courts would not have leisure for any other business . And according to the laws of the States which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is all the case she has . It can scarcely be alleged by a wife that a marriage which she did not object to wadi more than a year after it had been celebrated , ' and then only upon the exhibition of the portrait of her husband 's nephew , is unnattual , or that her aversion to it is instinctive , like the repugnance which , according to Mr. MATTHEW ARNOLD , all rightly constituted male minds feel for their deceased wives ' sisters . Now that this New-Brunswick Eve has eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil , and discovered that her husband revolts all the finer feelings of her nature , she can live by herself . But , by converting a prejudice into an afterthought , she seems to have put it out of the power of the courts to put Der in the legal position of a single woman . The ultimate moral of this affecting story seems to be the same as that of many other stories , sacred and profane , the same as the story of Eve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is perfectly possible that when Lohengrin adjured his bride never to ask after his family , he was trying to conceal from her , for her own good , the fact that he was a light mulatto , and that the tenors have fallen into error ' in presenting him as a blonde . If Mrs. FEARING had not read her husband 's letters and privily inspected his tin-types , she might still be in her condition of blissful maiden ignorance that there is " such a being as a mulatto. "                     