@@743469

txt Capt . YOUNG , of the Narragansett , who last Sunday informed a Jersey City Methodist minister , while the latter was preaching , that he was a liar , has been acquitted Of the charge of disorderly conduct . The decision in his case is one of very great interest and importance , but it is a mistake to suppose that it establishes the right of every man to call every minister a liar . Should Capt . YOUNG undertake to interrupt Dr. Dix , as he interrupted the Jersey City Methodist , he would probably find that Judge PELOUBET 'S decision in the latter case could not be applied to the former . The acquittal of Capt . YOUNG was not based solely on the fact that he disapproved the teachings of the Rev. Mr. HAncourer . That indiscreet minister , while preaching the gospel of steam-boat accidents , remarked that the officers of the Narragansett were cowards . Of course , Capt . YOUNG did not like this assertion , and he thereupon exclaimed , to the minister 's great astonishment , " You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not discharge the Captain on the ground that a man who is called a coward is always justified in calling his accuser a liar . The Judge based his decision on the fact that Mr. HARCOURT is a Methodist , and as such is accustomed to have his sermons received by his congregation with such approving remarks as " Amen " and " Glory . " If , argued the Judge , it is not disorderly conduct to interrupt a Methodist sermon with exclamations of approval , it is not disorderly conduct to interrupt it with exclamations of disapproval . Had Capt . YOUNG , when the minister called him a coward , exclaimed " Amen , " or even remarked , " That 's right , Brother 1 " no one would have dreamed of calling him disorderly . With what justice , then , can he be charged with disorderly conduct because he made an exclamation of disapproval ? The force of this argument is undeniable , and the decision rendered in accordance with it very properly set Capt . YOUNG at liberty . While it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Methodist minister while in the act of preaching a sermon that he is a liar , it by no means follows that other varieties of ministers may be thus interrupted . In the Episcopal Church , the congregation has no right to make any expressions of approval except those prescribed by the liturgy . If Capt . YOUNG were to attend service at Trinity Church , and were to exclaim " Amen " in the midst of the sermon , lie would clearly be guilty of disorderly conduct , and were he to express an unfavorable opinion of the clergyman 's veracity , no possible defense save that of insanity would be of any use to him . Under Judge PELOUBET 'S decision , expressions of disapproval can be lawfully made only in congregations where expressions of approval are permitted . Thus the class of ministers who can lawfully be called liars is a limited one , and certainly does not include Episcopal ministers . Among the Presbyterians no expressions of approval or of disapproval are permitted while a sermon is in progress , though , of course , after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister of heretical views . It may be claimed that any Presbyterian woman may lawfully throw a threelegged stool at the minister if , in the course of his sermon , he expresses opinions that are not strictly orthodox , for the reason that this was done many years ago by a ' zealous Scotchwoman , one JENNY GEDDEs by name , and her memory has ever since been held in devout admiration . Nevertheless , it must be remembered that no court ever expressed a judicial opinion as to Mrs. GEDDES 'S conduct , and though modern American Presbyterians may hold that it was right and meritorious to throw three-legged stools at Scotch ministers of the last century , they would certainly oppose any revival of the practice . If a man goes to a modern Presbyterian church he is expected . to refrain from both stools and epithets , and if Capt . YOUNG wants to call a Presbyterian minister a liar he will find the indulgence of his desire an expensive proceeding . While we may , as a matter of taste , pre .. fer that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to deny that Judge PELOUBET 'S decision may have a wholsome influence upon a certain class of ministers . When a minister selects a steamboat disaster , or a railroad collision , or a walking-match , or a base-ball garde as a topic for a sermon , there are those who believe that he exhibits extremely bad taste , to say nothing worse of him . If the minister is an ambassador of GOD , charged with the duty of pointing out to men the way of salvation , we have a right to expect that he will perform his duty . The success of Mr. TALMAGE in substituting gymnastics for the Gospel , and in delivering comic lectures instead of calling men to repentance , has had a wide influence upon other ministers . They have found that it is easier to win admiration by a harrowing description of a shipwreck than it is to preach a plain practical sermon , Now , if the sensational minister finds that his hearers can with impunity interrupt him , and challenge the truth of his assertions , he will begin to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old paths and preach CHRIST instead of the Stonington Steam-boat Company . We can even imagine that Mr. TALMAGE himself might be compelled to respect decency to some extent were his congregation to be permitted to criticise him after the manner in which Capt . YOUNG criticised Mr. HARCOURT . For example , when he announced that because he had preached a preposterous sermon on the theatre several actors had solemnly resolved to assassinate him in the pulpit , he might possibly have been made to blush had some bold man informed him that his assertion was untrue and chal- lenged him to produce the evidence on which it was founded . The law as interpreted by Judge . PELOUBET would entirely justify any one in calling Mr. TALMAGE a liar , for the reason that although he is nominally a Presbyterian and not a Methodist , his congregation is accustomed to express loud approval of his sermons . A little determination in expressing disapproval of Mr. TALMAGE 'S antics might have an excellent effect , and is certainly worth trying . Of course , many zealous Methodists will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but its ultimate effect will be a beneficial one . By this time Mr. HARCOURT is probably convinced that his last Sunday 's sermon was a mistake , and he will be careful not to be again guilty of a like mistake , lest the terrible Capt . YOUNG should again rise up and call him the reverse of blessed . Other ministers who have adopted the bad habit of sensational preaching will be henceforth much more careful than they have been , and they will no longer make , while in the pulpit , wild and reckless assertions which they would not venture to make outside of the pulpit . Capt . YOUNG may prove to have been the unwitting impulse toward a reformation in preaching , and the precedent established in his case may be an inestimable check upon pulpit license .                     