@@781747

txt A true American , bearing the good old Puritan name of LUDWIG JABLONOWSKI , has come to the conclusion that the rights and liberties of the workingmen are in danger . In his capacity of talking delegate of the Anarchist section of the cigarmakers he reached that conclusion some time ago , but it was only on Sunday that he hit upon the remedy . He propounded his remedy in the form of a resolution that it was the sense of the Central Labor Union that " the workingmen of New-York and vicinity be ordered to abstain from buying or reading the capitalistic newspapers . " If this resolution does not vindicate the right of the workingman to do as he likes it would be hard to say what will . The capitalistic press , it seems , comprises the entire press of New-York in the English language , with the exception of a paper called the Leader , which alone meets the views of JABLONOWSKI . This exception , indeed , is anomalous . It requires more or less money to get out even one issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an individual , or by a number of persons who take stock . The financial basis of the Leader , it appears , is stock held by workingmen at $1 a share , which is about the amount of a three months ' subscription . Whether the provision of the money is made by one person or by many , whoever furnishes it is to that extent a capitalist . If he has taken stock as an investment , he must necessarily desire that the programme of universal brotherhood , confiscation , explosion , and happiness may not be executed until he has got his money back . There must therefore be an irrepressible conflict between the business manager of an Anarchist newspaper and the wildeyed evangelists of the editorial rooms . The former belongs to the capitalistic class , even if he have only money enough to pay his compositors and buy the paper for the next issue . It is painful to note that even the redhanded JABLONOWSKI belongs to the class which he denounces , and appealed for the support of the Central Labor Union in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said , " had invested a great deal of money in the paper and the money ought not to be lost . " Upon a delegate asking how much money he had invested in the Leader , the orator replied that " he and his crowd had invested as much money as any one else , and that it was only fair that the workingmen should be compelled to support the paper . " That the workingmen should be ordered not to read the paper of any capitalist but one , in order that the investment of that one should be Protected and made profitable .                     