@@743981

txt As a reformer Mr. GEORGE BLISS is decidedly eccentric . No one has ever set forth more fully or forcibly than did he in November , 1879 , in an open letter to CHESTER A. ARTHUR , then Chairman of the Republican Central Committee of this City , the abuses existing in the local party organization . He claims that they are not so flagrant now as they were at that time , but evidence is wholly lacking to support the improbable assumption that the process of degeneration was arrested after the date of his letter and that amelioration spontaneously set in . In fact , all the evidence goes to show that the organization is now quite as bad as when its demerits were so forcibly described by Mr. BLISS less than two years ago . The Assembly district associations contain scarcely one-tenth of the Republican voters of the City , and no effort is made to secure a fair representation of the party in them . It is not mere apathy that keeps Republicans out of them , but the membership is purposely kept under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expelled for no reason but lack of subserviency to the leaders . The rolls are manipulated for the purpose of carrying ' elections and caucuses . The recent rejection of Congressman McCoores vote in his own district is an illustration of the frauds perpetrated by this method . It is well known that Republicans are kept:out of the associations , that members are prevented from exercising their privileges in them , that men not members are brought in to cast votes for the machine managers , and that every form of abuse and corruption is rank in the Republican organization of this City as it exists to-day . No man knows this better than GEORGE Brass , and yet he was instrumental in defeating the movement in the State Convention in favor of a re-enrollment and reorganization . That this defeat was permitted by the anti-machine majority is a stain upon the record which it made in the convention . The Committee on Credentials , of which Mr. BLISS was a leading member , reported a resolution in favor of charging the State Committee with the task of securing the needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important business was completed , and then it was laid on the table by a slender majority of five . Though the total vote on the question was more than one hundred short of the number of delegates , that in favor of tabling the resolution exceeded the full strength of the Stalwarts . It is freely charged that the fraudulent practices of the local machine were brought into requisition for the defeat of reorganization . Certainly the arguments used were discreditable alike to the intellect and the honesty of those employing them . Mr. BLISs knows perfectly well that the Republican voters of New-York and Brooklyn are not represented by the machine , and that they hold to their party allegiance in spite of their repugnance to its methods . He knows that the large vote , of last Fall was in no sense or measure due to the character or capacity of the men who control the associations . It was not brought out by them or through them , and probably would have been larger but for the odium which they bring upon the party , reorganization is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the party in the City . Mr. Blass may have been carried away by a desire to defeat DITTENHOEFER and the Republican clubs , but in doing so he defeated , also , the desires of the respectable Republicans of the City . The only semblance of a decent argument used against the resolution providing for a reorganization under the direction of the State Committee was that which maintained that the Republicans of this City have the right to control their own organization. , It was assumed that a committee representing the whole party of the State had no business to interfere with the enrollment and the organization in these two counties . That is the right of the voters who live in them . In theory this view is sound . The Republican voters of New-York and Brooklyn have the right to organize in their own way and to direct their own action so far as local party affairs are concerned ; but it is a notorious fact that they are prevented from doing so by the usurpations of a few active , self-seeking politicians , who not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes in so doing . If those voters desired the aid of the State Convention and the State Committee in the recovery of their rights , they should have had it . It would not have prevented them from controlling their own organization , but would have enabled them to do so . That aid was refused at the bidding of the usurpers from whose control it was desired to rescue the organization , and Mr. Bliss made himself conspicuous among the number . The fact still remains that there is need of reorganization in this City . The corruptions , abuses , and evil-doings of the district associations , their misrepresentation of the Republican voters , and their efforts even to defeat the will of the voters when clearly made known , are a burden which the party can not safely carry . They do not win but repel votes . They are not a source of strength but of weakness . They constitute one element , and that not a small one , in the bundle of considerations which lead Republicans to keep away from the polls on election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic ticket as a means of extorting from their own party that regard for their rights which they seem unable to secure in any other way . Can the reform come from within ? Can the party in the City reorganize itself without the help of the State Committee or of representatives of the party out of the City ? Doubtless it can , but it is evident that no effort for this purpose will come from the existing associations or those who control them . The reform must come , if at all , not as a reorganization of these associations , but as an organization of the far larger part of the party outside of them . Some means must be devised whereby Republican voters can act freely in the preliminary movements of the party ; or there can be no permanent health in its organization . 