@@745613

txt Facts have just come to light of an outrageous assault upon Mrs. Margaret Gaw , a handsome lady , who resides alone at No. 1,458 Wilson-avenue , her husband , an officer in the late war , being an inmate of the Newburg Asylum . This morning sbe called upon the Superintendent of Police and made the following statement . She said she was alone Wednesday night , when , about 8 o'clock , two men called and inquired it she had any rooms to rent . She informed them that she bad , when they asked to see them . She invited them into the house , and , proceeding toward the rear of the building , was about to conduct them Into the room , the only one she had to rent . At3 she stepped across the threshold of the parlor'the men sudddnly seized her , and , throwing a towel over her face , completely blindfolded her , and also prevented her crying for assistance . They then carried her to a large sofa , and , as she thought , were about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded that she toll them where her husband 's pension papers were , and also the papers appointing her guardian of her husband . The men after gaining possession of the papers sat her in a chair and , after threatening her with Instant death if she refused , made her sign her name two or three times . She was unable to see , being blindfolded and almost stifled , so that it was necessary for one of the men to guide her arm while she was signing . The woman by this time was half dead from fright . She was then tied to the chair , and th e men , after again threatening her life if she made the slightest outcry , left . The woman succeeded in freeing her bands and tearing the towel from her face . It was 9 o'clock when she was able to call for assistance . She was so prostrated that she was unable to notify the police authorities until this morning . She could give no reason for the assault . For some time she had had trouble with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought that perhaps one of the papers she signed was a renunciation of her guardianship rights . After visiting the Police Superintendent she went direct to the Probate Judge 's ofitce and related that she had not renounced any claims or rights affecting her husband . The outrage is one of the boldest ever perpetrated in this city . Mrs. Gaw is about 55 years of age , and for a number of years held a prominent clerkship in the Post Office Department . She resides in one of the most fashionable places in the city , and the outrage is the more desperate front the fact that persons occupied suites of rooms directly over her but the whole affair was conducted so noiselessly that not a sound was heard . Detectives are now hunting up the case . As yet they have discovered no clue . No other valuables were taken . although there were money and jewels within reach of the men . 