@@780559

txt A war that is raging at Fair Haven , the great oyster centre , a few miles below this town , among those of the inhabitants who gain a livelihood by digging clams and those who are accumulating wealth In the oyster business , is attracting much attention and no little excitement . Fair Haven for years past has been noted for the quality as well as the quan tity of the famous Shrewsbury bivalve shipped from that point to New-Yora . Several of those engaged in the business , who commenced with but a fiat-bottomed scow and a pair of grippers , have become wealthy , while others have failed and have been compelled to seek other pursuits for a livelihood . The business of those who have been successful has grown extensively and during the past year several thousand barrels of the bivalves have been shipped to Europe . besides the great supplies demanded by the New-York markets . The unfortunate many who have been driven out of the oyster trade by the lucky few had recourse to clam digging , and they look with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusive oyster " grabber , " and claim that the oystermen are infringing upon their lights and demand them to desist . For some time the clam men have been holding what they call indignation meetings , and protests were sent to the oystermen that every resident of the State had equal rights to the river , especially the oyster-beds , as most of the oysters were national plants . The oystermen not deigning to listen to the protestations of the clam men , a monster meeting of the clam-diggers was held on Monday last , at which it was resolved to warn the oysterman of the infringement on public : ground , and to notify them to remove their oysters within 510 hours , or they , the oiam men , would he compelled to perform the task for thorn at their own expense , and confiscate the oysters . The resolutions , after a very warm debate , at the suggestion of some nf the cooler headed clam men , were afterward modified , and the oystermen were given 10 days to take up their beds in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clam men on the ground that the oystermen are occupying natural ground , and have at this time nearly the entire bottom of the river covered with oysters , thus preventing the gathering of clams , by which many have gained a living . The oystermen , upon the other hand , claim the right to occupy the ground they have taken up , and complain of the defects of the law that is intended to protect them . They also feel aggrieved at the action of the clam men , whom they say they have employed and to whom they have paid thousands of dollars . and they ( the oystermen ) intend to fight the matter in the courts , if it cogs all that they have made in the oyster business . The general opinion is that the clam men will he successful , as a test case was tried in the Supreme Court two years ago , where two men were arrested and tried for stealing oysters out of the Shrewsbury River . Many such thefts had occurred , clam men generally being charged with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and South Shrewsbury Rivers and Pleasure Bay assisted in the prosecution of the prisoners , and the most eminent counsel In the State was employed by the oystermen to assist the Public Prosecutor . The accused in defense claimed that the Shrewsbury River 's bottom was covered with natural oyster-beds , and that the grounds being public ones the oysters were as free as the fish that sworn in the river . The Court was of the same opinion and the men were discharged . The oystermen declare that they will protect the oyster-hetis with an armed body of men , and a lively time is expected should the clam men attempt to carry out their 10 day resolution .                     