@@744575

txt The present year is to be an exceedingly barren one for politics , but a small beginning has already been made in Rhode Island . Something calling itself an Independent Party met in Providence yesterday and nominated ex-Gov . WILLIAM SPRAGUE as its candidate for Governor . It also appointed a committee to confer with . " any other organization " regarding the make-up of the rest of the ticket . " Any other organization " evidently means the Democratic Party of Rhode Island , which is to hold its convention next Tuesday . The expectation seems to be that that party will allow its candidate for Governor to be named for it by these so-called Independents , who in return are quite willing to accept any candidates the Democrats may offer for the . other offices . There . is reasonable ground for the suspicion that these Independents are merely an exploiting party of Democrats sent out in advance to prepare the way for SPRAGUE 'S nomination . We know of no other basis or purpose for an independent party in Rhode Island . The State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has never acted as an advance guard for Democrats , and Mr. SPRAGUE would be a queer candidate for it to put forward . There has also been a small and select Greenback Party there . Last year it had a candidate for Governor , and showed its confidence in him to the extent of 120 votes . There is really no independent party in Rhode Island , but the Democrats , seeing how successful eccentricity was in Massachusetts last year in the nomination of Gen. BUTLER , have apparently decided to make a sensational nomination themselves by putting up Mr. SPRAGUE . But SPRAGUE is a very different man from BUTLER . He has a brief and somewhat brilliant political career behind him . As a young man with a good deal of spirit and plenty of money lie became the Republican candidate for Governor and was elected . In. fact he figured in a small way as a " war Governor , " and gained some prestige not only in raising but in commanding soldiers . He was afterward a Senator , but made little display in national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind chiefly by bankruptcy , domestic infelicity , not unconnected with . shot-guns ? and divorce proceedings , and by his recent marriage . Of his personal habits and characteristics much has been said , but doubtless the less said the better . Exactly when he changed his politics or what he has lately done to merit the honor of a nomination for Governor by any party , it would be hard to say . It is certain that the Republican Party could never afford to nominate a man with his recent record , but perhaps he is good enough for the Democrats of Rhode Island . According to the evidence of recent elections there are about 10,000 Republican and 5,000 Democratic voters in the State . If there is anything in the character and recent achievements of Mr. SPRAGUE to attract any of the former to join the latter they are not fit to be Republicans . Rhode Island is the only remaining Northern State to hold its election in the Spring . Louisiana holds its State election in April now , but has none this year . Michigan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are but eight States left which have general elections every year . and of the biennial States Kentucky alone elects in the odd years . Her election occurs in August , and she will elect a Governor for a term of four years . Massachusetts and Rhode Island are the only States which now indulge in the luxury of electing a Governor every year , but Governors are to be chosen this year in Iowa and Ohio , where the terms are for two years , and in New-Jersey , where the term is three years . In this State executive officers other than Governor and Lieutenant-Governor , as well as both branches of the Legislature , will be elected in November , and in Connecticut the election will be for members of the Legislature only . In addition to the regular elections , Georgia is soon to hold a special election for the choice of a successor to Gov . STEPHENS . It is evident that there will not be much stir in politics this year . It is the dullest of offyears . The Iowa and Ohio elections , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting , but their importance will be mainly local . The liquor question will be a disturbing element in both States , and general polities seems likely to be submerged . In this State and Massachusetts there will be some interest when the time comes , but it is still a good way off . The Rhode Island canvass is the first ripple in a dull campaign and does not promise to be a very lively one . The election comes early next mouth and then the only disturbance before the Autumn will be the midsummer campaign in Kentucky , where political contests are too one-sided to be exciting .                     