@@745067

txt When the Republican members of the Legislature shall have returned from the Utica Convention and resumed their duties at Albany they and their associates will do well to turn their thoughts to the question of winding up the work of the session . It is in their power to make up an unusually good record by completing the work of reform legislationoassing such general bills now pending as are really called for by the public interests , resisting all efforts to rush through any jobbery that is awaiting the hurry of the closing days , and coming to a speedy adjournment . The political canvass of the year is likely to absorb a good deal of attention very soon , and interest in legislative proceedings will inevitably lag . The people will be glad to have the Legislature:through with its work for the session , that their attention may not be too much divided . There are not many acts which one can easily recall as of importance that await consideration , and ? most . of these do not require much time in which to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this city only three have been signed by the Governor  --  that giving the Mayor untrammeled power of appoint- , ment after the present year , and those providing for the election of the Controller and the President of the Board of Alder- . men by a vote of the people . Seven of the bills reported by the Assembly Special Committee await the action of the Senate , but they are so well understood , and there is so little ground for opposition to them , that little time need be occupied in their final disposition . The bill which will give the Mayor elected next Fall the opportunity to appoint the Commissioner of Public Works and Corporation Counsel has passed the Senate , and ought to be vigorously pushed through the obstacles that impede its way in the Assembly . The Bureau of Elections bill ought also to be pressed with vigor and without unnecessary delay . What prospect there may be of other reform bills , as the result of the investigations that have been made , we do not know , but if the remaining commissions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single-headed , it would be a great gain . Among other bills of special interest to this city which ought to pass . are the new building law and the act limiting the height of dwellings , the bill stopping the absurd accumulation of the sinking fund , and that providing for the repavement of Fifth-avenue . The bill requiring electric wires to be put underground should also pass , and that authorizing the acquisition of lands for new parks beyond the Harlem River , as recommended by the commission appointed last year . The Arcade Railway bill , which has been ordered to a third reading in the Senate , is worthy-of careful consideration . The amendments of the Civil Service act should be restored to a sensible shape and adopted . The measures relating to the Adirondack forests and to convict labor are in an unsatisfactory condition , but something should be done for the security of public interests ? in these matters . - There are a number of other measures which will require attention , but the great mass of pending bills may as well be cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts introduced by ambitious members . Two or three . weeks of industrious work will dispose of everything that really needs to be done , ' and if the session is brought to a close early in May in an orderly and businesslike manner the people will be better satisfied with it than with any whose progress they have had occasion to watch for many a year .                     