@@672106

txt Senator CHANDLER 'S bill to transfer the Revenue Marine from the Treasury to the Navy Department seems to be received with favor in both of the " services " if not in both of the departments concerned . The primary object of the bill is doubtless to make places for the educated natal officers whom we are annually turning out in larger numbers than what we are pleased to describe as our navy can employ . So far as the bill proposes to secure a corps of competent naval officers for the Revenue Marine there can be no objection to it . There is quite as much and as valuable service to be seen and done in time of peace for an officer of the Revenue Marine as tor an officer of the navy . There are now no effective requirements that the officers of the revenue marine shall be fitted for their exacting work . No doubt many of them are so , bat their fitness is quite accidental . The Revenue Marine and the marine corps of the navy are about the only branches of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favoritism still dictates or may dictate the appointment of officers , and the anomalies ought to be removed as soon as possible . It is quite absurd that young men should be receiving every year at the public cost the education that admirably fits them for the Revenue Marine Service , and then be relegated to civil life because there is no professional work for them to do , while at the same time men are appointed to that service from civil life concerning whom there is no more presumption that they snow their business than there is , or used to be , in the case of officers of the British Army . But it seems by no means necessary , in order to secure competency in the revenue marine and to reduce the number of unemployed naval officers , to transfer the former service to the navy . Obviously it ' belongs to the Treasury . There is much more to be said for transferring the Lighthouse Board and the Coast Survey . Though the objects of the former board are commercial , its work is in the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do it better than anybody else . The questions that arise touching the establishment , construction , and maintenance of lighthouses and lightshins are rather naval than commercial questions . On the other hand , the employment of the revenue marine is manifestly a question for the Treasury . The commander of a revenue cutter is a Revenue Inspector afloat . He is , or ought to be , a sailor employed under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury to assist in the collection of the revenue . It is as necessary that he should be responsible to the Secretary as that an Appraiser or Inspector on shore should be so . The transfer of the whole service to the navy would almost necessarily give rise to an amount of friction between the departments that would impair instead of enhancing the usefulness of the revenue marine . There is no need of running this risk in order to secure the ostensible and laudable object of Senator CHANDLER 'S bill . That object would be attained by the legalization of an arrangement by which the supernumerary graduates of the Naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusion of persons in civil life . It might also be provided that they should hold a rank assimilated to that of men of their awn standing in the navy , and should be liable to be summoned back to the navy on any exigency . When we had a merchant marine naval officers were permitted to accept employment in it without abandoning their profession , and the arrangement was of value to the navy in giving these officers an experience they could not otherwise have enjoyed . It might be possible to make such an arrangement with reference to the revenue marine , so that its officers should be merely detailed front the navy without abandoning their connection with it or foregoing their prospect of promotion in it . But for this purpose it is not necessary to take so radical and so objectionable a , step as the transfer of the revenue marine to the navy .                     