@@743942

txt There was a slight improvement in the President 's condition at 7 o'clock to-night , and a great improvement in the tone and feeling about the White House in reference to the patient . This morning very few persons entertained hope of any favorable chance , and in all public gatherings the general aiscussion was as to the probable hour that would bring an end to the long and painful struggle . Everybody conceded that the President was beyond the point where human agency could be of service , and his death within a few hours was regarded as Inevitable . Even Dr. Bliss , the most hopeful of ; the surgeons , reluctantly admitted that all chance of recovery had passed . In the morning a large crowd of anxious inquirers gathered about the White House , fully expecting to bear from each person who emerged From the mansion that the hand of death was laid on the President . Last night there was a rally that furnished hope to the President 's watchers , but about 4 o'clock this morning the slight advantage gained was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point than before the temporary improvement . The members of the Cabinet , who were at the White House until a late hour last night , retired in good spirits , and their surprise , therefore , at the unfavorable change that was presented when they reassembled this morning was greater and more startling when contrasted with the state of : he case when they were last together . The change was so decided that some of them , feared death would ensue within 12 hours , and not one of them felt that the President could live over Sunday . The surgecus were appealed to , but no enccurazernent could be extracted from them . These gentlemen thought there was still hope that the President would rally ander the influence of the stimulants which were being administered , but in the general exhaustion of the patient and the total absence of all reserve force , they could see no reasonable chance for recovery . The figures of the morning bulletin were pointed to as the unerring indication of dissolution . Life could be sustained for some time by stimulants , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abnormal agencies , and malees nature would come to their aid recovery was impossible . The President took the usual quantities of nourishment , but it did no : assimilate , and physical exhaustion was proceeding slowly but surely . With pulse at 120 , temperature below normal , and respiration going on with dangerous freouency , the end could not be far off . It was not only the frequency of the pulse that gave cause for elarna bet it was found to be weak End flattering , and at times hardly perceptible to the delicate touch of the surgeons . There was certainly abundant reason for despondency , and , except . Mrs. Gerald , who clings to her faith it tltimnte recovery with a devotion that has never wavered , few persons could resist the conviction that the President was soon to pass Lto the dark valley . People for the time beine ceased to discuss the probabilities of recovery and talked about the coming of his successor , which caused a report to be circulated that Vice-President Arthur had been summoned to the capital . The appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a firm conviction that it would show a greater divergence between pulse and temperature than was shown by the S o'clock ansiouncement Larger crowds than have been seen since the first days of the tragedy assembled about the centres of information , and patiently awaited a confirmation of the sad convictions forcea upon the popular mind by the previous hopeless reports from the sick-room . The noon bulletin was anything but encouraging , but was not so bad as was anticipated . There was no improvement , but there was at least a temporary check to the decline , and the temperature being increased to one degree above normal gave some assurance that the tide of life had not yet begun to ebb . The ground for encouragement , it is true , was slight , but it was sufficient to arrest the gloomy thought that had hitherto predominated , and the more hopeful were again induced to believe that the President still had that one chance which he so eagerly seized immediately after he was shot , and to which he has so tenaciously clung ever since . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and importuned for additional information and for their opinion . Dr. Reyburn thought there was a faint hope for recovery . Dr. Bliss did not believe that the President could recover ; if it were not for the condition of the parotid gland he might gain strength and make progress , but he was unable to see how the process of repair could begin and proceed in the presence of that complication ; but the President would not die suddenly , and might linger two or three days . Dr. Hamilton said there was nothing to communicate outside of the bulletin , and , when asked directly if he thought the President would die , replied : " Do n't ask me that question . " The manner in which he said this carried the same conviction to the minds of those who heard him as if he had replied affirmatively to the question . To those who have followed all the varying changes of the President 's case there was no ground for reasonable hope , and the changes reported in the afternoon seemed to them only a fluctuation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than before . As the afternoon passed , however , and the improvement continued , hopes that had been abandoned were revived , and earnest prayers were silently uttered that the change might continue . The 7 o'clock bulletin was looked forward to with . nervous interest . It justified the favorable reports that had preceded it . There was slight amelioriation of the symptoms , and the general improvement was manifested in the pulse and temperature . The effect has been to give renewed hope to the public and fresh courage to the surgeons . The change may be - spasmodic , but it is sufficient to create a feeling of renewed hopefulness and should it continue to-morrow , will go far toward re-establishing confidence in the ultimate recovery of the President .                     