@@745468

txt The cholera has spread from the southeastern Provinces of Spain to Madrid , and it is reported that there have been two fatal cases in Marseilles . The death rate in Valencia is large . Of those who are attacked only one-half survive . It may be that the most vigorous and well directed efforts would not have suppressed the disease in the Mediterranean Provinces of Spain , but it is plain that the Spanish Government and the doctors , by making no such efforts , by failing to enforce even ordinary sanitary measures , and by assiduously striving to conceal from the world the fact that the plague had broken out there , allowed it to spread from village to village and from city to city until it became powerful enough to defy any sanitary organization . The condition of one of the Mediterranean cities in which the disease found so many victims last year has been improved . Some hundreds of thousands of dollars have been spent in giving to Naples a supply of good water , and some millions are to be spent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that city appear to have been enlightened by the events of last year . Official reports from Marseilles . recently forwarded , show that the city is no cleaner than it was when the disease broke out there oie year ago . The people have learned nothing . Marseilles is fairly drained and has an abundant supply of water , but it can never be healthful so long as the discharge of all its sewage into its stagnant harbor converts that harbor into a great cesspool . Toulon is as bad as ever . There are no underground sewers , and the city 's refuse either pollutes the soil or is deposited upon the filth of centuries in one of the foulest harbors in the world . The condition of American cities is , on the whole , better than it was when the cholera was raging in Southern France last July . Boards of Health have become more active and vigilant , and many citizens have become deeply interested in sanitary work . But there is a great deal to be done . A rigorous quarantine is doubtless of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our own Board of Health and the volunteer associations that have already been of great service should redouble their efforts to make New-York clean ; and the adjoining cities should not fall behind them in the work .                     