@@744147

txt The House of Commons has temporarily disposed of Mr. BRADLAUGH , but at the cost of law , precedent , the rights of Englishmen , and its own honor , all of which have been heedlessly set aside to accomplish this unworthy end . As for the Ministry , its course yesterday was fairly contemptible . It has treated this Bradlaugh question ever since it arose in a strangely pusillanimous fashion , which has finally degenerated into something undistinguishable from downright cowardice . It is , indeed , amazing and incomprehensible to see the man whose heart bled at the Bulgarian outrages and whose lips overflowed with vehement denunciation of the Government policy which encouraged them , the noble and tireless orator of the memorable Midlothian campaign , and the lion-hearted Minister who , with unflagging vigor and masterly parliamentary skill , carried the Land bill through its three months ' debate to its final passage , languidly resigning his functions as the leader of the House into the hands of a majority led by Sir STANFORD NORTHCOTE , and promising to give that majority " his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which that meek surrender and evasion of duty called out from the Opposition benches would be echoed wherever the story of that shameful day is read were not the spectacle so deeply humiliating for a venerable statesman whose career surpasses in dignity and lasting achievement that of any other Englishman of his time . If the 286 members who voted against Mr. BRADLAUGH 'S admission to his seat ou the opening day of the session and the 291 members who yesterday voted for his expulsion are to be justified in their course , it must be in one of two ways  --  that they have performed a duty to religion in keeping an avowed atheist out of the House of Commons or a duty to law in denying the right to sit and vote to a man who once declared , not that an oath would not he binding on his conscience , but that it would be " a meaningless addendum to a promise . " The first plea falls to the ground instantly when we examine the consequence of their action . They have advertised this ranting and boastful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever advertised before , and they have made him a martyr in the eyes of the majority of the so-called lower classes of England , by putting him in the position of a deeply wronged man . There is no surer way to damage and discredit religion . It does not require a very profound acquaintance with English law to understand that it has been violated , not kept , in the present instance . When Mr. BRADLAUGII , in the session of 1880 , asked to be allowed to affirm , the law officers of the Government decided that he might do so at his own risk , subject to the action of the courts . This established the principle that the question involved was one of the law of the land , upon which the courts , not the House of Commons , must decide . In this case the courts decided , when a suit was brought , that he had no right to sit and vote on simple affirmation , and his seat was thus vacated . Re-elected by his Northampton constituents , he was denied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. GLADSTONE on that occasion also yielding up his prerogative of leadership into the hands of Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE . Finally , seeking to maintain his rights and perform his duty to his constituents by brute force , Mr. BRADLAUGH was forcibly expelled from the precincts of the House . On his reappearance , Feb. 7 , his case stood upon precisely the same grounds as at the previous session , and the Ministry took , but disgracefully failed to maintain , the position that , as the question was one of law , the House must allow Mr. BRA.PLAUGEC to take the oath subject to the decision of the courts . This was the only legal course , but the House took the other and illegal one by excluding him . When Mr. BRADLAUGH took the oath and his seat on Tuesday , therefore , he was clearly within his legal right , a right which had been recognized by the Ministry and its law officers . If any one broke the law it was the Speaker in ordering him to retire , yet for . disobeying this illegal order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion Of Sir STAFFORD NOT.THCOTE , with the assent of Mr. GLADSTONE and the assisting votes of the Marqu is of HARTINGTON , Mr. Goscrisx , and other Liberals , Mr. BRADLAUGH was declared expelled from the House of Commons , and a new writ has been ordered to issue . The tone of the provincial press throughout England and Scotland and the denunciation of the course of the House by innumerable guilds and unions show which way public opinion leans , and the temper of the Northampton electors , as already once evinced , makes it almost certain that Mr. BRADLAUGH will be a third time returned . The Government is not yet rid of its troubles in this matter , and if justice is clone it ought not to be rid of them until it is brought to a better unaerstanding of what the majority of English voters appear to think are its duties . The London Telegraph , in a sentence of masterful illiberality , faithfully sums up the situation : " Mr. BRADLAUGH is wholly distasteful to the House of Commons as an assembly , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple reaffirmation of this fact . " The only hopeful feature of this wretched business is that the men called Radicals , now the sole dependence of England for the reform of her laws and the future liberal direction of her affairs , are found voting on the right side .                     