@@744631

txt The Senate in passing the Aqueduct bill yesterday adopted a number of amendments which restored it to an acceptable shape except in regard to the constitution of the commission which is to have control and direction of the work . That remains all reported by the Committee on Cities , , the commission consisting of the Mayor , Controller , Commissioner of Public Works , and . Messrs . WILLIAM DOWD , GEORGE W. LANE , and JAMES C. SPENCER . This is . still the politicians ' bill . Against this is opposed the plan of a commission a controlling majority of which shall consist of private citizens , selected in such a way as to give assurance not only of special qualifications but of purposes and methods in accord with the demand that there shall be no political jobbery in this work . The naming in the bill of men who represent certain political parties or factions is not the way to secure this result . It may be that Mayor EDSON would disappoint the expectations of the people if the selection were given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the public mind and in view of the professions ' which he has made he would not venture to appoint politicians or men who would fall under the sway of politicians . We believe that he would be constrained to select men who represent the non-partisan demands of the community . There would be one advantage in imposing the responsi- , bility upon him , at any rate , and that is that he is one man upon whom the full wrath of an outraged people could be wreaked , and he would have to act under a sense of accountability . But the Legislature and its committees and cabals can be held to no strict account by the people of this City . We regret to say that the result of the Cooper Institute meeting of last evening ? was far from satisfactory . It demanded a commission a " continuous majority " of which should consist " of private citizens specially qualified . and ' having equal powers with the other Commissioners . It commended the Mayor 's bill and protested against partisan control of the aqueduct enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance of the bill passed by the Senate yesterday , provided a fourth name is added which shall be satisfactory to the Mayor , and to the Committee of Sixty appointed to carry out , the purposes of the meeting . This is a virtual surrender of the more important part of the citizens ' demand . The thing wanted is four Commissioners with a controlling power to keep , the whole enterprise ! out of politics altogether and with a disposition to do so from first to last . This will not be attained by the present bill even with an entirely satisfactory name added to those now contained in it . ' If the respectable gentlemen who met at the Cooper Institute last night had boldly and firmly adhered ' to the Mayor 's plan they would have had far more influence at Albany . The yielding and-compromising spirit which they displayed is what the politicians counted on .                     