@@743520

txt The Washington Sentinel , a Democratic paper published here in the interests of the German brewers and maltsters of the country , is very angry about the selection of the District 's representatives on the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee , and declares that a selfconstituted coterie has seized the organization , and seeks to run it for personal objects . Not one of the District representatives , it says , would have been selected by a District caucus , or by a caucus of the Democrats in Congress . After paying its respects to Stilson Hutchins and Duncan S. Walker , who represent the District on the committee , it says : " Walker is paid large salaries by the Congressional and the National Committees for services hitherto regarded as honorary , and which most competent gentlemen in New-'York and elsewhere have offered to perform without charge . Big houses are hired to magnify the importance of individuals , when the best quarters were offered free of cost . Who pays the piper for all this dancing ? Six weeks have passed since the Cincinnati Convention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , junketing , and parading in print . The Republican Committee have sent out over 1,000,000 documents from this city , while our self-glorifying managers have not printed or mailed a single one . The thing has gone too far . No work has been done of the least value . The cause is imperiled by criminal neglect , by stupidity , by bad whisky , or by something worse . Leading Democrats who have visited the city , and others at a distance , complain loudly of the condition of things . The Democrats on the spot , who are not trading politicians or ring allies , demand a change for the better forthwith ere it be too late . If Mr. Barnum and his associates do not heed this notice and act upon it promptly , we shall see if there be not some other resource that will look to the endangered interests of the party . Gen. Hancock shall not be sacrificed if we can help it , nor shall the Democracy be betrayed in the house of its friends . Be warned in time . " 