@@781788

txt Many long-suffering residents of this City may get a. crumb of comfort out of Judge VAN HOESEN 'S interpretation of the law concerning noise nuisances , although relief is beyond their reach . Mrs. ' EMILY LIMITTARD brought suit against the person who carries on the milk business in Fifty-thirdstreet , nearly opposite her hobse . She asked for damages , and ' applied for an . injunction to restrain the milkman from continuing to deprive members of her family of ' sleep in the early hours of the morning . The appli-cation was denied , . and the questions involved will not be considered again until the case shall be taken up for trial , but in denying the application Judge VAN HOESEN said : " Although the business is lawful and useful to the public , the defendant can not be permitted to conduct it in such a manner as to disturb his neighbors in the reasonable enjoyment of their property . " . Where there is one resident of this City who is deprived of his . sleep after 4 o'clock in the Morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who are engaged in the milk business , there are a thousand who are the patient victims of merciless licensed vendors : From early morn throughout the day " the barbaric gawp " of itinerant fruit merchants resounds in up-town streets that would be peaceful and quiet if . these pests could be induced.to stay- out of them . In many of these streets there is no commercial excuse for their presence , for they never sell any of their stale fruit to the occupants of the houses . For hours ' they wander along the sidewalks in these ' " brown-stone cations , " crying their " stTawbaize " and " blackbaize " in the dialect that is peculiar to their tribe , but no one is foolish enough to buy . It is one of the mysteries of a vendor 's life  --  this continual waste of time and lung power , day after day , in neighborhoods where , a vendor was never known to sell a basket of his stale truck . Where sales are frequently made to guileless and confiding persons there is some excuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be tolerated where he has no market , and where he persists in competing with four or five other ablebodied nuisances on the same block for the patronage of wholly imaginary customers ? There are. - other noisy and indefensible nuisances that ought to be abated , but at this time of the year the licensed vendor of stale fruit is the most obnoxious . The person who has chosen a residence far up town , away ' from the channels of trade , expecting to find there the quiet and peace that ought to be found there , hears the ear-splitting jargon of the vendor and knows that there can be peace for him no more . He suffers and tries to endure . He strives in vain to become accustomed to the horrid noise and the horrid echoes , and at last lapses into a condition of sullen submission . Is there no escape from this curse that blights so many parts of the City that are in other respects very attractive ? The experience of those who have suffered in the past seems to indicate that there is none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , there ought to be a remedy , not only in the matter of offending and unreasonable vendors , but also in the matter of the water-front factories that load with stenches the air that up-town residents must breathe . The business may be lawful , he says , and it may be Useful to the public , but those who are engaged in it can not be allowed to conduct it so as to . disturb other persons in the reasonable enjoyment of their property . No one can expect that law of this kind will be generally enforced unless citizens shall unite in demanding its enforcement , and the organization of ' bodies of citizens , for the purpose of protecting themselves against noise nuisances and other nuisances in this City is a dream of the theorist .                     