@@780694

txt Mr. Blaine and party left Cincinnati this morning about 10 o'clock by a special train on the Little Miami , Railroad . The first stop was at the little station of Milford , where there was a good-sized meet-. ing . Mr. Blaine was warmly received , and he spoke a few words of thanks . At Morrow , in Warren County , there was also a demonstration . The party lett the train , and Mr. Blaine 's carriage was escorted by the local committee ' and a troop of mounted " Plumed Knights " to ' a picturesque spot outside the town , , where several thousand people were assembled . Judge O'Neall , of Leoanon , introduced Mr. Elaine , who was received with cheering . He thanked the poople for their reception . He reminded them that Thomas Corwin , one of the great champions of the protective system , had represented Warren County iu Congress , andlexpressed the hope ghat the earnestness and ardor of the people in relation to that question would be as great in 1884 as Mr. Corwin had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this point was marred by a sad accident . The cannon with which the salute was tired exploded prematurely , killtig one man and injuring another . COLUMBUS , Oct. 3 . ? There was a large crowd at Xenia . Mr. Blaine was received by a local committee and escorted through the principal streets . When the procession reached the stand Mr. Blaine was received with cheers . He was presented by the Rev. Dr. James Gillespie Carson , a Presbyterian clergyman . Mr. Blaine said : " By a coincidence which is interesting tome I was here eight years ago this day to address a Republican meeting in the interest of the election of an Ohio statesman to the Presidency . The man then elected President gave way after an excellent administration of four years to another Ohio statesman , who. after an agony that touched the sensibilities of the whole world , sleeps In an honored grave . But with these changes some things have remained permanent , and among these are the foundation principles of the Republican Party . They remain , and the contest for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , and the appeal is again made to the people of Ohio , who hold to-day , as they held then , the post of responsibility and the post of honor , for the post of responsibility is always the pest of honor . It is for the Republicans of Ohio to say whether the principles on which they elected Hayes and on which they elected Garfield are still vital and still represent their convictions . " Mr. Blaine continued his journey through the country as far as Columbus , where great efforts had been made to give him an enthusiastic reception . Mr. Blaine reviewed a procession , and there was the usual crowd of curious people who wanted to see the tattooed candidate . Mr. Blaine will leave Columbus in the morning .                     