@@744647

txt Mr. WILLIAM MAHONE , Senator from Virginia , author of the Readjuster Party and " boss . " by the grace of the national Administration , of his State , has gone too far . He has , according to the statements of Congressman DEZENDORF , of the Norfolk District , " directly or indirectly solicited or been concerned in soliciting , assessments , subscriptions , or contributions for political purposes from employe of the United States or from persons receiving salary or compensation from moneys derived from the Treasury of the United States . " This is the language of the eleventh section of the act of Congress , approved Jan. 16 , 1883 . It describes with reasonable completeness the acts attributed by Mr. DEZENDORF to Mr. ' MAHONE . The fifteenth section of the same act says that " any person who shall be guilty of violating any provision " of the section referred to " shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor:and shall , on conviction thereof , be punished by a fine not exceeding $5,000 , or by imprisonment for a term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprisonment both , in the discretion of the court . " Under the circumstances , we recommend Mr. DEZENDORF to lay before the Prosecuting Attorney of the - United States the facts on which his accusation is based , and to demand that the law take its course . If he have not exaggerated the truth , and if he be able to sustain it by legal evidence , he may place Mr. MAHONE where Gen. CURTIS was placed in the Southern District of this State ; and if he does , he may be perfectly certain that the Supreme Court will not reverse the decision nor the President remit the fine . Such a course will not change the duty of the President and the heads of the Treasury , Post Office , and Naval Departments to act in the matter and to protect the employes of the Government from robbery or to punish those who have violated the law , but it would go a good way toward breaking down the influence of Mr. MAHONE , which , upon the whole , has been about as bad as that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . . There are two elements in the Mahone case which are particularly mischievous , and which we long ago predicted would more ? than offset any political advantage that could be got from his temporary cooperation with the Republican Party . The first of these is that the policy which he openly represents , is a dishonest one , the policy of practical repudiation of a part of the debt of his State . The second is that he has demanded and has been allowed to use the patronage of the United States Government in Virginia for partisan purposes . The end aimed at was bad , and the , means employed were equally bad . It is true that Mr. MAHONE professed , and to a certain extent sincerely , to seek the enforcement of the right of equal suffrage in Virginia and to break down the proscriptive domination of the Bourbon Democrats in that State . But two wrongs did not , in this case , make a right , and the good that was done in one direction was purchased too dearly by the discredit brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , if Bourbon domination could not be broken down but by the prostitution of the civil service , the achievement was not worth what it cost ? the game was not worth the candle . The Republican Party is doomed to dissolution if it can not prove to the country that it is willing and able to abolish the spoils system and all the corruption and political tyranny of which that system is the fruitful source . Whatever its professions may be in other regards it can not regain public confidence unless it sustain consistently and firmly and in good faith the prinple of reform which requires the withdrawal of the patronage of the Government from politics . The party has been trusted within the last quarter of a century with great tasks  --  the preservation of the Union , the emancipation of the slaves , the establishment of equal rights before the law , the maintenance of the public credit  --  and , in the main , it has-discharged its duty well . But because it was the sole available instrument for these - vast achievements , designing and selfish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrusted to it to serve their greedy purposes . This abuse the people are resolved to put an end to if they have to dissolve the party . It is for the party itself and its official leaders in the national Government to say whether the abuse shall go without or with the destruction of the party . If the party is to continue its career of usefulness it must be relieved of the burden of discredit and suspicion thrown upon it by the perversion of the civil service to the uses of such politicians as ? Senator MAHONE . The President is bound by the letter of the law , by the spirit of his constitutional obligation , and by nis duty to his party as well , to see that Mr. MAHONE. shall no longer control the'Federal service in Virginia . and particularly that the employes of the United States shall not be plundered to carry his ends .                     