@@743787

txt The session , of the General Assembly , which will probable end this week , is one of the longest on record and has considered a larger amount of business than any of its predecessors . The number of bills printed for calendar is about 350 , and this makes no account of the large number of adverse reports , which , while not printed , have occupied the time of committees and have required action by both houses . It was:hoped that the calendar would be cleared last week and nothing left for this week except the settlement of matters upon which the two houses disagreed . But several quite important matters remain for discussion and action . The most important , perhaps , is the bill changing the Senatorial districts , which has passed the House and will come up in the Senate to-morrow . Much opposition has been developed to it , and if it passes the Senate it will be by a close vote . Those who oppose it sap that , while it does something in the way of equalizing districts within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inequality of districts throughout the State , and still leaves it in the power of one-fifth of the population of the State to elect a majority of the Senate . Another objection is that the report of the committee was not made until the closing days of the session , when the i pressure of other business makes it impossible for the subject to receive the intelligent consideration which it should have . Very few members have been able , by a study of census returns and election returns , to decide for themselves as to the wisdom of the proposed changes . The whole scheme must by taken on trust , and there is a decided disposition to distrust the politicians most active in advocating the scheme , and who are suspected of being chiefly animated by a desire to take care of the districts which they themselves expect to control . Moreover , it does not help the bill to find that the Democrats , after denouncing it as a villainous piece of gerrymandering , are almost unanimously favoring the bill . It is quite probable that the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it are small and of doubtful value . The bill to establish a Board of Pardons , which passed the Senate without opposition , was defeated in the House through the efforts of Speaker Case , who left his chair for the purpose . The change proposed is one which is greatly needed , and the wisdom of it may be inferred from the fact that the only other measure which the Speaker has considered of sufficient importance to advocate personally on the floor was the pardon of a murderer , whose application for release was the least meritorious of all upon which favorable action has been taken . It is probable that a Board of Pardons would be less susceptible to eloquent appeals to sympathy than the majority of the members of the General Assembly . Of the remaining busineSs , the most important is the proposed new charter for the city of New-Haven , which will doubtless be passed in spite of Democratic opposition . It provides substantially for non-partisan commissions to conduct the various branches of the city Government . The application of Fair - Haven East to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action , subject to the decision of the voters of the two towns . A final adjournment is possible on Wednesday , but not probable before Thursday or Friday . 