@@744149

txt There seems still to be a committee of the National Greenback-Labor Party in this State . It held a meeting in this City yesterday and decided that a State Convention shall be held at Albany on the third Tuesday in July , which will fall on the 18th day of that sultry month . It also furnished the information , of which little public heed has heretofore been taken , that Ccl. ** HARPER , Chairman of the National Committee of that organization , has lately issued a call for a national convention which contains no " allusion to the name of the National Greenback-Labor Party , " but suggests " the upbuilding of a new political party . " According to Mr. 1 GEORGE 0 . JONES , Chairman of the State Committee , this action has given rise to " considerable debate , not to say bitter feeling , " but where the debate has been carried on and how extensive the bitter feeling may be we are not informed . Mr. JONES seemed to think that the action of Col. TT -O .. HARPER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is a question of some interest whether there is enough of the party to be disrupted , and whether the Chairman of the National Committee did not , consciously or unconsciously , recognize the fact that there is no longer any such party . Committees , State or national , do not constitute a party . A visiting statesman from New-Jersey regarded the call for a national convention as opening the door to certain elements which had hitherto been looked upon as sources of weakness to the Greenback-Labor Party . What these elements are he does not seem to have specified , but it can hardly he advisable to admit any new sources of weakness . Sources of strength ought to be peculiarly in demand . The resolutions adopted by the committee yesterday declared in favor of a national convention of the National GreenbackLabor Party in order " that its principles may be hrount directly to the attention of Congress and the people , while legislation is pending calculated to defeat some of the important measures for which that party is contending , and to place the responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men and parties responsible for their enactment . " This is somewhat vague . What are just now the principles of the Greenback-Labor Party ? It would be interesting , if not very effectual , for any practical purpose , to have them brought . to the attention of Congress and the people . Again , what are the important measures for which . the party is contending , and which are in danger of being defeated by pending legislation , and what is the pending legislation calculated to defeat them ? We confess to being quite in the dark in regard to these questions . The call which brought the committee together yesterday stated one of the purposes of the meeting to be to stimulate united effort in support of a:11 measures " now pending before Congress or State Legislatures which are calculated to correct the wrongs and re ' strain the influences of railroad , telegraph , and land monopolies . " Here again we are in need of more specific definition of " pending " measures , and are moved to inquire whether the National GreenbackLabor Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of strength . If so , will it be the same old party which the committee is so anxious to keep intact , and will the retention of the present name be a matter of so much importance ? One gentleman was anxious that the party should remain as it is that it may " stem the tide of . political corruption and class legisla tion in favor of the rich . " Here is more vagueness , from which we can get little light as to the specific purposes of the Greenbackers . One would say that the party would be unequal to the task of stemming any very powerful tide so long as it remains as it is . The original Greenback Party had a specific object which was capable of being understood , but the resumption of specie payments put it out of the field of living politics . The issue of an irredeemable and practically unlimited paper currency is dead , and its resurrection is beyond hope . Later on it favored the remonetization of silver and the abolition of the national banks . So far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsistent with its avowed principles , and could have had no rational object but to lowei the standard of the currency . That question survives in a modified form , but there is no legitimate greenback aspect to it . The bank question is not definitely settled , but it has been practically taken out of the keeping of the Greenback Party and figures only incidentally in its programme . That programme does not appear to be distinctly formulated at present . The old organization is evidently suffering from the disintegrating influences of the time , and the leaders are somewhat at odds as to the position to be taken . Conservatism can hardly be a part of their plan . They are on the lookout for new issues , and some of them , at least , appear to be anxious to present a point of crystallization for the elements when the anticipated dissolution of the old parties sets in . They must admit that the original greenback issue is dead . The labor question has always proved to be too intangible and unmanageable for effective use in a national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party that seeks the support of rational men . Anti-monopoly is a cry whose potency has not been fully tested , but no political party is likely to find a sufficient foundation in the abuses of corporate power . The question just now is not so much what the actual strength of the so-called National Greenback-Labor Party is as what that party itself really is . What arc its principles and purposes and what does it propose to do to make of itself a party in the future ? At present it has scarcely any existence except in committees , and to gain new life it will have to display an organizing power and a breadth of political view of which its leaders have thus far given little evidence . 