@@672149

txt THE CENTENNIAL It is not likely that the oldest inhabitant of New-York has ever witnessed so warm and general an interest on the part of the people of the city in any public demonstration as now exists concerning the coming centennial celebration . Certainly no young or middle-aged New-Yorker remembers anything comparable to it . Apart altogether from the object , the meaning , or the result of the celebration , this state of public feeling is a great good in itself . It is not without reason that foreign critics point out to us that our local misgovernment proceeds from lack of public spirit on the part of the respectable and intelligent classes . Not - to speak of actual corruption , the very meagre return that we get in public works from the expenditure we make would lead a. casual observer to very unjust conclusions about our civilization . A tourist , for example , who had spent a month in New-York without entering a private dwelling , as might easily happen , would be justified in putting a much lower estimate on our standard of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only because , - the Central Park alone excepted , our public institutions do not fairly represent our public , and this in turn proceeds from the lack of the public spirit which should lead . every New-Yorker to identify himself with the city , to take a personal pride in whatever it had to boast , and a personal shame in whatever it had to be ashamed of . Any public event that ' tends to . unite all classes in a civic and . municipal Movement strengthens this spirit , and the spirit can hardly fail to outlast its immediate occasion . The centennial committees represent to a considerable extent the men whom . it is desirable to interest . in our municipal affairs and who have heretofore held aloof from them , except when their own individual interests were endangered by municipal action . Hereafter such citizens will find it more difficult to hold aloof from movements that affect the general welfare . The committees began with a few mistakes that were the natural result of their inexperience . These , however , were not of great consequence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since the organization was completed it has addressed itself to its work with a comprehension of its needs and with an energetic and- intelligent determination to satisfy them that give promise of the best results . The very best result that has been or that could be at- / twined ' is the popular interest in the subject of which ' we have spoken as almost unprecedented , Everybody seems sincerely anxious that the celebration shall do credit to the city . In a community in which nobody has generally , seemed to care whether the city made a creditable appearance or not , this feeling is itself the best possible guarantee of success . Even in matters of commerce our merchants have fallen into the way of relying upon the unequaled natural advantages of New-York to retain and increase its trade , and each merchant has been solicitous only to secure for his own house the largest possible share in it . We hardly recall any other united effort for the business of the whole city such as has been made successively by the wholesale and . the retail merchants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visitors to the centennial . The merchants of other cities have been in the habit for years of associating for such objects , have been , in fact , in a condition of permanent association for the promotion if nature had not ' so plainly decreed otherwise , those cities would have become formidable commercial rivals to New-York . That cooporative action should be taken in order to secure the success of one public demonstration is the best pledge that could be given for that success . But- it is even mos ? important that the community should really act together than that the centennial celebration should be successful ; and if the united action attained in this instance can be repeated and  --  carried on the consequences to the future development of New-York , in all ways and senses , will be a matter for congratulation not only to all New-Yorkers , but to all American citizens . 