@@743404

txt The Anti-Discrimination bill , as reported to the Assembly , was yesterday passed to a third reading by the encouraging vote of 73 to 33 . But as the opposition is not in the least likely to abandon its ground or relax its efforts until all the stages of legislation are passed , it is worth while examining the arguments which it is able to muster . There could be no better illustration of the factitious character of this opposition than these very arguments . They do not come down to an examination of the provisions of the bill at all , and make no effort to show in what way they will work to the injury of the railroads of this State . They make no answer to the charge of discrimination between citizens of the same place for precisely similar service , nor do they attempt to show in what way such injustice works a general benefit , or how it helps our railroads in their competition with those of other States . They do not deny that one locality has been favored at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a policy can possibly benefit either the railroads themselves or the commercial interests of the State ; nor do they explain by what process it draws the business of transportation over our lines and prevents it from going through Canada or Pennsylvania . They do not meet the accusation that local traffic is sacrificed to through business by the most arbitrary and capricious exactions for short distances , for the benefit of Western shippers , nor attempt to maintain the justice or the expediency of so burdening the industries of the State in the interest of through transportation . Nobody could gather from the speeches against the bill in the Assembly any definite idea of what its provisions are , but the natural inference would be that it was a measure to cripple the railroads of this State for the benefit of transportation lines beyond its jurisdiction . The vagueness of the declamation against it is suggestive of the plea of an attorney with a weak case . We are reminded of what has been done for the development of the State of New-York and the building up of its commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barely possible that other advantages , together with the enterprise of the people , have had something to do with the providing of these facilities . The natural process would seem to be that the State had created its transportation facilities as a part of its commercial development and for the purpose of meeting its requirements , and not that the transportation facilities had intervened in the character of a creator and made the State . There has been reciprocal action and mutual stimulation , and the commerce and railroads of the State have grown up together . It would be the last thing that would occur to any citizen of Now-York to underrate the value of its railroad system or to propose anything to check its effectiveness , and nothing could be further from the purpose of the pending bill . Unless itis calculated to have such an effect , the rhetoric of Mr. HA.YES was altogether wasted . That gentleman and Mr. ALVORD , who were the principal advocates of the railroads on the floor of the Assembly , were exercised lest the mild restrictions of the bill should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the West over other routes through Pennsylvania or Canada , to the great loss of our chief cities and the corresponding benefit of their rivals . That would certainly be a deplorable result , and it is hardly conceivable that the public sentiment of the State , controlled as it is in this matter entirely by commercial considerations , would be substantially unanimous for a law that would prove so disastrous . It is not creditable to the fore ? sight of our Chamber of . C6 amerce and of nearly all our trade associations , nor to the intelligence of our producing and trading interests , outside of the sharers in the immediate benefits of discrimination , if they have all this while been urging legislation which would be destructive to themselves . But in order to got out of the dust which the railroad managers and their mouthpieces in the Legislature have raised to obscure this subject , it may be well to revert to the measure itself . It proposes to put a stop to discriminations in rates which favor certain shippers and so . leave others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads and throw their business into Canada ? It forbids the charging of more for short distances within the State than for longer ones , whereby certain localities have been favored over their rivals , and the railroads have undertaken to control the development of industry and trade in different sections . How can this possibly impair our transportation facilities , or divert traffic into Pennsylvania ? It requires that all customers shall be furnished with equal facilities and accomodations and on the same terms . What has this to do with outside competition It declares that the man who sends one full carload shall be charged no more therefor than is charged for , each of a greaterlituuber sent contemporaneously over the same distance . How does this put New-York at a disadvantage I No limit is put to general rates , no requirement of pro rata charges is made . The only point at which through competition is touched at all is in the provision that would prevent the charging of more for transportation within the State than for transportation across its territory from points beyond . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is such a pretense of dread , are already under similar restrictions , whose abstract equity is too obvious for argument . It can hardly be pretended that the New-York system will be able to compete with them only by a virtual subsidy out of the proceeds of local traffic . The principle can scarcely be conceded that our local interests are to be indirectly taxed by the railroads to sustain their business of transportation from the West . We do not believe it is necessary , but that is precisely what is demanded by those who claim that they can not compete with lines to Philadelphia andBaltimore , or to Canadian ports , without the privilege of charging out of local traffic a subsidy for the support of through business .                     