@@743292

txt Neither the return of general prosperity nor the revival of activity in life insurance . should mislead the life insurance companies as to theircosition and duties . The evidence of business'well-doing , positive as it is , can not be deemed sufficiently pronoun.ced to palliate speculative license , or to justify the absolute confidefice Which above all things is desirable . There yet remain causes of anxiety and distrust quite strong enough to moderate and restrain a feeling that would otherwise be irresistible . Not wholly dissimilar from this is-the experience in life insurance . With better times and the readier command of money has come a little of the old . disposition to use the corporate machinery provided for the ' satisfaction of the provident habit . But two facts known in connection with this circumstance forbid the interpretation which certain people connected with the companies are endeavoring to put upon it . One fact is , that though the grosser forms of competition have disappeared , other forms , more insidious and in some respects more dangerous , have taken their place ; showing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or are impelled by their fears to employ objectionable methods for the acquisition of new lives . The other fact is , that the more intelligent applicants for insurance scrutinize both the condition and methods of companies , with an intention to discriminate against those whose management does not command general confidence ; the result being that of the better class of insurance , a greater proportion inures to the benefit of conservative New England companies than is reconcilable with the pretensions of New-York institutions . While it is true , then , that the life insurance business has in a slight ? degree recovered from the shock imparted by the developments of the last few years , it is equally true that the management of the business is still regarded with a suspicion which is fully justified by the practices of New-York and other companies . The companies are now engaged in the preparation of their annual statements , and in the performance of this task they have to choose between the honest plan , which provides for an intelligent judgment in regard to the condition of a company and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which enables a company to conceal extravagance , losses , and irregularities of all sorts , and to make an exhibit which however plausible in form is in spirit wholly inaccurate . So wide is the latitude thus afforded , and so unscrupulously has it been turned to account , that the State Legislature has been repeatedly urged to compel the production of statements that sho uld tell the whole truth . Few things have contributea more to the popular distrust of life insurance than the display of hostility called forth by the repetition of this demand . It was impossible to reconcile with soundness and strength , or even with integrity of management , the bitter opposition . to propositions intended only to bring the truth to light , and to enforce the wholesome checks derivable from publicity . The law still is defective . Without violating its letter , the companies may still so cook their accounts as to hide the expenditures incurred in the pursuit of business as well as the losses incident to a depreciation of investments . These items , concerning which the provisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods that have a very close connection with the present condition of well-known companies . Let us take the case of a company whose ordinary Life premiums have been reduced . What requirement can be more reasonable than that for the production of proof that the expenses of getting and managing the business have been proportionately reduced ? Mere reductions of staff salaries are not enough . Excessive as these salaries are , they are a bagatelle compared with the total cost of management . The information more particularly wanted relates to the commissions or other payments incurred on account of new business ; for statements are afloat which seem to place beyond doubt the continuance of extravagance in the price paid for business , while deriving from the business a reduced premium income . No company is so strong that it can pursue this course with impunity , and . great precision of detail is needed in the preparation of the closing year 's accounts to neutralize the effect of current statements . Not less requisite is absolute truthfulness . in the enumeration and valuation of assets .. Instances might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Departments would be inadmissible without material reductions if official knowledge were as thorough , and as wide-awake , as that of the public . Of course , the mere occurrence of losses upon investments affects the sagacity rather than the integrity of corporate management ; but the duty of managers , in the cases supposed , however unpleasant , can not be mistaken . There should be no cooking , no mixing of items in order that ' the good may cover the bad , and turn attention from inevitable losses . The time is not propitious for jugglery , or mystification of any kind ; and the companies will fare best whose managers reveal the actual state of affairs , whether the surplus disappear or not : If a company really be solvent , it can better dispense with a surplus than with the confidence which concealment and prevarication properly forfeit .                     