@@781185

txt The wind blew a hurricane all last night . Much damage was done in London and many persons were injured . The glass roof of the Westminster Aquarium was demolished , causing a panic among the audience , in which several persons were hurt . A printing office in the Haymarket was unroofed , and a bOy was killed by the falling dCibris . Many vessels were wrecked off the coast and a large number of lives were lost . Telegraph wires to the Continent and Atlantic cables were interrupted for several hours . Reports from all parts of the kingdom agree that the gale of Saturday was one of almost unparalleled severity . At Hastings the theatre and pier had to be closed , the electric lights along the parade were quenched , and the seas dashed over the streets , making walking dangerous . At Monmouth the Wye and Monnow Rivers overflowed their banks and the highways were flooded . Southampton and Eastbourne suffered severely . Railway traffic has been greatly impeded . There has been a heavy snow-storm throughout the country . At Torquay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the violence of the wind . Gas-lamps Were blown down and trees uprooted . Many boats were swamped . The shops on the Isle of Wight were closed early on Saturday owing to the hurricane . A lady was knocked down by the wind and had a leg broken . At Newry many houses were unroofed . The police barracks were rendered untenable and the police were compelled to take refuge in the Court-house . At Leeds the roof of a dwelling collapsed , killing the daughter of a workman and injuring his four sons . The mail train between Durham and Darlington was twice stopped by the gale . No boats were allowed to leave Portsmouth . The Freethinkers ' IHall there was completely demolished by the wind . The hurricane demolished an iron chapel at Newcastle . The roof in falling killed a woman and two children . The British bark Nokomis , Capt . Murphy , which sailed from Londonderry , Jan. 19 , for Baltimore , and which returned to Lough Foyle for shelter , parted her cables and was driven to sea . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The British bark Emily Lawthor , Capt . Webster , which sailed from Dunkirk Jan. 20 fOr NewYork , has been towed to Dover , her mainmast and mizzenmast having been literally torn from the deck . A railway station at Elinswell was hurled across the rails , blocking traffic for some time . PARIS , Jan. 27 . ? A destructive storm raged here last night , severing railway and telegraph communication in all directions . The gale has blown down telegraph wires and done much other damage in the suburbs . Many persons have been injured while walking in the streets . An immense number of lamps and windows have been smashed , scaffolds overthrown , trees uprooted , and chimneys destroyed .                     