@@743890

txt Great hopes are entertained to-night by the supporters of Lapham and Miller that these two candidates will be elected before the end of the week . The Administration men are stronger than on Saturday . and will stand firm . while their opponents fear a break from Conkling and feel that they will be powerless , should one or two of their number change their votes , to prevent a general leaping of the fence . With a full house on Saturday , Miller was only seven votes short of an election . Should there be as large an attendance to-morrow as there was on Saturday , it Is probable that the margin will be reduced on the first ballot to five , and that if a second ballot is taken there will be no difficulty in getting more than a sufficient number of votes to elect . The Stalwarts laugh at the suggestion that any of their men will desert . While they laugh they fear , and with good reason , for several of them are known to be anxious for an opportunity to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position in which they are placed by neglecting to enter the caucus on Friday . While a few ' over-particular talkers who voted for Congressman Crowley are loud in condemnation of the nomination of two Congressmen , the absurdity of their soddenly assumed opposition to such candidates is seen and appreciated by everybody . Not one complaint has been heard of the fairness of the caucus , but a great many objections are made because the fact that Mr. Depew was to be withdrawn was not admitted before the caucus met . The Stalwarts forget , when they admit that they would have attended the caucus , as they admit they would if they had known this fact , for it would still have been a caucus called by the majority to which they formally object to-day . Their anxiety to get out of a desperate plight has at last forced them to ask that the caucus committees Khali call a general caucus . They thought of this on Saturday , when half a dozen of their number met in Speaker Sharpe 's room after the adjournment of the joint assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this was put upon a committee of five , comprising some of the lighter weights in both houses of the Legislature . They perfected their request to-day , and it was approved at a meeting of the Stalwarts held in the State Hall this morning . During the afternoon the letter was nut in type . and long before it was received by the members of the Senate and Assembly Caucus Committees , slips of it were iu circulation about the Delavan House , and Senator McCarthy read it long before he received it officially . The request is as follows : To the Chairmen and ** of the Republican Caucus Committees of the Senate and A.mmbly GENTLEMEN : The undersigned , a committee appointed for the purpose at a meeting of the Republican members of the Legislature , respectfully request the Republican caucus committees of the Senate and Assembly to unite in a call for a caucus of the Republican members of the Legislature , to be held at such time as said committee shall name , for the purpose of nominating two candidates to be voted for to fill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignations of the Hon. Roscoe Conkling and the Hon. Thomas C. Platt . No caucus of the Republican members of the Legislature has as yet been called by the usual and recognized method . A protracted contest over the filling of the vacancies above referred to has made it clear that no settlement of this question can be reached which shall at once secure the acquiescence of all in its result , restore harmony to the party , and preserve the integrity of tits organization , except by a strict compliance with the party usages . We firmly believe that any doctrine or rule of action which attempts to guide party conduct , except that which recognizes the control of the majority and the free opportunity for the participation of all , will necessarily prove fatal to the organization of the party in the State and Nation . On behalf of those whom we represent we are led to ask for a caucus on the additional ground that the interests of the Republican Party require that the organization of the House of Representatives in Congress in the interest of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present Congress to fill the above-mentioned Senatorial vacancies . Such a danger is threatened in the proposition to elect to these vacancies Messrs . Lanham and Miller , two members of the present Congress . There is no provision under existing laws for filling the vacancies which would occur from the election of these gentlemen to the office of United States Senator except at the next general election on the Tuesday succeeding the first Monday in November , which will be the 8th day of November . The Boards of County Canvassers are required to meet on the Tuesday next following the election , ( Revised Statutes , sixth edition . page 442 , section 2 . ) They will meet this year on the 15th day of November . The length of time said board may remain in session is not definitely fixed by statute . Within five days after their adjournment the County Clerk is required to transmit by mail to the Governor , Secretary of State , and Controller , each , " one of the certified copies of the statement and certificates of votes " prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page 44 . ) If such statement shall not have been received by the Secretary of State by the last day of November , then he shall dispatch a special mes ? senger to obtain such statement from the Clerk of the county . ( 1 Revised Statutes , sixth edition , page 44 , section 24 . ) By the next section it is provided that the messenger shall deliver to the Secretary of State as soon as may be all such statements as he shall receive . By the next section ( 27 ) it is provided as follows : " The Secretary of State shall appoint a meeting of the State Canvassers to be held at his office or that of the Treasurer or Controller on or before the 15th day of December , after each general election . " But the next meeting of Congress will occur on the first Monday of December next , being the 5th day of said month , ( - United States Constitution , article 1 , section 4 , ) unless an extra session should be convened before that time . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to the issuing of the certificates of election to the successors of Messrs . Lapham and Miller to enable them to take their seats in Congress . But these proceedings may all be stayed and restrained indefinitely by the presentation to the Supreme Court of a single affidavit alleging error in the determination of any Board of County Canvassers . By chapter 460 of the Laws of 1870 it is provided that whenever it shall appear by affidavit that errors have occurred in the determination of the Board of County Canvassers , the Supreme Court ( which means any Judge thereof ) may require the County Board of Canvassers , by order , to reconvene and correct such errors , or show cause why such errors should not be corrected ; and if the county board fail to correct such errors , or show cause why such correction should not be made , the court may compel the board by mandamus to correct the errors ; and the statement and certificate made under the order of the court shall stand in lieu of the original certificate . It will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise whereby the organization of the House of Representatives may take place before the meeting of the Board of State Canvassers or before the election of the successors of Messrs . Lapham and Miller could possibly be authenticated and certified to by the House of Representatives . In case an extra session of Congress should be called before the next general election in November , it is clear that the organization of the House of Representatives must necessarily take place in the absence of Messrs . Lapham and Miller or their successors . Even if by hasty and uninterrupted proceedings by the County and State Canyassers , which , as we have pointed out , can not be relied upon , the successors of Messrs . Lapham and Miller should secure their certificates in time to be present at the opening of Congress , there still remain obstructions and difficulties in the way of their participating in the organization of the House . The pretense of a contest or the refusal of the Demonratic Clerk of the House to place their names upon the roll or any of a score of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hesitate to resort , will suffice to secure the organization of the next House of Representatives by the Democratic Party . These , we think , are considerations which should receive attention in a full and free caucus of the Republican members of the Legislature . Committee . This remarkable request has caused a good deal of good-humored comment . The assumption that the committee is one of " the Republican members of the Legislature , " when at the best it is approved by only a small minority of the Republicans . is regarded as sublime assurance . No new arguments are produced , and all that the request contains were heard in the joint assembly on Saturday . The objection to nominating and electing Congressmen , for fear that objections might be interposed for frivolous reasons to the entering of newly elected Congressmen on the roll , would , it is argued , be just as good in the cases of Messrs . Frye and Conger as in those of Lapham , Miller , and Morton , and if the objections are good in the case of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the other cases . Not the least sensible criticism made is that not one of the members of the Stalwart committee represents the wishes of his constituents . Senator Halbert 's district is all against him , and his wishes are said to be merely a reflection of those of Thomas C. Platt . Senator Strahan 's vote is supposed at least to voice the opinions and preferences of " Charlie " Blackie , but not the demands of the Eighth Senatorial District . Assemblyman H. H. Tuthill , who will be remembered as endeavoring to cover himself and Thomas C. Platt with glory in an anti-monopoly speech for Platt , is believed to be echoing now , as he did then , merely the wishes of Gen. John N. Knapp . Mr. Cullinan speaks not for his district , which is strongly against his course for five weeks , but for " Tom " Mott , who is said to be running " him . Last of all , Mr. H. J. Hurd , who has been a Crowley man from the beginning of the fight , is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although they are strong Administration people . while ' he defers absolutely to Mr. James D. Warren , whom he considers a better judge of what is right than a district full of constituents who do n't know anything about practical politics . So much for the " request " and its signers . Late in the afternoon Senator McCarthy found one of the printed slips inclosed to him in the office of the Delavan . After a careful perusal of it , he consulted with several Administration men and with his associate , Senator Rockwell , and before 9 o'clock wrote a reply , which was soon delivered to each member of the committee . The reply was as follows : STATE es New-Yours , SENATE CHAMBER , t ALBANY . July 11 , 1881 : ) GENTLEMEN : Your communication dated this day , addressed to me as Chairman of the Senate Caucus Committee , is received , and I hasten to reply . Early in the Senatorial canvass an effort was made to secure a caucus uof the Republican members of the Legislature for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of - Roscoe Conkling and Thomas C. Platt , resigned , but for reasons then publicly stated the committee on the part of the Senate declined to unite in such call . Since that time 07 Republican members of the Senate and Assembly united in calling a caucus , and in the call which they issued every Republican member of the Legislature was urgently solicited to attend the same , and . what is unusual , personal notice was given to all those not uniting in the call of the time and place of meeting . Such was the only method left for securing a convention of the Republican members after the refusal of the joint committee to unite in a call for a caucus , and such is the method usually adopted , and which . during the present session of the Legislature . has twice received the sanction of each of the gentlemen composing your committee . In pursuance of that call a caucus was held , which was attended by 08 Republican members of the Senate and Assembly , being nearly two-thirds of the entire Republican representation . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignations of Messrs . Conkling and Platt were duly nominated . There has been no complaint made tnat the proceedings were In any respect unfair . It was open to every Republican member of the Legislature , and in the call of the roll the name of each and every Republican member was called . The nominees severally received the unanimous nomination of the caucus . In view of those facts the majority of the Senate committee decline to reopen the question of candidates . on the ground that the committee has no power in the premises . The power to call a joint caucus for nominating candidates for United States Senators has Peen exercised by the superior authority and is exhausted . If the committee were to assume the authority to call another caucus . it would be an act of usurpation , and would lead to complications much more embarrassing than any which have hindered our efforts to discharge an obvious public duty . The objections which you are pleased to urge against the candidacy of Messrs . Miller and Lapham , because they chanced to be Representatives in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and later in the public press , and are not deemed of sufficient importance to justify the hazardous experiment of retiring candidates who have been fairly nominated , and concerning whose fitness no doubt has been suggested . Very respeett uliy , D. McCARTHY . Chairman . To Messrs . E. G. Halbert , R. H. Strahan , H. H. Tuthill , P. W. Cullinan , and H. J. Hurd , committee . The Stalwarts , who have heard of the refusal on the part of the Senate committee to join in a call for another caucus , shake their heads and say they expected a refusal , and that it will be very bad for the men who have refused , bad for the party , and bad for the members who want ' to go home . Some of them go so far as to say that the refusal will surely elect Conkling next week . The suggestion is , perhaps , too ridiculous to be repeated , but it is made in apparent sincerity . The chances of Mr. Conkling were never poorer than now , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this is a poor Summer for resigned Senators to seek re-election . Those Administration men who are predicting tonight that the Legislature will elect to-morrow are perhaps inspired by the hope that there will be a " break . " No one would be surprised to see it , and yet cautious men express the opinion that the Conkling men can not hold together for more than two days . Mr. Warner Miller arrived in Albany this morning , and was at the Delavan this afternoon , and to-night his room was crowded with members , not only Republicans of both factions , but Democrats , who have flocked about him to offer congratulations very much as if he was already elected . Mr. Miller did not learn of his nomination by the caucus until he read the account of the proceedings in caucus in the newspapers on Saturday . Since his arrival he has not " sent " for any body or done anything beyond receiving the visits of his friends and listening to their accounts of the canvass as already made . Many of the members who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time , and are expressing themselves as favorably impressed with him . He is a strong , healthy man , in the prime of life , active , affable , and self-possessed , and in conversation shows that he is familiar with the details of the contest , that he is a warm friend of the Administration , and profoundly anxious that the Republican Party may pass through this struggle without further dissension . Should an election take place to-morrow , or on Wednesday or Thursday , it is expected that a bill will be introduced to provide for special elections in the Congressional districts in which vacancies exist , and that it will be progressed without opposition , at least from Republicans . The suggestion has been made , and it has been approved by some of the Administration men who have heard it , that a most graceful way for the Stalwarts to remove the objection to Congressmen as candidates would be for them to prepare and introduce the bill providing for special elections in September , and having done that to vote for Miller and Lapham and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The report which reaches here to-night that Roscoe Conkling has written a letter of withdrawal is not accepted as true . Senator Strahan , who talked with him yesterday in New-York , says that the ex-Senator expressed himself as determined as over to remain in the race , let the consequences to the party be what they may .                     