@@744486

txt The prize offered by the Military Service Institute , which has its head-quarters on Governor 's Island , for the best essay on " Important Improvements in the Art of War During the Past Twenty Years , " has been won by Lieut. - Col . HENRY M. LAZELLE , Commandant of Cadets and Instructor of Tactics at West Point . The essay is published in the J  --  arnal of the Institute , and will be read with great interest not only by military men but by everybody who cares to keep abreast of the world 's progress in the art of killing men rapidly and in large masses . As a sketch of all that pertains to field operations , including arms , equipment ; defenses , and manoeuvres , it is satisfactorily thorough , though necessarily brief . Of organization it says scarcely anything . This omission results in part from the condition of our service . Any discussion of the relation of the various parts of our little Army to each other , of the system of mobilization , provisioning , equipment , recruiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there can be no question that one of the most important of recent improvements in ' the art of war is tile system of almost perfect organization now . so generally adopted on the Continent , but seen in its highest development in Germany , where the assembling and equipment of the reserves goes on with such rapidity and clock-work precision that the army corps are ready to move to the front on the ninth or tenth day after the receipt by their commanders of the summons from the War Minister . Against any adversary not equally alert this marvelous quickness in getting into fighting trim means a series of disasters culminating in speedy and utter overthrow . In our own country the most conspicuous improvements have been in arms , and it is an interesting study to follow out the consequences of the successive mechanical inventions by which our artillery and small arms have been given their present enormous range and deadly accuracy . In the beginning of the century , when the British were attempting to wrest the Peninsula from the grasp of NAPOLEON they had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every Frenchman they hit , and it was estimated that to kill a man with that rude arm required the expenditure of his weight in lead . But we do not need to go so far back to find points for an effective contrast with the weapon of to-day . Lieut. - Col . LAZELLE thus sums up the work of the past two decades in improving the infantry weapon : " In aggregate results of range , penetration , accuracy , and rapidity of fire , the gain of power in small arms in the last twenty years may be safely asserted as eight times greater in accuracy , twothirds greater in range and penetration , and five times greater in rapidity of aimed fire ; while the weight of cartridges per man has been diminished , and the number that may ho carried increased . Considering the relative areas of effective fire , consequent upon increased range , it will be found that that , of the modern breech-loader is thirty-two times greater than that of the old smooth-bore , and that the quantity of aimed fire is five times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improving heavy guns are no less notable . The terrible power of the 100-ton and 71-ton guns of Italy and England is well known , but KRUPP makes guns of 9-inch calibre ancV 18 tons weight which send a ball through 20 inches of solid iron , and some of his field guns can be depended on at a range of more than a mile and a half to put every projectile in a space less than 200 feet square . Counting all important improvements , breech-loading , rifling , better powder , and projectiles of greater penetrating and destructive power , stronger and lighter carriages of steel , devices for quickly finding the range , ' &c.,; the science of artillery has been revolutionized in the last twenty . years , and even when badly handled a battery of to-day would be a match for a dozen like those NAPOLEON used with such skill and decisive effect . We have also machine guns discharging from 200 to 500 shots per minute with great range and precision , and the Hotchkiss revolving gun , a diabolical engine of destruction , firing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a continuous and deadly fire of 75 pounds of metal , or 1,200 hits , " every 60 seconds . Ten machine guns are worth 400 men in defending a given point , and six Hotchkiss guns at 2,000 or 3,000 yards are nine times as effective as a battery of six 3-inch rifled guns . The behavior of armies in the field bag been greatly modified by these vast improvements . The possession of his breech : loading or repeating rifle , with an abundance of convenient ammunition , makes the soldier far more self-reliant . He knows that he is a formidable adversary and is less liable to panics than when he had nothing better than the muzzle-loader . As the soldier with the breech-loader fires five times faster and five times as effectively , one man may now take the space occupied by at least four armed with the old weapons , so .. a more open order and more extended lines are possible . This rule applies also to fortifications , the exterior side being lengthened in proportion to the increased range and power of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guns , and Hotchkiss guns , and the improved rifle , the defense of permanent field works or trenches can be made much more effective , and the battle must be ? fought out at longer range . Cavalry can no longer be safely used for charges in mass , nor is the bayonet any longer a formidable weapon , since any charging force must now traverse a " danger zone " more than a mile in width , and under conditions fairly favorable for the defense would be cut to pieces before it reached the enemy 's line . But in pursuit , in screening advancing armies , in sudden attacks in unexpected places and upon stores and convoys , cavalry is still as useful as ever . The choice of position is now a much more important matter than formerly , as , if possible , a wide , uncovered range of territory must be secured in front to give the improved arms a chance to do their deadly work . The intrenching tool , too . becomes an essential part of the . soldier 's outfit , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up a shelter against these dreadful missiles . In short , army tactics have undergone material changes at every point to meet the advance in the art of throwing projectiles , for it is a rule of warfare that the defensive and offensive must march side by side . If some competent authority would attempt to trace out the effect of all these wonderful changes upon the morale of the common soldier , the result would be of interest . Their tendency would seem to be to reduce the rank and file to a mass of machines set to work certain other machines .                     