@@781515

txt We notice that Senator HISCOCK and other protectionist orators still fight shy of the Trust monopolies , the offspring of a protective system .. The Senator has been urging the farmers to keep up the present tariff , because they " are most vitally interested . " Why does he not defend before them the creation of such combinations as the Paper-Bag Trust , of which his friend , the Hon. JAMES ARKELL , is President This Trust was recently organized at Canajoharie , with a capital of $2,000,000 . The Boston Commercial BuIletin of the 5th inst. says : " While the consolidation has made no move in the matter , its affairs as yet being too emoryotio , a uniform price list.based upon higher figures will soon appear . The class of bags that this price list moat concerns is the large flour sacks which are largely used in the West . In the West comparatively little flour is bought in barrels . the trade preferring it in sacks . " The same journal asserts that the paper used for these bags Is ninde of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ butts is $5 a ton ; on manufactures'of manila and jute it is 35 per cent . ad. valorem . The Tribune says that Congressman- , GEORGE WEST , of Ballston , one of the largest manufacturers of paper bags , Makes a specialty of the bags used by gracers . He is " the controlling spirit " of an association or Trust , of which several other makers of such bags are members . The Tribune also speaks of the Arkell combination , which was made to destroy competition , and remarks that " this is only following the tendency of the times , which is leading everywhere to business consolidations . " Mr ARKELL tells the Tribune that such Trusts- " are a sort of protective tariff on . business , " and even cites the example of the infamous Standard Oil Trust as evidence that they are beneficial to the people . While the farmers are thinking about the Flour-Bag Trust , the Lead Trust , and other monopolies formed under the shelter of high tariff rates to kill competition in a home market , from which competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they should also take into consideration the now School-Slate Trust . Moreover , this is a Trust that deserves the attention not only of farmers , but also of people in other walks of life . " The increase in the price of school slates that has just been ordered by the manufacturers ' combination which controls the businabs in this country is the second advance that has been Made within the last six months . " This is from the Tribune , a paper which has repeatedly , defended a high protective tariff on the ground that it encourages in the home market competition which reduces prices to the home buyer . The School Slate Trust was recently organized . Early in May the prices were raised 1212 per cent . Again , a week or two ago , they were raised about 5 per cent. , and the abovementioned tariff organ says that they " may go still higher . " The duty on imported slates and slate pencils is 30 per cent . ad valorem . Protected by this , the slate makers of this country unite and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States at their pleasure , for there is no one to undersell them at home and the duty excludes foreign-made slates . The:Tribune asserts that " even if there were no protective tariff " on slates the Trust could defy foreign competition . Then let the tariff tax be taken off . Let the people have the benefits of competition from abroad , if they can not have the advantages of competition in the home market . Trust making is " the tendency . of the times , " as Mr. ARKELL says . It is a tendency which the people will check in some way . It is manifested in so many branches of industry because , with foreign competition excluded , the people are at the mercy of home manufacturers who unite to create monopolies and raise prices . The protectionist manufacturers who make Trusts are supplying revenue reformers with good ammunition in abundance .                     