@@672221

txt Alexis de Tocqueville , that seer of our century , foretold that one day " in spite of the conquest the Frenoh will found a splendid empire in the New World , more enlightened , more moral , and happier than that of their fathers . " We English are proverbially slow to take heed to a warning , and it is only of late years that it has begun to dawn upon Canadians that the prophetic words are coming true , at least in so far as the attempt is being made to re-establish here the power that has passed from Europe . At the time of the American Revolution Canada remained loyal to the British Empire because of an injunction placed upon it by the Church . To whatever faults the Roman Catholic Church must plead ? guilty , it can not fairly be accused of lack of prudence , and the authorities saw clearly that if their subjects should once breathe the air or freedom they would pass beyond the control of the Church . For this reason they were bidden to remain steadfast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Queen , and at the same time are held in bondage by the Pope . Whatever change of relations is to come between the United States and Canada , and it is clear there must be some change and that soon , the same causes will be at work as were potent in 1776 to keep the two nations apart . The Province of Quebeo is more French than Normandy , and more Catholic than Italy , and it is not to be wondered at that the French Canadians will resist the denationalizing effect of ions , leads to increased endeavor here , where the opposing force numbers only five millions . They point with secret pride to the New-England factory towns . really French villages transported from Quebec ; to one American county alone which has half as many French as Montreal has English ; to the " Canadian Co-operative Bank " at Holyoke , whose officers are entirely French Canadians . whose hundreds of shareholders are of the same nationality , incorporated by the Massachusetts Legislature , and the profits from which will come to Canada to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cherishing an element it will one day have to wrestle with as with any other foreign conspiracy . ? When the time comes it is easy to see on which side the victory will lie , for the Americans have the experience of Quebec to guide them ; but at present , and under the present form of Government , Canada is absolutely powerless in the hands of a race that wishes no good to the Confederation . It is little wonder , then , that sober Canadians are looking for some other form of government under which the evil will not be tolerated . The most obvious remedy is to merge their individuality into that of the United States , and it is to this quarter they are turning . It must be admitted that this tendency toward annexation is not entirely spontaneous , but that it is developed by that desire for preservation from an impending danger . The tendency , however , is manifest and well marked , and this hope of a remedy is by far the greatest factor that is bringing about a change in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their lot with the United States , and that the Church would not agree to become amenable to those laws before which all Churches are equal . The FrenctaCanaillans are here as a foreign element , and it is their aim and boast that they are to remain foreign . Even into the United States they are importing , besides their language and religion , their traditions and aggressive aims . It is only within recent years that the Church and race have reached to this pitch of arrogance . Speaking at the demonstration at Quebec on St. Jean Baptiste Day , when the monument was unveiled in honor of the explorer Cartier and the Jesuit Brebceuf , Premier Mercier denounced what he was pleased to call English fanaticism , because the country did not stand idly by and see its revenues despoiled and handed over to an order of the Church . ft was further declared that if permission were not given to Quebec to govern as the majority dictated . then they would seek under tho tricolor what was denied them under the British flag . The Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the English language and race are tolerated " in Quebec , so the French should receive permission to establish themselves , their schools , and their systems in the Province of Ontario . Another speaker urged them to keep their powder dry , for no one could tell how soon they would need to use it in defense of their rights . These disloyal words are bearing fruit , and they have impressed upon young men the uselessness of cherishing hopes for the Dominion , and that it is their interest ' to break it up and separate Quebec from the rest of Canada . All this has brought about a feeling of intense irritation and an ungenerous attitude between the two peoples , and the most trivial acts are magnified . Even the arrest of au English young lady , on a trumped-up charge , by a French pollee officer has given rise to the question , Are we living under French or English law I It is impossible for so much feeling to exist without harm coming of it . The antiJesuit agitation has not yet spout . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will work ruin to the confederation . The clergy of both religions are in the field . The Curtis are saying : " Unless our legislation is protected we will seek refuge beneath the tricolor . " The Protestant ministers are saying : " Rather smash the confederation than allow these legislative acts . " The worst feature of the case is that political questions have gotten mixed up with religious ones . When-Premier Mercier was asserting the necessity of satisfying the Church with regard to the Jesuits ' estates , he alleged as a reason for taking this property from those who bad an acknowledged legal claim upon it , and giving it to those whose claim at best was only a " moral " one , that each member of the Government was subject to ecclesiastic pains and penalties so long as he refused to recognize the Church 's asserted rights . The ministers felt forced to do an illegal thine rather than have the offices of the Church refused to them , so that Protestants are called upon to suffer the wrath of the Church by being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for educational purposes . b ruin the Dominion Government no help is to be expected , for even it it is above ecclesiastic punishment it is not above feeling the power and anger of a Church which controls a majority of the electors and the force of the solidarity of a Gallic people wherever it is found . The fact is , the British Constitution and Government by majority is riveted by those penalties which that majority can not disobey and live . The Pope is imported into our Government , a place is assigned to his name in our legislation which belongs alone to the sovereign , ' be it people or Queen , and the Church is permitted to step between the will of the people and the executive . At first it was only a quarrel between the Jesuits and the Government , in which the secular clergy took sides against the secret order and even the Cardinal-Archbishop Taschereau. of Quebec protested against the proposed grant , but when Protestants also stood tin in opposition , all the forces of the Church were driven together , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Canadians disposed to rely upon their prodigious fecundity and multiplying in peace to become the dominant rase in the United States and Canada , there would yet be something to object to , for when the disturbances of last century were brought to a close they were permitted to remain here as British subjects and not in any sense as rivals . It is as rivals they still regard themselves . The French clerical paper LaVeritenublishes an article , which may be regarded as the unchecked expression of the aspirations of the boldest and most earnest of the Ultramontanes of this province in regard to its national and political future . It repudiates the idea that the French people in Canada care to build up any nation on the continent but a purely French one , and declares that the advocates of the grand tout Canadien  --  the all-Canadian idea of one Canadian people developed from the two races ? are not in sympathy with the aspirations of the French people . Such a scheme was not , is not , and never will be the desire of French Canadians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an end . It is a means of enabling them to dwell in peace with their neighbors , while , for the time being , safeguarding their rights , developing their resources , strengthening them , and making them ready for a national future . The ideal of the French Canadians is not the ideal of the other races which to-day inhabit this country . Their ideal is the formation here , in this corner of the world , watered , as they say , by the blood of their heroes , of a nation which shall perform on this continent the part France has played so long in Europe . They confess openly that their ideal is to found a nation which shall profess the Catholic faith and speak the French language . It is clear that this can not be the aspiration of the other races who lay claim to this country , and to say that all the groups which constitute confederation are animated by the one sentiment is to utter a sounding phrase without historical or political meaning . For them , they do not pretend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be the last of their national existence . It is merely a road toward the goal they have in view ? that is all . Lot us " ? so the most outspoken of their teachers cry ? " accept the present state of things loyally ; let us not be aggressive towward our neighbors ; let us for the present give them full hearty to pursue their particular ideal and persuade them that we are with them , but let us never lose sight of our national destiny . " Their clergy infuses into them the idea that this is the end the God of Nations has in store for them ; that this ambition is no vain dream and their desired laud a mere Utopia . They are taught they have not been snatched from death a score of times ; that they have not multiplied with a prodigious rapidity ; that they have not wrought marvels of resistance and quiet conquest in the eastern townships , in the border townships of Ontario , in the Northwest , in the Eastern States , absorbing and driving out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go and lose themselves in any allCanadian arrangement . To insist upon maintaining British principles In the face of this race ambition is an impossible pretense . The problem that is before Americans as well as Canadians is to assimilate the foreign material that is cast among them , and before this strange element can be a sucial , political , or economic gain It must cast in its lot with the people among whom it is thrown and acknowledge only one common end  --  tee good of the whole community . The French in the United States have no intention of becoming citizens themselves , and their priests are taking care that the children of the French shall not aspire after . that right . The success they are meeting with across the line , where the mass to be leavened is a usable of sixty mill ,                     