@@745353

txt A most important judicial decision was made the other day in regard to free lunches , and it is safe to say that in consequence of this decision the days of free lunches are numbered . What is popularly known as the " free lunch " system in this city was intended to be an aid to the sale of beverages . The sign " Free Lunch , " so often displayed outside of drinking saloons , means that the man who buys a glass of beer , or of any stronger beverage , at the saloons in question is entitled to partake , without further payment , of a lunch , said to consist in most cases of cold ham or of some mysterious granulated compound , usually called either salad or chowder , as the ingenious inventor thereof may think fit . A cheap free lunch can be given away in conjunction with high-priced beer at a profit , and as the free lunch system induces the hungry as well as the thirsty to drink , it largely promotes the sale of beverages . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free lunch without buying the usually inseparable beer . He is al:eged to have had a large appetite and to have consumed an enormous quantity of lunch , but the condition of his appetite need not be considered , since there has never been any attempt on the part of the free lunch purveyors to dictate to their customers how much lunch any one man is entitled to eat . In the case of the man who indulged in free lunch without beer , his offense really consisted in his failure to order beer , and it was for this that the indignant saloon keeper " fired him out "  --  a process which is said to be identical with sudden and violent ejection from the premises . The man thereupon appealed to the law , and it was finally decided by a court of justice that when lunch is described . as " free " it can not be presumed to be trammeled by an obligation to buy beer , or by any other obligation , since if it is so trammeled it is not " free . " Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free lunch , " his lunch must be absolutely free , and any person can enter and devour said free lunch without complying with any other condition than that of conlaucting himself in an orderly manner . Under this decision an army of hungry tramps can invade a free lunch establishment and eat as if they believed neither in indigestion in this world nor retribution in the next . They can bring their own beer with them or they can leave the lunch counter at intervals and go out to drink ht the nearest public fountain . The proprietor of the free lunch can not require the tramps either to buy beer or to pay for their lunch ; neither can he " fire them out . " He must quietly and peaceably await the moment when the free lunch is consumed and the tramps have departed . He can then take down his free lunch sign and relieve his mind with language adequate to the situation , but he can not punish men for having interpreted his sign literally and treated his free lunch as if it were wholly free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be maintained in the face of a judicial decision which permits any man to eat free lunch without money and without beer . The moment the public learns of this decision the free lunch system is dead , and the public will remember it only with wonder that for so many years no hungry man ventured to test the question whether free lunch was really free or whether it was a means of selling beer under false pretenses.                     