@@745913

txt President Cleveland 's message to Congress continues to be the leading topic of conversation in official circles , and comes in for considerable favorable as well as unfavorable comment . The references of the President to the action of Canadia , officials come in for special discussion . The Hon. Mr. Foster , Minister of Marine and Fisheries , speaking to THE TIMES 'S correspondent of President Cleveland 's message , said : " I infer from a glance at the document that the President is disappointed in his efforts to secure a satisfactory settlement of the fishery question . His disappointment is certainly not the result of any action taken by Canada adverse to a desired settlement . In order to brine about such a settlement the Canadian Government allowed American citizens alt the privileges of the Washington treaty from the 1st of July , 1885 , to the 31st of December of same year , and asked in return that the President should recommend the establishment of a mixed commission , which should , if possible , negotiate satisfactory arrangements as regards both fisheries and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the free use of oar fisheries , while Canadians were met in the United States by the imposition of old duties dating from 1881 . The President , " resumed the Minister , " fulfilled his part of the agreement and recommended an agreement , and it was not on account of any action of the Canadian Government that a commission was not appointed . The cause of the present condition of affairs is Senator Frye , who introduced in the Senate a motion , which was carried by a majority of two to one , declaring , in effect , that the United States wished no change made , either with reference to the fishing question or reciprocal trade relations . Similar feeling was manifested in the House of Representatives . After this authoritative declaration the President could not appoint a commission . Su far clearly the fault was not on the part of the Canadian Government or Canadian fishermen . The Canadian Government was not lacking in giving fair warning that the law would be en- forced . From May to November the treaty of 1818 has been enforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American fishing vessels have been seized for fishing within the limits and for preparing to fish therein . One has been condemned by the courts after a fair trial and a confession of guilt by the Captain himself . Two other vessels are still before the courts , and every facility has been offered the defendants to make good their case . Numerous seizures also took place for violation of our customs regulation . Iu no case has the department erred on the side of rigor or overstrictness . That we have not a cola-ailssiou sitting to-day , " concluded Mr. Foster . " is entirely due to the action of the United States Senate . The Government of Canada has always been , and is still , desirous of coming to an amicable and just arrangement with the American Government on the fishery question , while at the same time we have not proposed , and do not now propose , to abate one single iota of the rights of Canada as secured by the solemn treaty between the United States and Great Britain . " 