@@745039

txt The people of New-England are beginning to see that the destruction of their forests threatens to ruin the water power upon which hundreds of factories have relied , and to diminish the profits of agriculture , which are already small . A resolution has been passed by the Connecticut Senate directing the State Board of Agriculture to discover whether or not any legislation to prevent the destruction of forests and woodlands is needed , and whether or not laws should be enacted for the encouragement of tree planting . The head-waters of the Housatonic and Naugatuck Rivers , which supply power for many factories , are in Massachusetts , and the head-waters of the Connecticut are near the Canadian boundary . The board is directed to report whether or not the States of Massachusetts , Vermont , and New-Hampshire can be induced to enact laws for the protection of the forests that stand around the sources of these streams . The water power of Connecticut streams is very valuable , and it has been utilized to great advantage . In 1880 a little more than one-quarter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many parts of the State the profits of farming have become so small that farmers have been led to sell their wood , and in the last two or three years the portable saw mill has deprived many a small stream of the timber that from time immemorial had prevented evaporation . The result is that these small streams have ceased to supply the factories on their ' banks in a satisfactory way . While the wood-cutter was at work on the banks of the tributaries of the State 's large rivers , the lumbermen in Northern Vermont and New-Hampshire were cutting away the forests around the sources of the Connecticut . Foreseeing that this work , both at home and in neighboring States , must soon cause great injury . to the manufacturing interests of the State , the Legislature has come to the conclusion that a remedy must be found and applied . The investigation proposed by the resolution should be made at once , and it should be a thorough one . The investigators will probably find that while the destruction of the State 's forests may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other way . Thrifty NewEngland farmers carefully preserve their wood until the time comes when they can keep it no longer . After it has been sold to the jobber , every stick is cut off . Some of the manufacturers of New-England must compete hereafter with the manufacturers of the South . The failure of their water power will deprive them of natural resources which they can not afford to lose .                     