@@743574

txt The uses of homeopathy are without number , and its cures are as wonderful , if not as miraculous , as those effected by the tincture of Knock mortar . Seldom has there been a medical discovery made of more importance to the human race than that recently made by Dr. Ginery , of Boston , and it is the latest and most wonderful of the triumphs of homeopathy . The allopathic , or old school , theory of that painful disease of infancy called " crying " is familiar to every one , and has for ages been unhesitatingly accepted by the most able and learned mothers . This theory assumes that " crying " is a symptom of the presence of unhappiness in the infant stomach , and that the proper treatment is to remove this unhappiness , when , as the doctors assure us , the crying will cease . There are two distinct methods of treatment which have received the sanction of the Faculty . One is to administer candy , paregoric , and other remedies which are supposed to act directly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are , undoubtedly , cases on record where this treatment has been successful , but they are very rare in proportion to the cases where it has utterly Frequently mothers have administered successive half-hour doses of candy during au entire night without producing the slightest appreciable effect , and although paregoric , if given in sufficient quantity , will silence the most violent infant , it will be at the cost of rendering the infant useless forever afterward . The other and more popular treatment proceeds on the assumption that the unhappiness in the stomach of the infant can be liaken out . When an infant begins to cry , the mother usually bounces it on her knee for an hour or two , nursing it at intervals , so as to facilitate the escape of the alleged unhappiness . If this does not have the desired effect , the infant is laid across the maternal lap and violently patted on the back . In some cases the father is called upon to walk the floor with the infant in his arms , and to toss it up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sometimes one or another of these processes loosens the unhappiness so that it escapes and the crying ceases . Or , rather , we should say that such is occasionally the theoretical result of shaking , bouncing , and patting . No man has ever seen the pretended unhappiness , or can give any proof of its existence other than the theoretical opinion of doctors and mothers . The treatment is by no means certain in its results , and it is probably an exaggeration to claim that it cures in 20 per cent . of all the cases in which it is tried . Dr. Ginery , who is one of the leading homeopathic physicians of Boston , of course took a wholly different view of infantile crying . He scouted the idea that the physicians should look beyond the symptom called " crying , " and endeavor to discover an alleged disease  --  such as abdominal unhappiness  --  with a view of curing that . Crying , in his opinion , constituted the whole of the disease , and in order to cure it a remedy must be found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Undoubtedly he was right , from a homeopathic point of view , and his subsequent brilliant success has justified his theory . Like a good and fearless homeopathist , he began to try experiments upon himself . He found that a number of things affected him to tears and caused him to yell ? ithanguish . Of all of these , the most rapid and unfailing in its action was the New-York ? Mot Ile . It ' he read a quarter of it column of its fourth page he howled to such an extent that his landlady was compelled to remonstrate with him , and the boarders publicly bought heavy sticks . Dr. Ginery fully believed that he had discovered the true remedy for infantile crying , and he lost no time in borrowing an infant from his married sister in order to try the remedy . To his great disappointment , the experiment was a failure . He tied the infant in a chair and read to it three columns of the Tribune , including an article on the Maine election which had already made him tear his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abatement . It was evident there was a mistake somewhere . The doctor , who does not ordinarily prescribe infinitesimal doses , thought that perhaps he had overdosed the infant , and accordingly , after waiting six hours , during which the infant never Ceased to howl , he exhibited the simple words , " Founded by HORACE GREELEY . " No appreciable result followed , and ringing for the servant to take the infant back to its mother , lie went to bed a disheartened and disgusted man . The next morning a happy thought occurred to him . He had been " proving " remedies on himself , and he was a grown-up man . Might it not be that in the case of an infant the remedy which suited a man would be inefficacious ? He determined to begin his experiments all over again , using an infant instead of his own person . He therefore again borrowed his sister 's infant , and resumed his investigations . It was a long time before he hit upon anything that seemed to have any effect on the patient . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gen. HANcocK , speeches by au eminent New-England Senator , and a dozen other remedies . None of them succeeded until he bethought himself of tiling a saw . As the file drew the first shriek from the tortured steel the infant ceased to wail , and in two minutes dropped its head on its breast and sank into a profound slumber . The remedy was discovered at last . The saw and file made a noise more piercing and generally diabolical than any infant could hope to produce . Perceiving the hopelessness of keeping up a struggle with such a noise , the infant of Dr. Ginery 's sister decided not to waste its tears , - but to surrender and cease to cry . Since the date of the original experiment Dr. Ginery has exhibited the saw and file to one hundred and seven crying infants without a single failure . He has now published his discovery for the benefit of mankind and the saw and file trade , and uo family can possibly afford to be without the only and infallible cure for crying infants . 