@@781787

txt It may be questioned if there has ever been prepared for the poor remains of a celebrated man a home-coming so unique and dramatic as that just now given to those of JoHN HOWARD PAYNE . He died in Tunis , Africa , in 1852 , his fame chiefly resting upon his song " Home , Sweet Home . " To-day his ashes rest in the City Hall of New-York . Brought from far over the seas by the tender care and thoughtful liberality of an American citizen , the remains of JOHN HOWARD PAYNE , the homeless author of a little poem that appeals to the heart of every civilized creature , are guarded by reverent fellow-countrymen during the few hours that elapse before they are finally deposited in their native soil . More than thirty years have passed away since the lonely wanderer who gave to the Englishspeaking race the most affecting song of home died and was buried in a foreign land . With something like a thrill hundreds of thousands of Americans  --  men , women , and children  --  will read to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bones were received at the margin of the ocean and were carried to the only place in which the chief city of the Republic has ever paid its last honors to the illustrious dead . For JOHN HOWARD PAYNE , dead these thirty years , this reverential ceremonial avails nothing . He has long since passed beyond the influence of the world 's praise , criticism , adulation , and fickle favor . It is nothing to him , wherever he is , whether flowers are strewn and music breathed over his material ashes , or these insensate relics are dispersed " wide as the waters be " on the surface of river and ocean . But it is much to the living that the bones of an American author , beloved for his one heart-touching song , should finally be laid at rest in the bosom of the continent that gave him birth . The eternal fitness of things seemed to demand that the mortal part of JoHN HOWARD PAYNE should be resolved to earth again in his native land . During his life PAYNE was a wanderer in foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-aimlessly , about the streets of London , almost literally homeless . In the " pleasures and palaces " that figured in his melodious plaint he had no personal share . Poverty and privation were his companions when , apparently turning from the splendor that dazzled in vain , he sighed for the repose and simple comfort of his home across the seas . It is late reparation , a futile attempt to do justice to the manes of the dead , perhaps , which ' brings home at last the crumbling relics of the poet . Nevertheless , . the act is not wholly vain . There is yet left among men some sentiment which honors those who have touched , in song or story , the hearts of the people . The fame of JOHN HOWARD PAYNE Unquestionably rests upon his one song . He was a poor actor , a struggling and ambitious dramatist . His tragedy of " Brutus , or The Fall of Tarquin , " produced in . London in 1817 , was written in the lofty , pedantic , and stilted style of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by virtue of the excellence of its dramatic situations , rather than by its literary merit . The light opera , " Clari , the Maid of Milan , " in which his immortal song was introduced , succeeded indifferently , and would soon have been forgotten but for its incidental connection with the stanzas on which PAYNE 'S literary reputation chiefly rests . It can not be denied that PAYNE is the hero of one song , as many another man has been before him . Who thinks of GRAY as other than the author of the " Elegy in a Country Churchyard ? " Who recalls anything written by CHARLES WOLFE besides his " Burial of Sir John Moore ? " ROIJGET DE LISLE wrote only one song , and that will live as long as France lives . Instances innumerable of men who have written one immortal book may be quoted . And it is doubtless true of JOHN HOWARD PAYNE , as has been scornfully said of him , that if he were living to-day his verses would not be given a place in any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man whose name will be forgotten when the only song of home will be recalled with moist eyes and quivering lips . The explanation of the wide popularity ( if we may use a word so debased ) of the one song of JOHN HOWARD PAYNE is to be sought for in its universal applicability to the human race . Only among the most bestial and degraded races of mankind do we find no trace of attachment to home . It is difficult to Say whether the home feeling is divine or merely human , or even purely animal , since we share that sentiment ( if it be a sentiment ) with the creatures whose dumb inarticulate cries are often their only lamentation over homes of which they arc bereft . But the noblest part of the human race thinks chiefly of its home , its abiding-place , its haven of rest , in which is hidden all the sweet domesticity of motherhood , childhood , and married life . Separated from these the soul of man is uneasy , unfixed , uncheerful . In our nomadic life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and frequent . The passionate longing , the pensive sorrow , expressed in PAYNE 'S lyric , have been common to the human race . In these simple words the poet gave expression to the universal thought of homesickness that at some time or another has darkened every heart . It was not necessary to his fame that he should have composed any other literary work . As long as men have homes , as long as the English language is spoken , the memory of the man whose mortal part is now brought home for burial will endure .                     