@@745013

txt A discovery of immense importance to evolutionists and of incalculable interest to the human race has just been made by an English scientific person . It is not only an evidence of the truth of the theory of evolution , but it beautifully confirms the nebular hypothesis . It is the discovery of the grand and startling fact that man is ultimately to become rotary . The scientific person in question has discovered that the human left leg is steadily elongating . At piesent there are probably very few persons living whose legs are of equal length . As yet the increased length of the left leg is not so great as to be perceptible to the unassisted eye , but if any given pair of legs is measured the left leg will in almost every case be found to be slightly longer than the other . The result of this inequality of legs is that a person who tries to walk when blindfolded will inevitably move toward the right in the arc of a circle . That is to say , assuming that the nose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when blindfolded , a tendency to revolve from west to east . As the left leg grows longer this tendency will grow stronger , and the time will come when , owing to the excessive length of the left leg , man will become a rotary animal . It will be impossible for him to walk in a straight line , and he will be unable to make a forward motion unless his orbit proves to be a spiral one . According to the nebular hypothesis , as soon as a mass of planetary matter was separated from the sun it began to revolve on its own axis . That is to say , the revolution of a planet on its axis took place as soon as the planet became fitted for a separate existence . Conversely , we may assume that when a man begins to revolve on his personal axis he is closely approaching the period when he will be able to live separate from the earth . His actual separation from the earth , will doubtless be coincident with such an increase in the speed of his revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the earth 's surface . In this case he will become a satellite . of the earth , revolving around her and indulging in phases , eclipses , and other astronomical sports . In point of fact , he will become a flying animal , unable , it is true , to fly in any direction that his fancy may dictate , inasmuch as he will be held in his orbit , and his axis will be kept at a proper inclination . to the plane of his equator by the force of gravitation , but capable of a much grander flight than that of any eagle . It is unnecessary to point out that in his flying , and virtually planetary state , man will be:vastly superior to the walking man of the present day . He will be endowed with poles , and equinoxes , and seasons , and will be entitled to all the rights and privileges of a planet of the largest size . What effect a rapid and never-ending rotary motion may have upon the health of man . it would be rash to predict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ path of evolution is a safe one , and that man would not become rotary were that condition of life to be injurious to him . It is proper to say that the scientific person who discovered the inequality of the human legs did not perceive the tremendous consequences involved in the lengthening of the left leg , and has not foreseen that man is to become rotary . That such is to be the fate of man there can , however , be no doubt , provided we once admit that our left legs are growing faster than our right legs .                     