@@744670

txt If an accurate and complete statement setting forth the number of persons slain by railway trains , and the ways in which they were killed , should be published at the end of eachyear , it would undoubtedly astonish those who occasionally glance at the record of accidents . Such statements are in same States prepared and reported by Boards of Railway Commissioners , but the people very seldom see statistical proof of the locomotive 's deadly work . The annual reports of the companies operating railways in NewJersey show that in the last thirteen years 1,902 lives were lost - by accident on their roads . From this statement , covering so small a part of the entire field , one can see how great must have been the entire number of those who lost their lives on railways in the United States during the same period . New-Jersey is traversed by the great lines which extend from the greatest city and the greatest port of the country to the West , the South-west , and the South . Many trains pass through the cities of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main streets on grade . Citizens are protected to some extent by gates and fences and flagmen , but lives are cut off in spite of these . The statement referred to above probably includes those accidents which caused the death of employes , as well as those which caused the death of citizens , but hundreds of the last named have perished before the locomotive at crossings , in the companies ' yards , or on the rails far from highways . Many of these fatal accidents could be avoided by forcing ' the railways to cross highways either below or above grade , and by restraining citizens by law from walking on the track . A greater regard for human life is shown in those foreign countries where grade crossings on highways are prohibited , and where persons who walk upon the tracks are fined by the courts . In this country the power of the corporations , the general desire for easy  --  and rapid intercommunication , and an impression that an ? American is able to take care of himself under any circumstances , have secured to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along highways . Thousands of lives have been lost at grade crossings , and there are 2,157 such crossings in Massachusetts alone , less than one-third of which are protected by gates or flagmen . Grade crossings are rarely seen in England , but they can be found there , for 83 persons were killed at such crossings in the United Kingdom in the year 1881 . Yet these crossings are so few in number there that they are commonly said to be unknown in that country . Here and there railways may be found entering American cities above or below grade . The elevated tracks in Philadelphia and the Fourth-avenue tunnel in this City are examples of the way in which convenience and safety may be secured by avoiding highway grades . The trains which pass through New-Haven speed along in the bed of an old canal , far below highway erade . But instances of this kind are comparatively rare . In most cases the trains pass on grade , and the free American citizen must preserve his life by the exercise of his wits . It has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nation becomes older , the railways will be forced to avoid the highways . There are no indications at present ; however , of the ant roach of such a chanze . On the other hand , there are - reasons for a belief Sthat no such change will take place . Public ' entiment will surely colnpel the companies ' to warn'and protect citizens by additional safeguards at crossings , and laws may be enacted to prevent citizens from walking on railway tracks , but it is extremely improbable that our railway-companies will ever be forced to spend : their money in bridging over or tunneling under the thousands of highways which their roads cross .                     