@@745091

txt The events of the last ten days have naturally produced much excitement in Wall-street . The failure of the Marine Bank and the disclosure of its intimate connection with the wild business of GRANT , WARD &; Co. , followed by the discovery of the trouble prodnced by a gambling President in the Second National Bank , shook confidence in the value of all securities not known to be solid . The temporary closing of the Metropolitan Bank yesterday morning and the suspension of several brokers ' houses , two , at least , of which were regarded as unusually conservative and safe , were , on the one hand , the results of the weakening of public confidence , and on the other , the cause of still further alarm . In the - state of mind in which many persons interested in Wall-street securities found themselves yesterday , it liras inevitable that they should credit ? and . that they should spread exaggerated rumors concerning the affairs of financial institutions the soundness of which there was no real reason to suspect . It was to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Banks promptly resolved upon the step taken yesterday afternoon  --  the issue of Clearing-house certificates , to be used in settling balances , to the amount of ' 75 per cent . of valid securities ' offered to a committee of the association . For the purpose contemplated this measure was wise and timely . It is in the nature of a joint guarantee of sound banks by their associates . Given the existence of general excitement , a Measure which will allay it by a formal and official declaration of confidence , expressed in definite action , is justifiable . It is not to be presumed that the Associated Banks intend to save unsound institutions from the consequences of their mistaken course . That .. would only transfer to the general body of banks the distrust which may attach to separate institutions . But the resolution of the Clearing-house . may be fairly regarded as an announcement by those who know the facts that there is nothing that need disturb the public in the condition of the banks generally . Since banking is only possible where credit is at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eminently proper . Quite different , however , is the reported action of the Secretary of the Treasury in ordering ' the payment in advance of the one hundred-and twenty-seventh call for bonds , and the promise to make another call if " necessary . " No such step is " necessary " or can do any good . Its practical effect can only be to offer money to those who do not need it and who could get it without difficulty on the bonds which it is offered to pay . There is no lack of money in New-York to-day ; the only difficulty is that , to some extent , those who have it are afraid to lend it on such security as is available . Their fears are not lessened by the course of Mr. FoLGER , while the interference of the Government in the money market only gives rise to false expectations and confused ideas . Whatever may have been the Secretary 's motive , no explanation of his action can be conceived which is not ridiculously inadequate and unreasonable . The difficulty in financial circles so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon themselves , and for whom it has been for some time expected . It was sure to come , and it was sure to give rise to a good deal of excitement when it did come , but it is the result of causes that have not only been operating for many months , but have been seen to be in operation . The more immediate of these have been excessive railway construction , locking up in non-paying enterprises large amounts of capital , and the thimble-rigging methods in which the " securities " arising from these enterprises have been managed . Had the railways that have actually been built been paid for in hard cash at their real cost , the conversion into fixed capital of capital that would have been otherwise available would have checked general trade and lessened profits . But in addition to this there has been a great deal of money taken out of legitimate business to be put into securities of fictitious or exaggerated value , and the steady diminution of the worth of these in the market has produced great public anxiety and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would have been had these values collapsed suddenly , because the anxiety has been more strictly confined to those directly interested . In the former case , we should have had all the elements of a general panic . Now we have only those of a great but limited distress , with possible intervals of considerable disturbance . Back of these immediate causes , however , there has been a remoter and more general cause in the practical inflation caused by the mistaken policy with reference to the payment of the demand notes of the Government and the coinage of silver . Had the legal-tender notes been either called in and paid , or funded in United States bonds , instead of being left outstanding and undiminished , there would have been no such mania for railway and other speculation as has taken place . In addition to this we have had the currency inflated by the coinage of silver , forced by law , without reference to demand or value . The two forces together were enough to unsettle cooler and more cautious minds than those of average Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and unless they are retrieved we shall have to pay it over and over again . Meantime it is obvious that ' those business men only are safe who observe in their private affairs the principles of sound management and firm integrity which the Government has so grossly violated .                     