@@781821

txt Whatever is of absorbing interest above stairs naturally attracts attention in the servants ' hall . It was therefore inevitable that the interest excited among intelligent men in the revision of the New Testament should finally reach TALMAGE . His opinion on any question of scholarship or criticism is , of course , utterly valueless , and his sermon on the revision reminds one strongly of the cook 's question , " Who wrote Shakespeare ? " but whenever TALMAGE advertises a special performance , he always draws a crowd , and on Sunday morning his " Tabernacle " was filled by a noisy but approving audience . In coarseness , silliness , and profanity TALMAGE 'S attack on the revised New Testament was neither better nor worse than his average Sunday morning performance . He stopped short while praying in order to make a hit at the revisers , who have omitted the spurious doxology from the Lord 's Prayer , but that TALMAGE should make a prayer to Almighty GOD the foundation for what he considers a sarcasm or a joke will surprise no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulpit  --  as he did when he took an oath never , never to desert King JAMES 'S version  --  was what might have been expected , and his attack on the revisers because they rejected certain notes proposed by the American committee and ridiculed by TALMAGE himself was entirely characteristic of hip peculiar methods of reasoning . That a man whose ignorance of the simplest rules of English grammar is as conspicuous as his total inability to understand why coarseness and vulgarity are distasteful to gentlemen should undertake to criticise the work of the foremost scholars of England and America , to charge them with errors of translation and offenses against good taste , would be simply amusing were it not that this pretentious person still has the countenance of the Presbyterian denomination , and has a large following among men of his own social and intellectual grade , TALMAGE finds two grounds of objection to the revision . These are that the changes made by the revisers are of no consequence , and that they will make more infidels than the revisers could convert should they live as long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one another is nothing to TAL3IAG E , for he knows his audience and can trust it to accept buffoonery for argument . He thinks it is ridiculous that the revisers should have changed the sentence , " No man putteth new wine into old hot . ties , " by substituting " wine-skins " for " bottles , " and he revolts at the careful distinction made by the revisers between the meaning of different tenses , as if grammatical accuracy were necessarily a personal insult to him . He says that the American committee suggested adding to the phrase , " He was naked , " the explanatory note , " He had ou an undergarment only , " because their sensitive modesty was hurt by the word " naked , " but had TALMAGE the slightest knowledge of Greek he would know that the Greek word which is translated " naked " means " clad only iu an undergarment , " and that the American committee made their suggestion purely in the interest of fidelity to the Greek . It is only persons . like TALMAGE who find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the revision " wars on the magnificent liturgy of the Episcopal Church and renders all its prayer-books of no value . " That the liturgy should be patronized by TALMAGE is a curious exhibition of what the worldly call " cheek , " but the assumption that he . knows anything about the Prayer-book and its relations either to the old or new version of the New Testament must be extremely exasperating to ardent churchmen . But to find fault with TALMAGE because he knows neither Greek nor English is like upbraiding the cook because she is not a Shakespearean critic , and can not be indulged iu to any extent without wasting time . Most people admit that if there are errors in the old version , whether they are important or not , they should be corrected . As might be expected , TALMAGE holds a different view . He says that the correction of these errors shocks the faith of the people . " Be careful , gentlemen , " he solemnly remarks , " that while hunting rats in the cellar you do not set the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that TALMAGE was addressing Dr. VANDYKE , and protesting that to prove a minister guilty of lying would be to endanger the interests of the Church . He thinks that to let people know of the existence of unimportant errors in the King James Bible is to shake their faith , and that the existence of these errors should be carefully concealed . Honest and truthful men do not believe that the authority of the Bible can be efficiently maintained by a policy of concealment and fraud . If clergymen , and even persons like TALMAGE , should agree to conceal from public knowledge the trivial errors of the old version , the discovery ? which would be made sooner or later  --  that they exist would have a disastrous effect . Such a course would be akin to that of a religious denomination which should think it better to conceal , as far as possible , offenses against morality and decency committed by any of its ministers rather than to risk the scandal which would be caused by the conviction and deposition of the offender . The result would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus countenance immorality ; and were TALMAGE to have his way the Church which might try to conceal the errors of the old version would lose all claim to confidence and respect . The merit of the new version is that it is more truthful than the old . and we need not wonder that TALMAGE instinctively hates it .                     