@@672270

txt A movement is on foot which will undoubtedly end in the estabishment of an Inter-State league whose purpose will be to fight the liquor tramo . Nebraska is to vote on a prohibitory amendment next year , and the idea is to perfect an organization , which will bring the united Prohibition strength of the West to bear in the campaign . The statement submitted to the Presidents of the State Temperance Associations of Iowa , Nebraska , and the two Dakotas. by James . A. Troutman of the Kansas Temperance Union , in furtherance of the plan , is as follows : " The adoption of prohibition by the two Dakotas at the recent elections transfers the contest in these States from the popular forum to the halls of legislation . and from there to the courts of justice . Nebraska ' Oust entering upon a campaign of a w hole year 's duration . The crystallization of the soy . ereign will of the Dakotas into wise laws , and the inflexible administiation of these laws after their enactment , anti the favorable result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . even outBide of the territory limits of the States named . " Prohibition is the fixed policy of Kansas , and sustained by such an overwhelming sentiment that repeal is neither feared by its friends nor expecten by its enemies . Iowa has also passed the rubicon IMOD this question . The success of prohibition in Nebraska next year closes the gap and cements five imperial States , lying by side , in a united crusade against the liquor traffic . These States ought to be as close together in effort , and influence as they are geographically . The years of experience Kansas and Iowa have had ought to be utilized to the advantage or the other three States . I have had in my mind for several days the idea that there ought to be a strong central organization . embracing these five States , and I suggest that a convention be called , to meet in Omaha about the 1st of January , for the purpose of forming such an organization . Omaha is suggested because of its convenience of access , and for the additional reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1890 . Limit the organization at first to these five States , adding adjacent States whenever they submit the question of prohibition to the people . This limitation would confine the organization to States occupying an advanced position , those states that had already adopted prohibition or were approaching a campaign , and would insure the active interest and loyal co-operation of all the territory included . Tho experience of Kansas and the other pioneer States would help the newer ones , while success in the newer States would strengthen and fortify the older ones . " The advantage of such an organization , however . needs no elaboration . The attendance upon such a convention would perhaps not be large , but would be representative in character , and the meeting would mark the beginning of a political organization . 1 have written to the Presidents of the several state societies and requested them to communicate with me , making any suggestions that might seem pertinent , and would be glad to hear from you , especially as to the date and place . If there is general assent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advance upon the basis of representation and such matters of detail as may be primarily Important . " Mr. Troutman has already received replies from C. A. Atkinson , President of the Nebraska Association , and J. J. Barnes , President of the Southern Dakota Association , indorsing the plan and promising hearty co-operation . 