@@780765

txt The French Canadians are again beginning to show open hostility to the health officers . A man named Gagnon , residing on Rolland-lane , has been most determined in his resistance , and has hitherto prevented the authorities from removing his child , who is suffering from smallpox . Some days ago a warrant for his arrest was placed in the hands of Sanitary Officer Illeaunin to execute , but on his going to Gagnon 's houso the latter appeared at the door with a revolver in each hand , and the officer , deeming prudence the bettor part of valor , retired . Another warrant for threatening to shoot an officer was then taken out and two policemen were sent to execute it , but they found the door barricaded and Gagnon and his wife standing at the window armed with revolvers threatening to shoot any one who approached . Nothing more was done till 10 o'clock , when Sergts . Moran and Carpenter , with six policemen , were sent to arrest the man . The constables surrounded the house and the Sergeants , forcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves in a long , dark passage . As they were groping their way along a door at the far end suddenly opened and Gagnon and his wile began firing at the officers , who speedily made their way outside . The occupants of the house then fired several shots from the window at the policemen below , and the officers were obliged to retreat to a sale distance . A large crowd of the neighbors , hearing the firing , speedily gathered around , and Gagnon having explained the situation , they made a rush at the police , who would have received rough treatment had not the Sergeants , who were armed , kept the moat back by threatening to shoot them . They then marched their men off amid yells of derision from the mob . The officers , in explanation of their conduct , say that they would not have been justified in Shooting Gagnon or breaking in the door . They will report the matter to the Mayor to-morrow , and , should he order it , they will carry the house by storm , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble is due in a great measure to Dr. Bura one of the leading French Canadian physicians of Flochelaga , who is going around urging the people not to allow their friends to be taken to the hospital , and not to be vaccinated themselves , as it was very dangerous at a time like this . The health officers forcibly removed 10 cases to-night .                     