@@743340

txt Few tasks are more delicate or more difficult than the task of delivering a funeral sermon acceptably in these days , when religious beliefs are so varied , and ; often , so contradictory . They who hear it , however small the number , are likely to be of divers shades of opinion . What pleases one may displease another ; what women admire , men disapprove . In a past generation , even early in the present generation , funeral sermons were readily handled , because there was a regular way of treating and presenting them . They were more than solemn ; they were extremely lugubrious. pregnant with dogma , and heavy with trite and barren conclusions . Nobody dared to expect aught else ; clergymen felt that they would be recreant to the occasion , unless they could diffuse a deeper gloom over the assembly and add a fresh pang to hearts that had been bereaved  --  and they were never recreant . Their success was judged by the spiritual horror they had produced . When mothers and widows and sisters were thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they who were not near the dead whimpered hypocritically , " What a powerful sermon ! " Happily , we now have less dismal , distressing creeds ; mere doctrines have been stripped of much of their sanctity : we are on a healthier , more rational plane . We know more of nature than we used to do ; her laws no longer seem cruel ; we have refused to be satisfied with tenets . Parsons are aware of this ; they have grown likewise ; they look more hopefully and reasonably on the Unknown . But they have not kept pace with the laity ; they have not , as a rule , been able to free themselves from the sacerdotalism they have inherited . They exhibit this when called upon to officiate at a funeral more frequently ? and unmistakably , we suspect , than they imagine . Their intentions are of the best ; they are conscientious in the discharge of what they conceive to be obligation . But their failures are many and palpable , and often , too , on account of their conscientiousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligent minds , especially at great centres , they wish to meet it . and yet are afraid of appearing over-liberal . Consequently , confined between what they want to do , and what they think they ought to do , they deal in vague generalities , are artificial and ungratifying . Their work is , as we have admitted , very hard , and subject to embarrassment . Still , they . might acquit themselves better if they would . try to be natural , if they would leave off professionalism , if they would consider themselves simply as members of the human family , standing at the side of a brother or sister of the race who has yielded to the inevitable doom . Could they but forget the pulpit and . the Pastor for the nonce , and be their individual selves , talking to friends who have lost a friend , funeral sermons would gain immeasurably . What they lack above everything is naturalness , in which all genuine eloquence consists . Clergymen are much addicted to consoling the mourners ; and consolation is made not seldom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distressing . They deem it essential to fit texts to the occasion , and the texts they choose have a tendency to be unfitting , which is generally a matter of indifference to them . They deal too much with the supernatural ; they are prone to explain the inexplicable , to dilate upon emptiness , to reveal the unknowable . Their hearers understand as well as they that the mystery of death is unconditional , and opinions , drearily masked as inspirations , jar , under the circumstances , on all thoughtful minds . The trouble with most ministers at obsequies is that they repress their sympathies and flounder in commonplace . If they would obey their instincts ; open their hearts to the beauty and happiness of the world , not less than to its deformity and sorrow , step from the narrow and conventional into the universal and spontaneous , they would not hurt where they intend to heal ; would not repel where they aim to attract . Should they touch upon the life of the departed . and upon the lesson it teaches : should they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for the living and the dead , and leave the rest to hope and love . funeral sermons would not so often be funereal sermons also . It is frequently said that clergymen who appear well in the pulpit appear ill at a funeral , and they certainly do ; for the latter is a test they can not bear , and to which they seem to make no effort to adapt themselves . It may not be expected that they should as a body be graceful , becoming , eloquent anywhere  --  for they are limited by tradition , training , and association more than most men  --  but they certainly could display taste and discretion , were they so dedetermined , and they would be so determined , could they be spectators instead of actors on the scene they are inclined to make so unwelcome . Even many pious people are kept away from funerals by dread of the sermons they are apt to hear , for these cause discomfort , if not pain . And people who are not particularly pious are strengthened in their doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in matter . There is a degree of religion in good sense and good taste , and to such religion many Pastors might address themselves with advantage . Funerals are not likely to become cheerful or joyous at any time . But as death is as natural as life , and as the two are links in a mysterious chain , there is neither reason nor fitness in making funeral sermons either painful or forbidding , and , as now managed , they are often both .                     