@@745181

txt The Board of Aldermen yesterday granted the petition of the Commercial Cable Company to lay its wires and pneumatic tubes under ground . The conditions on which the petition was granted were unusally favorable to the city , since the company agrees not only to pay 1 cent a foot for the use of the streets for its buried cables , but to provide wires , wherever their subterranean system extends , for the police and fire alarm telegraphs . This arrangement has no direct bearing upon the enforcement of the law passed by the last Legislature ordering all electric wires under ground . Indirectly it must have a very powerful influence upon the settlement of the question raised by that law . The existing companies take refuge in the assertion that underground telegraphy in impracticable in New-York , although it is practiced with success in every great city of Europe . They take the same view of this matter that was taken by the regular police force of the arrest of " Mother Baum , " which was at length shown to be entirely practicable by- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform the same service with reference to the old companies . When a system of subterranean telegraphy is in working order throughout the city , or its principal streets , the telegraph and telephone companies will not presume to maintain any longer that such a system is impracticable . So strong will be the pressure brought to bear on them by the actuality of their " impossibility " that they will find it impossible to resist it . There will be nothing left for them to do but to obey the law which thus far they have made no effort toward obeying . The Commercial Cable Company will thus have done much toward securing the relief of the community simply by declining to add to the manifold nuisances entailed by wires strung in the air and by offering to take care of its own business in a businesslike , straightforward , and liberal spirit Still , the need of a general system of laying wires under ground will remain . The problem can , without doubt , be solved more completely and easily if a general system is adopted than if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own wires in its own way . The ultimate solution of a system of subways is probably as yet a long way off . In the meantime , now that the Commercial Cable Company proposes to show that the wires must go under ground , a promising opportunity is offered to capitalists to employ engineers in devising a general system in which rent for the use of the conduits shall be paid by the several companies which will be forced to make use of them . 