@@745041

txt The nine bills reported by the special committee of the Assembly for the reform of abuses in this city were taken up yesterday and dealt with in an orderly manner . Three of them were ordered to a third reading in the Assembly , and the others were " progressed , " with the understanding that they shall be considered in the next Committee of the Whole . Very little factious opposition was made , the more sensible Democrats having evidently concluded that the party had gained nothing by the performance of last week . Mr. OUSTER 'S attempt to talk against time appears to have been made on his own responsibility and accomplished nothing except to weary and disgust both sides of the House . The effort to amend the bill which makes the County Clerk a salaried officer , so as to apply the same principle throughout the State was calculated to increase opposition , but it was easily voted down . Considering its obvious intention , the vote was such as to show that most of the Democrats are at heart opposed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate and amendment will be allowed on the bills when they are considered in the order of third reading , and this will give the Democrats a chance to show precisely where they stand . They should be forced , if possible , to define their position . Every one of these bills is aimed at some specific abuse , the existence of which is clearly proved . They are framed solely for the purpose of remedying these abuses . Opposition to them can mean nothing but a defense of the system by which hundreds of thousands of dollars are diverted from the public Treasury to serve the purposes of local politicians . The salaries proposed for the County Clerk and Register are ample to secure the services of men well qualified for those positions , and men who are elected for the purpose of performing their duties with fidelity would prefer to have the number and compensation of their subordinates regulated in the manner proposed to having the matter left to the loose and irresponsible methods of the present system . The sole advantage of that system is that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefit of the factions to which they belong , and enables them to hold under their control a body of political dependents . The system fosters political corruption , and saps tho efficiency and honesty of the service . It will be well understood that opposition to these bills means a desire to retain this system ter profit , Of politicians , at the expense of the people , and if the DemocratS take that ground they must expect to be judged accordingly . The bill relating to the office of Sheriff is designed to put an end to the notorious abuses and frauds which have grown out of the power of the Aldermen to determine the compensation for certain services which are paid for out of the public Treasury , such as the conveyance of criminals , the support of inmates of the jail , and the summoning of jurors . The power is transferred to the Board of Estimate and Apportionment , where it should obviously be lodged . The Aldermen 's power over the purse strings is uniformly used to promote plunder . The act relating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hands of the Aldermen and put an end to the collection of unauthorized fees . One of the most important of the pending bills is that which substitutes for the present inefficient and disgraceful Park Board a single salaried Commissioner . The other bills abolish imprisonment for debt in civil cases , repeal the act which permits the transfer of prisoners from the Tombs to LudlowStreet Jail , and create the office of Searcher for Liens in the Finance Department and the Water Bureau . Not one of these measures can meet with opposition justified by any plea of regard for the interests of the public . They are of a kind which in a Legislature made up of honest and public-spirited men would encounter no opposition . whatever . To oppose them is to avow a motive inconsistent with a conscientious discharge of public duty .                     