@@744693

txt The verdict rendered yesterday , under the direction of Judge BROWN , against Hussey 's Express Company enforces what to laymen seems the plain meaning of the law . The Government has reserved to itself a monopoly in the carrying of letters , and infractions of that monopoly are punishable . The District Attorney did his plain duty ' n bringing the matter to , an issue . It has been authoritatively stated that the business of the district telegraph companies is not regarded as a violation of the law . Their messengers are , in effect , personal servants hired by the customers of the companies for an hour or less at a time . It would be a straining of the law to prosecute them as competitors with the Post Office in the business of carrying letters . The case is different with companies which have regular routes , and which collect and deliver letters at stated times . These not only disobey the letter of the law  --  they violate its spirit and defeat its intention . They really compete with the Government for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which the Government unquestionably meant to reserve to itself . The question of law is therefore closed , if there can be said to have been any disputable question of law . But there remains the question of public policy . The theory of the law doubtless is that as the Government shoulders the loss of the postal service it is entitled to the profits . In thickly settled communities the postal business is profitable , even at much lower rates than are charged ; in thinly settled communities it would be unprofitable at much higher rates . If the business were left to private competition , it is argued , the routes which are , now unprofitable would be abandoned or else the rates raised and the frequency of service reduced so as to put a serious burden on the communities now served at a loss , a loss which has been enormously enhanced in our case by the operation of the star route conspirators . And this loss the law diminishes by keeping the cost of service unnecessarily high in communities where the service wouldibe profitable at less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something in this , and a uniform postal rate all over the country is so great a public convenience that it is worth making some sacrifice for . There is perhaps no great hardship in a system which in 1880  --  the last year for which the postal statistics are at hand  --  derived a net revenue of $2,011,475 from the State of New-York , enough to make up for the deficiencies of all the Territories . But it may fairly be questioned whether this principle should be applied to the local service of cities , at all . When the local business of an office shows a net profit of $2,521,579 , as the business of the New-York Post Office did in the year already cited , it seems that some of this profit might properly be devoted to improving or cheapening the local - service which is so lucrative . In fact , the profitableness of the business has brought at least two competitors into the field who have made money by furnishing a prompter and more frequent service at half the cost of the Government service . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ignore . The Post Office should do its work so as to defy private competition . instead of being compelled to stifle it . For it is to be noted that the success of the private companies has been ' gained not so much by under bidding the Government as by doing Its work better . Their customers were business men , to whom the difference between one cent and two in postage was of no account compared with the difference of even a few minutes in promptness of delivery . And it was by prompter and more frequent service that the private companies took business away from the Post Office . Now that the private companies have been suppressed , the postal authorities should make it their business to prove to the public that it has lost nothing by the suppression . 