@@780557

txt A semi-official note is published referring to the recent events at Montceau-les-Mines and Lyons . It says the Government is watching the proceedings of an organized association , whose head officers remain abroad . There is no ground for undue alarm . as the authorities are firmly resolved to repress energetically illegal acts and everywhere to maintain public order . The Government has the means et its disposal to accomplish this end . Private advises represent the state of Lyons to be very alarming . The promptest action on the part of the military authorities is advocated in order to prevent a revolutionary rising . Business is suspended and more troops have been telegraphed for . The situation is critical . A panic has seized the population . The theatres last night were empty , The mob threatens to attack the banks and public buildings . The Journal de Paris publishes a detailed account of a meeting of the Directing Committee of the International Anarchist League at Geneva on Aug. 14 , and also the text of a manifesto declaring that the members of the League are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners of property , which manifesto was then approved , and which is now being discussed among the federated groups In England , France , Italy , Spain , Germany , and Russia . The Temps urges the Government to take vigorous measures to repress risings of anarchists . The authorities at Lyons have taken precautions to protect the public buildings and peaceable citizens . More threatlag letters have been sent to the authorities at Macon and Montceau-les-Minos . Several arrests have been made . The Republique says there exists in France a sect resembling the Russian Nihilists and the Irish Fonians , but the situation is less alarming than in Russia or Ireland , as the anarchists here are a mere handful . LvuN4 , Oct. 27 . ? The Police have discovered a dynamite manufactory in the suburbs of this city . Losnox , Oct. 27 . ? A Paris correspondent says he has never heard so much anxiety ex-pressed in regard to the future as now . The Police , he says , are extraordinarily active . A large number of arrests are being made at Lyons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed a number of bombs which exploded under a table in a restaurant on Sunday last .                     