@@745508

txt But for an infliction of senile smartness , Gen. Grant would have had a thoroughly enjoyable daY . He came out on the porch about 4:30 this afternoon just as the train had landed a crowd at the station . Many of the visitors took the cottage path to come up the hill . A stumpy person with a white beard , who had drawn some attention to himself by elbowing his way from the station , made straight for the cot .. rtage . He nearly ran up the steps . Then he tiptoed to the corner , and presented to the inspection of the General a fat hand and the top of a very bald head . The General bad no use for either , but the visitor grasped him and shook his arm as if they had been friends for life . By an effort that could have been mustered on nothing short of three days of steady improvement the General released his hand and wrote on his pad : " My physicians positively forbid me to converse . " That was all right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only look on , and he would do the talking . He pulled up a chair and had clearly set out to make himself at home when the General rose and went . indoors . Col. Grant and Dr. Shrady hurried to the porch to find the visitor 's short leas as hurriedly taking him away . " He ought to have been pitched off , " said Dr. Shradv with an angry nod . The whole thing lasted but a minute , and while the General went back to his room annoyed and in some distress the grinning intruder was showing the slip he had filched from the General to those of the crowd who had walked up decently from the station . That incident spoiled the General 's afternoon . No other visitors saw him . Before that he had been out for a short time at about 2 o'clock . Over his brown aown of the sick room , wrapped closely about him , had been flung a red scarf , which had looped itself behind , between the shoulders , like the hood to a cloak . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tight as a wig . The outfit made him look as though he needed only a frame to entitle him to a creditable place in some medieval hail . He walked the length of the porch , with his cane to help him , and seemed in good spirits after his restful morning . , Between that time and the time he was driven indoors by the elderly interloper the doctors had him under close inspection . Both the weather and his condition were highly favorable for their purposes . Tney threw reflected sunlight down his throat , and the subsidence of swelling in the neck , tongue , and throat enabled him to open his mouth fairly well and to boar the manipulation of the doctors with little discomfort . They found the original swelling in the neck no harder than when they last saw it , but the overlying tissue , which has acted like a barometer of his condition , has become supple , the accidental infiltration having disappeared . The improved condition of the tongue , in respect to its size , accounts for his ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base of the tongue and in the glands shows no special change . His improvement , as appears in a pulse of normal frequency and good volume , and in the disappearance of the painful infiltration or Inflammation of the parts adjacent to the course of the disease is traced directly to the enforced quiet of the past few days . No one appreciates this more than the General , and he means to keen it up . The doctors encourage him to hops that if the disease will be quiet a little longer his system may be considerably toned , If he will help them in this line of treatment . Ho went to his room before dark and seemed likely to have a restful night .                     