@@672143

txt Daring the present and preceding week rains ? have fallen in all parts of the Northwest Spring wheat motions . In some Dilutes they have been light , while in others they have been heavy enough to soak the soil most thoroughly . The rainfall in the northern counties came first on Monday , and on Tuesday reached the central . The southern were wet down last week . There are some fields not yet planted . in the north and west , but they had been delayed chiefly for rain . and now that showers have reached them the finish will be rapid . In many places the.ground has been very dry , and west of the Dakota hills no rain had fallen in nine months and but little snow . There it was the farmers had kept the seed out of the ground for moisture . It will now be quickly finished . There has been one advantage in the dry season ; it has enabled seed to go in early on allllow grounds that are generally delayed to the last . and on account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but an indifferent crop . Such fields promise better this season , and , on the whole , Spring wheat . seeding has seldom been done under more favorable conditions . Flour is dull and weak and prices tend downward , though there is no further decline . stocks being light and millers having again reduced the daily production about 900 barrels . Two large and two small mills are now idle , though one of the latter is expected to resume operations this week . A decline of 5 cents per bushel in wheat has depressed the market still further , and to effect sales a concession of 10 to 15 cents per barrel probably would be necessary . Spring wheat patents now are very dull , and there is no demand of moment , even at the decline . At the close of the previous week white bakers ' tour and low grades are salable , but the supply of the latter is very light . Stocks here are insignilitant as compared with those of other years , and it is expected that a few days of active shipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The domestic demand is light and confined to supplying actual wants of consumers , while export business is increasing . The movement at this point is light and much smaller than at this time in preceding years . But there have been no lake and rail shipments yet . Sr. PAUL , April ** were quite heavy rains Monday in the northern parts of Dakota and Minnesota , relieving present anxiety there . and last night and to-day there were light rains on the west end of the Hastings and Dakota , along the James River Division . and over the Andover and part of the Fargo Southern branches of the Milwaukee Road . There were showers also in some parts or Eastern Minnesota and Northern Wisconsin yesterday and last night . It is too early to know.now well the remaining drought sections in Dakota are wet down , but it is apparent that temporary relief has been obtained whore rain was the most needed . 