@@743813

txt The negotiations for a new Anglo-French commercial treaty begin to attract great attention . The existing treaty will expire six months after the promulgation of the French tariff law , which will take place this week , so that the treaty will lapse in November . The French Chamber of Deputies will dissolve in the middle of July , and the new chamber will meet pro forma in October , but will only begin serious business in November . The Senate last year opposed a prolongation of the existing treaty , and on the discussion of the tariff bill showed itself much more protectionist than the Chamber of Deputies . It seems probable , therefore , that if the new treaty is not concluded and ratified between now and the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies . England will , in November , be confronted with a general tariff which will be almost prohibitive . Her only means of self-protection will be retaliatory duties on French wines , brandy , silk , and articles de Paris . A British agent has been in Paris for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufactures of the new basis on which the French seem willing to negotiate a treaty . The French , although apparently anxious to make a new agreement , insist strongly upon the abolition of ad valorem duties . Such a persistence endangers the whole scheme of the treaty , as specific duties are believed by England to bear unfairly upon wool and cotton piece goods , which are the largest English exports . The negotiations are as yet actually . unopened . England is awaiting the report of her special agent regarding the incidence of the specific duties . The French tariff law only empowers the Government to concede 24 per cent . reduction on the general list . It is doubtful whether such a reduction would really open the French market to English manufactures . If the special agent 's report should show that it would not , the treaty negotiations will not be begun , and an agitation will probably be set on foot in the English manufacturing districts for the imposition of retaliatory duties . 