@@743643

txt As it is quite certain that in one way or another the question of a practical reform of the civil service will receive a good deal of discussion during the next few months , it is worth while noticing some of the comments with reference to it , especially those made by Republican papers . Though there is little doubt that a thorough and intelligent reform must , and , sooner or later , will , come from the Republican Party , the project does not by any means command the approval of all the journals of the party . To a great extent , we believe that this is due to a lack of definite information as to what is proposed by the advocates of civil service reform , and , beyond this , to a misconception of what can really be accomplished and is needed in our service . The Cincinnati Commercial , for instance , recently expressed the opinion that " civil service reform is a good thing , but we do not want an official class established in this country , " adding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of maladministration . " In citing with cordial approval these remarks , the Indianapolis Journal asks : " What do the ' reformers ' want unless it be to shape the civil service of the United States after that of the monarchical countries of Europe , simply in order to Europeanize our institutions ? " " In all other civilized countries they have what is called a ruling class , or , as the Commercial aptly phrases it , ' an official class , ' based on the idea , once in office always in office . We do not want any such class in our country . " To all this the simplest answer is that the writers understand very little of what they are saying either as to the present condition of our civil service or as to the changes proposed in it . So far as there is any " ruling class " or any " official class " possible in this country of an offensive , injurious , or oppressive character , it already exists in our office-holders , and particularly in those who hold their places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointments as the reward of political service in the past and the gage of such service in the future . In addition to , and often superior to , their obligation to perform their official duties , they recognize another obligation to serve their party and the particular faction or patron to which they owe their position . In the discharge of this latter obligation they not only frequently neglect the former , but they interfere arbitrarily , constantly , and offensively with the political rights of others . They constitute the most active politicians in the district where they are . They take possession of the party machinery , and often by unfair means exclude all to whom they have any objection from any share in its benefits . They obstruct and pervert the free and natural expression of party opinion . Raving a keener interest in the ends they pursue than the ordinary citizen , and being , as a rule , well paid for very moderate service either as to time or labor , they can afford to devote more effort to the details of political management than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , therefore , out of all proportion to their numbers , their intelligence , or the respect to which their personal character entitles them . They have all the essential elements of a " ruling class , " since they are supported from the public money without full equivalent , and enjoy greater political power than any other equal number of citizens of the same qualifications . It is the aim of civil service reform to put an cud to this class . It proposes to substitute for them employes of the Government selected by open competition ; by examinations framed to test their general and special fitness for their work , to be followed by a probationary term of service sufficient to test their practical capacity . The reform is not intended to embrace those higher officials who have distinct discretion in the exercise of their powers , and whose agreement with the Administration is essential to carry out its policy . It is , it seems to us , unreasonable to suppose that subordinate officials , chosen by the methods we have indicated , could possibly constitute an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not have the least temptation to use their public position to influence politics . They would be free from all inducement to combine among themselves , since they would be of different political parties , and since their promotion , like their appointment , would be wholly unaffected by their political conduct . On the other hand , they could be , and would be , held to stricter accountability and more effective discipline , because their superiors would expect no personal or political advantage from them , and would be anxious to make the best showing they could from the administration of their departments . As to " once in office always in office , " civil service reform does not necessarily embrace tenure for good behavior , though there is much to be said in favor of that principle , the Federal Judiciary being an example of the best performance of the most difficult and delicate duty secured by this means . The reform contemplates simply a tenure for the legal term , secure from arbitrary dismissal without cause . Doubtless it would be found in practice that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and independent of personal influence , would tend to long tenure of office , because it would do away with the motive for unnecessary changes ; but that is a subordinate question which does not affect the essential purpose or methods of the reform . From whatever stand-point it is examined , the reform must have precisely the opposite effect from that feared by those who object to the formation of an " official class . "                     