@@671747

txt " Does Billy want the earth ? " This off-hand inquiry has been heard many times of late in gatherings of Democratic brethren . " Billy " is an abbreviation of " William , " and the William to whom the pertinent allusion is made is William F. Sheehan , member of Assembly of the First Erie District . Ever since the Democratic State Committee by a vote of 18 to 13 seated Gen. Peter C. Doyle on the State Committee Mr. Sheehan has been manteuvring to oust him and to secure the position himself . He can only carry out his purposes by controlling a majority of the delegates who will go to the State Convention from the Thirty-second Congressional District . In politics Mr. Sheehan 's indiscretion far exceeds his valor . If ho persists in his attempt he will draw down uyon his head the condemnation of a great many Buffalo Democrats . They will presently accuse him of a determination to set up as a political boss , and will dig pitfalls innumerable for his young and inexperienced feet . The inquiry as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of the first indications of a gradually developing sentiment in iavor of putting a , check upon him . This sentiment , which was confined to the Cleveland wing of the party originally . is spreading among Democrats generally , and promises to precipitate a row iii which the " no boss " cry will ring out very loudly . Mr. Sheehan is only 27 years of age , but the greater part of his young life since he became of age has been devoted to holding office . He was a clerk in the office of his brother John when the latter was Controller . He has been elected to the Assembly three years in Succession and now wants a flintier term . In the distribution of Democratic patronage in the past he has received numerous favors for relatives , as well as for himself . He secured the appointment of his brother John as a clerk in theNew-York Aqueduct Board ate salary of $4,500 . This was one of the fruits of the deal by which the Mayor and Controller of New-York were dropped from the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gov . Hill sanctioning the deal by giving his signature to the MIL In the State Insurance Department at Albany Mr. Sheehan secured a pleasant berth for a brother-in-law . The partner of his legal joys and sorrows , Charles F. Tabor , he was instrumental in having appointed the first Deputy of Attorney-General O'Brien . In addition to all these offices he is believed to have a man or two on the State Capitol . Other Buffalo Democrats have stepped aside and given him pretty much his own way . But it looks now as if they proposed first to reason with him , and , if that does not reduce the size of his hat , then to proceed to discipline him . They are e willin he should be renominated for the Assembly and ' for the fourth time represent his district at Albany . But when it comes to his grabbing the State Committeeship besides , they are ready to kick , for they say Gen. Doyle is quite as good a Democrat as Mr. Sheehan or any member of the Sheehan family . There being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might as well , so argue some of them , turn their attention to the local organization and to disciplining its most selfish members . Such men as ex-Mayor Solomon Sahel/ are becoming nettled at the thought of Mr. Sheehan seizing the office of Committeman when so many other honors have been heaped upon him . If the ambitious young Assemblyman persists in his folly several courses are open to his critics . They may Organize so much opposition as to deprive his partner , Mr. Tabor , much as they may regard the latter personally , of a solid delegation when that gentleman goes to Saratoga to seek the nomination of Attorney-General . There are ambitious men in the First Assembly District who want to go to the Legislature , and they have grown weary of standing aside in the nominating convention year after year and allowing Mr Sheehan to be selected " because the Governor wants him . " It would not be difficult to set a fire in the district which would give its representative occupation and plenty of it until the time for holding the convention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if it was an entirely now . idea the tendency of Democratic candidates'for city offices to run away behind Mr. Sheehan in his own district . They are pondering over the stories of deals with the Republican boss of the district , which have always inured to Mr. Sheehan 's benefit . Altogether Mr. Sheehan is focusing a great deal of attention upon himself , and no little criticism besides . It was ever thus , when a man sought to exalt himself too much at the expense of his fellows . Mr. Sheehan 's first move was to call the District Convention and secure his renomination to the Assembly . That trifling preliminary settled , the way was clear for the tight for delegates to the State Convention ; there could then be no setting of fires behind him in his own district . In this he has been blocked and by the merest accident . The rules of the Democratic organization have been laxly enforced in the past , and the fact has created factions and caused no end of trouble . One of the rules recognizes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published in the Democratic newspaper , . the Courier . The Courier , tiring of the post of perpetual arbiter , for which the Fan campaign already promised plenty of work , fell back upon the rules of the organization and determined to admit no calls of any kind to its columns unless they bore evidences of having been prefaced in strict compliance with the formalities required by the rules . The call for Dlr . Sheehan 's Assembly Convention was clearly irregular , so was the call for the convention in the district of which State Committeeman John Wiley is the leader , and both were thrown out of the newspaper for that reason . Mr. Sheehan insinuates that this Was a thrust purposely made at him , and the editor has called him to account for it . He now assumes an air of indifference and declares that it really makes no difference whether his own district convention is or is not held before the State Convention . It may make considerable difference if he persists in impressing the party with the idea that he proposes to be its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and came home to see the old town once more . The real object of his visit became apparent when he was discovered to be driving across country and buttonholing all the small politicians . He was engaged in " working up " delegates to the primaries and conventions in order to secure his brother the delegates to the State Convention . The city of New-York Is thus paying some of the expenses of Erie County 's politics . Brother John sees in the situation , as he imagines , an opportunity of doing the Cleveland Democracy , as represented by State Committeeman Doyle , a vital injury and of paying an old score of his own . When Cleveland was a candidate for Mayor in 1881 , and there was talk of renominating John Sheehan for City Controller , Cleveland declined to run on the same ticket with him . There must have been some good reason for this . There was . Mr. Sheehan 's name was not placed on the ticket . Cleveatud was elected Mayor of Buffalo . The Democrats of Buffalo are probably the greatest kickers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their older and more conservative leaders agree , and they indorse the action or their party newspaper in holdingtho Democratic organization strictly to the rules . Mr. Sheehan is receiving lots of good advice , just as lie received it at Saratoga , but instead of accepting it there he took his tint into the State Committee and was beaten . The Democratic Times says to him : " If Mr. Sheehan persists in showing that he has a cot taut kind of strength  --  and we have season to remember that lie has  --  then the County Committee has a duty to perloim. it will not do for them to permit this contest to take piece , neither will it do for them to persist in a belief that there will be no contest . It is their duty to come together and show at this time that party discipline has the right of way over personal ambition . " If Mr. Sheehan is again beaten it may bring great discredit upon his patron in the Executive Chamber at Albany . if a tight is precipitated , the odd spectacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more especially those of German extraction , combining to suppress the too grasping Assemblyman from the First . A city ticket is to be elected this Fall , and if he becomes established as a boss he would extend his influence to the selection of candidates . The Democrats realize just as well as the Republienns do that no ticket nominated by a Democratic boss can win . Hence their desire to settle in advance of the local conventions whether they are to have a boss , and whether his title shall be the more formal " Bill " or the more familiar " Billy . " The County Committee and the City Committee will meet tins week and tighten up the loose screws in their organizations . What is regular and what is irregular in the matter of caucuses and conventions will then be deterndued . The sentiments pervading the gathering will to some extent foreshadow coming events . if boisterous , Mr. Sheehan may be encouraged to become a boss ; if eubdued , he may wisely conclude to give some other Democrats standing room beside him at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Committee he would tied himself in a hopeless minority . As for becoming Chairman of that committee , that is entirely out of the question . The Democrats imagine that they have got a hard campaign before them , both this year and next , and they will select neither a boy nor au inexprieuced man to lead the next committee . Igor will they give the conduct of the next campaign to Judge Muller Or intrust Ulna witit thecontrolof the committee . G.                     