@@744137

txt It is reported that a considerable number of the Democrats in Congress have joined in a movement to defeat the Tariff Commission bill by filibustering , if necessary . They might very well have saved themselves the trouble . The commission bill , unless it attracts very much more strength than it has yet shown signs of having , will be defeated without any such extraordinary proceedings . We may add that such proceedings would in any case do more harm than good to the cause of tariff reform , since the measure is at most only inexpedient , and involves no principle of sufficient importance to justify the arbitrary and quasi-revolutionary tactics proposed . But it is very probable that the zealous Democrats referred to are more actively interested in the political results of the movement to which they are committed than in the effect upon legislation . If so , they are still foolish . Public opinion is not now in a condition to make an extreme and violent demonstration on the tariff question popular , nor is it very likely to be in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present Congress are probably laying their plans . Still less would such a demonstration made on the commission bill , which is a protection measure only in its covert and not in- its ostensible purpose , seriously enlist public sympathy . It would be a little difficult to arouse public indignation against a bill which was confessedly based on the necessity of a tariff revision , and which proposed that the revision should be made by a commission of experts instead of by Congress or its committees . There is such a thing as Quixotism even in partisan politics , and if the movement of these gentlemen is as reported it is a very fair Quixotic specimen . There is , indeed , a marked tendency toward confusion in regard to the political bearings of the tariff question . Mistaken or exaggerated impressions prevail which it is quite desirable that Congressmen should dismiss from their minds , and which they will be obliged to dismiss if they expect to attain any success in the treatment of the tariff at the present session of Congress . On the one hand , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representatives as a body in favor of " a tariff for revenue only . " It is true that that is the doctrine laid down by their last national platform , but no platform was ever made that can hold Mr. RANDALL and his immediate followers to that doctrine . They may not openly repudiate the platform , but they will vote against it , work against it , and practically tear it into splinters . The Democratic Party is not a revenue reform party and can not soon be made one . It must be a good deal stronger or a good deal weaker than it is now before it can afford to openly and consistently adopt any such policy , at the risk of losing the doubtful votes which would be affected by it . Doubtless , if the party had a leader of commanding ability and influence , he might conduct it to ultmate victory on the avowed doctrine of the platform of 1880 , for in the long run that is the doctrine which must prevail . But the party has no such leader , and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could bring about any such result . On the other hand , it would be equally an error to suppose that the Republican Representatives can be " rallied " to the maintenance of the present tariff , or to any device obviously designed to secure that end . In the one case as in the other Representatives are sure to be influenced in a great degree by local feeling , and by that particular form of it which is aroused by definite local interests . Whether Democratic or Republican , the Representatives from certain districts in Ohio and Indiana , for instance , can not support radical amendments of the present tariff without incurring local opposition of a serious nature , and this class , in both parties , will defend the high duties at every point that they may be assailed . But this class among the Republicans can not speak for the party , and can not control it . Independent Representatives , who do their own thinking , who are hampered by no local prejudice , who see that the victory of the future lies not with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , will , : not be led in blind subjection to the schemes of the high tariff men . They know well enough that the party has never been fairly or definitely committed to protectionism , and that there has not , in at least eight years , been a time when such committal could have been made , and they will not accept the mere assumptions and impudent assertions of the high tariff men as proof to the contrary . It may be too much to ask of the average Congressman , but if the members of the present Congress would . only take notice of the fact that the tariff is as yet a business question and not a political issue , that it can be fairly and readily disposed of as a business question , while as a political issue it must necessarily work much confusion in both parties , with very doubtful results as to either , it would be a great advantage for all concerned . The question as it really presents itself is not one of free trade versus protection ; it is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various industries brought under their influence . There are many changes lo be made in the tariff in the direction of reduction which would still leave it definitely and strongly protective . These should be treated on their individual merits , and decided upon in the interest of the greater number , and this can be done without seriously involving the position of either party . But if it be decided to make the tariff a national political issue , there will necessarily follow an extensive recasting of political relations , in which present party lines will suffer many changes , and from which many politicians who are diligently seeking only their own promotion will come out very badly damaged .                     