@@672202

txt There is a considerable significance both in the course of events and in the tone of opinion in the Democratic Party . The party having been defeated after a very close contest , and a contest in which an issue of principle and policy was distinctly raised , it might be expected that there would be a very general dissatisfaction with the lines upon which the campaign was laid and with the leader responsible for laying them . Undoubtedly that leader was Mr. CLEVELAND . But for the message in which he courageously grappled with a question which his predecessors in the Democratic leadership had persistently shirked , when it came to the point of proposing practical action , the Mills bill would not have been introduced , and . the campaign would have been fought on a different issue altogether . In a sense it may be said that the raising of this issue lost the election . FIA.RRISON was elected , as is now quite clear , not because the country was scared by the bugaboo of free trade , but because the Republicans had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . more than the Democrats . But they would not have been able to raise this enormous corruption fund except by appealing to the fears or the cupidity of those who profited by the excesses and anomalies of the tariff which the Mills bill , albeit in a fashion moderate even to timidity , proposed to reduce or to remove . The unprecedented size of the Republican corruptive fund was thus an extremely practical sho wing that the tariff issue was a dangerous issue to raise , though the danger was indirect , and the voters of the country showed themselves by no means so panicky or so unintelligent as the Republican leaders assumed them to be . It would not have been unnatural if the Democratic leaders in the face of this demonstration had looked about both for a new issue and for a new candidate , for in the last election their candidate embodied their issue . Yet the signs are , in fact , all the other way . Mr. CLEVELAND , as has been shown in this city - within a few weeks , is as strong and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and such pieces of evidence as an interview reported recently with Senator MORGAN of Alabama show that the same sentiment which has been manifested in New-York exists in all parts of the country- . As to the issue of tariff reform , nobody who adopted it during the ' campaign , even among those who adopted it reluctantly , has shown the slightest disposition to drop it or to evade the consequences of its adoption . The personal enemies of Mr. CLEVELAND , in the press and elsewhere , and the legislative agents of the manufacturers who profit by the abuses of the tariff necessarily attempt to make capital out of the defeat of the party on a platform of tariff reform , but they conspicuously fail to make either capital or converts .                     