@@780846

txt It is understood that the Cabinet council on Saturday decided to abandon the " Hares and Rabbits " bill , and to persevere - with the " Employers ' Liability " bill . It is stated that Dean Stanley has formally communicated the resolution of the House of Commons to the Memorial Committee , under whose order 's the Napoleon statue was executed , as an indication that they must find some other destination for it . The chapels of Windsor and Chiselhurat are spoken of . A Paris dispatch says : " The Republican papers express satisfaction at the success of Mr. Briggs 's motion in the House of Commons , last week , relative to the erection of a statue to the late Prince Imperial in Westminster Abbey . Prince Jerome Napoleon 's son , Victor , is 18 years of age to-day , ( Sunday , ) and an antiJeroraist organ remarks that he is , therefore , dynastically of age to assume the succession bequeathed to him by the Prince Imperial . " A Dublin correspondent says : " The Flag of Ireland ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and says " It is a temporary makeshift . " The correspondent says : " The scare of famine fever in the West of Ireland is rapidly dying out official investigations having proved that the first reports were exaggerated , and that where fever existed it was not from starvation , but ordinary typhus , to which the bad sanitary condition of their dwellings constantly predispose the people . Prom all parts of the country come the most cheering accounts of the condition of the crops , which are only darkened by reports of the appearance of potatoblight in some districts in parts ? of Counties Dublin , Sligo , Cork , and Mayo . The blight , however , is confined to old potatoes . The champions ' have escaped completely . Nothing can be more luxuriant than the green crops . " In the House of Commons this evening , Mr. Gladstone , replying to Sir Wilfrid Lawson , said the dispatches expected by the Government from South Africa had not yet been received . One is due on July 28 , and the other on Aug. 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding the recall of Sir Bartle Frere has been taken . At Berwick to-day the election was held for member of Parliament , to fill the vacancy caused by the elevation of the Hon. Henry Strutt ( Liberal ) to the House of Peers . David Milne Home ( Conservative ) was returned by 584 votes . Mr. McLaren Lord Advocate of Scotland , the Liberal candidate , received 582 votes . Loxvorr , July 20 . ? In the House of Commons last night the Compensation bill passed through the committee , all the amendments of the Opposition being rejected . Mr. Gladstone , during the debate , warned Mr. Parnell not to continue his obstructive tactics .                     