@@672190

txt A movement has been started in England to put an end , if possible , to the custom which demands that women shall inconvenience and injure themselves physically by arraying themselves in mourning whenever a member of their family dies . Lady HARBERTON is the leader in this crusade of common sense , and she has recently set forth very clearly , in an article in the IVontaies World , why mourning costumes , as they are new made , should be abandoned by every sensible woman . Lady HARBERTON bases her argument principally on a plea for the health of women . She points out that while the dress of a woman is not calculated at its best to improve the physical condition of the wearer , the dress of a widow possesses every bad and unhygienic quality of the ordinary female apparel intensified fourfold . It is always made extra long and clinging , so that proper exercise is out of the question . It is usually very heavy , and is surmounted by a species of headdress furnished with one or two long streamershanging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor conducive to the comfort of the unfortunate wearer . This headdress , the peculiarly objectionable feature of which is the long , heavy veil which custom decrees that every widow shall wear , is the worst feature of the mourning costume , both from a hygienic point of view and with reference to the discomforts which arise from it , especially in the warm season . The heavy , clinging black dress is endurable , unhealthy as it is , because its weight falls on a part of the body calculated to sustain it . The veil which trails behind the young widow 's head is a very different affair . It is constantly dragging the head backward and downward , and if worn long at a time results inevitably in a headache . HENRY WARD BEECHER , in one of his sermons directed against the mourning system in vogue here and in England , summed up the absurdity of the fashion in the words , " Black is the color of the devil ; white is the emblem of the angels . " It is not to be assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death is to result in physical discomfort for a year or two , and possibly eventually in disease , to his loved ones left behind . When the living have paid the last rites to the dead they can do no more for them . They have a duty then to perform for themselves , and that duty is to see to it that they secure as much of the good of life which was intended for them as they can . No trappings of woe are necessary to tell the world that we mourn our dead . If grief is sincere , it is ' too sacred a thing to share with strangers or to advertise to the curious crowd . If it is not sincere , the outward signs of sorrow are but hypocritical en : - blems which are no credit to the wearer and will probably deceive nobody . The inconsistency of the custom is made conspicuous by the discrimination made between men and women , to the disadvantage of the women . It is to be presumed that a husband who loses his wife has as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband who has been taken from her . The man , however , is not forced to adopt any special mourning habiliments , except to place a plain . band around his hat , which neither incommodes nor injures him . It is only the woman who is required to array herself in garments which imperil the health . If there is any foundation of reason for such a cruel discrimination as this in favor of the stronger sex , it has not yet been brought to the light of day . Lady HARBERTON makes one very good suggestion pointing to a reform in this matter ? that persons should provide in their wills that no mourning should be worn for them . Undoubtedly such action on the part of testators would have a very beneficial effect , but no genuine reform will be accomplished until the women , who are the sufferers , take a bold stand and rebel against the tyranny of custom on . the question of mourning . If a few leaders of society would begin such a crusade here as Lady HARBERTON has begun in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example in discarding the widow 's veil , if not the entire mourning dress , a few years , or possibly months , would settle the whole matter in favor of common sense and health . If it be required to have some symbol by which a widow may be known as such , so as to prevent distressing or embarassing remarks of friends meeting her before learning of her affliction , such a symbol can be easily devised without attaching to it the pena ty of a ruined constitution . It is easy enough to devise a symbol of this nature without retaining the uncomfortable and injurious mourning costumes .                     