@@781913

txt The National Democratic Convention has met and organized . There was but little to indicate the preferences of the delegates for any of the numerous candidates before it , unless , indeed , the wild cheering which greeted the mention of the name of TILDEN be taken as an indication of the undiminished vitality of the cause of the man who represents the solitary issue on which the party is united . The temporary Chairman endeavored to define in labored phrase the essential principles of the party , and offered , among others , the rather novel definition that Democracy meant the rendering to every one of his own . The experience of this generation has been that Democracy was synonymous with a somewhat liberal confiscation of the rights and property of other people . The wealth of sundry prominent Democrats would dissolve very quickly under the operation of the " swum cuique tribuero " rule , and the political prospects of the party would vanish . into thin air were the stolen franchises of Southern freedmen to be restored to th , em . Judge HOADLEY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of resumed payment of the national floating debt . " How many members of his party are prepared to accept that phrase as the measure of an unfulfilled duty ? It may be sound Democratic doctrine to regard the greenbacks as an unliquidated debt , but it is doctrine to which no Democratic State Convention has yet given its adhesion , and which the platform of the National Convention will certainly not contain . One notable episode of yesterday 's session was the snub direct administered by the Convention to that indefatigable marplot , Mr. Jon KELLY . It required no common amount of assurance to appear before a Democratic Convention with no other claim to its attention save that of having turned over the great pivotal State to the Republicans , and of being ready to do it again if the right to veto at least one possible nomination was not conceded . Mr. KELLY 'S boldness seems to find but few admirers at Cincinnati ; his pestilent dictation awakened a chorus of indignant protest . Come what may , Tammany Hall is obviously to be ignored by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he has sacrificed everything , and denied recognition in the National Convention of the party on which the political future of his organization must depend , Mr. KELLY can hardly be called a success in any other capacity than as an architect of destruction . The leader of Tanunany Hall is evidently near the end of his public career ; his power to hurt his party is as clearly on the point of exhaustion as : his power to help it . Since Mr. KELLY has as little claim on the gratitude of his fellow-citizens as he has to the esteem of his party , his discomfiture will not elicit many regrets . Judge HOADLEY took occasion to remind the assembled Democrats that they were " not delegates from Congressional districts , but representatives of those indestructible units of our indestructible Union  --  the States . " There need be no apprehensions of interminable discussions over the " unit rule " at Cincinnati , and the resolution of a majority of the New-York delegation to support Mr. HENRY B. PAYNE , of Ohio , means that the solid vote of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legatee , until further instructions . That TILDEN is , therefore , out of the canvass would be a too hasty induction from such premises . The letter of the " renunciation " manifesto will , undoubtedly , be strictly adhered to . There will be no formal presentation of TILDEN 'S name , , no open attempt by his friends to press his claims on the Convention . But the spirit of that adroitly-framed document will present no obstacles to the resurrection of TILDEN 'S candidacy when the proper moment arrives . TILDEN 'S immediate friends probably share the conviction of TILDEN himself that to a Convention wearied with ineffectual striving after a candidate on whom jarring factions can unite , the name of the Great Defrauded will come as the one which divides them least , and will be inscribed on the party banner amid tumultuous acclaim . States enough may follow New-York to nominate PAYNE , but , on the other hand , States enough may combine to give New-York the not unwelcome chance to lead the way again to TILDEN , and so make any other nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preference of TILDEN and his friends for PAYNE , it is evident that no one could have been selected better fitted to command strength enough to prevent the success of any other candidate while failing to command it himself . PAYNE will not obtain the hearty support of the delegation from his own State , and will be generally regarded as unavailable , on the ground that the all but certain Republican victory in Ohio in October would be accepted as decisive of the relative strength of two national candidates contributed by that State . The moral effect of the reduced Republican majority at the Ohio State election , which is all that PAYNE 'S supporters claim he could accomplish , is somewhat too shadowy an advantage to have a controlling effect on the choice of the Convention . The balloting , which begins to-day , is , therefore , likely to be marked in its earlier stages by an ineffectual attempt to secure a union on any of the candidates ostensibly before the Convention , with the possibility always impending of ' the nomination of TILDEN himself , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     