@@780928

txt James McDermott as arrested here yesterday on his arrival ' rom America on board the steamer City of lIontreal . A warrant for his arrest was issued n Cork , where he had been seen in corniany with O'Herlihy . Some correspondence with O'Donovan Rossa and James Stephens was found upon the prisoner , who said he was iii American citizen and would call upon the American Government to protect him . He was remanded to jail on a charge of being en ; aged in a conspiracy to murder public officials . James McDermott , whose arrest by the English police is announced in the above dispatch , is the same person who was tired at by a man named Gaynor in a saloon at No. 10 Chambers-street , in this City , on July 21 , McDermott had then only recently arrived from Ireland , and the attempt to shoot him was made by order , it is said , of a secret Irish organization in this City akin to the Irish Invincibles . Like Carey , the informer , McDermott had earned the hostility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information of their designs to the English Government . Irish Nationalists of the most advanced pattern in Brooklyn say that when McDermott went to Ireland , in the early part of the Summer , he had with him a letter of introduction from O'Donovan Rossa . By means of this letter he gained access to a secret meeting in Cork attended by Featherstone and others . Featherstone was sent to Liverpool to meet an agent of the organization , unknown to him , at a certain place . McDermott , so the story goes , wrote several number on a slip of paper and placed the paper in Featherstone 's waistcoat pocket . This slip was , according to Featherstone 's instructions , to be given to the agent when he should have established his identity . At the place appointed , in Liverpool , Featherstone met a man who promptly put him under arrest and took him to a station-house . He was compelled to take off all his clothes and was searched thoroughly . Nothing to connect him with the conspiracy . of the Invincibles was found , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hand into Featherstone 's pocket and fished out the tiny pellet or paper bearing the numbers . It was claimed by the Invincibles that McDermott informed the police of Featherstone 's trip to Liverpool , and that the numbers on the paper indicated certain houses where the conspirators were in the habit of meeting . It is further claimed that McDermott 's courage failed him after he had given the information , and that , being afraid to come forward and substantiate it , he escaped to France , and from that country got back to America , It is certain , whatever value may be attached to the statements of the Brooklyn Irish- men , that McDermott was put on the defensive from the very day he got back , and he made a number of statements , which found their way into print , protesting that he had always been faithful to the tenets of the most advanced Irish nationalists . The published statements did not allay the suspicions of the Irishmen , and the attempt to shoot McDermott was said to have been the result . McDermott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to , believe in treachery to what they called the Irish cause , but it is now no secret that their confidence is shaken , and that many of them believed him guilty . After Gaynor 's arrest in this City on the charge of attempting to shoot McDermott , the ' latter pleaded very hard with his friends not to condemn him hurriedly . He wrote a letter to a leading member of the dynamite crowd who re-cently arrived from Ireland , protesting innocence nnocence of the charges against him , and said he would withdraw the complaint against Gaynor and ask the Judge to dismiss it . In the same letter McDermott referred to the then approaching trial of O'Herlihy , Featherstone , Deasy , flannigan , and Dalton , and also spoke of a rumor that Featherstone was about to turn informer . McDermott , in concluding his letter , said that , to show his innocence of the charges made against him , he would , if necessary , go to England at his own risk and expense and endeavor to prevent Featherstone from turning informer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About the same time that McDermott wrote this letter , he was pleading hard with his friends not to condemn him , and said that if they waited 10 days he would prove his innocence and be vindicated . It is quite possible that McDermott had then contemplated his trip to Europe . Many of the dynamite party place a different interpretation on McDermott 's flight , as they term it . They say he would not be safe here , and that he has gone to England for the purpose of being arrested , in order by that means to allay the suspicion of the men who now believe that he is in the pay of the English Government . McDermott was a member of the old Fenian Society when John O'Mahoney was chief , but in later years he was not , as far as is generally known , a member of any secret organization , and few would trust him with any important secret . O'Donovan Rossa said yesterday that he had had no correspondence with him. , McDermott during his residence in Brooklyn has mostly lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of No. 1,108 Pacificstreet . Mr. McDermott said yesterday that he did not know anything about the movements of his brother . James had only been at his ( Henry 's ) house once since his return from Europe , and then only for a short time . Mr. McDermott had no doubt that the man arrested in Liverpool was his brother James , but he had held no communication with him recently , that is , within a few weeks , and while he had no doubt as to the identity of the man arrested with his brother , he had no positive evidence of the fact .                     