@@744176

txt The Legislature has not thus far shown much alacrity in resuming the task of revising the tax laws , which was left so far from completion last year . It can not let the subject alone , but there is great danger that whatever it may do will tend to increase complications rather than promote the evolution of a simple and effective system of assessment and collection . The work of last year owed whatever merit it had to the careful efforts of the Advisory Commission , and it is unfortunate that some such agency for directing the labors of the Legislature was not continued . Already five propositions for changes in the tax laws have been made , including two of the bills which were recommended last year and failed to be acted upon , and one for undoing the work of the commission . This last , which contemplates the repeal of the act exempting American shipping , is a measure which can hardly obtain serious support . The two measures which failed at the last session and have been brought up again are that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for taxing life insurance companies . The two new bills relate to the vexed question of deductions for debt . One is intended to prevent the creation of debts for the purpose of evading taxation and the other proposes to allow deductions against real estate valuations as well as those of personal property . It is somewhat remarkable that no State Legislature can be induced to face the facts or to recognize any principle in regard to the taxation of persdiffal property except the crude and impracticable one of assessing everything that can be rated as property . It is pretty well settled that the actual value of the possessions generally classed as personal in any industrial community is about the same as that of the real estate of the same community . This applies without regard to density of population or aggregate wealth . The limited area of land in a commercial city and the buildings and permanent appliances put upon it advance in value in just about the proportion of the increase of capital used upon or in connection therewith . It is the existence and employment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the value of real estate . The latter does not increase in a ratio greater than the increase of the former , nor does it attain a higher aggregate . The value of real estate in this City , great as it is , Goes not exceed the value of the capital and personal property of those who own and occupy it . The same is true of every county in the State , whether its inhabitants are largely engaged in trade , in manufacturing , or in agriculture , and yet the disparity in the assessed value of these two kinds of property is very great and varies widely in the different counties . In no county is the assessed value of personal property equal to onefourth that of real estate , and in some it is little more than one-twentieth . In this City the ratio is a little more than one to five , and it is about the largest in the State . According to the valuations of 1881 , New-York possessed something more than one-third of the real estate and a good deal more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Kings County appears with little more than $15,000,000 of personal , against more than $250,000,000 of real property , a disparity that is absurd . Hamilton is a small county , but its people surely own more than $1,000 of taxable personal property over and above their debts , but that is all they were assessed for last year . These comparisons might be carried out through all the counties of the State , showing not only a great disparity in the values of real and personal property , but wide variations in the proportions in different counties ; ' but it will suffice to say that the aggregate valuations of the two classes of property in the whole State stand to each other very nearly in tho ratio of seven to one , whereas the actual values are approx. imately equal . All this plainly shows that only a fraction of the personal property of the State is assessed . The bulk of it escapes in one way or another , and deductions for debt no doubt cover a large part of the evasions . But while the figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escapes assessment , the inference is entirely justifiable that the assessment made falls very unequally upon the holders of such property . It is the wealthy far more than those of moderate means who resort to evasions of assessment and escape taxation . The ' assessment laws as they affect personal property , whatever their theory and intention may be , work injustice and wrong of the worst kind , impos , , inA the heavioaursituasAthose lesokablo to bear them , and putting a premium on dishonesty and false pretenses . This fact is perhaps generally known , but legislators appear to see but one way of dealing with it , and that is by continuing the futile struggle against the inevitable and attempting to devise ways of bringing all manner of property under assessment . They do not seem to see or want to see that if personal taxes were wholly swept away and the so-called valuation of personal property were added to that of real estate , a much nearer approach to equality and equity would be attained than is possible under any system of assessing such property that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes in their ultiniate diffusion , but the burden would be adjusted more nearly in proportion to the ability to pay . But there is a substitute for taxes on personal property which would carry the equalization still further , and come as near to the requirements of . equity as it is possible to reach . A tax upon the occupiers of real estate according to a rental value , in addition to the tax upon " lands , " would bring a revenue from the capital owned and employed by those occupiers substantially proportioned to its amount . A reform so radical as this is hardly to be expected of a Legislature that knows so little about the principles and practical workings of taxation as that which sits at Albany , and it is not altogether certain that it would be acceptable to the people of the State . But it would be quite possible to introduce the principle of local option in this matter . If by a tax on Corporations and other general sources of revenue the needs of the State Government could be met , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be relegated to the local authorities , with the option of deriving all taxes for their own purposes from real estate and its occupation or from an assessment of real and personal property , as should be decided by the people concerned . The debt deduction question would disappear , with a multitude of other perplexing difficulties , wherever the land and occupation tax method was adopted .                     