@@744288

txt However much the opponents of the petty and mean abuse of " political assessments " may desire to see it reformed , they can hardly regard their cause as seriously helped by the course which some of the Democrats in the House are now taking with reference to it . During the time in which the Legislative , Judicial , and Executive Appropriation bill has been under consideration a few of the minority have followed the lead of the effervescent Mr. Cox , of this City , in offering and advocating amendments prohibiting the payment of this form of exaction by the employes of the Government . The zeal which these gentlemen have displayed would have been more praiseworthy , if they had not known beforehand that their amendments were not in order and could not be adopted , and if they had not taken obvious pains to couch them , in such form that , even had they been adopted , they could have had but doubtful force . Their tactics were altogether too easily understood to leave them much credit for sincerity except at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's individual reputation for the latter quality is not high , it is sufficient to warrant the inference that he did not expect to accomplish much by his recent manoeuvres . He gained , however , the opportunity to make an acrid series of remarks upon the Republican Party , andlthat was probably all that he wished or anticipated . The matter will be called up in the Senate on Monday next by Mr. PENDLETON , and debate will probably be had upon a distinct and well-matured measure , which , we hope , will go to the House and give the gentlemen who have been making themselves so unnecessarily conspicuous a chance to vote and speak to the merits of the question . In the House , the arguments , if they must be called so , which have been advanced are very wide of the mark , and have seemed intended rather to throw discredit upon the party in power than to sustain reform . Very much has been said about the demands that have been made upon public employes for amounts which they could not afford to pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and to taking the bread out of the mouths of working men and half-starved clerks . There is just enough basis of fact for these assertions to mane them misleading . Undoubtedly there are cases where employes , under fear of disfavor , pay to the political fund of their party money which they neither wish nor can afford to pay , and this is particularly true of those who receive low compensation . But the greatest wrong in the matter is not to the employes now in the service , but to the people at large . As a rule , persons in the employ of the Government receive more money for less work than any like number engaged in similar positions , and the outrageous system of patronage , of which the political assessments are a part , is the source of this evil . So far as mere fair play goes , it is often said , and it is ' generally true , that the employes seek their places through political influence , take them as the reward or compensation for political services  --  and accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both , to maintain in power the party on whose success their own retention absolutely depends . There is , therefore , a rough justice , under actual circumstances , in the politicians ' claim that political contributions are due from men who accept their places on such terms . The real evil  --  and it is a gross and scandalous one  --  lies deeper . It lies in the system of appointments that can admit of any such understanding . And the wrong done is not so much to the employes , who , as we have said , are allowed , in the great majority of cases at present , to draw better pay for less work than honest self-supporting persons in like employment in ordinary business life , but to the whole body of taxpayers , whose money is either wasted or devoted to a purpose essentially dishonest . It is notorious that , even down to the " laboring men " in the navy-yards , the discipline of ' the civil service is far more lax than private business could possibly endure . Employes feel their responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they owe their employment to political influence , and they are naturally most earnest in serving the men who have the most control over them . If they could be brought to see that they could neither get nor keep employment or advancement except by skill and fidelity , the question of their paying political contributions could be left to themselves . They would not pay them unless they chose , and if they chose to pay them no one would be concerned in regard to it . As it is , there is no sort of doubt that these contributions are practically compulsory , and they represent just so much money diverted from its proper purpose . If they could be got rid of , better service could be had for less money , and with greater fairness to the employes . This is an argument for their abolition even with members of the party in power , who would be far more benefited by an honest service than by money given to carry the elections . But it is an unanswerable argument for members of the opposition , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying out their views in the Government . If the Democrats , then , really wish a radical reform of this abuse , let them cease their fussy and disingenuous tactics and apply themselves to the abolition of appointments for political considerations . If successful , they will have a reform that will be permanent , and will necessarily embrace all minor reforms .                     