@@743392

txt The Democrats are in a great quandary over the choice of a Presidential candidate . They were in trouble about this matter when their National Committee selected Cincinnati for the convention , and their tribulation has been constantly increasing since that time . The active preparations made by the friends of Republican candidates have served to draw the attention of the political world from the condition of their opponents ; but those who have opportunities see that the nuzzle which is taxing the minds of the Democrats is one which seems to defy all their attempts to solve it . At the meeting of their National Committee in this city , the many representatives of the State of Ohio were outspoken in their opposition to Mr. Tilden , but were unable to point out any man whom they desired in his place . Beyond a casual reference to Mr. Jewett , their statements contained no indication that they bad settled upon a man to fill the bill . Since that time the opposition to Mr. Tilden , strengthened by the signs of his weakness in New-York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrewdest politicians believe it to be impossible for him and his barrel to poll anything like the full party vote , if he should be successful at Cincinnati . There is much significance in the fact that certain Democrats here , who have seemed hitherto to be at sea as regards the choice of a candidate , are beginning to speak for Mr. Jewett , and that others who have been classed with the supporters of Mr. Tilden. seem to have forgotten his claims within the last few days , and have also joined in the movement for Mr. Jewett 's support . These gentlemen , who are not without prominence in the councils of their party , dispose of Gen. Hancock 's claims in a very few words . lie is out of the question , they say , becauKe he has no barrel . They can not be misled by the movements for Seymour , for they think they see the hand that engineers it , and understand the purposes they are intended to serve . They recognize the sectional weakness of Bayard and Thurman , and they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assailed , and who has a barrel which he will not hesitate to tap for the good of the cause . Such a man , they believe , they have found in Mr. Jewett . In reply to the argument that he is objectionable because he is a railroad man , they say that his connection with railroads has been conspicuously honorable ; that he is not a railroad wrecker , but a protector of stockholders , and that he can not be classed with the railroad monopolists who manipulate stocks and companies for their own gain . They are already beginning to try to secure for him the good will of the masses , by industriously circulating the statement that ho has always  --  treated his employes with rare consideration . They say that his contributions of money for the campaign would be large , if he should be nominated ; that he is a man of the West as well as of the East ; that he has no political record to obstruct his progress , and that he can carry New-York . Pennsylvania , and Massachusetts against ex-President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preceded national campaigns leads an observer to pay some attention to a movement of this kind , while it does not compel him to assign to it a more than temporary existence . But it is plain that the Democrats are now in the condition of those who clutch at straws , and Mr. Jewett may be the man who will win at Cincinnati . The statement is made hors that an organization for the advancement of his candidacy has already been established in Now-York City . Those in this city who have recently become his supporters speak of the capacity of his barrel with great satisfaction . 