@@781716

txt It is asserted on no less authority than that of Mme. BLAVATSEY that Col. OLCOTT , a gentleman at one time connected with the agricultural department of the New-York Tribune , has worked 8,000 miracles during the last twelve months . However expert Col. OLCOTT may be in working miracles , the claim that he has worked 8,000 miracles in twelve months is rather startling . Eight thousand miracles per year is equal to more than 666 miracles per month . If he labored every day in the year , with the exception of Fourth of July , Decoration Day , and a few other Buddhist holy days , he worked every day no less than 33 miracles , together with a decimal fraction of a miracle . However devoted he may be to his work , Col. OLcorr must sleep and must eat occasionally , and it is doubtful if he is actively engaged in. the miracle business for more than twelve hours a day . He probably averages about three miracles per hour , and if he has really done this for twelve consecutive months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course there are degrees of difficulty in miracles , ' and while some miracles require twenty minutes or half an hour , others ' can be . worked almost instantaneously . It is very improbable that Col. OLCOTT has systematically worked 33.333 miracles , and no more , every day , regardless of their quality . It is more reasonable to suppose that he set himself some such task as that of working 666 miracles per month ? " work as you please . " This would enable him to work , say , 75 or 80 easy miracles a day for two or three days , and then to rest for twenty-four hours ; or , at most , to work two or three difficult miracles during that time . If this was his practice , it is conceivable that he may have made the astonishing record of 8,000 miracles in twelve months without overstraining himself . It would be interesting teknow if the Colonel 's miracles were worked without the help of machinery . The Buddhists , as is well known , have applied machinery to praying , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a praying Waterwheel , turn . out more prayers in an hour than the strongest . Methodist could produce in an entire week of active campmeeting . Very probably the Buddhists have also applied machinery to the working of miracles . All that large class of miracles worked simply by a word or a sentence , such as " Open sesame , " for example , could doubtless be worked equally well were the word or sentence to be attached to a wheel driven by water . Prayerwheels with a nominal power of 1,000 prayers per hour , and capable of working up to 1,500 , are very common in Thibet , and what is more probable than that the Lamas have in use miracle-wheels of a like or perhaps greater capacity ? With the aid of such machinery Col. OLCOTT could easily work 8,000 low-grade miracles in a day . Of course , the higher class of miracles must be hand-worked , so to speak , and can not be- worked by machinery , but in all probability the greater part of the Colonel 's miracles could be worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least degree from Col. OLCOTT 's merit as a miracle-worker were it to be proved that all his miracles are mar chine-made . If he . can turn out a better class of miracles.with machinery than he can without , he most assuredly should use machinery , and the market value of his miracles would not be injured in the slightest degree were they to be thus produced . If the champion miracle-worker returns to this country with the firm resolution to devote all his powers to the agricultural columns of the Tribune , we may applaud his determination his failure to work in larger and more important fields . Arriving here just in time for the Presidential campaign , either of the great political parties will be anxious for his aid . Be might assist the Democrats by convincing people that free trade and protection are one and inseparable , and that the Democratic Party , while unswerving in its loyalty to both , is the determined foe of either . Hitherto the public has failed to comprehend this theory of the nature of the tariff , and nothing but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it or to believe in it . The Republican Party may perhaps require the assistance of a miracle-worker to elect a candidate against whom a vast majority is determined to vote , and if such a necessity exists Col. OLCOTT is evidently the only man who could produce the desired result . Our country will be full of opportunities this Summer for an able and tireless miracle-worker , and if Col. OLCOTT , instead of taking advantage of those . opportunities , shuts himself up in the Tall Tower and devotes himself to informing the readers of the Tribune that he is prepared to show them how to make the macaroni roots which they planted last Autumn spring up and blossom , he will grievously disappoint all the rest of his fellow-countrymen .                     