@@745922

txt Gov . HILL yesterday granted a respite to Mrs. DRUSE , the Herkimer County murderess , who was sentenced . to- be hanged on Dec. 29 , until Feb. 28 . The Governor 's statement of his reasons for this action is clear and forcible . He finds himself absolutely without excuse , under the law as it is , for the exercise of Executive clemency . The crime was clearly proved . It was that of murder in the first degree , of premeditated killing committed in the most brutal and bloodthirsty fashion , and afterward concealed by the most deliberate and ingenious methods . The Judge , the jury , and the prosecuting attorney all decline to support the appeal for clemency . There is no new fact that has come to light since the trial enforcing or excusing the claim for clemency . There is nothing in - the woman 's motives or in her physical or mental condition that justifies interference by the Governor . The sole question presented by the facts in the case is , Should the law take its course with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision that it is not his duty , and that he has no right , to defeat the law . His discretion in the use of the pardoning power was not given him for any such purpose . The decision of Gov . HILL to defer the execution of the sentence of the woman DRUSE until the Legislature shall have had an opportunity to pass upon the question Presented in the case may not be the most courageous , but it can not be severely censured . He has been told by persons whose testimony he appears to think should have some weight that public opinion is opposed to the capital punishment of murder by a woman . Without passing on the correctness of this representation he finds himself unable to consider such opinion , if it exist ; he justly says that the organ through which it should seek satisfaction is the Legislature , and he postpones the execution to give the Legislature time in which to act , should action seem best . What the Legislature will do about it it is too soon to say . That will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall manifest itself . Up to the present time there has been no evidence of any effective public opinion in the murderess 's favor . The question has remained a local one , and in the neighborhood where the crime was committed . there has been no feeling on the subject that has had any effect on the Judge , the jury or the prosecuting attorney . All these gentlemen are obviously familiar with the facts . ' The jurymen may fairly be expected to represent public opinion , so far as it is based on knowledge of the facts . The attorney , who is an elective officer , would not be Inattentive to any really strong sentiment in the community which he could consider consistently with his duty . The Judge is not likely to be unduly rigid against claims for clemency . Yet they all refuse to sustain the appeal . There is , therefore , no evidence that public opinion is aroused in favor of an exception to the law . It would seem , moreover , that any argument against the execution of the sentence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an argument against capital punishment in any case , or else it must be an argument in form only , and in reality be an expression of a sentiment . Against capital punishment as applied under our actual law and practice there is a great deal to be said . It has all the vices and none of the virtues of such punishment . It is not certain for the guilty ; it is liable to be delayed until it loses all its effect upon the community ; a person sentenced to it is so treated that his fate ceases to be terrible , and even possesses a certain attraction for some morbid minds , and the execution is often  --  indeed , usually  --  so managed as to be shocking rather than appalling . The deterrent influence of the penalty of death has been gradually frittered away until it is doubtful if it really exist . But if trials for murder could be conducted so as to secure a verdict against the guilty with all promptness consistent with justice ; if a convicted . murderer could be kept in close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family , and his clergyman , if ho wished one , for a period sufficient for the consideration of his case by the possessors of the pardoning power ; if this power were lodged in the hands of a board with definite restrictions , and if after such reasonable interval , the murderer finally condemned , could be hanged in the presence only of official watnesses , the death penalty would be a very different and much more effective punishment . In that case appeals for the exemption of women might be made in a manner capable of more just and reasonable consideration than they are now likely to receive . But that , under any circumstances , Mrs. DRUSE ought not to suffer the penalty the law provides , or that the law should be changed for any reasons presented by her case are propositions which appear to us untenable .                     