@@671861

txt Chief ARTHUR is pursuing . a course of action in. regard to the strike of the engineers which is calculated to grieve the more judicious of his friends . His sudden departure from Chicago just at the time when the disorderly elements among his followers had apparently gained the upper hand and - precipitated what promises to be but the beginning of a series of acts of violence , if it was not , as has been asserted , a cowardly flight in the face of danger , was at least an unwise step , calculated to produce evil results . Mr. ARTHUR 'S chief title to recognition as a safe leader of the workingmen under his control has been his reputation for conservatism . Ho has always publicly deprecated the principles upon which strikes are based , and has opposed the idea which the Knights of Labor have so vigorously - upheld that : an injury to one is the concern of all . " He has on all suitable occasions condemned the theory of " sympathetic strikes , " and it is presumably on account of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brotherhood of Engineers bas at . last risen against him and , judging from the events of the last few days in Chicago , has driven him from his position as an influential factor in the brotherhood . With the strike of the switchmen of the Burlington Road , - which has resulted in bringing to the front the disorderly elements at Chicago . Chief ARTHUR possibly had nothing to do . The switchmen are not members of the order over which he presides , and he could not dictate their action . It will be difficult , however , to make the average man believe that this sympathetic strike , which developed almost immediately into a sympathetic riot , would not have been prevented had Mr. ARTHUR chosen to take any step looking to that end . Sympathy , especially where bread and butter is the price of it , does not as a rule force itself upon unwilling recipients , and it is not conceivable that the Burlington switchmen would have struck to aid a cause had they been informed by the chief representative of that cause that their aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. ARTHUR , seeing that the strike which he had sanctioned was lost , passively consented to what he could net consistently ask , and that the switchmen cast their fortunes with the engineers , knowing - Tell that their assistance in the fight would be heartily welcomed . It was the great mistake of Mr. ARTHUR 'S career that he did not at once disclaim all responsibility for the switchmen 's strike , instead of evading , as he did , the main issue , and simply stating what everybody knew , that he was powerless to order such a strike . By accepting the " sympathetic " aid of the switchmen he gave his radical opponents in the Brotherhood of Engineers the opportunity they had been waiting for , and they promptly organized another " sympathetic strike , " this ' time in the Chief 's own order . Mr. ARTHUR says he has not sanctioned the action of the Fort Wayne engineers , and that until he does sanction it , they can have no claim to the support of the brotherhood . He is careful , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike or not , and the impartial observer , watching the course . of events at Chicago , will probably come to the conclusion that it will make very little difference whether he does or not . It looks very much as if the brotherhood had decided to rush on to its own destruction without reference to Chief ARTHUR or his opinions , and the sudden flight of the Chief from Chicago apparently shows tat he has become impressed with this conviction . Mr. ARTHUR 'S action in leaving Chicago at this perilous crisis , shows that , strong leader though he has been supposed to be , he is really a very weak man , and not at all fitted to govern such a body as the Brotherhood of Engineers . He has lost his head in the first really great emergency which has confronted . him as Chief , and deserted the field on which he has set so many dangerous agencies at work . His place at this time , if he really intends to fight for his . position and the announced principles of his order , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where he can issue his orders only at a disadvantage . It is very evident that he is not of the mettle that strong leaders are made of , and if the Brotherhood . of Engineers , which has done much good in its time , now goes by the board , this result will be justly attributable in a great measure to his weakness . It was a sorry day for Chief ARTHUR when he was induced to sanction the Burlington strike ; it was a sorrier day when he fled . from the battle-. field and left such of his disorganized followers as are still true to him to take care of themselves .                     