@@743949

txt Let us not be too severe in criticising the conduct of the Cornell crew . Whatever faults its members may have committed , they have done one good thing for which we may feel truly grateful . They have opened a way for the final suppression of international rowing-matches . All that is needed now is a little firmness on the part of American college authorities and English boating men . If this firmness is displayed , we shall never again be mortified by the efforts of an American crew to secure a good beating in English waters . It is strange that any college Faculty should have tolerated the nuisance of international boat-racing . It is supposed to be the business of the President and Professors of an American college to see to it that the young men placed in their charge receive an education . It is notorious that , as a rule , the undergraduate who devotes himself to rowing neglects his college studies and learns absolutely nothing expept ? in rare instances ? how to handle an oar . How much time for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to England with the crew " and must constantly practice on the river or in the gymnasium in order , to fit himself for a great international race ? How much mental discipline does the college course afford him when the whole of his alleged mind is occupied with the idea of winning races at Henley , or on the Putney and Mortlake course . How can any careful parent feel satisfied to see his son thrown into the society of the gamblers and blacklegs who are the main-stay of regattas , wasting his money by " backing " his own boat and sharing in the dissipations with which , as a rule , boating men console themselves after a race is over for the restraints of previous training ? A man who sends his son to college expects him to receive an education , and if the college authorities allow the boy to waste time and money in international boat-racing the father ought in equity to have an action for breach of contract . The English boating men have also been guilty of a lack of firmness in consenting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the challenges of such crews as that which Cornell sent to Henley and Harvard sent to the Thames that they could not waste their time in teaching presumptuous oarsmen the elements of rowing . The Englishmen have their annual races and take great interest in them , but they ' do not want to be bothered with antagonists that steer their boats into the bank . Our YaleHarvard rowing-match interests all our boating men , and is sometimes a very creditable affair . If the boys of Eton or Rugby were to come here and ask to be admitted to row against Yale and Harvard , probably the two American crews would be polite enough to admit them , but they would undoubtedly wish that the English boys would stay at home and row with other school-boys . Were the English rowing men to firmly decline to row international races , they would deserve the warm ' gratitude of all patriotic Americans . The opportunity for the suppression of international rowing has now been afforded by the Cornell crew . The Cornell Faculty can take the ground that their college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergraduates shall either attend to their legitimate studies or else sever their connection with Cornell . Other college Faculties would be emboldened to follow this excellent example , and it would soon be understood that American undergraduates go to college to study , and that no permission will be given to them to go to England or to Germany to expose themselves and their respective colleges to ridicule . The Englishmen have also an excellent pretext for refusing to row with alleged representatives of American colleges . They can say that since the Shinkel scandal occurred they can have no certainty that an American college crew does not contain some one member capable of selling a race . They can point out that from their experience they have learned that an American college crew may include men who are the intimate associates of Irish rum-sellers , and who are kept in college merely because they are reported to be good oarsmen . They can also mention that there are American college oarsmen who secretly search the baggage of a comrade in his ab-. sence , and who afterward boast of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no English gentleman can be expected to row races with persons who do these things . The English oarsmen can henceforth decline to row with American college crews on the ground that they can not feel sure that their antagonists are gentlemen . Hitherto it was impossible to profess any such belief as to American undergraduates , but the Cornell crew has changed all that .. Cornell is one of the prominent American colleges , and the oarsmen whom it sent to England called themselves a representative American crew : . Other American colleges must inevitably , share in the disgrace which the Cornell men have won , but as it will doubtless be the means of barring American college crews out of English races , we can bear it with resignation and even with thankfulness . 