@@745164

txt It is gratifying to know that an expedition for the rescue of GORDON has at last actually been undertaken , and that it is now on its way across the desert . The accounts we get of it thus far do not indicate that it is such an expedition as befits the object for which it is sent or the nation which sends it . It is neither numerous enough nor well appointed enough to be reasonably certain of accomplishing its object , and there has been far more than ample time in which to make it perfect in every particular . The spectacle of two English officers of no very high rank starting across a desert where hordes of hostile barbarians may be encountered with a handful of Bedouins to rescue an Englishman who has put himself in peril in the interest of his country , and under what amounts to a public pledge that the resources of the nation would be freely drawn upon for his relief , is neither an attractive nor an impressive spectacle . Nevertheless the expedition may be practically as successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British nation . It must be borne in mind that analogies drawn from the conditions of civilized warfare are entirely misleading when applied to the situation in the Soudan . The tribes do not constitute an army . They have no organization and no commissariat equal to the work of subsisting them either on the march or in camp . They can neither sustain nor carry on a regular siege . They may be rallied , on an urgent occasion , in great numbers for a battle , but they are sure to disperse immediately afterward , whatever the event of the battle may be . COLVILLE and his men may therefore very possibly push through to the Nile , if not to Khartoum itself , without meeting with any serious or organized resistance . Nevertheless , there is very little in this expedition to lighten the censure which was passed upon Mr. GLADSTONE 'S Government , in and out of England , for its neglect of a national duty in failing to provide for the rescue of GORDON . The Government will not be injured , not because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have done , but simply because the rescue of GORDON is no longer a " burning question " in British politics , as it was two months ago . It has been displaced by domestic questions upon which the Government has the good fortune of being right and the assurance of being successful . England is now considering , not what ought to be done to the Government for shilly-shallying about GORDON 'S case , but whether the House of Lords shall be shorn of its equal powers in legislation . In the face of such a revolution it is not wonderful that the English people have forgotten GORDON . This is not the first time iu Mr. GLADSTONE 'S career that he has owed to luck the retrieval of a blunder irretrievable by skill .                     