@@744117

txt The concession made by the Choctaw Nation to the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company will not be ratified by Congress without opposition . The bill providing for a ratification was favorably reported to the Senate from the Railroad Committee of that body , and was recently recommitted on motion of Mr. Hawley . The question is an important one , like all questions relating to a Territory which the great railroad corporations look upon with greedy eyes , and which is surrounded by white settlers who desire that it shall he opened to settlement : Before describing the present condition of the contest in Congress , a brief reference should be made to the manner in which the concession was granted . There are two railways in the Territory  --  the Missouri , Kansas and Texas running north and south , and the Atlantic and . Pacific , partly built , running east and west . These railways were allowed by the treaties , but it was provided that the permission of the Indians must be obtained before any other road could get the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . When the application of the Chicago , Texas and . Mexican Central Railway Company , which desired to run a line from the Mexican border in a north-easterly direction to Fort Smith , and from that point by connecting lines to Chicago , was made , the Interior Department sent Mr. Baxter to the Indian Territory to aid the company , and to conduct the necessary negotiations for the right of way . The proposed line would cut across the south-east corner of the Territory in a straight line from Fort Smith , Ark. , to Paris , Texas , and would lie wholly in the country of the Choctaws . Mr. Baxter found that the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad Company was more popular in the Territory than the Mexican Central , and that it had been taking steps to procure a concesaion . Seeing that there would be great difficulty in obtaining the right of way in opposition to the St. Louis and San Francisco Company , the Mexican Central withdrew , having made an agreement concerning connections , freight rates , &c.,; and the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first in the field . There was only one difficulty about the passage of the bill by the Choctaw Council . It easily passed the tipper house , but in the lower house there were .0 yeas and S nays . Thereupon , B. F. Smallwood , Speaker of the lower house , voted nay , End decided the bill defeated , on the ground that the vote was a tie . The Nation 's attorney decided that Smallwood 's vote was clearly illegal , so the bill was approved by the principal chief and forwarded to Congress for ratification . Immediately , persons claiming to be representatives of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations appeared in this city to protest against the bilL The road does not lie within six miles of the Chickasaw country , but Chickasaw representatives vigorously asserted that the Choctaws could not grant such a right of way without consulting them . Speaker Smallwood and others claimed to represent the Choctaws . They declared that the bill had not passed the lower house of the Choctaw Council . The general plea was made that the concession was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was something almost Inexplicable about the appearance of so many residents of - the Indian Territory in this city oppose the ratification of this bilL -A glance at the map shows the situation so far as the railroads are concerned . Down through the Territory , on one side of the proposed line , runs the Missouri . Kansas and Texas Road , connecting the upper valley of the Mississippi with the Texas system and also with the Mexican border and the Southern trunk line to the Pacific . Running down in the same direction on the other side , through Arkansas , from St. Louis to Texarkana , is the Iron Mountain Road , connecting St. Louis and the valley below with the Texas system and the great Southern trunk tine across the continent . The establishment af a third line between these is the establishment of a competitor for the trade between the last and the Upper Mississippi Valley and the eastern terminus of the great southern trunk line across the continent . It is understood . that the Missouri , Kansas and Texas and the Iron Mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louis and San Francisco Company has built as far southward as Fayetteville , Ark. , just above Fort Smith , and its further progress in that direction is checked by the corner of the Indian Territory . If it can cross this corner t will be able to connect below with the Chicago and Mexican Central , which intends to extend its line directly by way of Dallas to the Rio Grande River , reaching the Mexican border at a point from , 50 to 75 miles north of Laredo . On offs ) side , the Missouri . Kansas and Texas enters Texas at Denison and reaches the Mexican border by its connections at El Paso . On the other side the iron Mountain enters Texas at Texarkana , and then , by the international ivstem , reaches the Mexican border at Laredo ind enters Mexico at that point , so that the St. Lous and San Francisco would be not only a competitor against these two for through travel to the Pacific slope , but also for the trade with Southern Texas and Mexico . It is apparent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - to the concession . The Chicago and Mexican Central can not extend northward without making terms with Gould , unless it can make an agreement with the St. Louis and San Francisco and use its route across the Indian Territory . These circumstances may be the basis for an interesting railroad quarrel . When it became known to the friends of the St. Louis and San Francisco line that many persons who claimed to represent the Choctaws and Chickasaws were in this city opposing the ratification of the bill , it was decided that the Choctaws , should send accreeited representatives . Ex-Gov . Allen Wright , of the Choctaw Nation , and Capt . Stanley , Superintendent of Public Schools in the Nation , were chosen by principal Chief MeCurtain , and they are now ? in Washington . They bear proper credentials and also a very explicit statement from the Choctaw Chief , saying not only that they are representatives of the Choctaws , but also that they are the only accredited representatives , and that no other persons are entitit ! ed to represent the Nation in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stanley are strong supporters of the bill , and they were heard to-day by the House and Senate committees . Mr. Wright is a clergyman , but a native Indian , and it is said that he has labored for years for the good of the Choctaws . The contest has become a three-cornered one because of the position of the Chicago and Mexican Central Company . This company withdrew its bill at the outset in Iavor of the St. Louis and San Franaiaco Company , after making an agreement As to connections and the rates to be charged . The company 's agent here is L. H. Visahugb , of Texas , who went to the Territory with the Government 's representative befare the concession was secured . Mr. Fitzhugh says that after the agreement was made in Ole Indian Territory it was ratified by the Directors of the Chicago and Mexican Central . He then came North to secure a similar ratification from the Directors of the St. Louis and San Francisco , but the President , E. W. Winslow , refused to recognize the agreement and made statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago and Mexican Central as worthy a consideration . Mr. Fitzhugh has no abjection to the ratification of the bill , provided that the agreement is maintained ' n consideration of which his company withslrew gad gave the St. Louis and San Franci.sen Company a clear field : Mr. Fitzhugh adds that he would have been satisfied if the bill had contained a section which was a part of the bill originally submitted by the Chicago and Mexican t , entral . This section was as follows : SECTION 5 . Said company shall provide a sufficient number of tracks to do the business that may be offered and shall permit any railroad company to have the rights of user of Its main tracks and sidings by the payment of a fixed charge as rental therefor . The maintenance of superstructure and tracks , depots , and other buildings and appurtenances , and of stations and operating expenses , and such other expenses as may oe Imposed by law , shall be based upon the wheelage of such trains as may be run over ? said road , each company paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheelage passing over said road . The rental shall be a fixed charge in addition to the maintenance of the road , and shall be determined br mutual agreement , or in case of disagreement , by arbitrators , each party choosing one such arbitrator , the third to ho choosen by the others appointed , whose decision upon all points respecting such rental shall be final . Each company enjoying the right of user as aforesaid ; shall pay for any and all damages to the property of the Nation or individuals caused by the running of Its own trains . If said companies shall disagree as to damages aforesaid , all disagreements shall be settled and determined between them by arbitration , as provided in case of rentaL It was understood , he says , that this section should be retained in the bill , but after the withdrawal of the Chicago and Mexican Central the section was left out . If the section had been retained the new road could not have been G monopoly , but would have been open to other companies on equitable terms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Paris . Texas , shows that the people of that place understand the condition of the railway business to the northward . They say : " The only lines of railway now penetrating this section of our State which give an outlet to Northern markets being under one management , there is no competition in freights , and our rapidly increasing population and extended commerce render this additional outlet an absolute necessity . "                     