@@744264

txt It is likely that many people who have a secret apprehension that they may , sooner or later , be called upon to testify before a Congressional committee are very much relieved by the result in SHIPHERD 'S case . And , furthermore , Smrsitnn , as we may judge from his triumphant declaration that no power can compel him to reappear before the House committee , depends upon the decision in the case of HALLET KILBOURN RS his defense against " Congressional inquisition . " If Congress were disposed to do anything to define and protect its own rights , we might expect that the combined legal learning of the Judiciary Committees of the two houses would be able to discover precisely on what principles the power of arrest by the presiding officers of Congress rests , and what may be done to remedy defects in existing statutes , if any such defects are remediable . But , although Congress is ready enough to exercise its full powers on all possible occasions , there is no reason to suppose that the present shiftless management of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider so grave and important a matter as that here alluded to . It has been held for many years that either house of Congress has a right to order the arrest and imprisonment of any person who places himself in contempt . In a general way , this has been the practice of the Senate and of the House . The former body , in the case of certain newspaper correspondents who made public the treaty of Washington , arrested the correspondents ( who refused to answer certain questions ) and confined them in one of the rooms in the Senate wing of the Capitol . The House has repeatedly ordered the arrest of recusant witnesses ; and , in one case , at least , ( prior to that of KILBOURN , ) has con fined the person in contempt after the same fashion as that followed by the Senate . And in one ease , . the prisoner was only set free by the adjournment of the House and the expiration of that term of Congress . In the Kilbourn case , it must be admitted , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to order the arrest of any person other than those expressly provided for by the Constitution , of whom KILBOURN was not one . In a general way , Krimouns represented the idea that Congress can not order the arrest and imprisonment of a citizen who is not an officer of the Government , and who only appears before a Congressional committee as a witness . The Supreme Court of the United States , . in its decision in the Kilbourn case , denied the authority of the House to order the imprisonment of the recusant witness . The court declared that this authority was " limited to cases expressly provided for by the Constitution , or to cases where the power is necessarily implied from constitutional functions and duties , and to the proper performance of which it is essential . " Thus the House , in the preparation of articles of impeachment against a high functionary of the Government , would clearly have the power to " order the arrest of a contumacious witness , and , in case he should refuse to purge himself of contempt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that his was a private business , that no functionary of the Government was involved in his transactions , and that the House had no power to compel him to give up the names and describe his relations to his clients . The answer of the House , substantially , was that the House was to be the judge of the intimacy of the relationship which might exist betwixt officers of the Government and his clients , if any such relations did exist , and that he must disclose his business in all details required of him by the committee . He refused , and was arrested on a warrant issued by Speaker KERR . This was in March , 1876 , and the case has only recently been determined , Sergeant-atArms THOMPSON ( who executed the order of the House ) having finally been cast in heavy damages . Thk verdict , however , has been set aside , not on account of any flaw in the judicial decision under which it was rendered , but on account of the excessive sum awarded as " compensatory damages . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SHrPHERD would have come off as triumphantly as KILBOURN thus far has , if he had defied the authority of the House , and the Committee on Foreign Affairs had determined to test the case . An amendment of the resolution authorizing the investigation ordered by the House in the case of SHIPICERD could have made the inquiry fall into the list of those which the Constitution provides that Congress may institute , and to prosecute which both branches of Congress are clothed with special powers . In the Shipherd case the inquiry was directed , by a resolution of the House , to the ascertainment of certain facts . No specific charge was alleged against any officer of the Government . If there had been , ( and it is not yet too late to change the direction of the inquiry , ) SurenEnD could not have refused to answer without incurring the danger of arrest and imprisonment . It will not be safe , therefore , for men who are in the possession of dangerous secrets relating to public officers to sit down comfortably in the belief that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the proposition that when either branch of Congress goes on " a fishing excursion " in pursuit of facts that do not affect any officer of the Government then on trial , persons called as witnesses can not be arrested in case they refuse to answer interrogatories . By this decision of the Supreme Court only one branch of Congressional inquiry has been closed .                     