@@781200

txt The United States revenue cutter Bear arrived from Alaska last night . She reached Oonalaska from St. Michaels , Aug. 24 , and gave Frank Fuller , the murderer of Archbishop Seghers , into the custody of the United States Marshal . On the same date the Bear seized the British sealing schooner Ada , with 1,900 skins , and the American schooner Allie I. Alger , with 1,600 chins . A few days later the American schooner Handy , with 1,700 skins , was seized . All of the vessels were turnea over to the United States Marshal at Oonalaska . The Bear reports that the catch of the whaling fleet up to Aug. 5 was 74 whales . James B. Vincent was among the passengers on the Bear . Ho is the only survivor of the 36 men on the whaling bark Napoleon , which was wrecked in the lee in the Arctic in May , 1855 . From that time until he was rescued by the Bear ho had been living with a small band of ' llama on the Siberian coast . Reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ' calling badly appears to have Had some foundation , as it was necessary to ham men at the pumps nearly all of the time during the trip down from Oonalaska . PERSECUTED BY SALOON ' KEEPERS . CLAItKSVILLE , Tenn. , Oct. 2. -1 general row is brewing among the colored people on the prohibition question . The Rev. A. J. Stokes , Pastor of the First Baptist Church , colored , who is an able and enthusiastic speaker , backed by his church , entered the campaign , making telling speeches against the saloons and for prohibition . and has been notified in diverse ways that a mob had been organized to drive him out of town . This mob is said to number about 20 notorious saloon loungers headed by Scott Harden and J. NV . Jackson , colored saloon keepers , iu Strawberry-alley . The mob whited in an alley near Stokes 's house lust night to attack him , but failed . This morning Scott Harden attacked him at the Market House , charging Stokes with person-alities . Stokes denied all the charges . stating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whisky traffic in general . Harden struck hint on the head with a stick , breaking the stick . Stokes knooked Harden down . when parties in-terfered tine they were arrested . Harden said he would have shot Stokes . but could not do it without endangering others . Alex Moore , Gus Rundels , Charlie Warneld , Froney , and others under control of the saloons have threatened to mob Stokes if he remains in the city . They had arranged to carry the design into execution last night , but their plans were frustrated . Jackson , before engaging In saloon keeping , bore a good reputation .                     