@@780754

txt Crowds of politicians besieged the rooms of the New-York delegation to-day , while the State 's delegates were : Ming in conference with closed doors . For hours they waited , feeding upon the ; craps of information that were given ) ut by Daniel Manning 's messenger , as he Sassed to and fro . The New-Yorkers were . lemnleting the demonstration of Cleveland 's strength which was begun last night , when the Kings County delegates voted to support him . Por ditys the delegation from New-York has Seen the centre of attraction , because hundreds 3f delegates from the West and South had ietermined to be guided by that State . Had Cleveland a majority ? Had he a large malority ? These were the questions asked , and they could be authoritatively answered only by the action of this meeting . The formal ballot showed that the Governor had 47 votes , or only one less than two-thirds . Afterward two more votes were gained . Tammany 's opposition to the unit rule caused the adoption of a resolution instructing the Chairman to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been 49 to 23 . The Governor 's friends did not intend that Tammany should have any good ground for complaint . Kelly and his followers , supported indirectly by the friends of other candidates will strive , however , to induce the convention to pronounce against the unit rule , hoping that they can at least strike a last blow against Cleveland by using upon the floor the so-called arguments by which they have been trying to prove to Western and Southern men that he can not carry New-York . The result of the New-York meeting has led Cleveland 's friends to believe that his nomination can not be prevented . it has also revealed more clearly to other delegations the motives and real attitude of Kelly . Tammany is in bad odor to-night , and Democrats from the South and West are heartily cursing Kelly and his mercenaries . Bayard gained nothing to-day . Scores of delegates who would make him President if they could do it by their votes will not support him in the convention because they do not believe that he could be elected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Delaware Senator some of the votes assigned to him . There is very little . life in the Bayard movement , because many who prefer him in their hearts , and who say that they do , are following the lead of New-York . " He is the party 's best man , " say the Southern Democra s , " but he can not get the floating and independent votes of the North . The independents ought to see that he deserves their support , but some of them are blind , and so we must follow New-York , who gives us a good man in Cleveland . " Mr. McDonald 's boom is based upon the votes of Indiana and the opposition to Cleveland in his own State , as it is represented here . But it is noticeable that most of the friends of McDonald have very little to say against Cleveland . Since McDonald became a candidate he has been overshadowed by the man from New-York . The ex-Senator 's friends perceive that ff Clevelaud shall be nominated the second place on the ticket must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be that man . So they are content with saying that " if Cleveland is unpopular in his own State it would be wise to name McDonald . " When talking among themselves , however , they groan in spirit , because the delegation turn their eyes to the rising sun in NewYork and do not bow down to " Old Saddlebags . " " We must yield to New-York , " they say , " and if we ca n't get the first place for our man we can put him in the second . " The room occupied by the Indiana delegation adjoins the New-York headquarters , and at the other end of a long corridor the forces of Ben Butler and those of John Kelly are separated only by a thin partition . This arrangement of rooms seems significant to those who predict that the ticket will be Cleveland and McDonald , and that Kelly and Butler will strive to defeat it . Many rumors about Butler 's alleged intention to run as an independent candidate against Cleveland havebeen'in circulation . At the meet , lag of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rumors and demanded that Butler should define his position . Delegates from other States had been asking them disag-reeable questions about the old man , and they wanted something positive from him to be used in reply . " Will you support the nominees , whoever they may be ? " they asked , and Butler replied that he would . One prominent New-England politician says that Butler only wants to be a member of Cleveland 's Cabinet and to control the New-England patronage . In his opinion the old man will stand by the party . Others go so far as to say that - both Butler and Kelly are in league with Blaine . It is pretty plain that Butler 's votes are slipping away from him . Of the 28 Massachusetts delegates , 12 will probably vote for Cleveland on the second ballot . Butler and Kelly have had long conferences since Kelly 's arrival . If the question concerning Butler 's intentions had not been asked in the Massachusetts meeting to-day it would probably have been asked by ex-Mayor Prince in the convention . A vote in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 48 votes . The delegation is divided against itself , and it . is believed that a large majority of the delegates will eventually swing over to Cleveland - It may be much easier to nominate a man than to make the platform on which he is to stand . Several delegations have selected their members of the Committee on Resolutions . The indications now are that , owing to the advice of those who wish to make administrative reform the leading issue , and to the timidity of some who were not long ago in favor of radical measures , the tariff resolution will lie between the extremes . Several prominent Democrats have been at work making platforms , and the committee will have a large assortment from which to select .                     