@@745970

txt The little mining community at Denmark , a hamlet of Morris County , was thrown into a state of excitement to-day by the leaking out of the fact that Miss Celia Scribner , a daughter of George Scribner , of Denmark , and young William H. Vanderbilt had been secretly married at Butler , just a week ago . The groom reached the age of 16 last October and his bride is just 14 . Young Vanderbilt is a grandson of John Vanderbilt. a second cousin of William H. Vanderbilt , who has resided in this region many years . Scribner , the bride 's father , is a miner in the Hibernia mine and has his home in Denmark , where Celia was brought up . The parents knew nothing of the growing affection of their children , though it is not of short duration . Celia and William used to play together and hunt berries in the mountains that shut in the little hamlet . Their parents are . hard-working people and have little time to look after the young people . Recently William Vanderbilt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at work on the new Morris County Railroad and only visited his home occasionally . At these times , however , he managed to see Celia , and the affection between them increased . Saturday , a week ago , Vanderbilt came down to the village with a horse and buggy , and , meeting Celia by appointment , carried her off to Butler , about 15 miles away . There they found a minister and were married . Both gave ages that were in excess of their . own , and there was no apparent reason why they should not be made man and wife . They then returned to an isolated cottage , not much more than a hut , near Denmark , and began keeping house . Their parents soon found them out . They were angry at first , but , with time , have become more reconciled to the union . The girl is pretty . She has light hair and eyes and is of lithe figure . Old John Vanderbilt , the grandfather , weleomed the young lady to his family . He is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Vanderbilt , the father of the runaway groom . The family live like hermits at the foot of the Blue Mountain , where for years John Vanderbilt had earned a living by a little work ' in the mines and more at fishing in the ponds and streams neg.r by . Once , it is said , he visited his second cousin in New-York and was given $75 and a suit of clothes by the millionaire . He is said to resemble in face and figure Commodore Vanderbilt . The young couple is spending the honeymoon in the lonely cottage in the hills , but it is said the Vanderbilt* have asked them to come to old John 's home , where the young bride can help in taking care of him . 