@@745385

txt The attempt of Admiral COURBET to confiscate as contraband cargoes of rice bound for Chinese ports will probably bring the French Government into controversy with more than one foreign power . The ordinary reader of newspapers no doubt imagines that the question raised by the action of France can be settled by a reference to some simple , intelligible , and universally accepted principle of international law . As a matter of fact , there is no such principle applicable to this case . The practice of different Governments , and of the same Governments at different times , exhibits an irreconcilable inconsistency . Except where treaties have expressly provided what articles shall be subject to seizure it is debatable , not . only what articles are so subject , but upon what principle they are to be selected . The only articles which appear to be without doubt contraband , and which a neutral carries at his own peril , . are munitions of war . Almost the earliest writer upon contraband , the jurist of whom CHARLES II . took counsel , laid it down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately subservient to the use of war , except it be in the case of besieged places . " The exception appears to indicate that food for the use of a besieged garrison might be seized as being " directly and immediately subservient " to the military purpose of prolonging the siege , but that food would not otherwise be liable to seizure . The principle laid clown by the latest , and upon the whole the most authoritative , text book of international law , DANA 'S " Wheaton , " is to the same effect . The right to seize certain supplies , according to this authority , is simply " the right of the belligerent to prevent certain things from getting into the military use of the enemy . " Provisions have , however , been held at various times to be contraband both by English and by American courts . As a rule , however , it seems clear that provisions , with the exception noted by CHARLES II . ' s lawyer , ought not to be held as contraband for the reason that the consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small proportion to the total consumption of food . The Frenchmen who are chuckling over the decision of their Government to treat rice as contraband rejoice , as it appears , mainly because it is supposed the decision will embarrass England , which during the Franco-German war refused to permit supplies of coal to be shipped from English ports to the French fleet in the North Sea . This explains their declara1 tion that , as regards liability to seizure , coal and rice are in the same category . No doubt supplies of food intended for a fleet would be contraband equally with coal . But to seize either food or coal under the authority of a paper blockade because it might possibly be used for military purposes is a very different and a much less defensible proceeding . Evidently the tendency of our time is toward restricting the rights of belligerents and enlarging the rights of neutrals . The principle for which the United States have contended , that " the flag covers the cargo " is not yet recognized and adopted . But as wars diminish in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceable people is likely to be more strenuously opposed ; and the action of France ought to be , and no doubt will be , resisted by other Governments as a step in the wrong direction .                     