@@781520

txt As Independence Day approaches conservative and prematurely aged people discuss ways and means for the suppression of the usual jubilee noises . The firing of crackers , the explosion of small-arms , and the ringing bells are all incidental to any genuine celebration of the Fourth of July . In the celebrated and even classic speech of JOHN ADAMS , that sturdy old patriot , with a prophetic glimpse of the future , said that coming generations of Americans would build bonfires , ring joy-bells , and fire cannon in honor of the day . Probably many thousands of our fellowcitiiens have contributed their share to the annual racket , almost under protest , sooner than have the grand old man proved a false prophet . ADAMS 'S prediction has gradually assumed the character of a mandate . Probably ADAMS is thus made more directly responsible for the ear-splitting noises of , Independence Day than any other man who ever lived . We should almost feel guilty of treason if we omitted to do anything that would honor " the natal day of the great Republic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years of maturity do generally abhor the intolerable uproar of the day we celebrate . At this time many . municipal Governments in various parts of the country are debating whether they wholly suppress the so-called nuisance of noise-making on Independence Day , or whether they shall license a general and unchecked fusillade on that day . Disguise the fact as we may , it must be admitted.that the celebration of the Fourth of July is no longer what it was . It can not be pretended that we who are in man 's estate cherish a delusion when we say that the old-time fervor and enthusiasm are departed . Every old boy knows that the youngsters of the present gen. eration do not have such " good times " as the boys of forty years ago had . It is admitted that mature men fool themselves with thinking that there are no boys like those who " raised Cain " when they were in their teens . But , after all , statistics , if statistics could be gathered , would show that the noisy , clamorous , pompous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fashion . There was the civic procession , the bell-ringing , the firing of salutes at night and morning , the oration , poem , reading of the Declaration of Independence , ( to which was sometimes added WASsnicnox 's farewell address , ) and there were the fire-works , the public dinner , and , best of all , the indiscriminate and irrepressible noise of the boys . What has become of . all these ? Where are the townaand cities that celebrate the glorious Fourth in the old-fashioned way ? Nay , does not the fact that we must call this " the old-fashioned way " conclusively prove that the new fashion is something vastly different from that in which we elders minded the day ? - And now certain churlish and unsympathetic people are endeavoring to suppress all festal explosions'and unusual sounds on Independence Day . Forgetting that . they were once boys , and that they took delight in observing the day with this annual license , they would have Independence Day celebrated with Sabbath stillness . Gradually the sports , jubilations , and festivities which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July have been discontinued . It is now proposed to wipe off the last remaining observance which marks the day as peculiar above all other days of the year . If we are to omit everything that is or has been characteristic of Independence Day let us abolish the holiday , which is fast becoming a hollow pretense and a mockery . If we can not have spontaneous and unchecked racket let us return to our farms and merchandise , open the banks and exchanges , and go about our business just as though the Republic had been founded by accident , and Joarr ADAMS never lived . So shall Independence Day disappear from the calendar .                     