@@780691

txt One of the strangest cases which has come to the notice of the Milwaukee police for years is that of Miss Amy Van Duyke , the ' daughter of S. J. Van Duyke , a New-York real estate agent , who , four months ago , left her home in the East ostensibly to visit a sister in Cleveland , but who never reached her destination . The police were given notice of her disappearance , private detectives were employed to discover her , and rewards were offered for her return to her parents if alive , and for the discovery and identification of her body if dead . Every measure was adopted to discover the missing girl , but all were unsuccessful until Tuesday evening , when Mr. Van Duyke paid a visit to Milwaukee and discovered his daughter in the person of a Mrs. McOuffin who , for a month , has occupied rooms in a Third-street house , said to bear a reputation not of the best . Indaceruentg were offered which were successful in Bemiring a promise to return to New-York . S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is Worth in the neighborhood of $500,000 . Miss Amy was his only unmarried daughter and was educated in a Buffalo ladies ' seminary . On June 4 last Miss Van Duyke announced a determination to visit her married sister , a Mrs. Hoffman , living in Cleveland . Arrangementil were made for the trip , which included the purchase of several elegant toilets . She also took with her valuable jewels and a fair amount of money . A week later she left home . Ten days passed and no word was heard from the girl , and her father finally telegraphed to Mrs. Hoffman . He was astounded to discover that nothing was known of the intended visit . An investigation was begun . which resulted only in the discovery that the young lady had purchased a ticket to Cleveland and left the city as intended . From that day until a week ago tho most thorough search was made , which resulted in nothing . A few days ago the father received a letter from a gentleman in Chicago , who said he had seen the missing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Van Duyke at once came to this city and was successful in discovering his daughter , and finally induced her to return home . She was known in Milwaukee as Mrs. McGuffin . It was ascertained from the daughter that when she left her home it was through the inducement of a young stock broker named Berry . with whom she had become acquainted at Newport . He succeeded in enticing her from her home , took her money and jewels . and finally deserted her . She was too pround to return home and concealed her place of residence from her father wholly on this account .                     