@@781674

txt As we said the other day , the chief obstacle to the establishment of better relations between England and Ireland is interposed by the Irish members of the House of Commons . They seem to be capable neither of leading nor of following in any policy for the improvement of Ireland . The English Radicals in and out of the Ministry  --  Mr. CHAMBERLAIN , Sir CHARLES DILICE , Mr. MORLEY , Mr. TREVELYANhave given them an opportunity in announcing a willingness to support a generous measure of local self-government for Ireland , even at the risk of a schism in the Government . The Radicals , with the active aid of the Home Rulers and of Lord RANDOLPH CHURCHILL 'S bushwhackers , would make a formidable party . They would have also the collusive assistance of the many Conservatives who would not join such a movement openly , but who are in favor of " anything to beat GLADSTONE . " Instead of hastening . to embrace the opportunity thus offered and introducing such a measure , the Pa.rnellite idea of serving Ireland is simply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is deplorably silly and deplorably inadequate . Nevertheless , the Parliamentary stream does not rise higher than its source . If a representative can not commend himself to his constituency by serving them , or even by making a pretense of serving them , so well as by making faces at people whom they dislike , it is safe to say that the representatives will confine their statesmanship to the making of faces . It is safe to say that no American constituency would stand being represented by men who took this purely sentimental view of their function . It would require its representatives to do something or to propose something toward the redress of grievances of which the constituents were acutely conscious , instead of acquiescing in mere abuse and annoyance of the supposed authors of the grievances . While Englishmen are earnestly considering the possibility of healing measures for Ireland , the Irish representatives seem to have nothing in view beyond the irritation of all Englishmen , including these friends of Ireland . The last stroke of Mr. PARNELL 'S parliamentary tactics was to " count out " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quorum . It does not seem that this action had any reference to Ireland , nor was it even excusable as a piece of revenge , since the Government had done nothing with reference to Irish questions . Its effect was simply to postpone the consideration of the budget and other " imperial " subjects having no reference to Ireland . The accomplishment of objects like this seems to fill the ambition of the Home Rulers . Of course , if they continue to behave like a lot of mischievous schoolboys no English members can co-operate with them , no matter how much the English members might wish to do so nor of how great value such a co-operation might be to the Irish cause .                     