@@744168

txt At times to-day the situation on the Board of Trade narrowly escaped lapsing Into a downright panic in the wheat market , which would have precipitated a bad break in other values . All the markets were limp and nerveless , but in wheat the feeling , was very nervous and excitable . The British quotations were much lower , and our interior Winter wheat markets weak , which was supposed to have taken the nerve out of the leading longs here . They sold largely , and were generally supposed to be getting out of the deal , which made them weary several days ago . Others joined In as sellers , the long futures being very heavy . It was understood they had gone all to pieces in St. Louis . In both places the brilliant weather of the recent past proved too much for the equanimity of holders . Corn declined in sympathy , but was not weak , there being fewer sellers of the Summer futures at lower prices , and little disposition either to buy or sell for delivery before May , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower . The receipts of Spring wheat were very small . but the generally good condition of the Winter wheat and the promise of opportunity for seeding a very large area to Spring wheat , induced a rush to sell , which bore down prices , especially as it was widely supposed that the clique had sold out a part of its holding , and was anxious to unload the remainder . Some of the sellers of to-day were supposed to be acting for the clique , and this was most pronounced in the last hour of the session , which led to regular fever heat of weakness , as a good many margins were alreay exhausted and the stuff had to be closed out . It was predicted that one of the results of the break will be a large increase in the volume of receipts , bringing out a great deal of wheat that has been held for higher prices . A rapid decline set in early , and before it was checked the price went down 3Y2 cents . There was a slight rally in the afternoon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below that of yesterday . Provisions were less active and much unsettled at a lower range , but not so weak as wheat . Liverpool reported a decline of 3d. on lard , and the local hog market was tame , but the decline of the preceding day had shaken out the weak holders in pork , and there was less on sale at a further decline , so that the market reacted after the down turn , and was steaav when wheat was at its weakest . Lard was relatively heavy , with an absence or foreign demand . One operator said that British buyers decline to act on offers at about is . Gd . per hundred-weight:below the Liverpool quotations . The reason assigned is that so much lard has been heavily adulterated as to make consumers fight shy of it . Meats were heavy , but reacted toward the close . 