@@744423

txt The popular interest in questions of reform appears to be driving both political parties to new and advanced ground . The minds of the people are not disturbed by old controversies . The time has gone by when their action can be materially influenced by fears growing out of the dangers which they have passed . They have no dread of reaction in the current of national life . Its flow is too compulsive for any retiring ebb . There is no fear of what the solid South may do . Not only are its purposes blunted , but the forces of disintegration are too busy with its solidity to make it any longer an element of danger . Ilowever earnestly we may cling to theories and reiterate our principles , and however properly we may endeavor to urge our theories and principles upon those who have heretofore been reluctant to . accept them , the fact , remains that in practice the rights of citizens are , and of necessity must be , mainly - in the keeping of themselves in their several States , Political regeneration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within , aided by such influences and agencies as can be brought to bear ; it can not be improved by any external force . ' Tho South is gradually developing and growing , the spirit of personal independence and political self-defense is asserting itself , and slowly the sentiment of nationality will spread over the region from which for a time it was expelled . New problems are now engaging the attention of the people , and they are demanding their solution through the action of political parties . They will no longer sustain any party on its past achievements or rezpect it for its venerable traditions . They are demanding of their representatives and their public men the performance of certain tasks , and will judge them by their success or failure in dealing with these . It is a bad thing when one party can presume upon distrust of the other as a means of retaining power without regard to its own present merit . We should have two parties inspired by worthy purposes and seeking the public good , the ascendency of neither of which should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for believing that the time has gone by when any party would or could sacrifice the results of our national progress in the last . twenty years . The Republican Party has shown too much inclination of late to rest upon its laurels , to claim " remuneration for the thing it was , " and to depend for support upon distrust of the op : posing party . It will be a good thing for it and for the country if the Democratic organization shall resolve to " purge and live cleanly " henceforth and bid for public confidence by endeavoring to do the work that needs to be done . It is a wholesome thing that the Democratic Party in the leading States has so far recognized the demand of the time as to make explicit professions promises of reform . It has declared ' itself in favor of economy in public expenditures , reduction in the revenues , thorough revision of the tariff , and radical reform of the civil service system . This is the kind of competition for popular favor and support that should be exhibited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize the work to be done , acknowledge its importance , and pledge themselves to earnest efforts to do it . There may be distrust of the promises and professions of one or the other and of its capacity to perform the tasks it is willing to undertake , but when it is bound r , by pledges and . accepts . ; responsibility on condition of making them good , it can be held to a fair degree of effort . This is better than having only one party that can be looked to for any attempt at the performance of the tasks of the time . When that is the case such a party becomes too confident of its support , it presumes upon having the arena to itself and of retaining power because it can not be trusted to the opposing party . There is no question of the tendency of a party long in power to become wedded to abuses and disinclined to reforms . The things to be reformed have grown up under its administration and secured its toleration , if not its countenance and support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the process of correction tears its very body and substance . On the other hand , the party that is out of power has every inducement to undertake the work . It has nothing to lose and it has much to gain , even if it make no undue or improper use of the advantages of victory . It is in a position to bid for public confidence and undertake a new policy , always provided that it is a safe party to trust . Both parties should be safe in the sense that : their ascendency could involve no disaster . 5 I The normal method of " progress under a free Government is to be found in alternations of power between the forces of advancement and conservation . The failures of parties can be effectively rebuked and retrieved only by their defeat . They can be spurred to progressive effort only by the chance of losing support and having the Administration transferred to the opposition . It is many years since the politics of this country have been in a normal condition in which there was a chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the other . It is a question whether the existence of slavery did not preclude such a condition even in the older days of the Republic . But the time is coming for it . There may be a need of transformation in the parties themselves before it is fairly brought about , or it may come through present parties modified only by gradual changes .                     