@@780804

txt The Observer to-day sags : " Comment on this monstrous crime is almost unnecessary . We have had too many crimes in Ireland of late , as cruel and unprovoked , to feel any but the faintest hone that the present murder can be expected from the long roll of outrages of which the agitation in Ireland has been the guilty cause , and which have remained too long unpunished and unrepressed . For the present , we content ourselves with saying that , be the explanation of the murder what it may , all Englishmen will share the horror felt at this deed of blood , and will sympathize with the sorrow which has fallen on the bearers of names honored and cherished in the annals of our country . " LONDON , May S. ? The . News says : " The Government are not likely to be carried away by passion or panic . Mr. Gladstone is tried as no public man of our time was ever tried before , but he will know how to meet the crisis . " Tho Standard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter was a Roman Catholic , asks if Mr. Gladstone can any longer remain at the head of affairs , and asserts that the Government seem utterly bewildered . The Post says : " The immense significance of the crime it is easy to recognize . It is a blow aimed at English supremacy in Ireland . " The Post asks such Liberals . as.Lord Fitzwilliam whether the time has not arrived for the termination of radical government . A Vienna correspondent says : " The mur-ders of - the new Irish Secretary and the Under Secretary caused the greatest sensation in political and diplomatic circles . The belief is spreading that the United Kingdom is on the eve of great changes . The situation of England and Ireland . is compared to that of Austria and Hungary in 1848 . " . MADRID , May 7 . ? The press here express horror at . the Irish assassinations and . also surprise at Mr. Gladstone remaining in office after the failure of his Irish policy . ROME , May 7 . ? The Diritto thinks that Mr. Gladstone will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward Ireland . BERLIN , May 7 . ? The Post says Mr. Gladstone 's policy already bears bitter fruit . The Courier asks if this is the expression of grati. ' tude for Parnell 's release , and adds that the Gladstone Ministry must recognize that its first duty is to suppress Irish Nihilism . The . National Zeitung declares that it would be greatly to be deplored if the assassinations cause the overthrow of the Ministry . PARIS , May 7 . ? Both the press and the publie denounce the awful crime committed in Dublin on Saturday night and express fears that the murder may serve as a weapon for the Tories . The Temps says : " We hope that the crime will induce Mr. Parnell and his colleagues to separate from the fanatics and villains who are disgracing the Land . League . " The Journal des Debate says that the Nihilists are surpassed ; that Mr. Parnell is shown to be powerless , and that the Government will be thrown into the hands of the Whigs . The Times says It is Imperatively necessary that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's delay , that he has at length come to understand the true nature of the Irish difficulty . No attempt to explain the murders as an accidental outbreak or as the lass hopeless effort of organized disaffection will avail with those who advocate Mr. Forster 's measures as indispensable for restoring order .                     