@@745717

txt The owners of a narrow gauge road in Colorado point with pride to the fact that a mile of that thoroughfare cost $150,000 . The section of the road in question is cut out of the side of a mountain . For a pioneer road this is perhaps an expensive construction , but the difficulties of railroad engineering presented in the most settled parts of the East are quite as great as those of roads among the Rocky Mountains , and are overcome by even more costly methods . The great Broadway Railroad is a case in point . This road , from its southern terminus at Bowling Green to its junction with the Seventh-Avenue northern at Union-square , is less than three miles in length and yet it has cost not less than $5,000,000 , or at least ten times per mile as much as the most expensive part of the road through the Rocky Mountains . No doubt a part of this expense is to be accounted for by the more substantial construction of the Eastern road , which is double-tracked throughout and " metaled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The distinguished head of the company , Mr. Jams SHARP , who supervised its construction throughout , has lately explained to a commission the extraordinary expense to which the company was put in order to get the very best steel for its rails , and the great costliness , also , of the excavations for the roadbed and of the ballast . Making all proper allowance , however , for these details of construction , it is evident that the great difference in cost between the New-York and the Colorado road must be sought in the greater engineering difficulties presented to and surmounted by the former . A profile of the road shows an almost continuous ascent from Bowling ' Green , which is nearly at sea level , to the Union-square terminus , where the giddy altitude of nearly sixty feet is attained , as determined by the surveying party through barometrical observations . The only break in the steady climb of nearly twenty feet to the mile is furnished at the Canal-street plateau . This section of the road , after a gradual descent from Leonard-street , traverses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then begins the precipitous ascent toward Houston-street at a grade of not less than 1 in 300 . When the trains are behind time , and are making their utmost speed , the passengers who join the conductor on the rear platform can form some idea of the nature of the acclivity they are ascending by watching the frantic efforts of a fat man with a gripsack to overtake the train . If he appears to be in danger of doing this the conductor signals the engineer to go ahead at full speed , and then , if the track is clear , calls the attention of the passenger to the rapidity with which the fat man seems to recede till he becomes a mere speck in the distance . On either hand rise sheer cliffs of marble , brownstone , and brick to the height of seventy or eighty feet , beetling above the track as if to overwhelm the train making its way underneath . This narrow gorge , which must have been blasted out at enormous labor and expense , continues , its bbunding walls unchanged in height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wide prospect suddenly opens to the traveler 's vision . There still remains to be overcome the obstacle presented by the Lincoln Statue . This is skillfully avoided by a detour , the Great Horseshoe Curve , which is so sharp that by standing on the rear platform at the inner side of the curve the ears of the horses may be seen . This great bend brings us to the junction . It must be evident to the Colorado people that their mountain railroad as a triumph of engineering is not to be compared with the Broadway line . European engineers are prone to imagine that their railroads are more solidly built than ours , but they may be challenged to produce the equal of these three miles of road at $1,500,000 a mile . When the proposed extension of the Broadway line ' to Sing Sing is completed it will be a source of unalloyed pride and satisfaction to the citizens of New York .                     