@@743778

txt The elections which took place on the 5th at various points throughout the West are several of them of more than usual importance . They include elections in the cities of St. Louis , Cincinnati , ? Cleveland , and Chicago , a county election in Milwaukee , elections for State officers in Wisconsin and Michigan , and many others of less consequence . So far as the indications of party strength are concerned they are pretty evenly distributed . In Wisconsin , the sitting Justice and Associate Justice of the Supreme Court were elected without opposition . In Michigan , the Republican State ticket , which was a strong one , was elected by a larger majority than usual , while the municipal elections were fairly divided . In Mr. CONGER 'S district , the Seventh , the Republican candidate , Mr. Jonx T. Ries , was chosen by a plurality probably nearly as large as that of Mr. CONGER himself at the election last Fall . Throughout the State the Greenback 1 organization was maintained with varying success , this faction experiencing losses in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notable feature was the large Prohibition vote , which was greater than ever before with one exception . Of the municipal elections there were several of more than usual interest . In St. Louis , the Democrats lost the City Governernment by a revolt in the party , based largely on the arbitrary manner in which the . " machine " had been run and on the unfairness of the nominating conventions . The Democratic defeat was overwhelming , and shows that the force of discipline , always more powerful and more tenacious in that party than among its opponents , has materially weakened . In Cincinnati , on the other hand , an experience of much the same kind and from much the same causes awaited the Republicans . Their candidate was the present Mayor , who was accused of having shown favoritism in the enforcement particularly of the liquor laws and the Sunday law . He was a German , and the German vote was counted on to sustain him , and very much was done to arouse the passions of the voters of that nationality . The effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " moral " party , as those were called who demanded a more stringent enforcement of the laws , joined with the Democrats , insured a narrow , but decisive , majority . In the Milwaukee County election , on the other hand , there was a distinct opposition to the regular candidate for County Judge , a Federal office-holder and a representative of the Post Office machine , and he was badly beaten . In Chicago , the Democrats re-elected the present Mayor , HARRISON , by a majority cf nearly 8,000 . There was professed unity among the Re- publicans , and they had a good candidate , but the differences attending the Presidential election had not been completely allayed . The Democratic success is a great misfortune for the city , as HARRISON represents the worst elements of the population . With the possible exception of that at Chicago , these elections go to establish the general conclusion that the Republican strength is fully maintained where it is not impaired by bad party methods . But there are signs not to be mistaken that in both parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed by the politicians to be . We are by no means inclined to exaggerate the importance of the scattered indications referred to , or to imagine that the unwholesome practices of the more unscrupulous party managers can be everywhere and easily rebuked . But these indications must be joined to many others that have come to the notice of every careful observer during the last few years , and they unquestionably justify the conclusion that the ties of mere party discipline are greatly weakened . The time has gone by when the single merit of " regularity " would insure hearty party support , or would prevent active and aggressive opposition . And this is naturally more true of the Republican than of the Democratic Party . The former is more generally a party of convictions , and the convictions of its members are more independent , their requirements more exacting . During the exciting period of the war and the reconstruction measures the questions dividing public opinion were so distinct and important , and the sentiments aroused were so strong , that party discipline was accepted , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurrection . Republicans particularly were so supremely in- earnest regarding the end that they were willing to go great length in the matter of means . The triumph of the party was essential to the triumph of the cause , and the party ticket was steadily and loyally maintained , however objectionable in itself or in the methods by which it had been placed in the field . But this state of things has greatly changed , and is constantly changing . Means of political action are relatively more important . They are more carefully scrutinized , and a constantly increasing number ' of perfectly faithful Republicans are ready to ask themselves whether the ends they seek do justify certain means ; whether , indeed , they are not defeated by ; them . There has never been a time in the history of the party when its success depended more completely on the presentation of a sound policy , and sound candidates fairly placed in nomination . A careful review of the late campaign , brilliantly successful as it was in its general results , will show that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success and failure in the near future are very evenly balanced . At every such point the strength of the party must be carefully sustained and nothing be done to impair it . may be as easy now as at any previous time to run the machinery by ordinary methods , but it will not prove so easy to carry the tickets which machinery so run may place in nomination . The spirit of a large portion of the party is a restless one . The recent elections go to show it . It can only be satisfied by party methods which give to all members of the party a fair chance to influence its action .                     