@@745892

txt There was a pretty strong rumor en ' Change to-day that a combination was being engineered to corner the Minneapolis shorts , and the strength of tue market was supposed by some to he due to this . It is known that the Minneapolis millers have been selling a large amount of wheat short on this market against purchasers , certainly amounting to as much as they hold . in the Northwest , and possibly a great deal more . A corner which would compel delivery of the grain sold short would prove , at the least , a most troublesome matter to the Minneapolis men , as their purchases are widely scattered over the country districts . To prevent the disastrous effects which a corner in this market would have on them they are now discussing measures for having a large quantity of the wheat sent to Chicago for storage to be in readiness for any call that may be made upon them to deliver the grain which they have sold short . The matter of storage is . the difficulty that stands in the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheat hero so that it will grade as well as that stored at Duluth has an important bearing upon the question of greater storage in Chicago . A dispatch to Tun TINES Wednesday night noticed the appointment of a committee of Chicago men to investigate the Duluth system of cleaning with a view to establishing a similar system here . The committee , which is now in Duluth , has , it is understood , been assured that if suitable storage facilities are furnished at Chicago 10,000,000 bushels will be sent here if so much can be handled . Further , a tacit offer of guarantee has been given that 10,000.000 bushels would be sent to keep iu store till Spring over and above what might be required to ell genuine export orders . The storage of such a quantity of wheat implies the building of now elevators , and if these are to be erected the work must be done within the next month . Such elevators would have connected with them machinery for cleaning the grain as at Duluth . The existence of a law forbidding any change of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warehouse men from having any cleaning department connected with their elevators and grain containing dirt has gone almost entirely to the " doctors " who have cleaned it and then placed it in their own stores . It would appear as though the Duluth elevator men had caught scent of the intentions of their brethren of Chicago and Minneapolis , for a syndicate has just been formed iu which capitalists of Duluth , Minneapolis , and Chicago are interested for the construction of four or five new elevators at Duluth with a capacity of 5,000,000 bushels . J. T. Moulton , the grain elevator architect of Chicago , has bean asked by a Chicago member of the syndicate for an estimate of the cost of the proposed new elevators . It is understood that no Chicago elevator men have any interest in the Duluth project .                     