@@780675

txt were evidences of development by fostering the speculative spirit . It was dangerous to Irivo away capitalists by taxing their capital at excessive rates . Mr. D. 0 . Mills said he inends to put up a building in Wall-street to cut $2,500,000 . Mr : Mills and other capitalists were driven out of San Francisco by exorbitant taxation like that proposed by the bill under discussion . Would they drive him away from New-Yorkl The brokers thought they bore a just share of taxation . If any tax is to be imposed it should be on all kinds of commission business . The Stock Exchange would pay its share of such a tax Without complainmg . The sales of shares here run up to 700,000 shares a day  --  on an average 400,000 shares a day . The buyer and seller , who would be taxed ou the same operation , would be taxed 616,000 on 800,000 shares . Three hundred days in the year would give $4,800,000 . He believed it would amount to full $5,000,000 . This did not include mining shares , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Steele , Chairman of the committee , said the committee had only calculated to raise $11200,000 by the tax proposed . He would think it an outrage to raise 85,000,000 in this way . Mr. Hamilton , who inquired of Mr. Steele if the Tax Commission had approved the bill , was answered by Mr. Steele that it had not approved it . The bill had been put out by the Tax Committee as a " feeler . " The commission , he understood , was thinking of proposing a tax of one-fortieth of 1 per cent , on stnck sales and purchases . Mr. Russell suggested that it would not be wise kill the business they expected to get so much money from , for a great deal of it could be done just as well out of the State as in it . Mr. Hamilton declared that he thought the tax would be suicidal and very unjust to a certain class of citizens . Mr. McKay said the amount of brokers ' transactions depended on the volume A business . If a drought should occur , it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if the bill became a law it would force business to the other States . Business would easily be done by telegraphing Philadelphia or Baltimore . Air . Lummis suggested further objections to the bill . The small dealers would suffer , for they had frequent transactions . There would be a check in the speculative spirit . The spirit of enterprise would be discouraged . It would be practicable to transfer the business to Jersey City . High brokerage charges in Boston , Philadel-phia , and Baltimore bad driven business to New-York . The tax proposed was inquisitorial , compelling every man to expose his business . He urged that the committee would take a few days to consider the bill , Mr. L. E. Chittenden said the value of the shares should be considered in taxing them . The committee will give another hearing on the bill on Thursday .                     