@@671738

txt The orders just issued by Gen. ScuoriErm , commanding the Division of the Atlantic , and Gen. MILES , commanding the Department of Arizona , for the exercise of their troops , illustrate the variety of ' means now resorted to for increasing the efficiency of the army . After the civil war there was little leisure in many commands for more than the routine duties . There was a multitude of small posts to garrison and a reduced force to divide among them . Indian wars or disturbances constantly occupied . the frontier troops in giving protection to the settlers . Tho accommodations furnished at many posts were imperfect and officers spared their men extra fatigue , since there was much necessary digging and other drudgery to perform . Some of the troops , as Gen. SHERMAN once said , " lived in holes in the ground , in houses made of green cottonwood logs infested.by vermin , and in temporary shanties . " But with relief from Indian hostilities and more comforts in garrison life came the disposition to vary routine work and to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in military athletics , independently of the universal baseball , nowhere more zealously played . than - in ? the army , has been remarkable during the last twenty years . Summer : cantonments in some departments draw the troops out of the forts for practice , in field engineering , outpost duty , escort and defense of convoys , and , ' in short , all the minor operations of war . Rifle instruction and practice , which in its present form is a wholly now development , has been of great service . Gen. MORROW , in a . recent address at the close of the department matches at Omaha , declared . that it had not only greatly enhanced the direct military effectiveness of the army , but , through the preliminary training required for the numerous competitive matches , had become " a moral factor , also , of great value in army administration and discipline . It has done more in the last five years to'elevate the moral standard of the army than any other one thing . " To the . physical training derived from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Summer camps may be added the practice of cavalry marches . ' The orders recently issued by Gen. SCHOFIELD and Gen. MILES furnish two additional safeguards against garrison sluggishness . That of Gen. SCHOFIELD contemplates thorough heavy artillery practice . For this purpose measured base lines are to be established at every post , charts of harbors or water channels within range plotted , and angle-measuring plane tables provided . The charts are to be divided into 100-yard squares , so numbered that signals may be made denoting that a vessel is on a given square , whereupon all the guns can direct their fire at it . Adjacent forts , such for example as Hamilton and Wadsworth , Wood and Columbus , and . Schuyler and Willet 's Point , in New-York . waters , will be connected by base lines so as-to aid each other in firing . The present appliances for heavy gun practice are imperfect , but new forts and guns are not to be waited for . The order of Gen. MILES for field duty of the troops under his command during September and ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present month post commanders are to make themselves familiar with the topography of the country in which they are serving , so as not to need guides , compasses , or maps , and will establish outposts and signal and heliograph stations . Thou a raiding party of two officers and twenty men , having extra horses , and in the lightest possible marching order , will be sent from Fort Huachuca , around Fort Apache along a generally specified route . ' This party will be , pursuedi in going out and returning , by the remaining available troops from Fort Huachuca . The raiding party is allowed eighteen hours ' start , after which it must remain six hours in camp and then be limited in marches to the hours ' between noon and midnight of each day . The different post commanders , being notified of the departure , will conceal their troops and establish lookouts , in order to capture the raiding detachment , helping each other , by signal , telegraph , or courier . . Theraiders , or any portion of them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of equal number gets within hailing distance or bugle sound . In that case a second raiding party will be immediately ordered out from Gen. Mir.Es 's ' headquarters . While this chase is going on in Arizona similar movements will be made in New-Mexico by detachments from Fort Wingate and from Fort Stanton , each moving around Fort Bayard and returning to its own station and going at seine time within ten miles of that , post . This practice , which seems something like military hare and hounds , with variations , and on a very large scale , is evidently well adapted to the region where it is performed . It is a sort of training to help lit the troops for pursuing Indian raiders , while having enough of the element of sport to be anything but irksome . The men can not complain of discipline and practice furnished to them in this guise .                     