@@745460

txt Now that Gen. CROOK is in the heart of the district where so many horrible murders have been committed by GERONIMO and his men , some progress will probably be made in the work which the troops have been trying to do . The General seems to have reached Fort Bayard on Saturday . On Sunday he telegraphed from that place that the outlook was " very bad , " and that it would be very difficult to suppress the marauders . It may be that he is now ready to admit that satisfactory progress might have been made and that some valuable lives might have been saved if there had been more troops in the field ; although one would say that in two weeks twelve hundred soldiers , cavalry for the most part , ought to have made some impression upon a band of only fifty Indians . His superior officers were directed on the 24th ult. to check the ravages of GERONIMO 'S band " in the shortest time possible " and to call for all assistance that might be required , but on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the light of what has happened in the last two weeks it is not strange that the people of Southwestern New-Mexico are complaining so bitterly . It was on the 17th of May that these Indians  --  whose number was said at the time to be fifty , and afterward to be only thirty-four  --  broke away from the reservation and began their bloody work . It should be remembered that these Indians were the worst offenders two years ago , and that for this reason they were isolated in the northern part of the San Carlos Reservation and placed under the supervision of the army . The officer in charge of them was Lieut . BRITTON DA.VIS , of the Third Cavalry . The dispatch that announced their departure from the reservation also declared that the military authorities had been " expecting trouble " and were prepared for this movement . They certainly should have been prepared , for they had taken the responsibility of caring for these red-handed murderers , whose nature and impulses they well understood . Gen. CROOK had saved them from punishment and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had even insisted that they should be allowed to retain their arms . Very plainly the military authorities either were not prepared for GERONIMO 'S flight , or , being prepared , were very unfortunate in an attempt to do their duty . It is true that the Apaches pass rapidly from point to point , and their escape into Mexico would not have been a remarkable feat if they had traveled in that direction with a fair start . But they did not do this . They remained for fourteen or fifteen days in Southwestern New-Mexico , - north of the Southern Pacific Road , murdering settlers . They did not seem to be anxious to get beyond the border , nor did they seem to fear the troops . For fifteen days they carried on their bloody work almost without hindrance , and their trail is marked by the mutilated bodies of scores of victims . They were only fifty , and the pursuers were more than twelve hundred , but the settlers could not be saved . Some of them might have been saved if additional troops had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from those in Kansas and Colorado . The raid is greatly to be deplored , not only because of the lives already lost , but also because it will serve to encourage and strengthen the Indian haters and to weaken the position of the Indian 's friends . In view of its probable effect in that direction the Indian 's friends must all the more keenly regret the well meant leniency that gave these Chiricahuas their liberty and their arms . These men who have escaped are the bad men of the reservation ; there are thousands remaining peacefully within its limits who do not sympathize with GERONIMO , and who know that GERONIMo 's deeds only deepen the settler 's hate for every being that has a copper-colored skin . Since the depravity of these Chiricahuas was so well known they should have been guarded with the greatest care , for the sake of the other Indians of Arizona as well as to insure the safety of settlers . The troops may not be able to catch these wretches , who are worse than wild beasts . If they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape the soldiers ' rifles , we do not see why those who may survive should not be hanged . They should be punished for their horrible crimes , and their punishment should be either execution or imprisonment for life . Not one of them should ever be allowed to go again upon a reservation .                     