@@745486

txt The first day 's experience of the running of horse cars on Broadway has fully justified the calculations of those who have maintained that it would not only be a great public convenience , but would relieve rather than increase the obstruction to general traffic . Although the company was not prepared to afford the full facilities contemplated , its new cars not being ready to put on the tracks , it was able to give a foretaste of the results of its enterprise . A large proportion of the cars of the Seventh-Avenue and Broadway Line were deflected from University-place to the new tracks , and , running at intervals of a minute and a half , they went crowded in both directions nearly all day . It is estimated that not less than 100,000 passengers were carried , and the number fell far below what would have been taken if the facilities at hand had been equal to the demand . The lumbering omnibuses with their intolerable rattle over the pavement disappeared to the - vast relief of the nerves of the Broadway throng . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only interference with comfort was found in their crowded condition . This will be relieved when the company is able to put on a sufficient number of cars to accommodate the traveL The fact that the number carried already far exceeds the capacity of the old stage lines is sufficient evidence of the convenience afforded to the public , to say nothing of the increased comfort of the passengers . The tracks themselves cause no difficulty to teams , which cross them as readily as the adjacent pavement . In spite of all predictions to the contrary , there was a perceptible decrease in the crowd on . the roadway , and traffic passed to and fro with an ease that has been unknown in Broadway for years , and it was much easier and safer to cross the street at its most crowded points than before . The only obstruction that caused any difficulty was at the place where the steam heating company has the street torn up , and forced the cars to pass around its excavation . This , of course , is a temporary trouble . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them far less obstructive to trninc than the bounding and erratic stages , which were continually in the way , and formed the nucleus of every blockade . The speed of the cars was somewhat interfered with owing to the fact that traffic teams were slow to accommodate themselves to the new order of things . They did not show the alacrity for getting off the track that is the rule where car tracks are familiar , but they will undoubtedly soon adapt themselves to the changed circumstances , especially as they find that they can get along with less obstruction than formerly . In. spite of this drawback the time made was better than that over the old route . One of the most agreeable results was the relief of Church-street and West Broadway , in. the dry goods district , from the almost continual blockade produced by the concentration upon them of so many car , lines . The only disadvantage in the removal of the-stages appeared in the loss of the customary connection with the Fulton and Wall Street Ferries . This must inevitably be remedied in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can no longer be , any doubt . The street will be relieved . of much of its noise ; the passage of teams will be freer and easier than before , and blockades will be much less frequent an annoying , and a vast addition will be made to the convenience and comfort of the public . Even the sidewalks will be relieved of their crowd , since it will be so easy to step into a car to reach any desired point . The consequence will inevitably be a great improvement in the condition and business value of Broadway between the Post Office and Union-square . , Property owners who have been reluctant to see the rails laid through this historic thoroughfare will find that it is a boon to them which they could have attained by no other means . Ease of access is an element in the value of business property which is generally appreciated , but it was imagined in this case that it would be gained only by the loss of other advantages equally important . A single day 's experience shows that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition to remove the railroad from Broadway would probably meet with the unanimous opposition of property owners and the general public . That thoroughfare seems likely to enter upon a new era of prosperity .                     