@@780807

txt Assemblyman Matthew Patten heads the list of Tammany warriors for the place , and Dennis Sullivan , ex-Senator Jacob Seebacher , James Bryan , and James Conn are in the County Democracy camp . Ex-Justice Timothy J. Campbell . wins expects to represent the district in the Assembly , has selected Isaao Brush as his candidate for Alderman . The Seventh Assembly District has within its limits two members of the present board ? Charles B. Waite , Republican , and Bernard F. Martin , a Tammany Democrat . Among the Republican candidates are Alderman Waite , Robert Curran , Henry Grasse. and John E. Dowley . Tammany has Alderman Martin . Charles Golden , Hugh Slevin , and James Cunningham . The County Democracy has so far not disclosed the fact that it has an existence in that district , although ex-Mayor Edward Cooper and ex-Justice James W. Fowler , prominent members of the organization , are residents of it . It is more than probable that Alderman Waite will be the next Alderman for this district . Tha Republicans of the Eightn Assembly District are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frederick Finck , who is a resident of that district , but who was elected as an Alderman at Large . Alderman Finck moves entirely at the heck and call of John J. O'Brien , the Chairman of the Republican Central Committee , and is useful only to Mr. O'Brien in the present board . Samuel Engel and Bernard Rourke , who also enjoy prominence in the Eighth Assembly District Association through the kindness of Mr. O'Brien . are anxious to become Aldermen . Tammany Hall has among its coterie of candidates ex-Alderman George Hall and William Snell , and the County Democracy has ex-Alderman Bernard Kenny , Philip Benjamin , and Daniel Patterson . The Republicans of the Ninth Assembly District are entitled to representation in the next board , and yet so far the names only of " machine " candidates have been mentioned . They are ox-Alderman William IL Gednev and Charles A. L. Goldey . Tammany Hall has Thomas Fitzpatrick , James H. Farrell , Peter L. Geraty , and Peter Feeney . The County Democracy Las ex-Park Commissioner Samuel Conover . The Tenth Assembly District has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are August Fleischbein , Republican ; Ferdinand Levy , Tammany , and Joseph P. Strack . County Democracy . All of these gentlemen are eandidates for re-election , and Mr. Levy says that with the united Democratic nominations he can defeat- without difficulty any Republican . The probability that the Democrats will be united is not so good , however , as Mr. Levy hopes for . Besides Alderman Fleischbein the Republicans have Henry C. Batty , who was defeated for Civil Justice last year by Alfred Steckler ; William U. Lockwood , and ex-Assemblyman Charles E. Brehm . The Tammany delegation of eandiaates is headed by Alderman Levy . with ex-Alderman John W. Guntzer and many others in the rear . The County Democracy delegation is led by Alderman Struck , who has George Hatzel , Jonn Clark , and others in his wake . The Republicans of the Eleventh District are in a quandary owing to the absence of Col. George Bliss , who is in Washington attending to the alleged star route trials . While Col. Bliss is presumed to be prosecuting these alleged trials the Republicans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hawes , Republican , is a resident , of this district and expects a renomination , but he can have no assurances just now that he will get it . The Tammany mogul of the district , Alderman William Sauer , whose election was made possible through deals with his opponents . is the colonel of tho Tammany regiment of ' Candidates , and will in all likelihood receive the nomination for Alderman if be is not nominated by Tammany for the office of County Clerk . The County Democracy has Thomas Mulligan and Robert B. Mooney in its list of candidates for aldermen . As the Eleventh Assembly District is a RepubInn district there is no good reason why the Republicans should not carry it . The Twelith Assembly District Republicans are still at war with each other . George Hilliard representing one faction and Chester II . Southworth the other are both candidates for Alderman . Tammany has so far only talked of Edward Malloy . The County Democracy has three formidable candidates . Alderman Patrick Keenan , Assemblyman David Gideon , and Gerald Fitzgerald . Alderman Keenan will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his failing to secure the nomination or : sheriff . Irving Hall has two candidates , Jacob Hatuburaer and Louis Cohen . The Thirteenth Assembly District , a Republican stronghold , has not yet awakened to the importance of um occasion . The Republicans of this district are noted for their independence , and generally manifest their displeasure on election day by defeating obnoxious Republican candidates . Assemblyman Henry L. Sprague can have the nomination if ho desires it , but should hu decline the nomination the knowing ones would be somewhat at sea . Ex-Alderman William Wade is really the candidate desired by most of the Republican voters , but Mr. Wade was expelled from the Republican association last year for voting and working agaiust Francis S. Gibbs , the machine candidate for Senator . He wouH be promptly elected to membership , it is said , if he desired , but it is doubted whether he could be induced to present his name ars the association . Tammany has among her candidates for Aldermen from this district James Barker , Ralph Ogle , and Isaac II . Terrell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Fourteenth Assembly District Republicans are slumbering , and nothing is said of Republican candidates for Aldermen , while a great deal is said of placing Carl Schurz in the field as a candidate for Congress . The County Democracy candidate In this district is John Murphy . Es-Alderman John Reilly will accept Tammany 's aomination for Alderman if ho fails to obtain the nomination for County Clerk . The Steckler Association will have a candidate for Alderman in this district and also in the Tenth Assembly District . The Iafteenth Assembly District presents as Tammany candidates Joseph H. Steiner , Patrick Fay , and Edward Mears . The County Democracy has ex-Alderman Frederick Helbig , who is anxious to return to a seat in the board . In the Sixteenth Assembly District the Republicans have Richard M. Lush and James Farrell . Tammany has Patrick Burns and Patrick Crowe , and the County Democracy has ex-Alderman Buttenschon in its long list . The Seventeenth Assembly District Republicans have John H. Nesbitt and Richard J. Lewis . Tammany has George W. Piunkett and James Traynor , and the County Democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly District Republicans have Thomas F. Rightmire ana Richard II . Nugent . Tammany has Alderman Patrick Kenney , Luke Casey , and Bernard O'Neil , and the County Democracy has Hugh F. Farrell and James McCartney . The Nineteenth Assembly District Republican Association has Alexander Martin and Joseph Lloyds Tammany has ex-Alderman Samuel A. Lewis and Peter Masterson. and the County Democracy has Alderman Joseph J. McEvoy and Herman Fox . The Twentieth Assembly District Republicans have Morris Y. Freund and Thomas F. Eagan . Tammany has John F. Carroll , and the County Democracy has ex-Alderman Thomas Carroll . The Twenty-first District Republicans have exAlderman Louis J. Phillips and Charles H. Knox . Tammany bas John Slattery and William C. Traplaagen , and the County Democracy has not yet talked of any one . The Twenty-second District Republican Association has not yet discussed candidates . Tammany has Daniel MaDonegan and John McQuade , and the County Democracy has Charles II . Reilly and W. S. Andrews . The Twenty-third District Republican Association has Frank Raymond and Donald McLean , the present Alderman . Tammany has Charles Welch , Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' County Democracy has Joseph P. Fallon . The Twenty-fourth District Republican Association has James R. Marvin and Silas B. Bostwick . Tammany has Launcelot McGrath and James F. Delaney , and the County Democracy : has Thomas D. Norris and Anthony McOwen . The names here given of gentlemen who are anxious to secure seats in the board , or who will be pressed to accept nominations , occupy but a small portion of the actual list , which would go far toward making up a City directory .                     