@@745259

txt Blaine boodle , bulldog pistols , hickory clubs , and , finally , treachery among the " kid " Democracy , have made havoc with Democratic claims in Hamilton County . The service rendered by the bulldogs and clubs , in the hands of vicious United States Marshals , is recognized in those returns which give four men killed , three of them Democrats , and numberless others wounded . The boodle was more effective than the bulldog in depleting the Democratic ranks of their workers . Anybody in the party outside of Ohio who has any interest in the matter can make investigations among the " kids " that will completely satisfy him of the impeachable honesty of this portion of Ohio 's Democracy . " Kids " can be found who patronized the Blaine cause at the polls yesterday in their own humble and effective way . The bad faith of their 1 aders lay in making such extraordinary statements as to lead outsiders to imagine that the party had even a chance of carrying the State . The taint of fraud is in master @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . Some of the Democrats are already casting about for the evidences of treachery and of indifference . If they are sharp they will not overlook their local officeholders or fail to pry among the gentlemen with military titles who are on Gov . Hoadly 's staff . Notwithstanding his warm friendship for Mr. Blaine , Mr. John R. must be absolved from all suspicion even . He has contributed liberally to the Democratic campaign fund . His well-known newspaper has been Democratic for fully three weeks . No kindly or unkindly reference to Mr. Blaine has been in its columns in all that long period . Mr. voted the straight Democratic ticket . and as his presence at the polls aiter that was not felt to be absolutely necessary to Democratic success , he passed the remainder of the day and evening in his cozy quarters in the Grand Hotel , remote from political turmoil and secluded from Democratic politicians . But the " kid " Democracy has been guilty of double dealing , and many Democrats are looking to Mr. to have it appropriately disciplined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city was fittingly accompanied by the presence of that eminent Arkansas carpet bagger , Powell Clayton . If a Cincinnati Grand Jury undertakes to investigate yesterday 's riotous proceedings , it can not fail to take some cognizance of Powell Clayton 's presence and his movements and acts in the United States court room . A great many persons believe , even in this city , that it is a criminal offense to incite men to riot and murder . NV Nether United States Marshal Wright in his partisan frenzy exceeded his authority , may yet be passed upon by a Congressional committee . Whether a great number of Washington rascals , among them the man Gen. Boyton had indie.ed for one of many crimes which he has committee , were in Cincinnati on illegitimate business pertaining to the Blaine cause . could readily be ascertained by the same committee . The Civil Service Commission could , it it chose , determine whether any of the vast number of Government employes who were here yesterday have been guilty of violating the United States laws . How much of the Blaine boodle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be as easily ascertained by any committee , commission , or Grand Jury . The importation of negroes from other States , the arming of them with clubs and Pistols , and the sending of them into wards thickly populated with Irish is only one of the scandalous performances of Mr. Maine 's : friends yesterday . It was cowardly to push these men into places where their lives might be sacrificed . It was an insult to the Irish , and Alexander M. Sullivan , as he watched the proceedings in the court room , ought to have blushed instead of sanctioning it by his silence . As those Republicans and Democrats who visited the court room on business yesterday call to mind the days events they recognize many things which in their cooler moments they regard as reprehensible . The astonishingly la . ge number of negroes who were admitted to the court room early in the morning was the first circumstance to attract attention . They were not residents of any large city , as their manner showed . They resembled men who are hired on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As some of them peered curiously into the big room they exhibited bull whips such as are used on plantations and among horses and mules . They were not the sort of men an honest United States Marshal would employ to protect ballot boxes and to prevent disturbances at the polls . They had been brought from somewhere , however , for the purpose of being sworn in as Deputy United States Marshals . Powell Clayton was recognized by them as the superior officer , whom it was advisable to obey . They were called forward in squads of tens and twenties and sworn in . When criticism was passed upon them in the presence of District Attorney D. A. Richards , lie admitted that it was an outrage to send this class of men into the streets of Cincinnati to perform duty in any cause . Mr. Richards went so far as to consult Marshal Wright . The result of the conference was the admission that he did n't know who had been advising the Marshal to take the course he was pursuing . The impression upon the District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very curiously . Marshal Wright was in constant consultation with Powell Clayton , who displayed great zeal in the marshaling of the men and the detailing of them for duty . The news was brought in that there was a fight in progress at one or the precincts . Clayton reminded the negroes that they were all armed and declared that they should use their arms . Judge Foraker was asked if he would go down to the Eighth Ward and assist in Quelling , a reported disturbance . He eyed the miscellaneous lot of colored and white Deputies that was to blow his lead and declined to be their leader . He was ready , however , to assist in maintaining order if a reputable-looking body of Deputies should be placed at his disposal . H. A. Morrill and A. A. Ferris were two other well-known Republicans who showed by their language and manner that they did not wholly approve of the methods of Clayton and Wright . William Ramsey , a former partner of Stanley Matthews ; Edgar Johnson , Gov . Hoadly 's partner ; John C. Sherlock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounced as an outrage the employment of this class of men and the frivolous charges on which they and their fellows were making arrests , charges which , in a number 01 instances , the United States Commissioners themselves were compelled to ignore by discharging the prisoners . A Democratic Judge of Elections was reported by one of these Government mischief makers as making himself very obnoxious . The statement might have been true enough , for many of this class of Judges were not selected for their probity . Clayton insisted upon District Attorney Richards ordering the man 's arrest . He declined to takethe responsibility of bringing the . city jurisdiction in conflict with that of the United States . If bothithe Supervisors of Elections , one a Republican , the other a Democrat , would certify that the Judge was violating his oath , then the District Attorney would order the arrest , and not before . Clayton was indignant , and so was Alexander M. Sullivan , who was manifesting an absorbing interest in all that was going on . It was proposed that both Sullivan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deputy Marshals , but they did not . The thick stone walls of the Government building were sufficient against wandering bullets of 44-calibre pistols . Ireland still retains one preserver and a Government contract is waiting another American citizen if Blaine is elected . The two gentlemen devoted further attention to the proceedings within the Blaine headquarters . Lawyers have been hunting over the United States statutes to-day to ascertain whether Marshal Wright has violated any one of his duties by appointing non-resident Deputies and assigning them for election duty . Among the Deputies who lugged in prisoners whom they charged with fraud were Charles Adams . a United States mail agent in Colorado . He was recognized by a Cincinnati gentleman and admitted his identity . He was asked by what authority lie was voting in this city , but he failed to give a satisfactory answer to the questioner . Stories of this kind might be multiplied . It is now more clearly understood why Marshal Wright declined to allow his list of Deputies to be inspected by the Citizens ' Committee . It would have revealed an array @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characters , such as is seldom seen except in police blotters and in the pages of criminal statistics . It would be interesting to know who conceived this scheme of bulldozing and fraudulent inspection of a city 's election . It has been so bunsrlingly executed that it condemns itself by a bare recital of facts that have come under the notice of prominent men of both parties . A great many Blaine schemes have been bungled in his campaign of errors . The Cincinnati man who muses over the events of the last few days can not escape this thought : " Soap for Indiana , finance for West Virginia , boodle for Ohio , bulldog pistols and hickory clubs for Cincinnati . " The Blaine caravan , with its attendant train of terrors and evils , is expected in Indiana before the campaign is ended . 