@@745398

txt The report which some heartless wag Yesterday circulated on the streets to the effect that the Treasury Appoinment Clerk , Higgins , bad made a requisition for 500 blank discharges does not appear to have been justified by any fact or by the intention of Secretary Manning to make an immediate and wholesale discharge of employes in the department service . The report served to create a great deal of anxiety among the clerks of the Treasury , and there is no doubt that such a number of dismissals ; made upon short notice , would inflict distress upon many persons here . The effect upon this community of a similar programme pursued in all the departments would be disastrous to tradesmen and would bring about that reduction in the price of real estate that was predicted by many persons when it was found that there was to be a change of Administration . Many small homes are owned by clerks . They have been purchased after their owners have , by rigid economy , saved a small bum with which to make a first payment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only after careful economy of expenditures . The owners , thrown out of employment , would be compelled to leave Washington . and they would sell out to the best advantage possible ; but it is inevitable . that , with hundreds of places offered at once , there would be difficulty in realizing fair prices . The scare would be felt by many other clerks than those discharged , who would be alarmed lest their turns should come soon . A drop in one class of property would have more or less effect upon other Masses , and a local panic might be precipitated . The heads of the different departments have probably thought of all these possibilities , and may be trying to avoid them in the interest of business , if not of political principles . Of Mr. Higgins . the Appointment Clerk , who is reported to have asked for so many discharge blanks , there is no end of talk . In Maryland , where he is best known , the Democrats speak very harshly of him . Tae Hagerstown Mali , adniitted to be one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frankly about kbim . " Mr. Higgins 's appointment , " the Mail says , " Must bring profound surprise and astonishment to all who are sincerely for good and honest government . In this instance the Secretary of the Treasury must have been grossly imposed upon , for we can not conceive " it credible that with truthful and candid information , the Secretary could have made such an appointment , and we must believe , when he comes to be truly informed , he will not hesitate to change it . " The Nail also remarks that after Mr. Higgins had served one term as Secretary of the Maryland Senate he was removed at the next session by the same body . 