@@781699

txt The topic of women 's work and wages , by no means a stranger in these columns , is treated by a writer in the August number of the North American Review in a manner very Pessimistic and very bold . There is now insufficient work , he says , for women who are under necessity . Machinery has destroyed the old occupation of making clothes , and even the demand for cooked food is not to be trusted , " for the public baker is getting possession of the bread-making , and it is likely that central and co-operative cooking in towns will seize upon that last one of woman 's industries . " The result is " that to-day woman seems to be the least valuable of created beings ; " this is averred to be the fact in all countries , and most so in the professedly civilized ones , so that statements like this are found in print : " A German Professor , who rejects Malthusian doctrines , computes that , taking the whole world for an average , a woman is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are at least 230,000,000 unmarried women in the world . As a rule , out of Europe , horses are more valuable than members of the fair sex . " The vagueness of this extract , in source and character , is quite delicious , and we may suspect that the writer has been made a victim of that peculiar quality known as " American humor . " But , ( he continues , ) if women do not marry , and can not find work , the question must arise whether the Chinese practice of laying a wet cloth on the new-born female child must be legalized . It is not strange that the women 's rights advocates cry out for collegiate education , for occupations now distinctively male , and for the ballot , if the case may be helped . Can women compete with men In physical labor ? Anatomy answers this question , bat our author cites the female out-door labor in Continental Europe , with its results of brutalizing the women and destroying , before birth , all that is desirable in the life of offspring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,054,218 women were working in agriculture . Mr. BRASSEY , the great railroad contractor , reports woman 's work , in Germany , as worth 1.60f. per day , against 2f. or 8f. for man 's ; In Russia , woman rates to man on public works as 17 to 85 , and on the authority of Mr. YOUNG a schedule of comparative prices is given thus , in part in Kemnitz , in 1872 : deleted table In Massachusetts , the 1880 Labor Reform report says that " in our cotton mills especial . ly the women and children largely exceed the men , being often from two-thirds to five-sixths of the whole , and the proportion of them is largely increasing . " As to the other great field , brain work , colleges and schools on every hand are preparing girls for competition with men . " Women of the upper class no longer suckle their babes , but employ a negress or an Irishwoman to do it : upper-class women have , as they fancy , higher duties than to nurse and educate their children , duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pleasures lie outside their homes , and lower-class women are coming to have no homes at all . " But the effect or this brain-work preparation is alleged to be most destructive . The physician of " one of the first of the young women 's colleges of Massachusetts , some forty or fifty years ago , " told the author that as a result of hard work , which in immediate accomplishment was quite equal to that of males , " within the year more than one-half of all were in my bands for derangements of the sexual organs , " and he also doubted whether any but exceptional women could do the brain work of men without injury to the reproductive faculty . A certain Miss HARDAKER is next quoted , who , in a magazine article , averred that mon have larger brains and lungs than women ; weigh more , breathe more , eat and digest more ; that " a large amount of matter represents more force than a small amount , and this law includes vital organisms , as well as inorganic masses ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an hour than the woman . " This fine bit of materialistic logic tempts one to sarcasm ; but there is more sense in the lady 's remark that " probably 20 per cent . of the energy of women between 20 and 40 is diverted for the maintenance of maternity and its attendant exactions . " The reviewer proceeds to condemn typesetting for women , because their physical construction forbids their standing ; telegraphy , because the " rapidity , quickness of perception , " &c.,; required breaks them down ; moneycounting and stenography , for the same reason ; the sewing-machine , because it especially injures the nervous system and the reproductive organs ; marriage  --  as a remedy and escape ? because women are delicate , helpless , and nervous , and the average man can no longer " afford " it . The writer 's remedy can only be given in his own words : " There is every year Produced in the United States a great surplus of food and of all other necessaries and comforts of life . And there are thousands ( ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million dollars ' worth each year . There are millions of others , including the women we have been writing about , who can not secure food enough to keep them in decent health ; thousands on thousands who arc thus forced into sickness and degradation worse than that of the savage state . Why is this ? Because the able brains of men and the generous souls of women have never attempted to secure any legal , fair , and humane division and application of all this surplus wealth , which is the only true cure . Indeed , they are yet so ignorant as to believe that brain-work needs and should have high wages ; hand-work , small wages Both have been led away from the great and only cure , which is , that the strong must care for and help the weak ; the wise the foolish ; the old the young , and the young the old . That must come to pass , or Christianity is a delusion and civilization a failure and society a ruin . " That is , the trouble is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the remedy is communistic redistribution and the sudden elevation of fraternity into the general governing place now occupied by selfishness . We have heard this remedy proposed before . It is comforting to think , however , that the situation is not so desperate as this slashing , sweepiag , and reckless dealer in unsustainod and broad generalization paints it . By his showing , woman would be a useless animal indeed , and to be cared for only by seine ludofined scheme of spontaneous philanthropy , for she has not muscles for muscular labor , nor brain for brain-work , nor ability to endure using her brain if she had it , and as a childbearer she is becoming fatally nervous . This writer says that " in 1870 Massachusetts , which once boasted her people of pure English blood , was already populated with foreigners and descendants of this lower class to the extent of two-thirds of all . " By the census the population of Massachusetts in 1870 was 1,104 , - 032 native , out of 1,457,351 total ; in 1880 1,339,594 native , out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreigners can only be conjectured , but the accuracy of this writer is fairly inferable from this one test , and he is not alone in recklessness of statement , for it is not many months since Dr. ADLER ( from whom he quotes some figures as to the increase of female mill operatives in England ) asserted publicly that it is not uncommon to see in the hardest mining districts of Great Britain children of 4 or 5 years of age habitually ' carrying 100 to 150 pounds on their backs . From such advocacy as all this the cause of woman 's labor needs deliverance .                     