@@780922

txt Statements have recently been published which were based upon an erroneous impression about the way in which counterfeit Treasury notes and na tional bank notes when detected are branded and retired from circulation . Readers have been led to believe that the brand is annlied only when the spurious ( note reaches the Treasury . Unless honest business men choose to destroy such notes at their own loss , it has been suggested that the only practical method by which to accomplish the retirement of such notes is to compel every bank to brand every counterfeit presented to it . It has Rise been said that it is almost the universal cus. , torn in banks to hand counterfeits back to per ? sous who present them without a brand mark , ! so that they remain in circulation , and the Treasury Department has been urged to se ? cure the co-operation of the banks in the work of stamping spurious money . These suggestions have been made , apparent . ly , by persons not acquainted with the requirements of the act of Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States receiving and disbursing officers and officers of national banks must brand all counterfeits presented to them . In a circular issued to bankers by Chief Brooks , of the se. cret service , in 1878 , reference was made tri this law as follows : " Complaints having long been made concerning . the indisposition of bank ? Myers to brand counter-feit notes coming Into their possession In the course of business , and assuming that the failure to do so arises from a lack of knowledge as to the laws requirements , I respectfully submit for your guidance section 5 of an not authorizing the ap ? pointment of Receivers of national banks and for other purposes , approved June 3 , MO : " That all United States officers charged with the receipt or disbursement of public moneys , and all officers of national banks shall stamp or write In plain figures the word " counterfeit , " " altered , " or " worthless " upon all fraudulent notes Issued in the form of and intended to circulate as money which shall he presented at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stamp any genuine note of the United States or the national banks , they shall , upon presentation , redeem such notes at the face value thereof . ' The surest way to prevent a reissue of counterfeit notes Is by brand or cutting thereon either of the following words : ' counterfeit , " altered , " worthless , ' ' bad . ' If by inadvertence a genuine note should bo thus branded or out , no loss can accrue to the person ' performing the net , every national bau being compelled to redeem its issue . "                     