@@745462

txt The Republican leaders are very properly studying the situation with reference to the platform on which the party shall enter the next campaign in this State , which for various reasons they regard as of unusual importance . A correspondent of the Evening Post , who has been consulting some of the prominent Republicans of the State , publishes a letter from Mr. A. A. SMITH , the Chairman of the St. Lawrence County Committee , in which that gentleman says the party " should make issue with the Administration on its policy of removals of worthy officials , as far as it has developed and is promised by the Vilas circular , as being in direct antagonism with the principles of administrative reform and with the principles on which the Administration was given public trust . It should make issue also with the Administration upon its selection of unfit men for office , and also upon its policy of preferring for official station those who were traitors at the South and Copperheads at the North . The party should . take the most advanced civil service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly complete sympathy with the minds of other active and earnest Republican politicians . It is not unnatural that it should be a little confused , as these statements show it to be , but it is a wholesome sign that it is to a very marked extent turned in the right direction . It is perfectly true that the Republican Party , if it hopes to succeed in this State this Fall , should " take the most advanced . civil service ground . " In doing so it will very properly criticise the mistakes of the Administration . It will apply to them the principles of " advanced civil service reform . " Those principles are very simple . They are that removals should be made only for the improvement of the service ; that appointments should be made only for tested merit ; that vacancies should be filled by promotion where men fit for promotion are found in lower positions , and that removals , appointments , and promotions should not be influenced by political considerations . It is not quite true , as Mr. SMITH implies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or that they are the conditions on which it was given public trust . The people , at least those who turned the scale , simply believed that the Administration would probably come nearer to applying them completely and thoroughly than the Republicans would . They will be very glad now to learn that the Republicans pledge themselves to ap- ply them still more completely and thoroughly than the present Administration . Of course , if the Republicans " make issue " with the Administration for its shortcomings in administrative reform , they will hold themselves ready and bound , if again intrusted with the Government , to avoid like shortcomings . If they are prepared to take this position and to live up to it , it will be a great gain for the public in every way . We shall then see , what we have never yet seen , a contest between the two parties for the opportunity , not to seize the offices as the spoils of victory , but to administer them efficiently and independent of all partisan claims and considerations . We shall see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their desire to divorce the civil service from partisan politics and to make the faithful and competent service of the public , in all grades , the sole condition of appointment and retention in public office . This is distinctly put forward in Mr. SMITH 'S programme . If the Republicans condemn the Administration for the " removal of worthy officials " they , in doing so , engage , should they be given power , to make no such removals , though the " worthy officials " might be found to be pronounced and sincere , but not offensive , Democrats . The competition that would thus arise between the two great parties of the Nation would be of a perfectly legitimate kind , and the independent voters would have a choice such as they have not for many years enjoyed . Instead of being forced to conclude , as they have been in the past , that whichever party gains control the civil service will be treated chiefly as the reward of partisanship , they will be free to decide which party will treat the service most honestly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In such a canvass both parties would be compelled to give the most trustworthy security that they would carry out their professions . Neither would find it safe to sneer at reform or reformers . Each would have to furnish in its platform , in its candidates , in its discussions on the stump and in the press , in its methods of conducting the canvass , and above all in its treatment of the civil service under its control , the best evidence of its sincerity and consistency in the application of reform principles . And the contest thus evolved would be so absorbing and so worthy of the electorate of a free community that the other " issue " suggested by the St. Lawrence County leader , as to " traitors and Copperheads " would take its proper rank in popular attention , and that would not in this State this year be an all-important one .                     