@@744781

txt While Italian opera is ' ruinous to its managers in Northern Europe ; while La Scala would be closed all the year round but for the occasional willingness of a music publisher to lose a few thousand lire for the sake of helping the sale of a new score , New-York audiences are likely to be favored with some of the most brilliant performances of the age . A traveler abroad would have to journey over the whole Continent to hear in a single season the song-birds who are to be imported all at once for the entertainment of local amusement-seekers . Whether the enterprises to which local lovers of opera look for gratification are governed by motives of public policy or entered upon with speculative intent need not trouble the genuine dilettante . Rather let him frame a sort of grace before meat adapted to the situation , and settle down to enjoyment of the feast without thought of either cause or consequence . It should not be imagined that anything is likely to be achieved this season , as to operatic performances in the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past . During the current decade the American public has listened to the most beautiful voices and applauded the greatest artists of the age . And they have done so amid surroundings which no European playhouse would disown as to completeness and magnitude . We would not go further back than the period we mention , for , fifteen or eighteen years ago , orchestras and choral bodies were small and the stage attire bestowed upon most operas was downright shabby . All this has since undergone a wonderful transformation . While avoiding a recapitulation of artists ' and managers ' names , certain it is that dozens of representations enjoyed within the recollection of the present generation would bear favorable comparison with the most noteworthy entertainments offered in European capitals . If the reader forgets the fact , let him turn to the records of Italian opera in New-York for the last ten years . Long before then , indeed , the foremost singers of the Old World were engaged for our delectation . The newest impresarii , however , were to greatly enlarge the scale of operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disregard any attempt to lend additional completeness or magnificence to future performances of Italian . opera in this country , it is proper to repeat that , if Italian opera is given here this Winter by great singers , with the aid of a large chorus and orchestra , the event will not be unprecedented . It is the more important to keep this truth in mind , as the average amusement-seeker is easily misled by expectations grounded upon interested assurances . A list of artists as long as Leporello 's catalogue of his master 's conquests will not make sure of a perfect rendering of " Lucia , " and whether the chorus is sixty or eighty strong , or the orchestra numbers sixty or eighty , is a mere matter of detail beside the rank of the soloists and the skill and experience of the manager and conductor . The scenery , in most of the best-liked operas , plays a still more trifling part . The - wretchedly inappropriate drops in use twenty years since would , of course , never be tolerated by the contemporaneous spectator , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for a long while there has been no room for fault-finding . Of the newest operas which have been borne with abroad , thanks only to rich scenery and dresses  --  and " Le Roi de Lahore " is to be cited as a case in point ? we hope to see but little . A certain class of managers make a specialty of entertainments of this nature , and whoever buys a seat for " Excelsior " knows what to expect . Let us then trust that , recognizing the popularity of the familiar Italian repertoire and of such French and German works as are closely allied to it , admitting its requirements , and recollecting how admirably the tuneful works of the modern school have of late been presented , the individual claims of notable singers , brought forth with suitable support , will first and foremost be carefully considered . New opera-houses , new dresses , and large bodies of vocalists and instrumentalists are very valuable accessories , but nothing more . When GRIST trod the stage as Norma and MARIO was beheld as Raoul nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that thousands of dresses were within reach , if wanted , would not have added one atom to the eloquence and charm of the singers ' tones and art . Italian opera , at its best , is so slightly dependent upon upholstery , costume , and crowds that , in the contemplation of artists , conductor , and repertoire , these elements should almost pass unnoticed .                     