@@743937

txt It is not surprising that any suggestion as to the expediency of transferring the charge of the Indian Bureau from the civil service to the military branch of the Government should be met with a general chorus of objection , even objurgation . As it is now constituted , the Indian Bureau is an important part of the Interior Department . And it also maintains a considerable army of civil employes , agents , and contractors . It is natural that each man of this force , from : the highest to the lowest , is bound to do all he can to keep things as they are . Should the management of the Indians ever be transferred to the War Department , a vast horde of men  --  good , bad , and indifferent  --  who now make a living from the supplying and overseeing of the Indians would find their occupation gone . In various ways these people manage to reach the public ear , and whenever the subject is broached there is a great outcry against the proposition . It need not be assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from interested traders and speculators ; but it is nevertheless true that the adventurers and sharpers who infest the Indian service are , to a man , bitterly opposed to any change in the present order of things . Whatever may be done in the direction indicated , it must be conceded that a reorganization is absolutely necessary , if the Indians are to be honestly dealt with , and if the Government is to be protected from fraud . Recently referring to the fact that a large number of hostile and semi-hostile Indians has been concentrated at the Standing Rock Agency , THE TIME ? expressed anxiety lest this unusual accumulation of uneasy spirits should result in an explosion . Three thousand Indians , accustomed to absolute freedom and to that lawlessness which is the happy lot of the roving aboriginal American , may quarrel with each other , or with the agent , whose wisdom and discretion may not always be equal to the emergency . A well-informed correspondent , whose letter is printed in another part of the issue of this paper , refers to still another possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any discussion of these difficulties . The Agents are not always vigilant , nor are the contractors honest . The salary of an Indian agent of the United States will not command the services of first-class men . Contractors for supplies for the Indians are no more honest than the general run of mankind . Many of them will cheat whenever they get a chance . Since the Standing Rock Agency has been alluded to , some of the doings at that point may be cited as a good illustration of the evils to which we have just referred . The trader at Standing Rock , in direct disobedience to the law , sold liquor to the Indians . To be sure , this was disguised as " cider , " as certain beverages are made to masquerade as " cold tea " in the higher Congressional circles . But the Indians at Standing Rock , and the soldiers of the nearest military post , became debauched and intoxicated by drinking this " cider . " The trader sold ammunition to certain Indians , and disturbances were imminent . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his allies appealed to Washington . Practically , the commanding officer was sustained , as he should have been . But it was only by a fortunate combination of circumstances that this soldier , who had really done his best to keep the peace , was not at once sent away where he would not interfere with the avaricious plans of the schemers . Again , one of the contractors , whose business it was to furnish supplies of beef to the Indians at Standing Rock , was charged with having cheated the Indians ( and the United States Government ) by means of false weights used in weighing the cattle delivered . A vigorous defense of this miscreant was made by the civilian hangers-on , and it was charged , in rebuttal , that the weights tampered with had been " fixed " by creatures of the military service , in order to bring discredit upon the civil service . This ingenious plea does not . appear to have convinced the accused contractor , who fled , but has since been rearrested . The disputes at Standing Rock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what goes on at many another Indian agency . The military commandant certainly had no motive , as his conduct shows , but to protect the Indians and to serve the interests of the Government . He was amply sustained by his superior officers , Gen. TERRY and Gen. SHERMAN . Whatever may have been the motives of the agent , he was found on the side of irregularities and fraudulent dealing , at least by implication . It was his business to prevent the sale . of intoxicating liquor and ammunition to the Indians , as well as to see that no frauds were committed in the supply of rations to the Indians . The agent , to use the mildest term , neglected his duty . Nevertheless , as a matter of fact , the military officer was removed and the agent remains . It is notorious that a majority of the outbreaks at Indian agencies are ? directly traceable to deficiencies in the rations issued . These deficiencies , when discovered and exposed , are usually explained in a plausible manner by the parties interested , directly or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turbulent " Indians are punished , and in a few weeks the whole affair is forgotten . No zealous and unsparing investigation into the causes of the disturbances is ever instituted . The thieves escape detection and punishment . And this immunity , guaranteed to wrong-doers , is one of the reasons why the present system of Indian management can not be touched by any attempt at reform .                     