@@745022

txt The straightforward report of the special committee of the Assembly which has been investigating several of tilt city departments shows that a very important service has been faithfully performed , which will undoubtedly be , completed in the same spirit in the additional month of time that is to be allowed . The report contains a record of corruption and abuses in the public service of the city and county of New-York which would be astounding if we were not accustomed to look upon that service in the light of past revelations as a system of plunder carried on by professional politicians of the lowest order . The committee finds that the emoluments of the County Clerk which are allowed by law are ridiculously extravagant and are received at present by an incompetent person whose principal service is performed in politics and whose income serves in part to furnish funds for a political faction . But in addition to the fees allowed by law large sums have been collected in direct violation of legal restrictions . Two bills are submitted , of which one provides for making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the public Treasury , and the other authorizes the County Clerk , subject to the action of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment , to regulate the number and salaries of his subordinates . There is no question of the wisdom of these measures . The Register is also found to derive an extravagant income from his office , which is liberally mortgaged for election expenses . A bill is submitted providing for the payment of a salary . to the Register and . regulating the appointment and salaries of clerks in a manner similar to that proposed for the County Clerk 's office . The practice prevailing in the Surrogate 's office of levying charges for the benefit of clerks and unofficial hangers-on for all manner of services , prescribed and otherwise , is bluntly characterized as blackmail . The only authorized fees are for mileage for the Surrogate when performing duties outside of the office and for copying records , and yet a custom has grown up of charging whatever could be collected for all manner of services to those having business with the office . These abuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be condemned as they involve a tax upon private estates and the inheritances of widows and orphans . The system which gives the Board of Aldermen power over the appointment and emoluments of clerks is absurd , and the committee proposes to abolish it , putting the office in that respect on a basis similar to that of other city departments and county offices . The greatest sink of corruption , blackmail , and absolute theft is discovered in the Sheriff 's office . The legitimate income of the Sheriff , like that of the County Clerk and Register , under the fee system , is enormous , but with that he has not been content . By the grace of the Board of Aldermen , which is always ready to swell the income of the politician in. that or any other office who contributes to the corruption fund of political factions , he has been accustomed to make large profits out of conveying and boarding prisoners . Even that has not been enough , and he and . his subordinates have unmercifully fleeced the victims which the law has consigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been made of the administration of the Sheriff 's office has rarely been known even in this city of public plunderers . It is not proposed to deprive the Sheriff of his legitimate fees as prescribed by law , but it is proposed to transfer from the Aldermen to the Board of Estimate and Apportionment the power to allow " reasonable compensation " for services for which no fees are prescribed by law . Bills are also reported abolishing imprisonment for debt except in certain well-defined cases , and repealing the act of last year permitting the transfer of prisoners from the Tombs to Ludlow-Street Jail to swell the revenues of the Sheriff . The investigation of the Departments of Parks and of Taxes and Assessments was not completed , but so far as the former is concerned the recommendation for the substitution of a single Commissioner for the present . cumbrous , inefficient , and wrangling board is probably sufficient to effect the needed reform . The Tax Department needs a further overhauling , as do some others which have not yet been touched . The committee does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give the Grand Jury the full benefit of the evidence it has collected with a view to having past violations of law punished . It is of the utmost importance that punishment should be sternly meted out to all offenders . The work of reforming municipal administration is one of vast dimensions and great difficulty . It needs the co-operation of the Legislature , the courts , and of the public sentiment of the community . The abuses which have grown up are largely duo to the indifference and negligence of the citizens , who permit , almost without protest and wholly without efficient effort at selfprotection , corrupt and greedy politicians to make plunder of the public service of the city . The plunder will go on and receive even the protection of sympathizing legislators , unless the people show an interest in their own affairs and a determination to have them honestly managed hereafter .                     