@@744692

txt Gov . B. F. BUTLER is so sharp and so shrewd a man that men should think twice before condemning the expediency of any policy which he may see fit to adopt . Nevertheless , his system ' of attempting the accumulation of political capital at the expense of the reputation of the State of which he is ' the Governor does seem to be impolitic and unwise . . There is an old saw which refers to the filthiness of the bird that fouls its own nest . And this wise saw has occurred to the minds of many men since BUTLER began his systematic attacks on the character of the official administration of affairs in Massachusetts . His latest move in this direction was to ask the Legislature to . appoint an investigating committee before which charges against any State official could be brought . In his message the Governor says that there are " certain departments of the Commonwealth and certain administrative bureaus wherein malfeasance and misfeasance in office and in administration do now and have heretofore existed . " This is a grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does the Governor hesitate to name the offenders and specify charges 2 It is evident that BUTLER can not shake off his character as a criminal lawyer . He is restless unless he , appears as a prosecutor . It is an unheard-of thing that a Governor of a State , with full access to civil and criminal tribunals , should pass by these ordinary channels and ' should , demand that malfeasance and misfeasance , in office shall be made the subject of a legislative inquiry . If any officer of the State is guilty of malfeasance , he may , and should be , impeached by the House arid tried by the Senate , provided that the offense committed does not come within the jurisdiction of the courts . Alit such a proceeding would not satisfy BUTLER . ? He must appear before a committee as prosecuting officer . He ? must be given a drag-net and be permitted to hale before the committee , on trumped-up charges , any official who has incurred his displeasure or suspicion . This would create a great public scandal , even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been brought to light by the Tewksbury Alms-house inquiry . Is Massachusetts , heretofore regarded as a model State , so . corrupt , hypocritical , and so like a whited sepulchre as BUTLER would have us believey Even the enemies of Massachusetts have usually conceded that its Government was honest and economical . BUTLER 'S supreme . efforts are directed to the destruction of that reputation , during his administration .                     