@@744622

txt All of the arguments advanced in favor of tile coinage of legal tender silver dollars , at the time such coinage was enacted , have ceased to have any force . It was then urged that silver was necessary to the resumption of specie payments . Not a dollar has ever been used or required for that purpose . It was held that the coinage of $24,000,000 a year would promote an agreement among the principal commercial nations for unlimited legal tender coinage of silver . That agreement is unquestionably.more remote than at any previous time . It was argued that silver dollars would be taken into general use , and would tend to form a valuable metallic reserve in the hands of the people . Only a small proportion of the coin has gone into actual use ; no such reserve is being formed ; the only serious accumulation anywhere of the coin is in the vaults of the Treasury . It was contended that there was a strong popular desire for a return to a kind of currency which had once been useful and profitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices and promote , general prosperity . Prices have , on the whole , receded rather than advanced , and the advantages of the new coinage remain absolutely unappreciated by the country at large . Under these circumstances , the advocates of the silver movement are resorting to threats to check the opposition to it which is steadily maintained by those having the strongest interest in a sound currency . Of these the bankers are naturally the most numerous and the most prominent . They fully understand the dangers that lurk in the compulsory coinage of an intrinsically inferior form of legal tender currency , and they do not hesitate to express themselves plainly in regard to it . The Chicago Tribune , which is one of the ablest , as it is one of the most sincere , of the few journals which favor the continuance and extension of the present policy , declares that the course of the bankers is " an insult to popular intelligence , " and it hints that , if persisted in , it may lead to the abolition of the bank-note circulation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " it remarks , " to meet the national demand , withdrawal of the entire issue of national bank notes and the substitution for them of silver certificates might take place without any possible loss to the country . " The significance of this menace is not to be mistaken . It is the candid expression of the purpose of the silver movement , which with the Tribune amounts to fanaticism . Nothing short of a practically monometallic currency , silver being the single metal , will satisfy the silver party . This is sought by the tribune from an honest belief in the equality of value between silver and gold , and the paper representatives of them , caused by the legal tender quality . It is sought by the silver mine owners , who are really at the bottom of the movement , from much less creditable and - wholly selfish motives . Such a result , if it were possible to bring it about , would be a serious damage to this country , the prosperity of which depends absolutely upon the maintenance of a currency fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all places to that of other important commercial countries . Whatever may be the virtue of a legal-tender quality imposed by law within the United States , it is lost at the boundaries of our land . It does not operate beyond them . A law of trade more powerful than any law of Congress will drive out the better currency and retain the poorer , when the two come to compete one with the other , and when that had been accomplished this country would suffer precisely in proportion to the inferiority of its currency . We do not believe that our people can be induced to sanction or permit such a blunder . It car- tainly can not be possible to enlist the bankers of the United States in so mistaken a policy by threatening them with the destruction of the national bank circulation . The fulcrum is not strong enough to work the lever upon . That ' circulation is by- no means so profitable as it is generally supposed to be . The tendency already is rather to its surrender than to its retention , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they believe to be mischievous and possibly disastrous by attacks upon a privilege of so doubtful a value . They have acted throughout in this matter with prudence , fidelity , and courage . They are not likely to change their course , even if the majority in Congress should apply what as yet is only a vague suggestion of an over-zealous journalistic advocate of the silver fallacy .                     