@@780784

txt Bishop Gilbert Haven , one of the best-known , most popular , and most courageous of American Methodists , died at the home of his mother , in Malden , Mass. , at 6 o'clock on Saturday evening . He possessed great natural gifts , which he improved by long study and extensive travel . He was born in Maiden . Mass. , on the 19th of September , 1821 , where his early days were passed in mercantile pursuits His father was a pillar of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the town , and young Gilbert was trained up with a careful regard to his moral and religious acquirements . His business life grew distasteful to him , and he made up his mind to embark in something better . After studying diligently for many months , he applied for admittance at the Wesleyan University at Middletown , from which he was graduated with honor in 1846 . In the same year , he was eleeted Professor of Greek and Latin in Amonia Seminary , in this State . and so well did he fulfill his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him Principal . In 1851 he married Miss Mary Ingraham , by whom he bad two children ? a boy and a girl  --  the former of whom is now actively engaged in the freedman 's mission work in the South , of which the Bishop was so active and enthusiastic a promoter . Mrs. Haven died 10 years after her marriage , in 1861 In 1851. the year of his marriage , the young college Professor entered the New-England Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church , in which he did a great amount of itinerant work . He was frequent . ly appointed to the most important ehurches of the Conference , and at Northampton , Roxbury , Cambrige , and other posts did excellent service . At the breaking out of the war he enjoyed the honor of be . ing the first commissioned Chaplain in the Union volunteer service , his commission in the Eighth Massachusetts Regiment being signed , four days after the surrender of Fort Sumter , by the war GovOrior , John A. Andrew . Mr. Haven served faithfully with his regiment for more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and sharing the fatigues of his follow-members . In 1862 he was prostrated by a severe affection of the brain , which enfeebled him that he was compelled to go abroad to recuperate . He traveled in England and on the Continent , and spent some time in the Holy Land . In England he found public feeling , oven on the part of his core . ligionists , very bitter against the North . Mr. Haven exerteh himself strenuously to counteract this hostility , and published able and comprehensive appeals in behalf of the Union in the Watchman , the great Methodist organ of England . On his return to this country he became editor of Zion 's . Ueraid , in which capacity he devoted much of his time to the study and discussion of questions arising out of the results of the war . lie was an ardent opponent and vigorous hater of every form of caste , and a thorough believer of the fundamental truths laid down by the Declaration of Independence . To negroes he was a warm and constant friend . In the dark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedman always found an enthusiastic advocate and defender in Gilbert Haven . He believed that the results of the war gave the National Government the legal and moral right to protect the neer ? in all the rights that that struggle had conferred upon him . He believed that the Government which drafted and taxed its subjects was bound by the most sacred of obligations to protect them from murder and outrage . He was not vindictive by nature , bat he loathed and abhorred the barbarities by which the White League and the Kuklux sought to re-enslave the the newly-enfranchised race . His moral nature revolted at the tyranny and torture inflicted one his dark-skinned brethren , and in season and out of season his voice was raised in denunciation of the wrong . His wit , courage , and unquenchable enthusiasm made him a dreaded antagonist , and among the most domineering and violent of the Southern whites he was respected . To this day , many a poor negro teacher or circuit rider in the Gulf States owes his safety of life and limb to " Gil " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church , and in the year following visited Mexico on a missionary errand . Bishop Haven 's impression of that country and of Aztec home life were published by the tierDere , under the title of " Our Next Door Neighbor ; or , a Winter in Mexico . " In 1876-7 , the Bishop visited Africa to attend the Liberia Conference . and while there was attacked with the dreaded African fever . He recovered for the time being , but the disease still lingered in his system . On his return to America he was subjected to a long course of treatment at the hands of the most skillful physicians for the purpose of eradicating the fever , but without success . During the past two years he was several times prostrated by recurring fits of the disease , the last and fatal attack occurring a few weeks since . Besides being an advocate of the negro , Bishop Haven was an early advocate of woman 's equality with man . In ? his controversies and discussions he was as conservative upon most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His geniality and good humor aided greatly in enforcing his views upon hostile audiences . In addition to his Church work in the Southern States , ( his episcopal residence was at Atlanta , ) he was a life-long and persistent advocate of Protestant missions in Italy and among the Spanish-American peoples of South America . Could ho have converted - the whole continent to Methodism and equal rights he would have been hdppy . Among the Bishop 's publications are " The Pilgrim 's Wallet , " a book of travel , ( 1864 " National Sermons , " " Sermons , Speeches , and Letters on Slavery and its War , " and a " Life of Father Taylor , " the sailor preacher of Boston .                     