@@743389

txt There seems to be little use in bewailing the circulation of vicious juvenile literature of the highwayman type . Every intelligent man admits that it does a frightful amount of harm among boys , but no one takes any effective step to check its circulation . The story which teaches boys that robbery , stealing , lying , profanity , and drunkenness are manly and noble sports does not offend against any existing statute , and Mr. ComSTOCK can not interfere with its circulation . It is clear that if this evil is to be checked , our laws must be amended , and it is to be hoped that the recent painful incident in North Adams , Mass. , which is directly traceable to the influence of demoralizing juvenile literature , will arouse a public indignation which will lead to substantial results . The two boys who are now expiating their crime in the North Adams Jail in brown paper and sweet oil , to wit , Master Charles Briggs and Master James Plunkett , are both under fifteen years of age . It is known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constant habit of reading the Desperate Small-boys of America , and other story papers of like reprehensible character . Mr. Danforth , . the teacher of the Lanesboro boarding-school , which these boys attended , testifies that they established an underground railway by which reams of piratical literature were smuggled into the school , and that they openly confessed that they had rather read the Desperate Small-boys than solve the most attractive problem in fractions , or bound the most abstruse South American Republic . The natural result was that a week ago they ran away . There was nothing to hinder them from walking down stairs and going out through the front door , but they preferred to tear their sheets into strips , and with the help of ropes thus extemporized , to lower themselves from the window . Their subsequent adventures are set forth in their joint confession made to Esquire Hiekock , of North Adams , and will be painfully suggestive to any active fathers who may read it . It appears that , after much debate as to what particular field of crime they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may seem incredible that the sons of Christian parents , educated amid the wholesome influences of the well-known Lanesboro school , should be capable of entering upon so shameless and wicked a eareer ; but such is the consequence of the constant reading of vicious literature . Masters Briggs and Plunkett found much difficulty in obtaining the necessary tools for the prosecution of the plumber 's nefarious trade , since , of course , no respectable and law-abiding mechanic will make or sell them . It is believed that the boys must have made the acquaintance of some member of the gang of plumbers that has so long infested Western Massachusetts , and that they were supplied . with tools by him . At any rate , they succeeded in obtaining a portable furnace , two pairs of gastongs , two soldering-irons , and a supply of solder . These they concealed in their mattresses until the day , or rather the night , of their escape , and , of course , they took them with them when they fled from the school . As both the boys lived , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they endeavored to baffle pursuit by taking the road from Lanesboro to South Adams . They walked rapidly during the night , and at about 8 o'clock in. the morning they began operations . Approaching a house in the outskirts of South Adams , they concealed themselves until the man of the house had gone to his work . They then boldly entered the house , and confronting the man 's wife , informed her that they were plumbers , and intended to put the kitchen boiler in order . The terrified woman- made no resistance , and the young criminals went into the kitchen and severed the connection between the boiler and the range . Master Briggs then informed her that he would have to go to the shop for tools , and accordingly departed . leaving her under the guard of Master Plunkett . An hour later he re-. turned , having spent the time in selecting other houses in which to consummate plumbing outrages . The boys then replaced the boiler , scattered a great deal of melted solder , and made out a bill , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their tithe. $3.50 for materials . and $2 for the job . This bill , amounting in all to $12 50 , was paid by their victim , and they then departed , exulting over the success of their first crime . Seven other houses were visited by these desperadoes , and their booty amounted to nearly seventy dollars . At the seventh house , however , they were overtaken by justice . A report that two young , but peculiarly bold and reckless , plumbers were devastating South Adams reached the authorities of North Adams , and came to the knowledge of the parents of the boys . It was immediately suspected that the two boys who had just run away from the Lanesboro school were the ruffians in question , and a strong force of Police was immediately sent to the scene of their depredations . The two juvenile plumbers were ' surrounded in the house of Edward S. Foote , Esq. , and arrested while they were in the very act of knocking holes in his bath-tub , and were exercising a brutal terrorism over the Foote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ securely lodged in the jail , where , after an interview with their parents , who are exceptionally athletic men , they made a confession , but without showing any signs of penitence . Apparently , they have no conception of the enormity of their crime , and it is feared that if they are released they will seize the first opportunity to resume the infamous career which the Police fortunately interrupted . Such an illustration of the results of reading vicious literature ought to arouse all parents and philanthropists to a determined effort to stamp out the demoralizing publications which teach our children to regard robbers and plumbers as heroes worthy of admiration , and lead them to emulate the exploits of the wretches of whom they read .                     