@@744061

txt Two very important questions were forced upon the attention of the people of this country last Summer by the protracted incapacity of the President to perform the duties of the executive office . One was whether , under the provisions of the Constitution , those duties should in such case devolve upon the Vice-President , and the other was whether the succession to the executive functions of the Government , in case of the removal or disability of both President and Vice-President , had been properly determined by the act of Congress of 1792 . The country had drifted along for nearly a century without being brought face to face with these questions in any practical shape , and no serious consideration had been given to them . We narrowly escaped being compelled to settle one of them at least under the pressure of an actual emergency , but we should not continue to drift in the haphazard fashion of the past . ? President ARTHUR , in his Message , shows a lively appreciation of the necessity of providing against a recurrence of the doubts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long illness , and recommends the subject to the serious attention of Congress . Senator BECK has submitted a resolution instructing the Judiciary Committee of the Senate to examine into the provisions of the Constitution , and the laws passed in pursuance thereof , and to inquire whether any further legislation is necessary or proper . Consideration of this proposition was begun in the Senate yesterday , and the discussion bids fair to be exhaustive . The resolution of Senator BECK ought certainly to be adopted , and the Judiciary Committee should give the matter that careful consideration which it has hitherto failed to receive . Before the present session is too far advanced the committee should be able to report measures for the definitive and permanent settlement of the whole controversy . Eminent lawyers who have discussed the subject in , the last few months have differed radically in their conclusions as to the intent of the Constitution and the method of meeting its requirements , and if their differences of opinion are to be taken as representing those likely to be developed in any effort to deal with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be in some way removed before the occasion for practical action again presents itself . The provision of the Constitution that in case of the inability of the President to discharge the powers and duties of his office the same shall devolve upon the Vice-President is manifestly one of those which do not execute themselves . It is left uncertain what shall constitute " inability , " how it shall be ascertained , what authority shall determine when an occasion exists for the exercise of executive functions by the Vice-President , and how long such exercise of those functions shall continue . Precisely how these various points shall be settled is of less moment than that they shall be settled definitely and clearly , so that all uncertainty may be removed . The question will no doubt be raised whether Congress has authority to do anything at all , inasmuch as the Constitution does not explicitly confer it in connection with the specific provision cited . But au- thority is explicitly conferred to make all laws necessary to carry into execution the powers vested in any department or office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vested in the Vice-President in such an exigency as the inability of a living President to discharge the duties of his office . This question , therefore , resolves itself into an inquiry as to the need of legislative action . If it is needed , it is necessary ; if it is necessary , it may be taken with full warrant of the Constitution . After the experience of last Summer it ought not to take long to decide that legislative action is necessary . What it shall be the Senate Judiciary Committee will have to inquire , if . Senator BEcK 's resolution is adopted , and ultimately Congress will have to determine . The Constitution explicitly directs that Congress shall provide for the case of the removal or inability of both President and Vice-President , declaring what officer shall then act as President . The sufficiency and even the validity of the action taken by the Second Congress in 1792 has been called in question . The law then passed designates the President pro impore of the Senate , and if there is none , the Speaker of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who shall act as President in the contingency described . It is well-remembered that during the " inability " of President GARFIELD neither of these " officers " existed , and there have been several other occasions when the same thing was true . Moreover , it is doubtful whether a Senator or a Representative in the lower house , though occupying the chair for the time being , is an officer of the United States within the meaning of the Constitution . The Senate has once decided that its members were not such officers , and the precedent then established has never been overthrown . It has been further decided that the President pro tenipore of the Senate holds his office at the pleasure of that body and may be changed at its will . It is certainly not desirable to put it in the power of the Senate to change the acting President of the United States from time to time . The objections to devolving executive duties upon the President of the Senate or Speaker of the House in any contingency are many and forcible . The action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining whether it was constitutional , and , if so , whether it was expedient . Both branches of the inquiry which it is proposed to submit to the Senate Judiciary Committee should receive thorough consideration ; if there are errors in past legislation , they should be corrected ; if there are deficiencies , they should be supplied .                     