@@744103

txt The decision of the controversy between the United States Express Company and Studabaker Co. , bankers , at Bluffton , Ind. , which it was announced yesterday would be taken into court , will lead , it is thought to important changes in the present methods of forwarding valuable packages . In the present instance , a package said to contain $5,000 in currency was shipped by the United States Express by the First National Bank of this city to Studabaker &; Co. , of Bluffton . Ind . The package went by a roundabout way , and when delivered to Studabaker &; Co. was found to eontain newspaper slips instead of bank bills . The express officers were at first inclined to the belief that they were responsible for the loss of the money , and ordered funds to be sent to this city with which to make the loss good . Upon a more careful investigation , however , they became convinced that the package had been tampered with before it was delivered to them , and the order to make good the loss was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the money said to have been lost . Should they fall to recover from the express company they will then fall back upon the bank which forwarded the money  --  the First National of this city . The bank officers are confident that they can recover from the express company . The officers of the First National say that they have witnesses who saw the money put up in the usual form , and who accompanied the messenger who took the package to the express office . The express officers , on the other band , say that the package which they delivered was identical with the one they received . The seals were unbroken and were those of the bank . The wax and wrapping-paper and even the twine with which the newspaper slips were wrapped in small packages within the principal wrappers , are all identical with those used by the bank . They further say that they have not been in the habit of transmitting packages for the First National Bank ; that the business of that bank has been almost uniformly given to rival companies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent , are given to other companies , for the reason that they can reach that point by much more direct routes than can the United States Company . For these reasons they say that their employes could by no possibility have known that a package from the First National Bank would come in on that night , and therefore could not have been prepared to exchange it for so exact a counterfeit . The Cincinnati agent of the company says that if the suit goes against them . it will probably result in orders being given that all the contents of valuable packages offered for shipment shall be examined before a receipt is given . He says that express companies can not afford to become responsible for what shippers may " say " packages contain . They must know that the contents are what they are claimed to be . 