@@780829

txt Gel . A. boucion Snowden , late Superintendent of the Mint in this city , who was visited at his country seat , Fairlawn. near Haverford , by a Philadelphia Times reporter , said : " I have just returned from a visit to my sick mother in the Cumberland Valley , and have only glanced through the article printed in Sunday 's Times . 1 am prepared to state , however , that the charges made therein are false  --  absurdly , scandalously false . " Col. Snowden was very emphatic in making . this declaration , and for several minutes paced the floor excitedly . Then he continued : " I have been expecting this for some time . It IS the penalty a man pays who holds a public position of trust and discharges his duty faithfully . You can say for me , however , that the attention of the Government authorities in Washington-was not called to these alleged irregularities , because the vouchers sent in by me poured in upon them so fast . A discharged employe-of the Mint , an assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years too long , is at the bottom of the whole proceeding . The chief engineer reported him to me as generally incompetent and recommended his dismissal . discharged him . Ever since then he has been going about threatening to get even with me . He wrote a letter to Secretary Manning , in which he made insinuations reflecting on my administration of the Mint . I had no idea that his silly charges would ever be listened to , an the first intimation I had of an official investigation was when I read it a few minutes ago in the Sunday issue of the Times . This man Greet should have been discharged from the Mint long before he was . Because of my good-heartednesS he was allowed to retain a position that be was incompetent to fill , until his lack of capacity became so flagrantly patent that I was forced to discharge him . He repays me for my kindnes9 by making this cowardly attack upon me . The general charges made against me , " Col. Snowden continued , " are that I bought expensive machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mint by me was purchased from a firm the principal member of which has been supplying the Mint with machinery for the last 80 years under all Administrations . If I favored him it was because he could furnish the best goods at the most reasonable price . During my Superintendency it wa9 my aim and ambition to put the institution in first-class condition , so fax as machinery was concerned , so that we might ba able to meet any demands that might be made upon us . I flatter myself that I succeeded , and in my letter of resignation to President Cleveland I stated that I would turn over to my successor a Mint that for mechanical completeness and producing capacity could probably not be equaled by this country or any other , In my last annual report to the Director of the Mint I referred to the changes and improvements I had made in dotail . If any men were carried on the rolls for overtime and paid for work that they did not do , or if any man signed the pay rolls for overtline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know of such a case . " As to the silly story about article 's being made in the Mint for me , " said Col. Snowden , " there is no foundation for it . If such it thing did occur I have no knowledge of it , and it was in violation of all my instructions to m , 7 employes . When my stable was burned none of my harness was destroyed , consequently it was not necessary to replace any nickel work o.n it by workmen employed by the Government . There was no excessive purchase of supplies made by me at the close of the year . The pur-chases were not unusually large . It is the custom at the close of every fiscal year , if there is any money on hand out of the appropriation tnat can be judiciously expended , to use it in purchasing supplies for the ensuing year . I followed in the footsteps of my Predecessors , and every act of mine as Superintendent of the Mint is open to the fullest investigation . Any insinuation that there has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I tried my best to serve the Government faithfully and honestly and stand upon my record . The new regime has been making herculean exertions to cast aspen . sions on my character as Superintendent of the Mint , and this investigation is the result . At the proner time I shall make public the details of these attempts to besmirch my administration , which are as amusing as they are conetemptible. "                     