@@745896

txt There has been a markedchange in the tone of the Republican organs touching the tariff since the election . tip to that time , and especially during the canvass , the old doctrine of the sanctity of the tariff was preached with great vehemence and solemnity . The Mandarins who opposed the building of railways in China because the digging would disturb the spirits of dead ancestors were not more earnest than apparently were the Republican orators and organs in their protestations that the tariff must not be touched . They told us with one accord , in all parts of the land , that the recent depression in business  --  which dates from the time when the Republicans were in full control of the National Government  --  was due to the possibility of what the wicked Democrats would do with the tariff , and that the partial but steady revival of business ? which dates from de accession of a Democratic Administration  --  was due to the fact that the Republicans , with the aid of a few Randallites , had defeated the terrible Morrison bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these assertions , but they - were made with a damnable iteration that had a certain effect . Now the elections have been held ; the Democratic majority in. the House has been cut down to scarcely a " working " one ; the evil spirit of MORRISON has been laid in his own home ; Mr. RA.NDALL goes back to the House boasting that he is more sure than ever that he can block any and all tariff reform ; there have been perceptible protectionist gains in the South , and all the surface signs point to a stronger disposition than ever to resist changes in the tariff , when , lo ! Mr. BLAINE gives a hint , the Tribune publishes a labored article , and the Republican organs begin to cry out that there must be " reduction of - taxation . " The leaders of the party appear to have suddenly awakened to the fact that the existing taxes are . producing a revenue which it is imprudent to expend and impossible to hoard . Without any very clear idea of what the real surplus will be or from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face with the prospect of an . actual surplus . They perceive that it may be and know that it ought to be devoted to the removal of the tariff taxes on American industry , on the materials of manufacture which American industry must use . And they hope to forestall and prevent any such use of it . Their proposition as it now stands is to put sugar and molasses on the free list and to abolish the internal revenue tax on tobacco . The first would cut down the revenue , in round numbers , $50,000,000 , the second would reduce it by about $25,000,000 . The two together - would make a reduction . of from $75,000,000 to $80,000,000 . The reason why these taxes are selected by the protectionists is that they are practically revenue taxes ; that is to say , their net proceeds go directly and wholly into the Treasury , and do not make any very great difference with any class of the people . The sugar planters of Mississippi and Louisiana are , to be sure , deprived of the " protection " they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the votes they have heretofore given against their own party ; but business is business with the protectionists , and the pangs of the planters will not influence the new policy if it can be made to save the gigantic iron and wool interests that are now the controlling elements in the conspiracy . It is not at all impossible that this game may succeed . It is not patriotic , and it is not just , It would be far better for Americas industry and commerce to put wool on the free list with the ores , and substantially reduce the duties on all the primitive materials of manufacture . But the protectionist move is a shrewd one . Its success will depend wholly on the intelligence and force of public opinion , and that remains to be tes ted .                     