@@744128

txt The Baltimore newspapers insist that the shorter distance from that city to the principal distributing cities of the West furnishes a sufficient ground for maintaining an arbitrary difference between the rates charged for through freight upon the railroad terminating there and those charged upon railroads terminating in New-York . One of them , the American , goes so far as to claim differential rates as among the " natural advantages of Baltimore as a sea-port . " No attempt is made to answer the argument that other considerations than distance determine the economy of transportation , but the geographical position of Baltimore is insisted upon as a reason why differential rates must " not be abandoned . " It is assumed that their abolition would be equivalent to an arbitrary charge upon the traffic of Baltimore " with a view to building up the commerce of New-York . " Now , what we claim is simply that there should be nothing arbitrary about it . It is stated on good authority that merchandise can be brought by rail from Chicago and Cincinnati to New-York as cheaply , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought from the same points to Philadelphia or Baltimore ; and we say that if it can be it should be , and the New-York railroads should not bind themselves to charge more . We have no objection to Baltimore or any other city making all the use it can of its natural or acquired advantages , but when it demands that New-York traffic shall be handicapped by a purely " arbitrary " charge , maintained by private agreement of the railroad companies , it asks too much . All that can justly be claimed on either side is that the legitimate principles of business shall control . The question at bottom is simply what can be done by the different railroad lines with economy and profit in the matter of transportation between the seaboard and the leading Western cities . If the New-York lines , with a larger local traffic , with ampler facilities for shipment of cargoes abroad , with wider domestic markets at their command , and with the advantage of a connection with a vast import trade which gives them more outward-bound business , can afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates as it can be taken to Baltimore , notwithstanding the difference in distance , they should keep themselves at liberty to do so . Not only do their own interests require them to do so , but the general business interests of the City have a right to demand that they shall do so . Now , the simple question is , Can they do it ? The Baltimore journals do not undertake to answer this question or even deign to consider it as having anything to do with the subject . To our mind it is the only question that has anything to do with it . Distance , except as it affects this question , is not of the slightest consequence . Mr. VANDERBILT is , perhaps , as good an authority as we have on this particular subject , and he has long claimed that there is neither reason nor justice in differential rates in favor of Philadelphia and Baltimore , and the only ground on which they were ever maintained was that they were demanded as a consideration in the pooling arrangement whereby all through rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They could not exist for a moment under free competition . If they had any legitimate foundation , they must needs be profitable and desirable for the New-York roads , which have the apparent benefit of the higher charges , but these lines do not want them . The demand comes wholly from their rivals . and the only reason for conceding them in the past has been to avoid the evils of cutthroat competition and continual wars of rates , but it is extremely doubtful if this pretext will serve any longer . If there must be a combination to maintain stable tariffs , it should be founded on equitable business principles and not on arbitrary discriminations of any kind . It is said that the Commissioners who have been selected to examine and decide upon this question have accepted the task on condition that their decision shall be regarded as final and not subject to appeal . Whether we are to infer from this that authorized representatives of the several trunk lines have agreed to accept the decision , whatever it may be , and abide by it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not will make no permanent difference . It is a question over which the present trunk line Presidents and VicePresidents are likely to lose their control . Business considerations and not arbitrary agreements are sure to prevail in the long run .. With the impending competition of Southern and Northern water lines for half the year , and the possibility of an enlarged capacity for our own canal and river route , New-York railroads are likely to have enough to do to look out for their own interests without maintaining a protectorate over those of Pennsylvania and Maryland . Besides , a rival of the New-York Central system is rapidly pushing its construction through this State and . preparing its connections with Western cities . The fact that so costly an undertaking is in progress is in itself a striking commentary upon the advantages of New-York as a railway outlet from the interior , notwithstanding its distance from the other end of the lines . It will be in the power of any new and independent line to make it simply impossible for the Central and Erie to carry out say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Ohio .                     