@@744828

txt The attitude which the two principal factions of the City Democracy just now hold toward each other is a natural result of the action of the recent State Conventions of the party . The only hope the County Democracy can have of maintaining its organization Is to resist coalition with Tammany . On the other hand , Tammany has nothing to lose and everything to gain by a union resting on a bargain for the division of the nominations . All that has prevented such a union is the refusal of the County Democracy to enter into it . Tammany will remain a power in State as well as City pohtics so long as it can compel recognition from its adversaries and obtain , with their consent , a share of the offices proportioned to the votes which it claims to control . The life of the Tammany organization depends absolutely on the spoils which it can have a hand in distributing . It is the share which it is permitted to have in this distribution that holds to it the vote of which it makes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compel recognition . It is quite likely that in its present position it could not be overcome by the County Democrats in a contest engaging the forces of the two factions alone . But this situation is due mainly to the conduct of the Democratic Conventions of the State in the last two years and to the consent of the County Democracy to a coalition ticket last year . The Democratic Party of the State might have crushed the power of JOHN KELLT , aud reduced Tammany to helpless- ness if it had had the virtue and courage to maintain the position adopted in 1881 . The County Democracy was formed for this purpose and based its position on a full and fair representation of Democratic voters in its primaries and conventions . At first it was sustained by the State Convention , and if it alone had been recognized last year and if it had itself maintained its ground then it would have had the benefit of the phenomenal Cleveland canvass to give effect to the object of its being . KELLY would have become a political outcast and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the victory had been followed up , the County Democracy would in all probability by this time have been not only " regular " but sufficiently strong to have no fear of antagonism within the Democratic ranks . But Democratic sagacity was not equal to dealing with any degree of vigor with the City faction that disgraces and weakens the party . It was permitted to recover a large part of its lost ground and to become more arrogant and troublesome than ever . The result is that harmony is now impossible unless the County Democracy is prepared to give up the very basis of its organization and the purpose of its existence . The alternative which confronts it is a hard one . It has been so weakened by its course of last year and the action of the State Convention that it has little hope of overcoming its adversary in a square contest , and to avoid that contest is to invite a demoralization that will put an end to its pretensions . There will probably be at least two Democratic tickets in this City , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two branches of the Legislature and the Board of Aldermen . Between these there ought to be a chance for the intelligence and decency of the City to accomplish . something toward a better representation of their interests and an improvement in public administration .                     