@@744957

txt At last there is a prospect that the lands conditionally granted to the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company , which it attempted to trade away when it had not earned them , and which the Southern Pacific Company has been trying to steal from the United States , will be declared forfeited and restored to the public domain . The report of the House Committee on Public Lands in support of its bill declaring the forfeiture is simply conclusive . But the case was a very plain and easy one to deal with . The story of this attempted swindle has been told more than once , but it has just now a fresh interest . After the old Memphis , El Paso and Pacific line fell into the hands of the Texas and Pacific combination , the latter succeeded in obtaining , in addition to the liberal grant from the State of Texas for the construction of the road in that State , a grant of 25,000 acres per mile in New-Mexico and Arizona on condition that it constructed an independent line through those Territories and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was to be completed within ten years , and was bound not to consolidate with any other line . The operation of securing this grant and the effort to obtain a Government guarantee of the bonds of the company were accompanied by a good deal of scandal at Washington , upon which some light has recently been thrown by the letters of Mr. HUNTINGTON . That gentleman was then engaged in carrying on the project of constructing the Southern Pacific line and attempting to block the way of the Texas and Pacific . The Southern Pacific was built out of the earnings of the Central Pacific , which was itself built from the proceeds of an extravagant Government subsidy , and from the two HUNTLNGTON and his associates made a vast amount of money . It was the boast of Mr. HUNTINGTON when he was fighting Tom SCOTT and fthe Texas and Pacific that he asked nothing from the Government except to be let alone . His company had a franchise from the general Government only to Fort Yuma from the west , and he was working in Arizona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GouLD succeeded to the interest of Tom SCOTT , and the fight went on until the Texas and Pacific reached Sierra Blanco , about 90 miles east of El Paso , and the Southern Pacific came to the latter point . It was hoped that under the Government franchise and the land grant there would be an independent and competing transcontinental line to San Diego . That was the purpose Of the franchise and land grant ; but when the two great monopolists came together they entered into an agreement to defeat the purpose.of the Government and the hopes of the people . Each agreed not to extend the line of his company over the territory already occupied by the other , and the link between Sierra Blanco and El Paso was to be supplied and used in common . The transcontinental monopoly was to be strengthened , not broken . In this agreement the audacious attempt was made to transfer to the Southern Pacific , whose line was already built out of the plunder of the Central Pacific , the enormous grant of nearly fifteen million acres of land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the line of the Texas and Pacific . As the latter corporation had relinquished its franchise and its purpose of building a road through New-Mexico and Arizona , it had abandoned all possibility of earning the land . Every condition on which it was granted was violated , and , as the committee of the House remarks , the company not only failed " to do any act it was bound and required to do , " but it " attempted to do every possible act which it was prohibited from doing . " Nothing could be plainer than the fact that the land grant of the Texas and Pacific Company was forfeited , and that the land did not belong to it to dispose of , and yet it undertook to dispose of it for a valuable consideration . The Southern Pacific undertook to become the receiver of stolen property to the amount of forty million dollars . No longer ago than last Winter it tried to get a bill through Congress which , under the pretense of a different object , would legalize its title to the old grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of this huge swindle , and there is no doubt that this land , an area equal to three times that of the State of New-Jersey , will be restored to the public domain . Congress seems also to be waking up to the fact that the vast interests of transcontinental transportation are a monopoly in the hands of the most unscrupulous clique of stock jobbers on the continent .                     