@@743462

txt The Republicans yesterday succeeded in killing , for this session , the joint resolution passed by the Senate with reference to the Electoral count . By a curious oversight on the part of the Democratic leaders , when the resolution to adjourn sine die on the 16th came down from the Senate it was not referred back to the Committee of Ways and Means , as was intended , but was passed without amendment or reserve . This left the Democrats bound by a hard and fast line which they have no power to change , and it threw into the hands of the minority the power to defeat any measure or proposition which should be brought forward by simple , dilatory proceedings . The Republicans were not slow to avail themselves of this power in regard to the Electoral count resolution , which had passed the Senate by a strict party vote , and which embodies the most objectionable possible policy on this important question . This resolution was introduced in the Senate by Gen. MORGAN , of Alabama , and on him fell the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his difficult and thankless duty with ability and dignity , though he was rash enough at one moment to render himself ridiculous by retailing the absurd story that four years , ago guns were trained on the capital with the intention of forcing Congress to accept President HAYES . Apart from this incident , which was rather amusing than otherwise , the advocacy of the resolution by the Alabama Senator was sufficiently plausible . But he could not get around the obvious facts in the matter , and these amply justify the Republicans of the House in preventing consideration of the resolution . The plan of the Democrats was , in substance , to establish the majority party in Congress as final judge of everything connected with the Electoral count  --  the qualifications of Electors , the regularity of elections , the correctness of certificates , and any objection , direct or indirect , which might be brought to their notice touching any vote or votes of any State . In addition to this , it was their purpose , by explicit direction , to define the duties and powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer to submit to the arbi : trary action of the two houses all papers purporting to be lists of Electors from the several States . Had there been no course open to the majority but to adopt a joint resolution regulating this matter , it would still have been objectionable to have framed one which was without authority in the Constitution , and which assumed to Congress all control of a subject which by its very nature belongs to the several States , 1 and in which the rights of Congress are vague , uncertain , and secondary . But the majority was confined to no such alternative . It was free to settle the question by a bill , which , when it became law , would have received the triple sanction of the affirmative votes of both houses and the approval of the President . That was the course which the Republicans in the Senate long since proposed . A bill prepared by Senator EDMVNDS passed the Senate at the last session , by the votes of the more cautious and sagacious members of both parties in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Electoral count . It sought to leave the two houses free from any occasion to exercise any doubtful powers , by providing that the States should take , in the first instance , jurisdiction of all disputes . It authorized the decision of such disputes by the highest judicial tribunals of each State . It went further , and directed that each State should , at its discretion , create special tribunals to take cognizance of such disputes . The decision of these tribunals , whether ordinary or special , was made by the bill binding on both houses . of Congress , and these bodies were only allowed to act in the premises when action became imperatively necessary , and when there was no possibility of reaching a conclusion by any other means . If there were two or more alleged lists of Electors from any State , and no decision of a proper State tribunal with reference to them , or if there were decisions by two different tribunals , each alleged to be the one authorized to take cognizance of the question , then , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then authorized to take up the several alleged returns , but were obliged , in the first instance , to pass upon the authority of the conflicting tribunals , and if they found that there was any tribunal possessing jurisdiction , then its decision was binding on them without reference to their own views in regard to the dispute . It was only when there were two or more returns , none of them supported by the decision of a competent State tribunal , that the two houses were allowed to make a decision by themselves . It would be difficult to imagine any mo de of disposing of disputes regarding the Electoral count more in harmony with the letter and spirit of the Constitution ; more conservative , safe , and consistent than this , and , especially , more in accordance with the professions . of the Democratic Party in times past . But these considerations were overruled by the Democratic leaders in the House . The advice of such men as Mr. BAYARD was set aside . It was determined that the Democratic Party , having the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dispose of all disputes regarding the Electoral votes , or any one of them , from any of the States . This right , which was equivalent to the right of a Congressional party caucus to usurp the powers distinctly recognized in the several States by the Constitution , was asserted in the Morgan resolution . The Republicans in the House , recognizing this fact , and the immense danger which it involved for the institutions of the country , resolved to defeat the resolutions , and to leave the question to be decided , if at all , at the next session of Congress . Undoubtedly , contingencies may arise which may make it very difficult to settle it then . But that the present action of the Republicans is amply justified can not be reasonably disputed .                     