@@744041

txt The report of Gen. RAUM , Commissioner of Internal Revenue , contains some interesting suggestions regarding a reform of the civil service , of which his own department constitutes one of the most important branches . His suggestions are practical , and based on long experience . Their general aim is to secure a better class of appointees , to stimulate exertion in the force , and to render more easy the maintenance of a proper standard of discipline . Gen. RAMA 'S first concern is naturally to secure for those of his subordinates who are exposed to special risks adequate provision in case they are injured , and for their families in case they are killed . During the past five years a sustained , energetic , and on the whole successful , effort has been made to suppress the illicit manufacture of spirits and tobacco , particularly in the South . This struggle " has resulted in the killing of 28 and the wounding of 64 officers and employes , " and the Commissioner urges Congress to provide for the wounded or disabled , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been murdered . The plea is a very strong one . If the Government deliberately throws on the shoulders of a small and insufficient civilian force a task which should be prosecuted with all the military power necessary to its safe accomplishment , the least it can do is to provide for its officers fairly and generously , as it would do if they were in the Army . The Army officer holds his commission for life ; has reasonable pay and proportionate pension ; his position is one of social prestige , and in time of peace is as free from danger as that of a civilian . The revenue officer has no secure tenure of office , no social advantages , and is often exposed to as much danger as the military man in time of actual war . Nothing could be more equitable than the provision which Gen. Ra.um recommends . Of a more general character are the Commissioner 's suggestions regarding appointment , promotion , and tenure . Ile wouldg we to all subordinates a fixed term of office of four years . We do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The defined term of service ' in other departments of the Government has not worked well . It facilitates changes in the personnel of the service which are not desirable . It brings the whole force of subordinate officers , generally at the same moment , within the control of the nominating power . It encourages the struggle for appointment , which is already far too fierce and general . Even under any possible improvement of the conditions of appointment , the arbitrary term of service must have disadvantages with no apparent compensation to the Government . In the second place , Gen. RAUN1 would require all applicants for appointment to be . well indorsed as to character and to stand a proper examination as to attainments . This is , in reality , no change from the theory of the present system . A " proper " examination , however , if left solely to the determination of the appointing power , tends rapidly to become a farce , unless it be a competitive examination . It is open to all sorts of abuses . It can not be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no substantial barrier to arbitrary favoritism , which is the curse of the present system . A competitive examination , free to all , especially where conducted under an impartial and practically uniform authority , secures all which a " pass " examination possibly can secure , and is not liable to the same abuse . It selects with the greatest practicable certainty the superior men among the applicants , and still leaves to the appointing officer all necessary discretion . It does away with favoritism and strikes out the pernicious element of political influence . Gen. RAIDS suggests that all appointments should be temporary for one year , a full appointment for three years more to follow if the officer prove himself worthy ; that officers be eligible to reappointment ; that promotions be made upon merit , ascertained by examination and certified by the head of the bureau , and that the causes of removal be limited to dishonesty , incapacity , neglect of duty , insubordination , intemperance , immorality , or inability . All these suggestions are admirable . The appointment on trial is absolutely essential to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promotion or removal are such as discipline and efficiency necessarily require . In addition to these changes , the Commissioner would offer a special inducement to the exercise of zeal and energy by adding 5 per cent . to the salaries of one-tenth of all the clerks in each bureau at the commencement of each year , the increase to be dis- tributed upon proper certificates . This is excellent in principle , but is somewhat complicated in its probable application . If the increased salaries are to be given , however , solely to the individuals rewarded , as they naturally would be , and did not attach to the positions , the increased expense would be very moderate , and would be amply repaid in increased efficiency . In the same direction is the proposition to pay each subordinate on retirement after at least four years with a good record a sum proportioned to his length of service . The rercentage suggested by the Commissioner is one month 's pay for each year 's service , and pro rata for any fraction of a year , or one-twelfth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an officer earning $1,800 $600 at the end of one term , $1,200 at the end of two , and so on . The principle is one very generally recognized in all thoroughly organized administrative service , and is unquestionably an effective one . But it would be far more effective in a service to which appointments were made without favor , and either for good behavior or for considerable terms . That the main suggestions of the Commissioner will be ultimately embodied in a reform of the service there is no doubt . The growth of the work of the Government and the evils which have sprung from the methods in vogue have aroused public sentiment to a degree which betore long must be practically recognized ; but there is every reason to hope that the reformed system will be more complete than the one which Gen. BAUM indicates . 