@@672075

txt The delay in announcing the new or extended contracts between the American copper producing Companies and the French syndicate led outsiders to question the stability of these contracts and aroused some slight hope among purchasers that perhaps the whole scheme will fall through . Such hope is baseless , however . The delay is simply due to a preposition to remodel or simplify the new contracts so as to avoid several complications that now exist , and consumers of copper will continue to pay the syndicate 's price , if , indeed , that price is not advanced . Under the old contracts there were differences in the arrangements with the various companies that were the sources of some trouble , and the practice of waiting for resales of copper by the syndicate before sharing in the profits thereof was also an annoyance and rendered any calculation of the Profits to the companies somewhat uncertain . Then , too , it required a very complicated system of accounting between each company and the syndicate . To obviate all these difficulties without granting anything to consumers , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said . to be 14 cents per pound net , to all the companies alike , with the amount of the output under original contracts not subject to reduction . This will yield the companies an additional cent a pound for copper now delivered at 13 cents , but will do away with all sharing of profits between the companies and the syndicate after the copper is resole . The companies will have the advantage of a fixed not price for their copper on delivery , and will not have to watt for its sale in order to get a share in the profits . Under the present arrangement the companies paid a stated price of 13 cents and are entitled to share with the syndicate on the profits on all sales after expenses are paid . Of course this arrangement will leave the syndicate with vastly greater inducements to increase the price to consumers , and if this were run up to 25 or even 40 cents per pound the companies would be none the richer . It is not known that there is an inreotion to squeeze consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Proposition did not originate with the syndicate , but with the Calumet and Ilecla , and it has the warm indorsement of other Lake : ' .. Zaperior companies . An agent of La Societe was in Boston this week . The proposition was duly considered . and it is given out that there is little doubt that tile ' mail will be approved and adopted by the syndicate . Under this arrangement the - Calumet and Hecht and the Tamarack mines would realize a profit of quite S cents per pound on their product , while the others would net all the way from 2 cents to G ' cents per pound , few going below 5 cents .                     