@@780647

txt One of the most daring rescues ever attempted in Philadelphia was accomplished on board the Norwegian bark Beta , lying in the Delaware , about midnight last night . Two prisoners , who were about being sent home to Norway for trial , wore taken off the vessel by two lads in the face of the whole ship 's crew . Some weeks ago , when the Norwegian bark Heiden arrived in port , the Captain had four of his men arrested for mutiny . They wore taken before United States Commissioner Gibbons , and at the request of Consul Westergaard were committed to Moyameusing Prison . The Consul communicated with - the Norwegian Minister , and was directed to send the mutineers to Norway for trial . He took advantage of the departure of the Beta to send home two of them . The Beta was to have sailed to-day . Late Friday night two of the prisoners were taken from Moyamensing by the prison officials and driven to the river . Each was heavily ironed . The Consul had engaged a tugboat to take the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by two officers , got ou board . The tug reached the Beta about midnight . Capt . Walle was expecting their arrival and had made all the arrangements for their reception . The mutineers sullenly climbed up the ship 's side as fast as their fetters would allow and stood In moody silence on the deck while the Captain talked with the officers and crew on the tugboat . Half of the crew were on deck , but they seemed more intent on watching the tugboat than on looking after the miserable wretches who were bound homeward , possibly to death . The night was dark and the prisoners had moved into the background . The tug finally steamed away , and the Captain stood watching her as she rapidly receded . Suddenly ho heard a peculiar noise . It was the sharp click of iron upon iron . " What 's the matter ? " ho called out . No answer , but the quick , sharp click , click of the Iron continued . The Captain caught up a lantern and rushed in the direction whence the sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoners no longer . As the Captain Hashed his lantern upon their faces their irons fell with a clatter to the deck . Beside them were two young men , neither of them more than 20 years old . " What are you doing here ? " demanded the Captain as soon as be could recover from his astonishment . None of the party answered , but they began to retreat to the side . " Stop 1 " shouted the Captain , advancing toward the group with a handspike which he had snatched up . " Stand off , or it will be the worse for you , " cried one of the strangers . Calling upon his crew for aid , Capt . Walle leaped for the speaker and aimed a blow with his handspike . The stranger lumen aside , and in return dealt the Captain a blow across the skull with an iron belaying pin . Capt . Wade dropped on the deck senseless , and by the time the crew could rush to the spot the strangers and the mutineers had slipped over the side into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boat had disappeared in the darkness . Capt . Walle was picked up and taken to the cabin , where it was found that he was not seriously hurt . An ugly scalp wound was the only evidence of the scuffle . This morning the mate of the vessel came to this city and reported the facts to Consul Westergaard . The Beta will sail to-morrow morning for the Baltic . Mr. Westergaara was very much vexed at the escape of the med . Capt . Seveindson , of the bark Magnolia , which was to have taken the other two mutineers home , has declined to do so .                     