@@744759

txt The advocates of extreme protection , who ask that the surplus revenue of the national Government shall be distributed among the States , are moved by a desire to get rid of a great fact that is the strongest argument against the perpetuation of high import duties . They are assisted by many persons who are not so deeply interested in the preservation of high protective taxes as they are in the expenditure of huge sums of money upon public improvements . The existence of a large surplus led the Forty-seventh Congress into extravagant legislation , which the country most emphatically condemned in the elections of last November . When Congressmen knew that the propositions which they were supporting were absurdly extravagant , they pointed to the surplus . Mr. PAGE urged the House to pass the bill in which more than $18,000,000 was appropriated for river and harbor improvements because there was an " overflowing Treasury . " and in the surplus other members sought an excuse for reckless legislation concerning public buildings and for ? other costly projects . Less than ten Months have passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild extravagance in national legislation , but the ; propositions made by the representatives of the robust " infant industries " of Pennsylvania have led persons in many parts of the country to advocate the expenditure of the surplus in ways that recall the disastrous enterprisesThat followed the distribution made in 1836 . For example , we find a prominent journal in San . Francisco questioning the constitutionality of-a distribution on the Wharton Barker plan , but proposing that the surplus shall be expended freely in the improvement of the Columbia and Sacramento Rivers , in the erection of 0,000,000 worth of public buildings in San Francisco , in buying or building a national system of railways at a cost of about $20,000 , - 000 a year , and even in making a park on the peninsula north of the Golden Gate . Other plans are suggested in othbr States for the disposal of the millions that so plainly show that our national taxes are too high . The State of Virginia , having probably come to the conclusion that a new distribution will not be made , has boldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1836 . This distribution was not a gift , but a loam Three-fourths of a surplus of about $38,000 , - 000 were ( deposited with the States , to remain in their possession until the Secretary of the Treasury should call for the money . Virginia regards the fourth installment as now " due , " and has applied for it . In this way one State exhibits its trust in an " overflowing Treasury . " It is ' predicted that all Bolts of schemes for absorbing the surplus will be proposed in the Forty-eighth Congress by men who have forgotten the elections of last November . These gentlemen , and those who support the Wharton Barker plan of distribution , the Absurdity and inequity of which have been exposed in THE TIMES , should turn to the pages of history and read of the wild extravagance that cursed almost every State in the land after the distribution or loan of 1836 . Relying upon what seemed to be the first of a series of loans or gifts from the central Government , the States entered upon great schemes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then a crash came . The history of the United States in those years shows how dangerous a national surpins may become , and ought to be instructive to all advocates of the distribution plan : That the existence of a great body of surplus revenue is the source of many dangers is proved by abundant evidence furnished by recent events as well as by the record of those days . It is the continual foe of economy and the ally of the extravagant legislator and the - lobbing . It encourages public robbers and corrupt rings . Itself the result of poor statesmanship , it discourages the growth of good statesmanship , among those who conduct the affairs of the Republic . Dangerous while lying in the national Treasury , it would , become a hundred-fold more dangerous if it should be distributed among States that have learned to rely upon their own resources . It is the fruit of over-taxation , and the evil that originates in it can best be avoided by a reduction of those taxes that are most burdensome to the people . 