@@744340

txt Gen. ALISON is evidently greatly pleased with the results of his " reconnoissance in force " on Saturday . He gained no advantage over ARABI 'S troops ; he left them , in fact , just where he found them , while his own forces , retiring from the position to which they had advanced , marched back to Ramleh . But the movement demonstrated to the entire satisfaction of Gen. ALISON that no troops in the world can surpass the well-drilled soldiers of Great Britain in the perfect order and precision with which they " fall back by alternate companies . " This difficult manoeuvre  --  so important a part of British field tactics in. all wars in which her Majesty 's troops have recently been engaged  --  was executed , after two hours of fighting , with all the regularity of a parade-day drill . This shows the coolness and nerve of British soldiers . Unfortunately , it does not show that British officers are worthy of the noble fellows they command . Gen. ALISON sacrificed four men  --  one of the killed being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 29 men wounded in a service which two or three scouts ought to have performed without the loss of a drop of blood . He merely wanted to know where ARABI was . He got the information , but at a price which military gentlemen at Alexandria think was altogether too high . This much of adverse criticism upon the General 's course the military censorship permits the newspaper correspondents to send over the wires . What the soldiers who were led through this ignoble movement think of it we may never know . The discredit which such senseless operations as this " reconnoissance " and panics like that which seized upon the outpost on the canal bank on Tuesday evening bring upon tho British arms is not their worst result . In the face of such an enemy as now confronts the British troops in Egypt these blunders are dangerous . The vain warrior of the Orient , though he may be a coward at heart and the mere scum of creation , confidently believes himself to be vastly superior to any Christian soldier that may be matched against him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaction or misdirected and fruitless activity of the British troops since their landing at Alexandria that when a serious attempt is made to carry ARABI 'S position he will prove to he a much more serious adversary than Admiral SEYMOUR would have found him immediately after his retreat from Alexandria . Moreover , there is reason to fear that this obstinate Egyptian rebel is gaining in strength more rapidly than the British with all their expected reinforcements from England and India . At any rate , now that the true proportions of the task England has undertaken to perform begin to reveal themselves it becomes evident that it is a genuine war , and not merely a " difficulty , " that she has engaged in . Meanwhile , her associates in the European concert are behaving in a most vexatious way . Their open opposition or half-hearted assent to what she proposes proceeds very largely from her own infirmity of purpose . The interests of Russia , Germany , and Austria in Egypt are of so remote and vague a character that had England set about the work of crushing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other powers nor brooking any interference from them , nobody would have ventured to step between her and her prey . The concert loves to block the pathway of the timid powers with countless diplomatic obstacles ; it respects nothing so much as independence , courage , and accomplished facts . But Mr. GLADSTONE is not a good fighter . That is not his line of business . He is a very sincere man , no doubt , but if he does not know in his heart that he has no business in Egypt , then he must have taken immense pains to conceal the truth from himself . Most of the Liberal leaders can find no better excuse for the crusade against the first organized attempt of the Egyptians to throw off their foreign bonds and set up a free and constitutional Government than the assertion that the present " difficulties and complications are largely the results of engagements entered into while the predecessors of the present Ministry were in office . " Even the General Committee of the Birmingham Liberal Association so far debased itself as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a meeting called to consider the resignation of Mr. BRIGHT . Mr. GLADSTONE becomes as un-English and as little a Liberal as the late Lord BEACONSFIELD when he feels himself bound by the indefensible engagements entered into by the latter . But Whig or Tory , Semitic or Saxon , English statesmen are very much alike . Lord BEACONSFIELD 'S sneer at Greece because she had done nothing to deserve an extension of her frontier at Turkey 's expense is matched by Mr. GLADSTONE 's reckless assertion that " there is not the smallest rag or shred of evidence to support the contention that the military party is the national party struggling for the liberties of Egypt . " The traditions of a steadfast imperial purpose and the irresistible pressure of the frightened crowd of usurers have blinded even the statesman who has so often and so eloquently pleaded for " South-east freedom . " Neither he nor any one else connected with the Government is able to see that the present " rebellion " is the natural outcome of the officious and unwarrantable meddling of the Consuls-General and English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abuses connected with the Control . Unfriendly critics declare that the vicious behavior of the British officials was premeditated , the object being to force a quarrel and rupture of existing relations in order that in the struggle for reorganization England 's grasp on Egypt might be tightened . Be that as it may , England 's only logical and safe course now is to proceed as if her purpose were the absorption of Egypt . Any further prating about the status quo will be nauseating . The Khedive , the joint Control , and all that rubbish , are things of the past . Unless England can be honest and courageous enough to withdraw altogether from Egypt and force the other powers , including Turkey , to do the same , it will be infinitely better for her and for the Egyptians that she drop at once the mask of empty pretense and proclaim a protectorate .                     