@@743872

txt The bill providing for a special tax on the sales of brokers in securities , corporate stocks , petroleum , cotton , pork , grain , and flour is still pending in the Senate . Although the opposition from the interests affected does not appear to have been brought to bear very strenuously at Albany , there are plenty of indications of dissatisfaction with the proposed tax . It is said that although the tax  --  two cents on a hundred dollars of the gross amount of sales  --  seems to he small , it would yield some five or six millions of dollars if the volume of sales were to be maintained under it . It is also stated that it would amount in many cases to as much as the present commission of the brokers . It is furthermore declared that the mode of collection by stamps would increase rather than mitigate the objection to the tax , as it would involve extra trouble and clerical service . Insinuations have been thrown out that the bill was a " strike " at the brokers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any such suspicion as to the purpose of the bill is rendered ridiculous by the fact that it was prepared by the Governor 's commission as a part of the scheme for raising an adequate State revenue without drawing upon the proceeds of the local assessment of real and personal property . There can be no doubt of the integrity of the motives and aims of the commission , but it has no claim to infallibility in judgment . Any tax on sales is certainly objection . able . It is a mode of raising revenue which has been discarded by most civilized countries . The proper fund from which taxes are to be drawn is made up of the realized product of industrial and commercial operations . The method of levying upon that fund should be devised with a view to general equity and the least possible interference with the processes by which it is accumulated . To lay a tax directly upon those processes , thereby hampering their operation and lessening their product , is manifestly inexpedient . It has a tendency to diminish the fund from which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind is particularly bad for a State situated as New-York is . If the tax were laid by the general Government it would fall upon the business of the whole country alike , and while it would be unjust in so far as it made no discrimination between profitable and unprofitable sales , it would place no community at a disadvantage in comparison with another . This is supposing that it was laid upon sales of all kinds . But if this State lays such a tax it raises a discrimination against the 11 , usiness of its own citizens and voluntarily places itself at a disadvantage with other States . It can do this and retain the full volume of its business and its wealth-producing capacity only in case it has advantages of other kinds which overbalance the disadvantage of the tax . The fact is that the people of this State , and especially of this City , are in danger of having all their natural advantages for profitable commerce counterbalanced by short-sighted legislation ? and bad administration . They can not afford to have any new burdens placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharp competition between the leading cities of the North-eastern States for business of nearly every kind involving the processes of exchange of commodities and securities . A very slight obstacle may make a material difference in the direction and volume of the different currents . No doubt much speculation is carried on through brokers , but the legitimate sales made by them have also a large volume . It is a kind of business that can be easily transferred , but which should not be thoughtlessly driven away . Our system of taxation should be devised with reference to raising needed revenue with as little burden and vexation to the people as possible , and it certainly tshould not be calculated for the benefit of Philadelphia or Jersey City at our expense . While a tax on sales in this State would be bad policy , inasmuch as it would place its business at a disadvantage in competing with other States , a tax on a particular class of sales or sales of certain commodities would be unjust on account of the discrimination involved . There is no more reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by jobbers , or for taxing sales of cotton and corn than sales of dry goods and sugar . The bill under consideration was framed with too much thought for a State revenue and too little regard for the effect to be produced on business . It may as well be set down as an axiom that taxing the operations of business is bad policy . Payment must of necessity be made out of the product of these operations , and it should be drawn from citizens as nearly as possible in proportion to their possession of the realized product . The number , size , or volume of transactions , some of which are profitable and some not , and the profitableness of which as a whole is infinitely varied , can evidently form no measure whatever of such possession . The selling of commodities or of representatives of value , whether by merchants or by brokers , ought no more to be taxed than the manufacturing of cloth or the raising of wheat . The entire community is engaged in producing wealth by the myriad processes of industry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible by taxation , and the policy of the State should be to promote , and not to check , this production . Wealth after it is produced must pay the tax , and it should be levied so as to draw upon ability to pay as equitably as may be . Citizens should be taxed as possessors rather than as producers .                     