@@744801

txt It is claimed that those who have heretofore directed the action of the Republican organization in this City have done all in their power to open the way for the voters of the party to come in and take part in the preliminary work of the canvass , and that if these voters do not see fit to perform their political duties it is not the fault of the managers . To a certain extent it is true that what is known as machine management is due to the neglect of Republican voters to take an active interest in the practical work of politics . They have left it to those who hold or seek office , and who have selfish objects to attain , to do the necessary work of organization . As a natural result , these men have so managed affairs as to secure their own ends , and have come to treat the apathetic voters as having no rights where they perform no duties . Republican voters grumble at results that are the inevitable effect of their own indifference and neglect , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon by the managers . At the same time it is perfectly plain that the scheme of reorganization of which last night 's primaries were an incident was not calculated or intended to place the selection of delegates to the State Convention in the hands of the mass of Republican voters . The existing evil may have been the result of their neglect , but that fact does not change the nature of the evil . The thing complained of was that the control was in the hands of a few men who were leaders and workers in the district associations . The remedy was to take the control out of their hands entirely , and provide for holding primaries under a wholly different direction , in which every Republican voter could take part . So far , at least as the present canvass is concerned , no measures were taken to effect that object . A majority of the committee which prepared the plan of reorganization was made up of the old machine men , and the plan was modified and accepted by the Central Committee , which was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment of the constitution of the associations which extended the right to vote at the primaries to all who voted for Garfield Electors in 1880 still left the whole management and direction of affairs in the old hands . In answer to the suggestion that Republicans who do not belong to the associations would be under the disadvantage of meeting a regular ticket at the primaries , devised by the old leaders and supported by the machine , it is said that they were entirely at liberty to devise an opposition ticket and to support it with their votes . If they failed to do so they have no right to grumble when the regular tickets prevail . But no effective monition in the several districts could be made without organization , . and what is wanted is not two organizations fighting each other , but one organization in which all have equal rights and equal power . There existed last night , when the primaries were held , but one organization , and that was precisely the same one which has been making Republican nominations for years . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the control of the same men as heretofore . These men did all the preliminary work and had the machinery of management completely in their hands . What the Republicans of the City want is not the privilege of organizing against the organization at a moment 's notice , or the chance to split the party into two factions , but a system under which they may meet and exercise their choice in the selection of delegates and the nomination of candidates . They want committees of their own choice to arrange preliminaries and officers and inspectors of their own choice in the meetings at which they are allowed to vote . This is precisely what the so-called plan of reorganization has not given them , and they are not to blame if they considered it comparatively useless to attend the primaries . The Republicans of the City have unquestionably neglected their political duties in the past , and as a consequence have , in a large measure , lost their political rights , and if they are to regain their rights they must resume their duties . But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own forces , and any committee which is to act for them must really represent them and carry out their wishes . The old associations and the old machine must be abandoned and not used as an agency for conducting the work of reform . The reform effected by their means must necessarily be a sham , for they are the thing to be reformed . The result of what has been done is not a reorganization , but a postponement of reorganization and an obstacle to its accomplishment . The work is yet to be done , but the machine has gained the object at which it has aimed . The work will not be done this year .                     