@@780740

txt At Greenville , yesterday , the Atlantic and French Broad Valley Railroad , in this State , was consolidated with the Cumberland Railway , of Kentucky ; the Morris-town , Cumberland Gap and Ohio Railroad , of Ten-nestee , and the Morristown and Carolina Railway , under the name of the Carolina , Cumberland Gap and Chicago Railway . The consolidated road runs from Aiken , S. C. , to Livingston , Ky. , a total dis-tance of 368 miles , The whole road is to he completed by 1888 , and the line from Aiken to Abbeville , S. C. , will be finished and in working order by July , 18S3 . Under the organization South Carolina has five Directors . North Carolina one , and Tennessee five . Goy . Ilagood , of South Carolina , was elected President , 0 . C. King , of Tennessee , Vice-President , and S. S. Campbell , of New-York , Secretary and Treasurer of the consolidated linos . Capt . W. J. Kirk was elected Chief Engineer of the Southern Division of the road , comprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been established at Aiken , S. C. The contract for building the road has been awarded to a company of capitalists called the Atinntio and Northwestern Construction Company , of New-York , of which W. H. Schofield is President . The contrac-tors agree to build and equip 100 miles of the road per year until rho whole line is completed , work to be commenced at Aiken within 00 days . Bonds will be issued at once at the rate of $ ' 20,000 per mile of first mortgage , and at the rate of $15.000 per mile of second mortgage classes , amounting altogether to about $17,000.000 . These bonds will be floated as soon as issued , arrangements for their hypothecation having been already effected . As soon as Gen. lfagood 's term of office as Governor of South Carolina expires he will give the construction of the road his immediate supervision . The new road will traverse the finest portions of South Carolina , North Carolina , Tennessee , and Kentucky , and will open up direct communication by way of the South Carolina Railway hatween Charleston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Carolina Railway at Aiken , with the Charlotte . Columbia and Augusta Road at Trenton , with the Augusta and Knoxville at Troy , with the Atlanta and Charlotte Air-line Road at Easleys  --  all points in this State ; with the Western North Carolina Road at Waynesville , C. ; with the East Tennessee . Virginia and Georgia Road at Morristown.Tenn. , and with the groat Kentucky system of railroads to all points North and West at Livingston , Ky . The road will cross the Blua Ridge Mountains through Eastatoo Gap without tunneling , and at a comparatively easy grade . Altogether . the consolidation of the various railroads which make up this great trunk line is one of the most important railway enterprises ever undertaken iu the South .                     