@@781188

txt While the congregation of Franklin-Street Presbyterian Church were singing the next to the last hymn , toward the close of the service Sunday evening , the shrill tones of a lady 's voice were heard above the volume of melody . Those on the front news soon identified the singer as Mrs. J. Randolph Mordecai , wife of the wellknown shipping merchant residing at No. 257 North Charles-street . The Rev. Dr. W. U. Murkiand , the Pastor of the church , at the first sound of the lady 's voice appeared to become somewhat excited , and by his bearing showed that the interruption caused him great distress . The lady 's voice continued to dwell on the notes of the hymn after the choir and congregation had ceased singing , and there was a hurried movement among the other occupants of the pew , who were evidently endeavoring to induce the lady to be quiCt . Dr. Murkland , after a moment 's hesitation , bestowed the benediction and dismissed the congregat:on before the closing hymn of the service could be given . Mrs. Mordecai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residence , on North Charles-street . Drs . Alan P. Smith , H. P. C. Wilson , and Francis T. Miles were successively called in , and the next day Pronounced Mrs. Mordecai to be insane . On their recommendation she was removed to Spring Grove Insane Asylum on Thursday . The sad affliction which has overtaken the lady , who was very prominent in the highest social circles , has been the one topic in society circles since Sunday . Last week Dirs . Mordecai , who is a lady of attractive personal appearance , about 37 years old , was one of a party who went down the bay on Mr. William H. Graham 's steam yacht gleam . She was on that occasion one of the liveliest ladies on board and contributed largely to the pleasure of her companions by her bright and cheerful bearing and genial good humor . On the way home last Saturday . the sun was oppressively warm , and Mrs. Mordecai was exposed to its full power for several hours . It is to this circumstance that the development of her mental troubles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Franklin-Street Church , she did not give any evidences of mental trouble . About half an hour before the night service commenced she called on the Rev. W. A. Murkland at his residence , accompanied by her husband , sister , and several of tier children . While talking to the minister she suddenly asked him to preach that night on a certain text . This Dr. Murkiand kindly declined to do , stating , as an excuse , that he had already prepared his discourse , and could not , therefore , oblige her . Dr. Murkiand stated to-night that he suspected the true state of the lady 's mind at this time . When she commenced singing so loudly in the church an hour or so later his susuicions were confirmed and he cut short the service in order to prevent a scene . Dr. Murkiand ' expressed the greatest sympathy for the lady and her family . Other friends of the Mordecai family to-night said that they confidently hoped the unfortunate lady would shortly be restored to health . Mrs. Mordecai is wealtny , having inherited from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She was formerly a Miss Emma Patterson , and was a relative of Mme. Patterson Bonaparte. the grandmother of Col. Jerome Bonaparte and Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte , both well known in Baltimore . The mental trouble of Mrs. Mordecai is believed to be hereditary , as her brother has been an inmate of Spring Grove Asylum for some time .                     