@@744049

txt By experience and reflection the South is gradually discovering that there are many obstacles to its industrial progress . The sincerity of its desire to become a worthy rival of the North in enterprise , business success , and wealth may be at once admitted . It will not be denied even that in the year now drawing to a close there has been throughout the Southern States a genuine and important awakening , a sudden consciousness that they are far behind the age down there , and must do some very earnest and hard work to catch up with the rest of the world . It is one thing to confess a fault and a very different thing to correct it . In the latter the South finds the main difficulty . Habits of industry , thrift , and self-sacrifice can not be created in a day . An abstract admiration for Yankee pluck and energy , such as has been so freely expressed by Southerners who have talked or written about the Atlanta Cotton Exposition , does not beget these valuable qualities in those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laziness in the South which must be removed and cast into the sea by some mote efficient miracle-worker than has yet appeared before there will be willing hands and stout arms enough for her needs . Laziness is the true word to describe that chronic indisposition to active , continuous , and well-directed exertion which is the bane of the South in all its fields of material development . It is something more than the native indolence of a semi-tropical race , for the people of the South are of common blood with those of New-England , and have not yet outlived the manly vigor transmitted from their rugged ancestors . Their energies are not extinct , but only benumbed by the lingering taint of the old evil , slavery , which notoriously corrupts and enfeebles the master to the full extent that it degrades the bondsman . The slave 's slow and slovenly way of performing manual tasks has become the standard of labor in the South , and greater speed and skill are not exacted . There is , moreover , an incalculable amount of false pride as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do without loss of dignity and standing . The only class in which this is entirely absent is the " poor whites , " or " crackers . " Those who have any sort of claim to good family position " before the war " have an incurable dislike to the trades or agricultural labor , though their present condition may be only a degree removed from pauperism . Thinking men and some newspapers in the South do hot hesitate to speak plainly and freely of these facts . The Columbia ( S. C. ) Register , in an article setting forth the necessity of agricultural and mechanical schools , says : " We distinctly recognize the fact that ninetenths of our people who once enjoyed affluence have fallen into abject poverty , or at least a condition of anxious pecuniary embarrassment ; that a large proportion of the youth of the State of the very best material are either shrinking into worthlessness , or hunting 11D fifth-rate clerkships , or droning out an utterly hopeless life , waiting for something to turn up ; that there are wasted opportunities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to spare , with our soil , our climate , and our natural resources ; that the way out of the situation lies in the direction of giving to our growing youth such industrial training as shall make them practical workers and a creative element in society instead of being mere hangerson . " It is encouraging to see admissions like this coming from South Carolina . A few years ago the backwardness of the South was attributed to a single cause ? " it 's because the blank niggers wo n't work . " A more searching analysis reveals other and deeper causes . The youth of the South , " of the very best material , " are " shrinking into worthlessness " or " hunting up fifthrate clerkships , " or just " droning . " These are symptoms of grave moral , as ' ell as material , decay . But the case is by no means hopeless . In some cities and States of the South the Register 's diagnosis is no longer correct . The young men are neither " shrinking into worthlessness " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a hundred honest ways . If their example and success have their due stimulating effect upon the youth of other States much will be done in the next decade to relieve the South of the reproach of the many " slow towns " and inert rural civilization . The remedy which the Register suggests for the evils of which it complains is not of immediate practical worth . Industrial and technical schools appear at a late and high stage of educational and economic development . Good common schools must precede them by many years , and if established in the South they could have only a precarious and artificially sustained existence until the growth of manufactures and the demand for good mechanical work create a field for their graduates . At present the South has few manufactures and does not know what good mechanical work is . In the North , with its greater advancement and infinitely diversified industries , there are not more than half a dozen first-rate technical schools . England is even now discussing the propriety of establishing them , and the excellent schools of the Continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wait a long time before technical schools will have any measurable effect upon her development. ? But , meanwhile , " there 's work enough to do , and tools to work withal . " The young men " of the very best material " in South Carolina and the other Southern States can , if they choose , make themselves useful at once .                     