@@780909

txt The Senate , this afternoon , considered , in special session , the House bill providing for the refunding of $10,00000 of the maturing State bonds . After a general debate the bill was amended so as to make 4 per cent . tho maximum rate of interest , but authorizing the financial officer of the State to advertise for proposals for bonds at 3% and 3 per cent .. and giving him power to accept such basis as he considers for the best interest of the Commonwealth . An amendment was also incorporated , providing that the bonds shall be redeemable in lawful coin of the United States . Other amendments were made perfecting the machinery for the refunding operations . The Nil was then passed second reading by a vote of 22 to 19 , the Democrats solidly opposing it , aided by Senators Kaufman , of Lancaster ; Emery , of McKean , and Everhart , of Chester , Republicans so called . The Democrats sought to fix the rate of interest at 8 per cent. , their motive being to embarrass the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin for over one year . The bill w ! iich provides for the permanent sittings of the Supreme Court of the State at Phliadelphia , which was once negatively reported , was placed on the calendar in the Senate . The bill allowing women to practice as attorneys in the several courts of the State was passed finally , as was also the bill appropriating $10,000 for expenses for the celebration of the two hundredth anniversary of the founding of the colony of Pennsylvania by William Penn . In the House , at the forenoon session , the vote was reconsidered by which the bill creating a State Board of Health to prevent physicians with bogus diplomas from practicing , &c.,; was killed . The bill thus resusitated was then postponed for the present . The resolution providing for final adjournment on May 26 was called up , and , on motion of Mr. Wolfe , was postponed for the present , the vote in favor of postponement being  --  yeas 103 , nays 73 . Apropos of the question of final adjournment , the following story is given as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salary of members : Gov . Hoyt , AttorneyGen . Palmer , his deputy , and one or two other gentlemen were in conversation in a law office in this city . The Governor expressed a wish for some means of getting rid of the Legislature . The Attorney-General said he would scatter them . In fulfillment of this promise the opinion was fired at the Legislature , but the latter did not scatter well . At the evening session of the House several Senate bills were passed , the most important being the one providing for the erection of a monument to the memory of Simon Snyder , one of the earlier Governors of the Commonwealth . The House also held an afternoon session , but transacted no business of importance .                     