@@671783

txt Somebody last evening told August Hatzka , a laborer , that his little stepson , Max Gilman , 11 years old , whom he had driven from home by his terrible cruelty , had returned . Hatzka took several drinks of whisky and then went home , vowing he would kill little Max , whose mother is dead . The stepfather wore around his waist a heavy , hard , and thick leather strap , 3 feet long and 2 inches wide , upon one end of which was a very heavy iron buckle . As soon as he entered his house he searched out the crouching lad , who had hidden away in one corner to escape the fearful wrath and torment of Hatzka . " Come here you wretch , " the man shouted . Come out here so I can kill you . " " Oh , father ! father ! " begged the boy , " do n't beat me. for God 's sake , do n't beat me , and I will do for you anything . Oh , father ! father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Come to me ! " shouted Hatzka. " so I can kill you . " Then he grabbed the boy by the hair of the head and began to punish him with the iron buckle at the end of the strap . " Mercy , father ! " shouted the boy . For hours shouts and screams were heard in the neighborhood , but no one dared to go to his rescue , for they all feared Hatzka , because they believed he was a desperate man . At 11 o'clock the screaming of the boy ceased . All night long the little fellow lay upon the bare floor , and the neighbors heard him moaning and groaning , but there was no one there either to pity or care for him . There were two little step brothers near , but they were too young to comprehend the situation . When daylight came Hatzka ordered the boy to get up . " I ca n't , " moaned he . " Then I 'll make you , " was the reply . Again he proceeded to whip his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy was lying on the floor . But shrieks had been heard , when officers summoned by the neighbors broke into the room . The child lay in a little room on a bare floor , froth streaming from his mouth . The face was livid , and upon the little body were great bruises and cuts which told the suffering he had endured . Behind the left ear was a great welt , and it was undoubtedly this blow which caused death , for the skull appeared to be fractured . Hatzka is a German . He has been been twice married , but is now a widower . He has treated little Max with frightful cruelty for months . He bore his arrest quietly , and had the asurance to deny having punished the boy lying dead at his feet .                     