@@745048

txt The stories told by those who escaped from the wrecked steam-ship Daniel Steinmann and by the signal man stationed on Sambro Island prove conclusively that Capt . SCHOONHOVEN was utterly unfit for the position which he held , arid is directly responsible for the untimely deaths of one hundred and twenty-one human beings . He had made the voyage to Halifax two or three times , and must have been acquainted with the dangers of the coast . By his own admission he had been prevented by fog from taking observations for two days before the loss of his ship , yet he recklessly pushed forward . Knowing that the coast below Chebucto Light was almost a continuous line of rocks , on which many a steamer had gone to pieces , and that the channel leading to his port could not be easily found and followed , even in good weather , he threw to the winds all the teachings and suggestions of prudence and common sense and pressed onward . He even refused to be guided by the sailing directions made for his use , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordance with those directions , another gun in response from Sambro Island would have revealed his danger . A drunken or a crazy Captain might have done what he did , but it is difficult to understand how such a course could have been pursued by one who was sober and sane . The fog had lifted so that the signal man on the island plainly saw the ship coming on , " apparently at full speed . " He could see the Steinmann , but SCHOONHOVEN could barely see the - island light twinkling faintly through the mist . The signal man had eyes , and was using them . Notwithstanding the stupidity or recklessness of the Captain , however , many of the passengers might have been saved if the signal man could have found a lifeboat . He could have easily launched such a boat , he says , but the Government that erected the light-house and stationed him on the island had given him nothing of the kind . The screams of men and women filled his ears while the Steinmann was drifting helplessly toward the beach , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appears that many of these lives were sacrificed twice  --  once by the stupidity or foolhardiness of the Captain , and again by a Government that is so stingy or so far behind the age that it does not maintain a respectable life-saving service on one of the most dangerous coasts that try the skill and judgment of navigators . Humanity condemns both the Captain and the Government , and censures the company that employed a man . so unworthy , while the bodies of 121 poor men , women , and children , lying on the rocks or in the depths of the sea , enter a mute but powerful accusation against the man who slew them . 