@@780713

txt The Foreign Office has made public the dispatches received from Mr. Joseph Chamberlain during the progress of the negotiations at Washington for the fisheries treaty . In a communication to Lord Salisbury dated WashingtOn , Feb. 16 , Mr. Chamberlain says the satisfactory result of the conference was due in a large degree to the spirit of conciliation manifested by both sides , and the strong sense of all the2conferreesjof the importance of removing all cause for irritation and of promoting good neighboihood and friendly intercourse between the United States and Canada and Newfoundland . The relations between the British Plenipotentiaries , Mr. Chamberlain says , were of the most cordial and harmonious character throughout . He speaks in high praise of Minister West and Sir Charles Tupper , and also calls especial attention to the services rendered by illessrs . Bergne and Maycock . The dispatch further states that the American Government on the present occasion repudiated any desire to share the inshore fisheries of Canada . The point of dispute was therefore limited to the question of commercial facilities . In the course of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the main facts of the case , and that while on the one hand the United States was ready to recognize the right of Canada to guard the interests of her fishermen and withhold any of the special advantages conferred by the proximity of her ports and harbors to the common fishery grounds , on the other hand the Canadian Government was ready to afford all possible convenience and assistance which the claims of humanity or the courtesy of nations justify , provided the concessions were not abused or construed into a surrender of the privileges essential or important to the successful prosecution . of the fishing industry . The treaty now submitted gives expression to those views , providing for a full concession of all commercial facilities to fishing vessels of the United States whenever and so long as the products of the Canadian fisheries are admitted into the United States . The treaty establishes the future position of the respective parties and defines their rights ; provides for the delimitation of the exclusive fishing waters of the British colonies , substantially on the basis of the North Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of procedure for dealing with breaches of the treaty or regulations affecting the fisheries . It also enlarges the conditions under5which American fishermen have hitherto enjoyed the rights secured them by the convention of 1818 . Under a modus viveudi of two years United States fishermen will enjoy the advantages of the facilities contemplated by the treaty . iu consideration of a license issued for a moderate fee by the Governments of Canada and Newfoundland . It is hoped in this way to obviate all possibility of a recurrence of the irritating incidents of the fishery seasons of 1886 and 1887 . He is further hopeful that the arrangement will confirm and extend the friendly and cordial relations existing between the United States and Great Britain . In conclusion he eulogizes the members of the commission and says that the staff was , at his own desire , made upon a much smaller scale than is usual with missions of its character , thereby throwing on the members greater labor and responsibility . Mr. Bradlaugh resumed the debate in the House of Commons this evening on the motion of Sir Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the right of the Government to interfere with meetings in Trafalgar-square . He proposed an amendment to the motion providing that the public inquiry bo especially directed to the meeting in Trafalgarsquare on Nov. 13 , and the conduct of the police in connection therewith . He accused the Government of shirking the inquiry by treating the motion as a question of confidence . Attorney " General Webster maintained that nobody had a right to go into a highway and make a speech . Obstructing a highway was an indictable offense . He declared that no inquiry was needed to confirm the Executive 's power to stop meetiugs in Trafalgar-square . Mr. Bradlaugh 's amendment was defeated by a vote of 322 to 207 . Sir Charles Russell 's motion was also rejected-316 to 224 . Mr. Gladstone , Mr. Morley , Sir George 0 . Trevelyan , and all the Gladetonian and Parnellite members present voted with the minority . Lord Hartington , Sir Henry James . and the other Unionist members voted . with the Government . A Dublin newsdealer named Dingle has been sentenced to three months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of meetings of suppressed branches of the National League . Messrs . Putnam and Eggleston have sent letters to the A Moltenm saying that the copyright bill is having fair success and condemning the Pearsall Smith scheme . Mr. Eggleston says that the measure has the undivided support of American authors , almost all the publishers , and all the leaders of typographical unions . Ella Russell made her hundredth appearance in the Warsaw Opera House last evening and was enthusiastically received . Her admirers presented her with a diamond . bracelet and a golden tea service . The Crown Prince and Princess of Denmark will arrive in London on Tuesday to attend the silver wedding of the Prince and Princess of Wales . The Earl of March ( Conservative ) will resign his seat in the House of Commons for the Chichester division of Sussex . The French schooner Flenr de la Mar has foundered off the island of Cayenne . Sixty passengers were drowned . Mary Anderson requests a denial of the repeated assertions that she is about to marry a gentleman of this city . Miss Anderson gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Winter 's Tale " at the Lyceum Theatre to-night . A brilliant audience was present to celebrate the event . The Bishop of Cork permits the body of the late Stephen J. Meaney to be placed in the Cathedral there on the condition that there shall be no political demonstration .                     