@@780805

txt Edwin Cowles , editor of the Leader , to-day ejected the Rev. Father Houk from his editorial room , and was afterward arrested on a charge of assault and battery , being released on his own recognizance . A Herald reporter received from him the following statement of the affairvit being understood that the Bishop 's card was In answer to editorials in the Leader on the Bishop 's course toward the ladies of the Land League : " On Wednesday evening , a card written by Bishop Gilmour was left at my office by a messenger from him , with a request that I publish it in the Leader or , if I ( Ed net , that I telephone the Bishop to that effect . I read the letter . It was of considerable length and very insulting to me . It went into family affairs and was virtually black-mailing in its nature , holding over me a threat that if I did not publish it it would be pub-lished elsewhere . I took no notice of the mandatory request accompanying it and of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eallea to my office to see a messenger sent by Bishop Gilmour to me . I went into the room and found a man there . I said to him : Are you the Bishop 's messenger ? ' He said he was . I said , Are you a priest ? ' ' Yes , ' was the answer . And Bishop Gilmour 's private secretary ? ' Yes . Sir , ' said be . I said , ' Clear out or this office , ' and as he did not move very quickly I took him by the shoulder and quickened his departure , handing him his hat at the same time . I was notified about 5 o'clock that a warrant had been issued for my arrest upon a charge of assault and battery . I used no violence to the man . The letter was a direct insult to me . It charged me with cruelty to my youngest daughter . whew mind has been influenced by priestly teachings , and whom the priesthood had endeavored to persuade to enter a convent about three years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with the duty she owes to the Roman Catholic Church . These teachings have caused infinite trouble . My daughter is lying sick in my house and has lain so for some 20 months . She has been treated with all possible tenderness and affection , and the infamous insinuations that I had been guilty of cruelty toward her , coupled with the request that I publish the Bishop 's unjust criticism of my course toward her in my paper , was so supremely insolent that it naturally maddened me. "                     