@@780615

txt The boat-race between the Cornell University crew and an Austrian crew , selected from four rowing clubs of Vienna , was rowed on the Danube here to-day . The course was a mile and a half against the stream , round buoys and back to the starting post . The Cornell men had four lengths lead of the Austrian crew early in the race , but they appeared exhausted when they reached a point in the course known as the Bera-fahrt , and when half the course had been traversed one member of the crew collapsed . They then relinquished the struggle , the Vienna crew thus winning the trophy , which is valued at ? 250 . The weather was pleasant , and there were large crowds of spectators on the bridges , aboard steamers , and on the shores of the river . The wind was strong down the course . At 6:25 P. M. the crews drew into line , the Cornelis being on the Vienna side . At the word go the Cornell crew started at the rate of 38 strokes to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the Communal Bath the Americans led by a length and took their opponents ' water when opposite the Nordbahn station . All the way up the course the Cornell crew increased its lead for a final struggle at the turn to four lengths . When at the Nordwestbahn bridge , a short distance from the turn , Shinkle , of the Cornell crew , gave out and stopped rowing . The Vienna crew finished in 28:30 . The opinion of the general public and of most sportsmen favored the Americans , because the Viennese had only trained a week . The latter , however , had the advantage of being accustomed to the rapid course . On account of the hot weatner the Danube has never been quieter . On starting the Cornelis got into quiet water , the Vienna crew having to row in the stream . The Americans , exerting their whole strength , immediately obtained the lead , which was increased to four lengths about 300 yards from the turn , which was fixed at a spot where the water rushed through the piles of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cornell crew , the Viennese , who up to that time had been rowing well within themselves , spurted , and from that moment the Americans lost all chance of winning . Odds in the betting were then eagerly laid on the Vienna crew . Soon afterward the Americans gave in , Shinkle being unable to row another stroke on account of a cramp in his stomach . LONDON , Aug. 12 . ? The Standard has the following from Vienna : " The American oarsmen 's defeat being a complete surprise , the jubilation here is all the greater . "                     