@@781839

txt Time was , and that not many years ago , when a Summer holiday meant an emancipation from the cares of dress . One of the advantages of the season , in fact , was that men , and ' even women , could wear what they liked . The Summer tourist fled into the mountains in blue flannel , with a girdle of leather about his loins and an entirely informal wide-awake upon his head . ' The female of his species accompanied him in calico and an umbrageous " fiat . " There is scarcely a nook left upon the continent , this side of the Yosemite or the Yellowstone Park , where these dispositions would not be too simple and primitive for toleration , since there is scarcely a nook to which the respectable may ' resort which has not at least a five-dollar-a-day hotel , with a crowd of hostile critics on the veranda and a Jenkins ? or at least-an aspiring amateur who procures some abatement from his bill by persuading the hotel-keeper that he can procure accounts of the hops to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Summer relaxer can only relax the severity of civilized attire while he abides in the hot closet in which he " does time " under sentence of the hotel clerk . When he emerges from this privacy his apparel must be seemly  --  that is to say , conventional And if he is taking his relaxation in the neighborhood of those cottages from which few , indeed , of our Summer resorts are now exempt , and is bidden to dinner , he must indue himself in the same " evening dress " which he would wear to the opera in December . The black body coat , in fact , is the monumental iniquity at which these remarks are aimed , and to which the black trousers and the starched shirt front are mere appendages , which , will fall when the axe is laid to the root of the swallow-tail There is no occasion , to agitate for the relief of women No woman , is such a fool as to wear the same evening dress - in . Summer that she wears in ' Winter . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike the blow . In fact , they do not , know how . " Evening dress " is not clothing , or not mainly clothing . It is ? a symbol , what HERBERT SPENCER would call a propitiatory symbol , by which a diner-out deprecates the natural resentments of the person who has invited him to dinner at his accept . ance of the invitation . It is obvious that one symbol will do as well as another , so long as it is equally well understood . A. man ' who should appear at dinner in a " seersucker " ? which is not , as would naturally be supposed , the admirer and echo of a philosopher , IStit only a kind of fabric  --  would not be asked again , simply because his appearance in a seersucker would denote that he cared more to secure his personal comfort than todo honor to his entertainer . It is not , thereforet in the mad revolt against the institution of evening dress , as a result of which some hot and rebellious spirits are doomed to eat their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modifying the existing institution to meet , the new exigencies that true progress lies . A Summer evening dress , in a word , is the long-felt  --  that is to say , the short flannel  --  want . There are those who have the audacity to maintain the self-evident absurdity that the actual evening dress of civilization is cool ; that black is a cool color , and that broadcloth is a cool material , or , in other words , that the Bailie environment is equally suitable for hibernation and for estivation . The London . Lancet has been suborned to aid this infamous attempt to cajole the slaves of fashion into hugging their chains . A Summer ball-room , with its congregation of young women beautifully fresh , and cool of aspect and of young , men mopping faces which reek red like the setting sun over limp and liquefying collars , suffices to refute this nefarious proposition and cries aloud for a watering-place evening dress for men . It is needless to say ' that no help in this great cause can be looked for from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he is a social monument . His clothes are a historical summary , not a philosophic forecast . If we advanced so far as to substitute white for black in. evening dress , the limitations of the dude would lead him to revert and to intrench himself behind such starched circumvallations of white duck as may still sometimes be seen confining the failing animal heat of elderly gentlemen , instead of the voluminous and transpirable tissue which the hour demands . We do not need a social Bourbon , but a social Bnimmel , a bold and hardy pioneer who , like his prototype , will not hesitate to acknowledge his " failures " and to try ? all things , holding fast that Which is cool . Such a man , in conjunction with an emancipated tailor and an enterprising flannel factory , might free the youth of America from the thralldom under which they swelter .                     