@@781576

txt It was Artemus Ward who had the hardihood to express a certain skepticism as to the usefulness of the kangaroo , one of the attractions of his " moral show , " but set up the plea that the kangaroo is an " amoosin ' little cuss . " Probably when the lamented Mr. BROWNE was throwing audiences into convulsions of laughter with his inimitable drawl he was unaware that the kangaroo is a beast that is not without importance to some industries of the showman 's country and that the time would come when an American would protest against the wholesale slaughter of the kangaroo ou its native soil . It appears that the United . States is the chief importer of kangaroo skins , which have such excellent qualities that tanners are willing to pay a high price for them , and an American tanner has called for tile protection of the animal . But what with dogs that hunt in packs on their own account , with the Australian Englishman , who loves to follow the kangaroo on horseback , and the rabbit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the gentle marsupial , the race of kangaroos is doomed . But worse than all these enemies are the skin hunters who supply the trade to America with the pelts of this dark-eyed creature . They pursue it at all seasons of the year and slaughter it at all ages , just as our bison is exterminated without regard to the future demand . The does are particularly defenseless in our early Spring when incumbered by their young ; for several months at least before that season , their peculiar pouches , in which the young are carried , give them the same advantage possessed by our opossums ; for the small kangaroos , which have begun to run about and feed , resort to the maternal pocket at the sign of danger . In some parts of Australia kangaroos have also gained in numbers , owing to the disappearance of the natives and the wild dogs , whose prey they were . But at present the intrusive whites , their dogs , and . their rabbits have turned the scale against them . and unless measures are taken very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past as are those colossal kangaroos the bones of which are found from time to time in Australia and Tasmania . If the kangaroo were merely an " amoosin ' little cuss " there would be no hope for it . But the American market is not a thing to be ignored ; it is more than likely that an animal which was trapped , poisoned , and . hunted in battue by the first colonists because it destroyed plantations and took the pasture from cattle and sheep will be protected . by the Australians of to-day . Known to Europeans only singe 1770 , when Capt . Cools took skins and skeletons aboard  --  the earlier accounts of the Dutch traveler BRUYN having failed to attract notice  --  the kangaroo has thus had . during one century a somewhat checkered career . Just now efforts are being made in Australia to provide a close season for kangaroos , during which it shall be a penal offense to hunt them . It is also suggested that young kangaroos be protected by the imposition of a fine upon any one who at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighs less than ten-twelfths of a pound . The close season is to last from Jan. 1 to May 1 , which may be likened to our Autumn . There are many kinds of kangaroo , ranging in size from a large sheep to a common rabbit . They are great favorites with men of science , for in the arrangement of their teeth and feet they offer many curious problems to zoologists when compared with living and fossil forms that partake of one or more of their traits . The large kangaroo appears to have a reputation in. its own haunts not unlike that which Artemus Ward gave it , for among the colonists it used to go by the affectionate title of " ole man . "                     