@@743605

txt The desperate situation of affairs in the Twelfth Congressional District , where Hendrick B. Wright is running as a stump candidate , and D. W. Connolly as the regular nominee of the Democratic Party , is just now engaging the attention of the National Democratic Committee , whose influence will be exercised this week to force either Wright or Connolly from the field . The managers see that with both of these men in the race the election to Congress of the Republican candidate , J. A. Scranton , is inevitable , and they are moving heaven and earth to secure control of the national legislature , as they see plainly that the election of Hancock and English is impossible . Connelly is the regWar nominee of the party ; Hendrick B. Wright , who proclaims himself an out-and-out Hancock man , is self-nominated , and hopes by gulling the people with improbable yarns concerning his famous fights with the corporate interests of the country in Congress to secure his reelection at the hands of the working men , whom he patronizingly calls " my people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bright of America . But Wright is cunning , and , being rich , is willing to sp'nd a good deal of money to go once more to Washington . His income from royalty on coal alone is 850,000 a year . It is stated that lie first offered Connolly ' S5,000 to withdraw from the contest . This offer was refused . Then the case was referred to the Democratic State Committee , with Senator A. H. Dill at its head . The meeting was held in this city , but none of the Philadelphia papers heard a whisper of what was going on , notwithstanding that there was a stormy time and nothing accomplished , as Connolly and Wright went away denouncing each other and more than ever determined to run . The Twelfth District is strongly Democratic . The wily Col. Wright called the attention of the National Committee to the situation , and will , it is said , tap his barrel freely if Connolly is forced from the fight , besides paying the latter a handsome amount to withdraw . A prominent Democrat , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last , assures me that he thinks Connolly will withdraw , as , if he did not intend to do so , he would never consent to let Barnum act as arbitrator in the case , Wright not having had a nomination , and not being entitled to a hearing . The case will be considered by the National Committee in New-York this week , when both Wright and Connolly have agreed to be present . A prominent Democrat from this city , in whom Connolly has great confidence will also attend at the Invitation of Mr. Barnum , and in all probability there will be only one Democratic candidate in the field before the week is over . In that event it will be well for the Republican National Committee to look after the Twelfth District . J. A. Scranton is making a gallant fight , but he should not be left to make it alone against such fearful odds . The district should be favored with visits from men who can stir Republicans to the importance of their work , and show the masses what a monumental humbug Hendrick @ @ @ 