@@745616

txt Canon FARRAR , commenting in a lecture at Chicago upon the " frankness of the American press , " called to mind that it had mentioned concerning himself that his voice was monotonous and that he did not know what to do with his hands . He admitted the justice of these criticisms , but pleaded that he was perfectly destitute of any powers of oratory , and had had absolutely no training in elocution . We know not whether the rugged breasts of the Chicago critics were softened by the lecturer 's throwing of himself upon their mercy , but we are quite clear that they should have been steeled against the plea . A lecturer is , in fact , a public performer . Everybody who attends his lecture has a right to tell his neighbor whether he thinks the performance was worth what it cost . It is the business of the newspaper critic to make this report in the interest of the general public . If the lecture be uninteresting it is his duty to report that fact and to assign the causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be supposed that these remarks will in all cases please the lecturer , but the business of the reporter is not to please the lecturer but to inform the public . A lecturer who is destitute of oratorical powers , and who has had no training in elocution , is a lecturer who can not lectture . Whether this disparagement of his own qualifications is justified in Canon FARRAR 's case or not , it has certainly fitted the cases of several English lecturers . A literary essay does not become a merchantable lecture merely because it is well written . It must also be so well read that the hearer of it gains something that the mere reader would miss . That was the case with DICKENS 'S readings , which constituted an entertainment well worth paying for . It was eminently not the case with Mr. MATTHEW ARNOLD 'S lectures , the first of which was entirely inaudible , while even after he had had some training in elocution his essays not only did not come mended from his mouth , but they came so mumbled that the hearer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to form an adequate notion of its contents . If a man can not speak at least clearly and with spirit ho has no right to invite the public to pay money to hear him lecture . That he is an accomplished writer does not prevent him from being an incompetent lecturer . It is true that if he be notorious enough many people will pay money merely to look at him . But in that case lie is not a lecturer but simply a show , and there is a lack of dignity and delicacy in a man making a show of himself for hire .                     