@@745705

txt In one particular the histbry of strikes repeats itself with almost unfailing regularity . Whenever the strike is extensive , involving a large number of men , there is apt to be lawless and violent action of some ( oft , either in the attempt to prevent new men from taking the strikers ' places or in direct attacks upon the property of the employer . And almost invariably the strikers disavow any part in or sympathy with these criminal and turbulent acts , and generally they emphatically condemn them . The leading members of the car drivers ' association , it will be remembered , protested to Commissioner O'DONNELL that they had nothing to do with the riotous proceedings in Grandstreet on Thursday . We see no reason why full credence should not be given to these disavowals of striking workingmen . It is unjust to impute to them disorderly acts which they explicitly declare to be no part of their tactics . In justice to them therefore , as well as for the protection of life and property in the city , the police , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should instantly attack and disperse the disorderly persons , even if it be necessary to club them without mercy . It is only the roughs and thieves , it appears , who destroy property and make the streets dangerous , and every lawabiding citizen will uphold the police in applying to these fellows upon every possible occasion the powerful reforming influence of the locust . We commend these suggestions to the sober consideration of the Board of Police Commissioners and of Superintendent MURRAY . We have already expressed the opinion that . these servants of the city made but a miserably half-hearted attempt to perform their duty on Thursday last . With a splendid force of stalwart officers at their command they frittered away their time and energies in the fruitless task of forcing a single car twice across the town , tamely submitting the while to countless acts of resistance , every one of which was a grave crime , and goodnaturedly allowing a few handfuls of roughs and thieves to wreck and destroy valuable property and imperil the lives of innocent persons . THE TIMES has had abundant assurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orderly and law-abiding portion of the community . We desire the Police Commissioners and the Superintendent to profit by our criticisms . It is not impossible that they may soon have a further occasion to deal with street rioting in connection with a strike . Should such an occasion arise we warn them that a failure to perform their duty fearlessly and effectually will lose them the confidence of the people of the city . They must choose between the thieves and roughs and the orderly , tax-paying , and wage-earning classes . It may cost those of them who are politicians a pang to see a head split open which belongs to a voting rough or to a thief who is a man of influence in his ward . But it will cost them their places , every man of them , if the city tax rate is raised next year to pay for the damage done by a mob they have allowed to get beyond their control . 