@@744960

txt Mr. William T. Palmer , the former partner of Rowell , who told so remarkable a story on the trial , has opened his mouth wide to-day to the reporters who have talked with him , and has endeavored to explain how it was that he was made out such a vile man . " It was understood between me and the counsel , " he said . " that I should bear the whole load , or as much of it as I could , without deViating from the truth . But still the whole story is far from being told . There are many things that were not brought out on the trial for the reason that pertinent questions were not asked inc . But the lawyers had the evi- : dence I gave before the Grand Jury , and of course I had to tell the same thing I did then . I talked too much before the Grand Jury for my own good and for the good of Rowell. but I had never been in such a position before , and the District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , as I said before , the whole story is not known by the public yet , and some things never will be , though . if Rowell is acquitted I May , to defend my own course , make same statements that will clear some points . " I knew the principal part of what I told Rowell , " said Mr. Palmer . " a long time before I said anything about it . But when Mrs. Rowell came into the factory one day and accused me of opening her letters and called me hard names , which I never did to her , I got mad and determined to get even with her . The evidence relating to the plot to punish Lynch if we found him in the house was that we should strip him and turn him into the street . But I did n't propose to let that be done , though Rowell intended it should be , and so did the boys who were going with me . If you should see the Powers Hotel register , in Rochester , for Aug. 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Rowell and Lynch were there . She registered as Mrs. E. N. Potter , Albion , and there were two other names that , were the fact generally known , would intensify the interest in this ease . " It isrumored to-night that the detente will permit the ease to be given to the jury to-mrow as the case now stands , without producing any evidence for their side , but relying upon what they brought out on cross-examination of the people 's witnesses and upon the sympathy which they believed they encouraged in the minds of the jury by their long arguments and revision of the case yesterday . The rumor , however , is denied by Judge Sutton , who says the defense will go on with their testimony to-morrow . He says the case will probably be given to the jury on Thursday .                     