@@781585

txt When the Papal See issued its circular instructing Catholic clergymen to abstain from . participating in political activities there was an intense feeling of hostility manifested among Irish Catholics . The Pope , the Sacred College , the Propaganda , and the ecclesiastical authorities in Rome , all and singular , were roundly denounced by the busy gentlemen who plan revolutions in Ireland on American soil . " Boycott the Pope ! " was the cry raised in Chicago ; and for a time it really appeared as if there would be a drought in the outflowing stream of Peter 's pence . It was subsequently claimed that the circular did not actually emanate from the Pope ; and certain learned pundits put a more liberal construction on the rescript , when its text was examined , than had first been given to it . Now , however , so far from obeying the circular  --  which certainly was by authority  --  Irish Catholic clergynien are expected to assist in the selection of candidates . One prelate has issued a circular to the priests of his diocese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Parliament , people and priests meet in conference in order that suitable men shall stand for election . This is rather high-handed business for clergymen who have been warned that the asperities and agitations of politics have no place in their parochial duties . And , even in this country , where we enjoy great freedom of opinion , the publication of a , circular like that above referred to would provoke angry comment . Our people resent any clerical or priestly interference in. political affairs , and a Bishop who would invite a conference of his flock for nominating purposes would be pretty sure of rough treatment . To be sure , an early deleted 3 lines But if there should be Parliamentary elections socn , it would be interesting to watch for the effect which this intemperate ecclesiastical example would Lave upon the Irish clergy . It is evident that the condition of the Gladstone Ministry inspires the Irish party with new confidence . From the confusion into which British politics are drifting they hone to snatch some signal advantage . Ihe Home Rulers dre more active titan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt is to be made to secure a larger proportion of Catholics in the Irish judiciary , and , although the scheme to introduce the study of the Irish language into the schools does not prosper , new plans to keep alive that tongue are forming ; and everything points to a revival of the cause of " Ireland for the Irish . "                     