@@744276

txt The House disposed of another contested election case to-day and gave to William A. Lowe the seat to which he was entitled as the chosen Representative of the Eighth District of Alabama . this was the fifth election case , counting the Utah case as the first , which has been decided . Three Republicans  --  Lynch , Mackey , and Bisbee  --  and one Greenback Democrat have been seated . Gen. Wheeler . who has occupied the place belonging to Mr. Lowe , was a noted cavalry commander in the Confederate Army . Soon after the battle of Shiloh he was appointed to the command of the Cavalry of the Confederacy in the West . This dashing officer , whose exploits in the saddle won for him so high a reputation as a soldier , Is so small and weak that he was forced to stand in the chair of one of the members while arguing in his own behalf , in order that the House might hear him . He can not weigh more than 120 pounds , and is little more than 5 feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except his long and busby gray beard . Col. Lowe is a tall man , of florid complexion , whose brown hair clings closely to his head until it reaches his coat collar , where it breaks into short ringlets which lie upon his coat . He had a strong voice until within a few months , but a painful affection of the throat now prevents him from speaking except in a loud whisper . His health seems to be shattered , and predictions are made that he is not long for this world . The debate to-day was not very exciting , although there was a little passage of words between Mr. Springer and Mr. Reed . The tone of some of the Republican speeches indicates that they were prepared for use in the coming Congressional campaign . Lowe was seated by a vote of 149 to 3 . Next Monday will be devoted to motions to pass bills under a suspension of the rules , and the most important of She bills which will be presented is the River and Harbor bill . It is expected that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a busy day , for several other bills which would not survive exposure to debate and amendment will doubtless be urged . There is no expectation that all of the appropriation bills can become laws before the end of the fiscal year . It is probable that one or two more election cases will be taken up before the end of the session . In the proceedings in the House , Mr. Wheeler was accorded the floor to close the argument in his own behalf . He reviewed the law and the facts in the case , and deduced therefrom the conclusion that he had been fairly and honestly elected as a member of the Fortyseventh Congress . He then yielded to Mr. Springer , of Illinois , who contended that if Lowe were to be stated it would be upon tissue ballots , and gave notice that he would offer a resolution recommitting the case and instructing the committee to ascertain the number of tissue ballots cast for either party , and to report who was elected after rejecting all such ballots . It was a serious matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tissue ballots , which could be read as well on one side as the other . If ever there had been a fraud perpetrated on the ballotbox that little ticket was that fraud , and in order to seat the contestant 1,294 of them must ; be counted . ' Mr. Calkins. of Indiana , stated that though he had carefully examined the case , he had for the first time heard to-day of tissue ballots . They had not been mentioned in the pleadings or the arguments before the Committee on Elections . Mr. Burrows , of Michigan , criticised the ac-. tion of the Democrats upon the contested election cases , declaring that the Forty-seventh Congress would pass into history as one in which the Democratic minority sought by means hitherto unemployed in parliamentary practice to prevent the House from exercising its unquestioned constitutional right to judge of the election of its own members . It looked to him as though it were a well-organdzed plan on the part of the Democracy , kinder the leadership of the gentleman rom Pennsylvania , ( Mr. Randall , ) to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regardless of the ' means or methods ' by which they were declared elected . The aiorthern Democracy realized that without a solid South it was nothing , and the South could not be kept solid by honesty at the polls . It looked as if the Southern Democracy had served notice on the Northern Democracy that unless it stood by the members sent from the South the partnership would be dissolved . He then proceeded to read extracts from Southern journals urging the Democratic party in the House to exercise the power of the minority to the utmost , in order to prevent the ousting of Southern members and declaring that any failure to stand shoulder to shoulder with the Southern Democrats would weaken the party in the South , if it did not hnock the bottom out of it altogether . That , he insisted , was the order that had gone forth , and was the true reason for the struggle . In conclusion , he appealed for an honest ballot and a fair count . The Republic could withstand the shock of revolution , it could overcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the murder of its executive head , but it could not long survive the assassination of its sovereign will at the ballot-box . Against this high crime aimed at a nation 's life he entered a nation 's eternal protest . Applause . Mr. Hazelton , of Wisconsin , demanded the previous question , pending which Mr. Springer moved to recommit , with instruction , and iplaced that motion in the form of a resolution and preamble , as follows : Whereas , Forty-r.ine papers called depositions , which are offered in evidence by contestant in this case , were never certified to be depositions by any Commissioner nor certified in any way whatever ; Whereas , Fifty papers called depositions in this case have no signature recognized by law ; Whereas , One hundred and twenty depositions I offered by contestant have nothing on them to show that any of the witnesses were sworn and none of said 120 depositions have any certificate further than the following words : " Signed before me on the day and year above written . Whereas , In taking SO of these pretended depositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witnesses in any way whatever or to propound any questions to them in any way whatever ; Whereas , Fifty of eaid pretended depositions were taken pursuant to a false notice served on contestee , said false notice stating that contestant would take evidence at or near Pleasant Hill , when the contestant intended and ' did take evidence at a place more than six miles from Pleasant Hill ; Whereas , The record in this case shows that in taking said evidence the amanuensis who wrote said evidence did not write it down as it was given by the witness . but that he wrote down to convey a meaning different from the meaning expressed by the witness ; Whereas , In taking 110 of said pretended deoositions ' the Commissioner refused to allow important , pertinent , and legal questions to be asked the witness ; it heresy , All these matters appear affirmatively on the record in this case , and are not denied or questioned ; Whereas , It is proved that some of these pre tended depositions have been changed since the witnesses were examined ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been changed ; Whereas , The above papers are the evidence on which the contestant relies to secure a seat in Congress : Whereas . The essential points in the report of the majority are based on the papers above mentioned ; Whereas . None of said so-called positions were taken as required by the laws enacted by Congress for taking depositions ; Whereas , The House of Representatives of the United States should not deprive a member of prima facie right to a seat . except pursuant to law ; Whereas . The contestee at as early a day as possible filed proper motions to suppress the pretended testimony ; Whereas , The committee has failed to pass on said motions ; Whereas . Although the contestee 's counsel bad only taken DO minutes to argue all the facts and the law in the above cause , contestee himself ( though requesting more time ) was allowed but seven minutes to argue his case before the committee ; therefore , Re. $01014 11 ; 14444 VA* ease be recommitted to the Committee on Elections , and that said committee be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence as he desires to retake , and that on the receipt of said evidence said committee again report to this House , and with the further instruction to ascertain the number of tissue ballots or ballots printed on tissue paper cast for either party as shown by the evidence , and to report a resolution giving the seat to the person who received the highest number of legal votes after rejecting all such tissue ballots . Only a small part of the preamble had been read when Mr. Reed , of Maine , objected to further reading , claiming that the preamble was merely a speech , and made the point of order that it was not proper to be incorporated in a motion to recommit . In arguing his point i of order he stated that the allegations in the preamble were untrue , and that the resolution had come in under ealse pretenses , inasmuch as the gentleman from Illinois had merely given notice that he would move to recommit with instructions . Mr. Randall , of Pennsylvania , said that it was only due to the gentleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preamble was not drawn up by him , but was placed in his charge after he had concluded his speech . Mr. Springer declared that he had acted in perfect good faith , and that if the gentleman from Maine ( Mr. Reed ) insisted to the contrary he was acting without the slightest foundation . If he were the honorable gentleman that he ( Mr. Springer ) had always regarded him to be he would , in the face of the House and the country , withdraw the intimation of bad faith and falsehood . Did he do so ? Mr. Reed ? He does not . Mr. Springer  --  Then I state that the gentleman takes the chances of doing what no honorable gentleman should do ? imputing bad motives and false motives to another member . Mr. Reed ? I am ready to take it . The Speaker ruled that the resolution was not in order on the ground that portions of the preamble were in the nature of debate . Mr. Springer was successful , however , in getting the whole of the preamble in the Record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal was laid on the table . Mr. Springer then moved to recommit with instructions to the committee to ascertain the number of tissue ballots cast for either Lowe or Wheeler , and to report a resolution giving the seat to the one having the highest number of legal votes after rejecting all such tissue ballots . The motion was lost  --  yeas 91 , nays 132  --  a party vote , except that Mr. Smith , of New York , voted with the Republicans . The previous question was then ordered without division . Mr. Hazelton , of ' Wisconsin , closed the debate with an hour 's speech in favor of the contestant . The'resolution declaring the contestant entitled to the seat was then adopted  --  yeas ID , nays ** Phelps , and Rice , of Ohio ) and Mr. Lowe appeared at the bar of the House and took the oath of office .                     