@@671912

txt The Democratic National Convention that meets at St. Louis next week will undonbt3dly present to the country as the chief issue of the campaign that it will formally open the reform of our revenue system , including as its most essential feature the reduction and reform of the tariff . The renomination of Mr. CLEVELAND would of itself effect this end , whatever might be the utterance of the convention on this issue , because Mr. CLEVELAND , in the most conspicuous and uncompromising manner , has committed himself to this policy . The position thus taken by its present leader and its future candidate has been strongly confirmed and emphasized by the action of the Democratic Party in the House of Representatives . The Democratic majority in that body , acting by the orderly and regular methods prescribed by custom , have , through their Committee of Ways and Means , brought in a bill that has been fully discussed in general debate , and that in its present shape has received a formal and authoritative pledge of support by the party caucus . This bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of tariff reduction as the President 's suggestions in his last annual message , does embody very substantial reductions , all of which are dictated and regulated by the principles advocated by Mr. CLEVELAND . When the convention meets , therefore , with the already acknowledged determination to carry out the expressed - will of the party in the renomination of the President , it will find itself bound by every consideration that canAveigh with it to place the candidate whom the party has freely , spontaneously , and unanimously chosen upon a platform that clearly embodies the principles and the policy to which he and the Democratic majority in the House , acting with him , under the full responsibility of official position , have given conclusive pledges . In the performance of this plain duty the convention will be directed and sustained by the declarations of the conventions of the party in the various States . That it may be seen how strong , how nearly uniform , and how unusually explicit these declarations have been , we publish this morning the substance of those from all the conventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form will . be read with interest by all who wish to know the actual direction of sentiment and conviction on this . These declarations by the State Conventions may be summed up as unqualifiedly in support of the President 's tariff policy on the Part of all the States save Connecticut , New-Jersey , and Virginia , in which the form of indorsement is less explicit , though it leaves no doubt as to the readiness of the Democratic Party in those States to fully sustain the candidate and what he mast represent . It is not necessary to recite the language of the various resolutions here . It is enouizh to state that they accept the policy of President CLEVELAND as Democratic , not as something new , involving any departure or advance from the previous positicei of the party , but as a logical and loyal adherence to that position . This ' fact , traced through the.Demooratio Conventions of the States from Oregon to Texas , from Maine to California , is of itself sufficiently conclusive . But there are features in it that make it still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , by those who are opposed - to the Democratic policy of tariff reform that there were certain States , some of them doubtful , some of them by the large delegations they would send to the convention entitled to particular consideration , in which the Democratic sentiment was protectionist . Of this latter class Pennsylvania was the most important . But this year Pennsylvania Democracy has thrown off the Randall yoke , has explicitly indorsed the policy of the President 's message and the tariff reform bill . of the Ways and Means Committee , and has done so avowedly in the interest and in the name of the workingmen who so largely cast the Democratic vote of that State . Of the " doubtful " States New-York , after a triumphant Democratic victory last year on the issue of tariff reform , reiterates its devotion to the reform and presents Mr. CLEVELAND to the National Convention as the concrete expression of its Democracy . Much has been said of protectionist sentiment in certain States of the South . Of this Alabama and Georgia were supposed to have the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff promotes manufacturing industries had gained a hold . But Alabama Democrats declare themselves " unalterably opposed to the present war tariff " and " demand a reduction of the surplus in the Treasury by a reduction of tariff taxation , " while the Georgia Democrats say " the message of the President was a statesmanlike and true declaration of the time-honored principles of the Democratic Party and merits our hearty and unqualified indorsement . " Tennessee , that was supposed , or rather was assumed , to have protectionist leanings , declares that " theviews of the President in his message to Congress in regard to the tariff are pure Jeffersonian Democracy and sound statesmanship , " and they " therefore heartily indorse " them . The Virginia Democrats " remit to the National Convention " " the formation of the issues between the Democratic and Republican Parties , " but " reaffirm the time  --  honored principles of the Democratic faith , upon which GROVER CLEVELAND was elected President of the United States , " and " pledge their support to his renomination and . election . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor a tariff for revenue limited to the necessities of the Government economically administered , " and declare that the interests of the whole country will be the best subserved by the re-election of President CLEVELAND . Turning toward the Central and Western States , where the Randall organs had pretended to find opposition to the President 's policy , we see the Democrats of Indiana insisting that " the taxes on imports be reduced to the lowest point consistent with efficiency in the public service , " and demanding " a revision and reform of the present unjust ' tariff , as recommended in the late message of the President . " We see Ohio Democrats , who were supposed to have , if we may say so , " the wool pulled over their eyes " as regards tariff reform , bluntly announcing that:they " approve the Mills Tariff bill as the practical expression of the principles of the Democratic Party . " We see the Michigan Democrats , who believe they have a fighting chance to carry the Electoral vote of their State , declaring themselves , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's message , " asserting that it " is a manly State paper and has pure justice and holy truth for its inspiration . " California , which has been claimed by the protectionists on account of its large wool industry , also " heartily indorses " the message of the President , which was particularly directed against the tariff tax on wools . This is one of the most remarkable records of party opinion upon a question that has been represented as a doubtful one that party history in this country presents . It leaves no doubt as to the action of the National Convention . It is in the nature of a mandate to that convention , and it will be reinforced by the delegates who have gone up from these State Conventions , who will in a body insist that the issue which the nomination of Mr. CLEVELAND presents shall be presented with fitting clearness in the platform on which he is to stand .                     