@@744221

txt The seat in the House which has been filled by the Mormons of Utah for 32 years was declared to be vacant this afternoon by a vote of 123 to 79 . This vote was taken upon a resolution declaring that Delegate Cannon was duly elected and entitled to his seat , and the 79 votes were cast in the affirmative . The roll was not called upon the resolutions submitted by the majority of the Committee on Elections . The debate upon this question has not been very interesting .. When it was resumed to-day it was announced that five items still remained for discussion . Speeches were made by Messrs . Beltzhoover , Jones , of Texas ; Jacobs , Moulton , and Pettibone , and when the time arrived for calling the previous question several Democrats asked that Mr. Cannon should be given one hour in which to defend himself . This was granted . Cannon is a short , thick-set man , with a full face and heavy features . At the beginning of his remarks the House listened to every word , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a speech devoid of argument and not adorned by eloquence , the members entered into conversation with each other and he lost his audience . Cannon began by saying that he was comforted by one reflection ? that Christianity , which had been extolled upon the floor , had itself suffered persecution and that its founder had been crucified between two thieves . Ever since those days , he continued , those who had opposed popular ideas bad suffered for their action and many of them laid down their lives in defense of their opinions . He declared that the charges made against his people in the House were false , and then reviewed the history of the Territory , saying that the Mormons had aided in our fight against the Mexicans , and had raised the United States flag at Salt Lake before that part of the country had been acquired from Mexico . Brigham Young had been appointed Governor by President Fillmore , and reappointed by President Pierce . A polygamist was a Delegate when the law of 1e:62 was enactea , and ho continued to hold that office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared that in no place were there greater freedom and liberty in choosing a representative than in Utah , and denied that there was any connection there between Church and State , although he admitted that every man over 21 year of age and of good reputation was a preacher in the Mormon Church . He accused Gov . Murray of conspiring to find an excuse for withholding his certficate in order to gain popularity . The Governor had defrauded him , and because of that fraud he had been held in the attitude of a contestant until the enactment of the Edmund 's law . It had been conceded , he said , that until that law was enacted he had a good case . The House ought to set an example of regard for equity and justice in Congress , by refusing- to expel him , if it hoped to induce the Mormons to obey the new law in the Territory . if plural marriages were to be the cause of disqualification now , in the next Congress the cause might be adultery or adherence to the Roman Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in which a lame defense of polygamy was made . It had been charged , he said , that his people pi acticed polygamy because they were licentious and lecherous , but he directed the attention of the House to the fact that if the people were led by licentious motives they could accomplish their purposes at much less expense in some other way . It would not be necessary to assinne the burden of a large " My people , " said he , practice polygamy because they believe it to be right and a religious duty , in obedience to a command of God , given for the redemption of the race . Plural wives were taken so that marriage may be lifted up ; so that every woman may have a chance to be a mother honorably , and so that there may be left no margin for lust to prey upon . " These statements excited laughter on both sides of the House . Mr. Cannon went on to say that his people saw that marriage had fallen into disuse in the world , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his remarks on this subject were not well received and he had sufficient sense to turn to something else . It would be unwise , he said , to dwell upon those points any longer , but he assured the House that the Mormons had many good arguments in support of their belief and practices which he had not presented . " We are willing , " said he , " to be on the same plane with Abraham . He will not look down upon us when we go where he is , and we will not be ashamed when we pass through the gates of his abode . " After attempting to defend the system by whichlthe Mormons have excluded Gentile farmers from tee agricultural lands of Utah by covering those lands with incorporated cities , he closed his speech by again comparing the Mormons to an early Christian , and declaring that , if he must go out , be would go out with a better conscience than those could have who might vote against him . Mr. Cassidy , of Nevada , a Democrat , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphatic protest against allowing Cannon to retain his seat , " The American Congress , " said he , " has been accessory to the crime of polygamy long enough . I favor the suppression of this crime , and to that end I favor the suppression of polygamists , and . especially the suppression of their acknowledged leader in Utah Territory . " He reminded his fellow-Democrats of the position taken by the Democratic members of the Electoral Commission in regard to Cronin 's certificate . In the last speech , Mr. Calking , Chairman of the Elections Committee , reviewed the legal and constitutional questions involved and made some pertinent references to the Mountain Meadow massacre . " The Mormons must yield , " said he ; " plural marriages must yield , not to the Republican or to the Democratic Party , but to the universal voice of the civilized world . " A yea and nay vote was then taken upon the resolution of the minority of the committee , which declared that Cannon had been elected a Delegate and was entitled to a seat . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' 9 , only a little handful of Democrats , including Mr. Cassidy , Oscar Turner , and some of those from Indiana , going with the Republicans against Cannon . The resolutions reported by the majority of the committee were then passed without a division . These resolutions declare that Allen G. Campbell is not entitled to the seat : that George Q. Cannon is not entitled to the seat , and that the seat of the Delegate from Utah is vacant . 