@@780882

txt Some malicous idiot , who has access to the columns of a NowYork paper and who was able to palm off upon the editor the impossible story that the President had removed Collector Redden and District-Attorney Dorsheimer , has given all the NewYork correspondents and the occupants of the White House some unnecessary annoyance tonight . It was scarcely necessary for any one who knows that the nominations of Mr. Dorsheimer and Mr. Redden are before the Senate to go to the trouble of asking the President whether he had suspended either of them from office . If such a thing were to be done it would be the first awkwardness of which the President had been guilty . It would not only be a gross disregard of all precedent , but would provoke the Senate by its discourtesy . The regular course would be . if the President had any purpose to remove an officer whose nomination had been sent to the Senate , to send a request to that body withdrawing the name of the officer to be removed . As might have been expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry " Perfectly absurd . Not a particle of truth in the-report . " The story as to the withdrawal of Collector ' Redden 's name from the Senate , and the substitution of the name of Hubert 0 . Thompson therefor by . President Cleveland , was the one topic of discussion among the politicians last night . Of minor importance was the industriously circulated rumor that District Attorney Martine had been nominated for United States District Attorney to succeed William Dorsheimer . Neither the Collector , nor Mr. Dorsheimer , nor Mr. Thompson , nor Mr. Martine had heard anything on the subject , and dispatches from Washington showed that there was absolutely no truth in the stories ; still the politicians profoundly discussed the question as to why the changes ought not to have been made . The arrival of Col. Daniel S. Lamont , the President 's private secretary , from Washington , soon after 10 o'clock gave some color to the claims of certain County Democracy leaders tilat there was " something in the wind . " Col. Lamont came to the city with Assistant Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and went at once to the Hoffman House . Mr. Smith , after registering at the Fifth-Avenue Hotel , called on Col. Lamont . The latter gentleAlan was asked about the stories regarding Collector Redden and District Attorney Dorsheimer by a TIMES reporter as he walked up to the clerk 's desk in the Hoffman House . " The stories are all news to me , " he replied . " I have heard nothing about them . " When he had gone to his room a reporter 's card was sent to him , and it was returned with the following explanation of Col. Lamont 's visit : " I am here on private business in the way of a little holiday shopping , and my visit is of no public interest whatever . " Mr , Smith remained with Col. Lamont for some time . The Assistant Secretary or the Treasury said that he knew nothing whatever of the intended withdrawal of the names of either Mr. Redden or Mr. Dorsheimer . Collector Redden himself declared that he was wholly ignorant of any intention on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke to the same effect regarding himself . The latter added that in the course of the day 's business he had received a dispatch from Washington which would in his opinion go far to show that there was no truth in the story of his being superseded . Notwithstanding all these denials , news of which was quickly absorbed by the expectant Politicians who thronged the Hoffman House . and besieged the New-Amsterdam Club , the speculation continued as briskly as ever . It was argued that as Mr. Hedden 's name was before the Senate , and as tnat body was not in session , his name could not be withdrawn . As to Mr. Martine succeeding Mr. Dorsheimer , it was pointed out that the former held a very important place and would not be likely to make a change . The County Democrats were generally credited with more shrewdness than to allow the position of District Attorney of New-York County to fall into the hands of Gov . Hill , who might appoint ex-Judge W. Bourke Cochran or some other Tammany Hall man to the position . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they heard the rumors as to the ohanges . They gathered in knots and talked over the matter , and gained courage as each denial of the truth of the stories came to them .                     