@@743644

txt In the last number of the Popular Science Monthly , Dr. GEORGE N. BEARD gives an entertaining account of a practical joke in which he has lately been concerned , either as a victim or a joker , it is not very clear which . It appears that some time ago Dr. BEARD was informed by a friend that there existed somewhere in the wilds of Maine a peculiar set of people called Jumpers , who were full of neurosis and other scientific troubles , and Mood greatly in need of investigation . These Jumpers , he was told , were in the habit of jumping when any one fired an unexpected gun close to their ears , and literally and promptly obeyed any order given to them . This latter peculiarity struck the Doctor as being so unique and so utterly foreign to the American character that he immediately filled his pocket with stethoscopes , lactometers , and other useful scientific instruments , and hastened to Maine to investigate the Jumpers . Arriving at a hotel in the Moosehead Lake region , and anxiously inquiring for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiters was au active and habitual Jumper . Upon this young man the Doctor immediately began to make experiments . After proving to his own satisfaction that the man would do what lie was told to do ? . a peculiarity strikingly at variance with the habits of waiters ? Dr. BEARD waited until the Jumper happened to be standing " near one of the employes of the house , " and then told him to strike . The Jumper struck the man " violently on the cheek , " after which , adds Dr. BEARD , " I took this person ( meaning the Jumper ) into the quiet of my Own room . " It would be interesting to know what was the condition of the unfortunate Jumper and of Dr. BEARD immediately after the assault on the " employe . " Did the latter , with the characteristic impulsiveness of the American citizen , visit his just indignation on the striker , or did he perceive that the Doctor was the greater culprit , and thereupon proceed to convince that able investigator that there is a limit beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? From the fact that both the Doctor and the Jumper immediately shut themselves up in a private room , it is probable that the " employe " dealt with them both impartially , and the Doctor 's subsequent proceedings strengthen this theory . When the Jumper and Dr. BEARD were safe from the pursuit of the infuriated " employe , " the scientific experiments were resumed . The Jumper was placed on a chair , and " every now and then " the Doctor " struck him without warning on the shoulder or on the back , " or " mildly kicked him . " As the Jumper does not appear to have been tied , we are justified in assuming that his interview with the " employe " had so exhausted him that he could be struck and kicked with impunity . The only demonstration that he made was to move " his shoulders upward slightly , " or to utter a " peculiar cry : " This proves that he was not in a condition to resent the conduct of the Doctor , and is au evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Up to this point it seems probable tilt Dr. BEARD had been the victim of the practical joker who lured him to Maine , but the " employe " had so thoroughly enlightened him that he was thenceforward solely dominated by a desire to " get square " with mankind by pounding the miserable Jumper under the pretext of making scientific experiments . After striking and kicking him until the sameness of the thing grew tiresome , Dr. BEARD procured another Juniper and ordered the two to strike one another . " Each struck the other simultaneously ? not mild or polite , but severe and painful , blows . " Evidently the Doctor superintended this experiment from some safe position , say a second-story window , for he does not seem to have been held " physically responsible " by either Jumper . After the second Jumper had been reduced to a harmless state , the Doctor took him to his room , and " made the same experiments with him as with the other case . " He says that he found him " much less irritable than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce the phenomena , " to wit , the lifting up of the shoulders and the peculiar cry . Evidently , this man was in a much more demoralized condition than was the first Jumper , and must have been very badly beaten before he was taken to the Doctor 's room . After many experiments of the cheerful and improving nature of those already mentioned , Dr. BEARD came to the conclusion which he gravely announces , that these socalled Jumpers are the victims of a strange disease which can only be described in elaborate Latin words . Ile has , however , the frankness to admit that some of the best people in the Moosehead Lake region declare that " the so-called Jumpers were either drunk or playing . " When a man has been made the victim of a joke it is sometimes pleasant to find him entering into the spirit of the thing . Dr. BEARD must feel , however , that in this matter he has gone a little too far . A joke is all very well , but to go up to Maine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men already exhausted by street-fighting into a private room and there kick and cuff them , is hardly entitled to be called a joke . It is not what people would have expected from a scientific person . It is true that the Doctor 's account of the matter is an amusing one , and he maintains with much skill the pretext that the whole affair was a grave scientific investigation , but though he may deceive the editor of the Popular Science Monthly the ordinary reader will comprehend his motive , and will disapprove his conduct even while laughing at his account of it .                     