@@743899

txt The abolition of what is called the Chinese Educational Commission in the United States , ' and the recall of the students now in this country , possesses more significance than most people seem disposed to accord to the matter . This is not , it is true , a novel development of policy on the part of the Chinese Government . The significance of the action of the Chinese Government lies , rather , in reassertion of the time-honored policy of this oldest of existing Asiatic dynasties . It is a notification to the world that the Celestial Empire has not forsaken the narrow path marked out for it by its ancient founders , whatever wonder-mongers and superficial and enthusiastic observers may think or say . Incidentally , too , the Chinese Government , by this course , pays an involuntary tribute to the liberality of American political ideas . The educational ' scheme which the Chinese Government has been trying in this , country for ten years has been , from our point of view , very successful . Under it about one hundred selected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , about one-half that number being already in collegiate course . It is estimated that the annual cost of this educational mission has been about one hundred thousand dollars , which is not a very large sum to be paid out by the Chinese imperial Government , to be sure , but which is a fairly generous item of income to be divided among the educational institutions of New-England among which the students are dispersed . The Chinese students are all from the higher classes of Chinese gentry and nobility . They are picked men , being selected from classes formed for competitive examinations . They are alert , inquisitive , bright , and intelligent . Even the dullest coolie , when he sets out to learn the English language , is so rapid in his early progress as to excite the amazement of his teachers . No American youth could possibly , in addition to conquering an alien language , make such progress in study as is made by these high-caste students from the oldest Asiatic empire . But , as we should naturally expect , the Chinese students in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the books provided by tutors . In California , many mission schools have been founded by religious organizations for the education of the Chinese , the ulterior object always being the inculcation of the truths of Christianity . These facilities are eagerly embraced by the Chinese immigrants , who , while professing great anxiety to learn all about " the Melican man 's GOD , " really desire nothing so much as to learn how to read and write the English language , and how to compute in the English manner of reckoning . Armed with these weapons of defense , they think that they may be able to resist the tyranny , oppression , and fraud of the white man . On the other hand , the better class of Chinese students , while sent here by their Government to acquire those arts which have , in the hands a Western nations . repeatedly over- thrown the power of the empire , have been learning beyond their text-books . It is unreasonable to suppose that bright young men like those educated in the United States at the cost of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering , mathematics , and other sciences , remaining , meanwhile , wholly irresponsive to the political and social influences by which they are surrounded . They need not become republicans and anti-monarchists ; but the liberal ideas which they insensibly absorb are as much out of place in China as savagery would be in the most highly civilized and enlightened capital of Europe . It has not taken the Chinese Government long to discover the effect which the return of the American students is likely to have upon China . Not many of these have gone home , but enough have shown themselves for the satisfaction of the cautious , observant , and suspicious rulers of the empire . These young men have learned telegraphy , and there is not a mile of electric wire permitted under the auspices and sanction of the Chinese Government . They have made themselves familiar with the practical working of railways , and their Government bought and dismantled the only railway ever built within the limits of the Celestial Empire . They have learned what is meant by the absolute liberty of the citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a country which is ruled by an irresponsible oligarchy , an oligarchy which is so convoluted and mysterious that even its most exalted subjects do not know where is the precise location of the central power of the Government , although that power , like the dragon which so aptly symbolizes it , never sleeps , strikes at will , and is coiled around the lives and fortunes of the most populous empire on the face of the earth . The collapse of the Chinese Educational Commission does not imply any change in the policy of the imperial Government . It is a rude and emphatic denial of the enthusiastic assertions that China had entered upon the pathway of progress pursued by other nations , and that there is for her no turning back . China can not borrow our learning , our science , and our material forms of industry without importing with them the virus of political rebellion . Therefore , she will have none of these things .                     