@@745523

txt Notwithstanding the efforts made by Dr. EDSON and his assistants to break up the trade in rotten meat , fruit , and vegetables , the vile and poisonous stuff is sold in some parts of the city , and there is abundant evidence that those who buy and eat it pay the penalty . Some of the unwholesome meat is seized before it reaches the curbstone markets , but ' large quantities are found and confiscated in the districts where it is usually sold for consumption . Week before last eleven tons of spoiled meat and fish were taken by the sanitary officers and thirtyone tons of unripe or decayed fruit and vegetables . Within a few days an epidemic of acute dysentery has appeared in the neighborhood of Mott and Hester streets in houses near which twenty tons of rotten meat and decayed vegetables have been confiscated in the last thirty days . It is in districts like this that cholera would find hundreds of victims if it should reach New-York . In Brooklyn the sanitary officers have to contend with the same ignorance on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanitary rules on the part of salesmen . In the month of July nearly four tons of spoiled meat were found and condemned there , together with large quantities of rotten or unripe vegetables and fruit . That partly decomposed meat may under certain conditions act as a deadly poison has recently been proved in the West . Nearly one hundred persons in the town of Momence , Ill. , were made seriously ill by eating dried beef , prepared for consumption in Chicago after it had become putrid . In one case the poison caused death . The first symptoms resembled those of cholera morbus , and were followed lay exhaustion , Within a few days forty persons in a village of three hundred inhabitants near Valparaiso , Ind. , have been prostrated by the use of rottenAmeat , and five of them have died : , The butchers at first denied that illness and death in these towns could be traced to the use of bad meat , but investigations made in Chicago  --  the country 's greatest meat market ? by the Chicago . Aews show that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of this meat is sold in Chicago , but a great deal of it is sent to other parts of the West in the shape of dried or corned beef . The . News 's reporters discovered that many diseased cattle were shipped to Chicago , and that these , with many other animals that had been maimed and mutilated in transit and had become unfit for food , passed the inspectors and were put on the market . So large has the trade in this kind of cattle become , owing to laxity of inspection , that it is well defined , and those engaged in it are called " scalpers . " Diseased sheep are openly sold . A reporter inspected forty pens at the stock yards , and found diseased sheep in twenty-eight of them . " A thousand diseased sheep are bought at the stock yards daily by scalpers , " it is said , " and sold to the unsuspecting public as good mutton . " In Chicago , in New-York , in Brooklyn , and doubtless in many other cities there are unscrupulous wretches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selling decayed meat . The buyers are , almost without exception , found among the poor and the ignorant . They are the greatest sufferers , but the rich and the intelligent also suffer indirectly .. In this city Dr. EDSON and his assistants have done good work in intercepting so much of the stuff while it was on its way to the poor man 's kitchen . But is it not possible to do more ? Can not the sale of rotten meat and decayed vegetables be checked by inflicting some punishment beyond the confiscation of the stock in trade ? This punishment should be a heavy fine or imprisonment , and until the traders , wholesale and retail , shall be effectively restrained in this way they will continue to dodge the inspectors and poison the people .                     