@@745362

txt A good deal of ignorance of the powers and purposes of the Civil Service Commissioners is being manifested by Democrats about this time , and it may be displayed more boldly before the month is out . In the Post this morning an editorial paragraph says : " The animus of the recent charges against fudge Thoman , of the Civil Service Commission , remains to be discovered , but it may be guessed at . It is not altogether certain that the charges originated in Ohio . It is not improbable that they were instigated from Washington . The theory that at this particular juncture his absence from the Board of Commissioners would be more palatable than his presence on account of his indisposition to enlarge the scopo of the civil service law in the interest of employes of the Government who are in danger of being disturbed by a chancre of Administration is not without reasonableness . " The idea that the Civil Service Commissioners can do anything by a change of classification to protect officehOlders whom Republicans desire to be kept in office would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sixth section of the civil service law says that the classification shall be made by the heads of departments and the President . The fact that the classification is not uniform , that it differs in several departments , indicates the freedom of those departments frem absolute control by the Commissioners in this regard . The rules as first . submitted by the Commissioners . to the President on May 4 , 1883 , made no exception in favor of chief clerks or chiefs of divisions . Through the interference of Mr. Folger it was understood that rule 19 was so changed as to take these officers out of reach of the rules . Those grades include 40 or 50 persons in the departmental service here and several persons in the larger Custom Houses , 12 or 15 being the number in the New-York Custom House . If the rule had been left as originally drawn there would have been no oause for uneasiness now in Democratic minds . Secretary McCulloch 's recent order classifying the force in the Treasury Department and including all employes above $1,800 in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats are determined to make them . The rules stipulate that chiefs of divisions shall not be required to undergo examination , and if the Democrats are determined to have new chiefs and entirely green ones there is no law to obstruct them . it should be said for the Republicans that the places of chief clerks and chiefs of divisions have since the law went into operation been filled by promotion from the lower grades . and not by outside appointments , so that there has been no more " spoils " patronage than there would have been if these officers were not excepted out of the list for which examinations were required . The uniform practice has been to promote out of the classified service .                     