@@671734

txt Whatever may be the result of next year 's elections , there is one argument that was used in 1884 with a good deal of effect that can not be used again , and which it is a great good for the country and a great relief to sensible men of all parties to be well rid of . That is the argument that such grave danger was to be feared from the accession of a Democratic Administration , no matter by whom led or of whom composed , that any Republican Administration Must be safer . That sort of reasoning will not be heard again , save in the hide-bound party organs or by those who think that the excitement of party passion will carry the votes of the men who do not share that passion . We have had the change , and whatever may be thought of the relative merits of the candidates put in the field next year , none of them will be condemned off-hand merely because of the party he represents . We have reason to be profoundly grateful that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time a solid basis for the apprehension of disastrous results from a Democratic Administration , it had ceased to be rational , and the Republican Party loaders had grossly abused it . It is not a healthy thing for the country that any set of men should be allowed to suppose that their party will be always supported , and , that the control of the machinery of the party must always carry with ' it the control of the Government . Such a state of things means absolutism in government , as noxious and as irresponsible as that of any despotism now existing . It is oven worse than any existing despotism , for it is without those restraints of custom and tradition that modify a tyranny of inherited power . The most oppressive and the most offensive exercise of power has been shown in all history to be that of men who , with selfish purposes of their own and without conscience or scruple , have maintained themselves on the blind and zealous devotion of mon of sincerity of feeling and rectitude of intention . There was nothing in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so cynically cruel as the tyranny of the revolutionary leaders in the reign , of terror . There is nothing in our own political history so violently in conflict with the principles of pure and honest government by political parties as the ruthless rule of the Republican managers that culminated in the presentation of Mr. BLAINE for the Presidency . There never was a period when integrity and loyalty to the public good counted for so little in the conduct of a , great party as that in which Mr. BLAINE became the exponent of his party . Happily , these mon have lost the peculiar advantage they then possessed . If the Republican Party , under their lead , is to be again restored to power , it will be by the aid of elements foreign to its original character and purposes , and not by the misdirected patriotism which once gave them their immense powers . Not that the feeling of fear of disaster from any but Republican rule has vanished . It exists and is very strong , but it is not strong enough to determine a direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victory for Blaine Republicanism would be possible only against the active protest and opposition of a large number of the best men formerly in the Republican Party , in part expressed in the Prohibition movement and in part producing open co-operation with the Democratic Party , as in 1884 . To compensate for this direct and indirect loss the Blaineites must rely on recruits from the Democracy , and from precisely that portion of the Democracy that formerly inspired Republicans with the strongest disgust and the greatest apprehension . But quite apart from the question of the elections to be held next year , the country is to be congratulated on the fact that it has been shown to be possible to advance some of the highest aims of earnest and intelligent political action by means of an administration of the party that for so many years was looked upon with despairing distrust . In the purification of the civil service from the pest of the spoils system ; in the study and application of sound principles of finance ; in the elucidation and . application , so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principles of reform in the revenue , and especially in the vigorous and enlightened treatment of all public questions from the point of view of the public interest rather than from that of petty partisan advantage , the Cleveland Administration has conferred priceless benefits upon the country . It has done what no Administration has done in twenty years ? it has made it possible for men of independence and intelligence to work hopefully and effectually in politics outside the limits of one particular party . It is no small thing that the young men just entering on.the field of a citizen 's activity not only may , but must , decide what party is the best instrument for useful purposes , and are ' not forced to work with one party alone , or to be doomed to continual defeat .                     