@@781220

txt A decided sensation was caused here this evening by charges , printed in an extra edition of a local paper , that the First Regiment is rotten to the core . The paper says : " Governor-elect Campbell is now in possession of facts concerning the regiment , its officers and discipline , furnished hint by several former contributing members , which will probably lead him to depose various officials the moment he assumes the Gubernatorial chair . Gambling , feasting , and debauchery of all kinds are reputed to flourish almost nightly within the frescoed walls of the officers ' quarters . Two weeks ago yesterday an interesting poker game took place among the officers behind closed doors and drawn curtains , through which the laughter and curses resounded and echoed through the corridors . Within the handsome Quartermaster 's reception room stands a broad sideboard for which the county was taxed $350 for the Captains of the various companies , ' save two , who have steadfastly declined to alternate in replenishing the stock of liquors . The first draft on the $500 which Longworth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed the name of the Long-worth Rides , was applied to the outfitting of the ' Captains ' cupboard . ' " The funds are largely increased by tendollar subscriptions of the coutribliting members , who in return are exempt from jury service . It is stud that various Captains have been known to issue these certifloates , dated back sufficiently to exempt the contributor from serving in court . These funds are never audited , and several companies are on tho brink of bankruptcy . A number of contributors have recently withdrawn on account of the hase uses to which the money was applied . A refrigerator in the basement , paid tor with county funds , contailis a full stock of intoxicants , evidently selected by an admirable connoisseur . " Numerous copies of the Articles of War , which are supposed to govern all state troops , are among the tasty ornaments of the reception rooms , out have never been detected in the hands of the regimental officers . Indeed , a military gentleman states that almost every one is violated nightly , and not a Captain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regiment , New-York . " The article charges that at the late election for Colonel money was used , and the names of those who profited by it are given . Gov . Foralter was informed and used his influence to defeat the candidate using money , but without effect . This afternoon C. E. Riley , Adjutant ; E. W. Ludlow , Assistant Adjutant , and John H. Ely , Chaplain , resigned . The article concludes by saying that the practices at the armory are making more drunkards and debauchees than any hundred grog shops in the city .                     