@@743457

txt Several hours were wasted by the Senate to-day in listening to further discussion of the Kellogg case , the sneakers being Messrs . and Ben Hill . Mr. Hill devoted himself to replying to the arguments advanced by Senators Butler ' and Hampton , of South Corolina , against the resolution of the Committee on Privileges and Elections , and to lecturing those Democratic Senators who have indicated a purpose to vote against the resolution declaring Mr. Kellogg not entitled to his seat . Mr. Hill labored hard to show that Democratic Senators were committed against the res adjudicata theory , because they voted several times against propositions presented by the Republicans declaring that the former action of the Senate in this case was final . He denied that the committee had exceeded their authority in going into the merits of the case , and reporting a resolution declaring Kellogg not entitled to the seat he now occupies , and declared that the committee had merely acted in accordance with the instructions of the Senate . Senator Butler replied to Mr. Hill with great animation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decidedly pungent and personal He charged that the committee had exceeded their jurisdiction , and read the resolution referring the case to them to show that they were merely instructed to investigate the facts set forth in the petition presented to the Senate . He denied that the resolution contained authority to report such a resolution as had been reported , and said that the committee had been driven into the course pursued through the Senator from Georgia . He and others had voted against the resolutions offered by the Republicans as amendments to the committee 's resolution , simply to accommodate the Committee on Elections and to preserve the original . Such practice was frequent in the Senate , and did not commit those who thus voted to any thing . Referring to Mr. Hill 's criticism upon his action on a question of law , which he had decided for himself upon his oath of office , Mr. i Butler sad the Senator from Georgia must not assume to be his superior upon the floor of the Senate , because such an assumption would not - be tolerated . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Charleston newspaper , in which it was intimated that a bargain was made by the South Carolina Senators in connection with the Kellogg case , and he proceeded to defend those Senators against such a charge . Mr. Butler said that he denounced this publication at the time as a base calumny , and he thought it was an unwarranted impertinence on the part of Mr. Hill to revive this slander , and to rise in his Mr. Butler 's presence to defend him . Mr.Butler closed by sarcastically alluding to Mr. Hill 's frequent boasts before and since the war of his devotion to the Union , but reminded him that during the four years of the rebellion he deemed it prudent to suppress his Union sentiments . Senator Hampton also made a brief reply to some of Mr. Hill 's remarks . He said it was . perhaps unfortunate that he could not follow Mr. in this case . He believed ; however , that he was right in the position he had taken , and it was not improbable that the Geor- ' ? gia Senator would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . both . parties the benefit of his preceptsand not long ago he attempted to prove that the Democratic ' Party was responsible for all the bloodshed of the war and should not again be trusted with power . He described Mr. Hill as a man " stiff in opinion . always wrong . everything in turn , and nothing long . " Mr. Hill made no reply to the severe reflections of the South Carolina Senators . 