@@781197

txt The city to-day presented a quiet appearance and there was nothing to remind one of the exciting times just past . Trains-on the Missouri Pacific move north and south without molestation , and the indications are that commerce on all the roads will resume its former condition . Guards , it is true , are on the different freight trains and engines , and the Rangers are still here , , but thegeneral belief is that there will be no further ; disturbance in this city or near it . Mr. Farmer , District Master Workman of Assembly No. 78 , Knights of Labor , said to-day that.he could not see how the - strike would end , and that he would not be surprised at almost any course affairs might take in the near future if the strike was not settled . Mr. Farmer believes in Government control of railroads and like corporations . He is a conservative man , a farmer by profession as ' well as by name . He believes that the present labor trouble will end in the organization of a workingman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farmer , it may be stated that the Farmers ' Alliance of Parker County , Texas , has taken steps with regard to the nomination and election of county and State otheers , A as shown by the following : Resolved , That we cheerfully co-operate with the agricultural and laboring classes outside of any organization on a basis of representation in proportion to the voting strength of the Warmers ' Alliance and . Knights of Labor in nominating and electing to office none but good and true men from among ' the laboring classes . irrespective of former party affiliation . Wo recommend the appointment of , a standing committee to confer freely with the agricultural and laboring element to form a satisfactory method of carrying into practical efNct the spirit of the foregoing resolution , and to report it to the regular quarterly meeting of the County Alliance in July meat . The standing committee above referred to has already been appointed , and plans are well under way for perfecting the nomination or a laboring man 's ticket at the next State election . Yesterday 's municipal election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victory for the Knights of Labor . This turn of affairs has elated the Knights , and they will at once marshal tueir forces for the State election . Political wire-pullers are at their wit 's ends to bring about an eruption between the Partners ' Alliance and the Knights of Labor . The Fort Worth Master Workman received the following telegram today from Washington , signed by T. P. Ryndcr , Chairman of the Grievance Local Committee of Pennsylvania : " The Curtin committee to investigate your grievance will be appointed to-morrow . het evidence ready . You will bo heard fully and impartially . " No further arrests have been made . Officers Fulford and Sneed , wounded in Saturday 's fight , are improving .                     