@@743911

txt It is undeniable that Americans of the Eastern States are steadily decreasing in stature . There was a time when the Yankee was proverbially long and lank , but at the rresent day the long variety exists only in the backwoods of Maine and New-Hampshire , while the Yankee of Boston , NewHaven , Providence , and other large towns is about the size of the average Frenchman . In New-York the mean height of its nativeborn inhabitants is still less . The young men of society and broking proclivities are more frequently under than over five feet . In the country towns the height of the men seems to vary inversely as the size of the population , and among the farmers we meet with tall and well-formed figures . As we go West the average height steadily increases , except in the large cities , and in the North-western and frontier States a man who is less than six feet high is regarded as a peculiar and unfortunate person . If , now , we look at Europe , we find that in certain countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ height . The Scotchmen are as long and lank as the men of Maine or Minnesota , and the Englishman is ordinarily fully five feet ten inches high , except in London , where a smaller variety of Englishman is occasionally met . In France , on the other hand , the men have dwindled so steadily during the last hundred years that the standard of height for admission to the Army has been repeatedly lowered . In Spain and South Italy men are small , whereas in North Italy and in most of Germany they are as tall as Englishmen . Wherever we find a small race of men we can easily ascertain that they have decreased in stature within a century , and that this decrease is still in progress ; while in countries where me9r are of medium height no tendency to grow either shorter or taller is perceptible . From these data it is apparent that there exists some cause which is shortening the stature of certain races of men , that this cause is more active in cities than in the rural districts . and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  such as the Scotch Highlands and our Western frontier States . To ascertain what this cause is should be the duy of every philosophic lover of his race . Scientific persons have paid little attention to this subject , and when they have mentioned it they have thrown no light upon it . We have been told that Frenchmen have grown shorter because of the revolutions which have taken place in France , but why revolutions should have this surprising effect we are not told . Then it has been asserted that the Roman Catholic religion , together with oppressive Governments , have reduced the size of the Spaniards and the Neapolitans , but as neither the Church nor the State exercises oppression directly on the crown of the head and in a line with the spinal column of the Spaniard or Neapolitan , why should the subjects of ISABELLA and BOMBA and the supporters of the Papacy grow smaller . Even if this curious theory did account for the small stature of Europeans , it would not account for the disappearance of tall men from Boston and New-York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Catholic Lombards , in spite of centuries of oppression , are still reasonably tall men . The true scientific way of solving the problem is to find out some peculiarity , either of climate or circumstance , which exists where men are growing smaller and does not exist where a normal height is maintained . We do not need to look far to find this peculiarity . It is found in the barber 's shop . Where men shave themselves , as in Scotland , in England outside of London , in Lombardy , in Germany , and in the rural districts of the United States , they are tall . Where it is the usual custom for men to be shaved by barbers , they are small . Years ago every New-Englander and every New-Yorker shaved himself , and their average stature was the same as that of the Maine backwoodsman who has never seen a barber 's shop . The decrease in the stature of Americans of the Atlantic States , of Frenchmen , Spaniards , and Neapolitans , has in eery instance begun soon after the introduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be worse than folly to suppose that this is a mere coincidence , and that the barbers are not the real cause of the decrease in stature of the communities in which they flourish . Why barbers should have this curious and disastrous effect is certainly very strange . It may be said that their . conversation , by its depressing influence , interferes with the physical growth of their victims , but this suggestion is readily refuted by the fact that Frenchmen are , notoriously gay , while Englishmen , who shave themselves , are sombre . Great depression of spirits is undoubtedly produced by the conversation of barbers , but this depression is temporary , and there is not a particle of evidence to show that depression of spirits , to whatever cause it may be due , ever affects the stature of the person afflicted . Neither will it do to say that tonic interferes with the growth of anything  --  not even of hair . Tonic is physically harmless . It consists merely of water mixed with a little alcohol and some innocent coloring matter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such:a mixture hinder the growth of a man 's legs or prevent the due expansion of his chest ? The evils of tonic are great , but they are confined to the pocket and the morals , and it is impossible to believe that any man has been made an inch shorter or taller by tonic . But if we eliminate from the problem both the conversation and the tonic of barbers , what remains in connection with the act of being shaved by a barber to which we can attribute the progressive shortening of men ? To this question no answer can as yet be returned . Perhaps years of careful investigation will be required before the desired answer is found . Of the shortening influence of barbers there is no room for doubt , and the remedy , to wit , the extermination of barbers , is self-evident ; but we must sadly confess that wherein the shortening influence of barbers consists we have not the slightest idea .                     