@@744996

txt There can be very little sympathy between the German Government and the Government of the Republic of the United States . The one is absolutism , pure and simple . The other is the most generous form of political liberalism extant . But between the German people and our own there is a community of interest in many regards . Chief among the reasons for ofir cultivating a close relationship with Germany is the numerous German element in our population . The representatives of no other nationality are more welcome , respected , thrifty , and readily assimilated than those who represent the German race . German literature , the German language , the traditions , manners , and customs of Germany are all familiar , even encleared , to the American people . Therefore , any rupture of the frienclly relations existing betwixt the two peoples would be regarded with profound regret by the citizens of this Republic . German migration to the United States has been viewed by the imperial Government with profound disfavor . It has assumed a political aspect . The empire has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? nstead of serving in the army , have added their brawn and brain and their frugal savings to the teeming resources of the American Republic . Not only so , but the growth of liberal political ideas in Germany has been stimulated by the reflex influences which are the legitimate result of a migration that divides families , communities , and even the population of large districts , between the German Empire and the American Republic . Any considerable diffusion of those political ideas would be viewed with uneasiness by the men at the head of affairs in the German Government . It would be perfectly natural that the American Government and its people should be cordially disliked in German governmental circles . Minister SARGENT , as the official representative of our Government and people , could not have expected an affectionate reception in Berlin . In this respect he was not disappointed . A far Western politician , unfamiliar with the arts of diplomacy , ignorant of any foreign language , and not easily adapting himself to habits and manners new to him , he has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and punctilio hold . sway . Nothing but a strong international friendship ( which did not exist in this case ) could have made the United States Minister at ease in Berlin . In the interest of certain German producers , and against the interests of the German people , the Government decided to exclude American products of swine 's flesh . This exclusion was ordered for pretended sanitary reasons . Minister I SARGENT , in a confidential communication to the State Department . - exposed the insincerity of this pretext . The State Department made public the Minister 's letter to his infinite confusion and to the indignation of BISMARCK and his satellites . Herr LASk.ER , a German Liberal statesman , died in this country under peculiarly distressing circumstances . At the instance of a Texas Representative , the House adopted a resolution expressive of the sorrow which the Representatives felt over the death of a man whose political course , they said , had promoted the highest political , economic , and social welfare of the German people . Prince BISMARCK returns the resolution with the objection that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not indorse or approve . This international episode has several wholesome lessons . It is idle for a republican Government like our own to attempt intimately friendly relations with a Government which is absolutist , almost autocratic , in its traditions and tendencies . There can be no natural alliance between the republic and an absolute monarchy . The publication of Minister SARGENT 'S now famous communication on the subject of German exclusion of American hog products was a piece of folly or carelessness which could not have happened except in a Government whose diplomacy has always been managed in the free and easy way characteristic of our State Department . The resolution adopted by the Howe , although kindly meant , was unskillfully drawn . Although BISMARCK 'S criticism of the resolution was brutal and unmannerly , the unintentional effect of that utterance of the House was to praise a man who had been a leader of a party not now in power in Germany . The Lasker incident is purely a matter of internal German policy . The boorishness of MsDIA.RCK affects only Germany . German proscription of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the empire of some of the elements that constitute a State have led up to this latest manifestation of German spleen . We may regard the incident without discomposure . Possibly the executive and legislative branches of the Government may consider with profit the irritating result of this train of circumstances .                     