@@744902

txt Mr. J. HAMPDEN ROBB , in a sensible talk with a reporter , has lately given his programme of charter reform in this City . It has the great merit of simplicity . " I would give the Mayor , " he says , " the next Mayor elected after so amending the charter , power to appoint and remove heads of departments without concurrent action of the Aldermen or any . one else . I am in favor of single-headed commissions to be appointed by the Mayor . The Controller , however , I would have elected . The City election should be held at a time when voters have no other question to distract their minds . There is something to be said for a separate charter election and something to be said for an election of the . Controller , although the election of ECController on the same ticket with the Mayor does not really provide much of an additional safeguard against waste . The real check is the Board of Estimate , which has , upon the whole , worked tolerably well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Controller against arbitrary removal by the Mayor which do not exist in the cases of heads of executive departments . The gist of Mr. ROBB 'S programme is the familiar suggestion , which has been repeated by organs of both parties and ' of neither party , that the Mayor should have his responsibility for the government of the City made real . and left undivided . It is now shared by the Board of Aldermen , and the notion of holding the Board of Aldermen responsible for anything is merely grotesque . The substantial powers of that body have one after another been taken ' away , in spite of arguments about the importance . of " a co-ordinate branch , " as a result of the instinct of preservation implanted in the human breast . Everybody understands that the more power you give to men chosen as the Aldermen are in a community like this , the more mischief , they will do and the more money they will cost . Their real powers now are the power of obstructing the Mayor and the power of granting permission to.various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Having been unfaithful over many things , they were made rulers over a few things . Now that they have been extremely unfaithful over these few things , the obvious course is to make them rulers over nothing . In fact , if the power of obstructing the Mayor were taken away from the board , that body , would obviously be without any further excuse for existing , since nobody can pretend that the authorization of nuisances and the occasional effusion of patriotic eloquence are worth the price we pay for them directly , to say nothing of what they cost us indirectly . Laying the axe at the root of the m , ischief would also have the good result of reducing the Board of Estimate to three members , and thereby preventing the possibility of a dead-lock in that body . 