@@781611

txt The contributions to the history of the war which Gen. LEW WALLACE has assayed in the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette are hardly worthy of him . They how that his memory or information is inexact as to the Maryland operations in which he took part during the year 1864 , while his grave charges against Gen. HALLECK are sustained by no evidence brought forward by himself , and are refuted by evidence of whose existence he was palpably not aware until enlightened by Gen. BOYNTON . HALLECK , no doubt , has a full share of military blunders to answer for , but that he was capable of risking the loss of the national capital by withholding from Gen. GRANT , through jealousy of him , information as to the serious character of EARLY 'S movements is simply incredible . The groundless accusations of Gen. WALLACE are the more to be regretted since he himself has received well-merited praise for the vigor with which , being in command at Baltimore during EARLY 'S incursion , he instantly gathered all available troops , and , moving them forward to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EARLY 'S greatly superior force of veterans . WALLACE was driven back with great loss , " retreating , " as he telegraphed to HALLECK , " with a footsore , battered , and half demoralized column ; ' 1 but he brought off all his stores and guns and inflicted no little loss on the enemy . EARLY acknowledged that his killed and wounded amounted to about 700 , and 435 men , wounded too badly to be carried along , were captured by Union cavalry in the Frederick hospitals and houses some days after . Not content with recalling this good effort to check the enemy , Gen. WALLACE claimed that he and his operations alone revealed to GRANT what was going on , and thus saved the capital , in spite of HALLECK 'S studious concealments . Hitherto he has believed that his subsequent displacement by ORD was due to HALLECK . But Gen. BOYNTON shows conclusively  --  what Gen. WALLACE might himself have discovered by looking up the official records  --  that this was the act of Gen. GRANT . He must be chagrined at finding that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it vent in an unjust charge . The march of EARLY down the Shenandoah Valley was conducted with such care that his presence was not discovered by the Union forces until he was close upon Harper 's Ferry . When he had already reached Martinsburg , with his cavalry at the Potomac fords , GRANT telegraphed from the James River to Washington ; in order to quiet fears there , that " there are no troops that can now be threatening HUNTER 'S department except the remnant of the force W. E. JONES had and possibly BRECKINRIDGE. ? Secretary STANTON , adopting this view , wrote to Gov . CURTIN even two days later that it seems to be a ? raiding expedition by some of the partisan robbers that infest that region . " Thus , even were it true that HALL ECK at this time failed to make known the true character of the invasion , the same allegation could be made against Gen. GRANT and Mr. STANTON , in whose cases the fact would hardly indicate treasonable intents . HALLECK , it is true , at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders except as he received them from GRANT . But this was because he held tenaciously to his subordinate position , and did not desire to issue instructions that might be quickly overruled . So far as information about EARLY 'S march is concerned the evidence is overwhelming that he was foremost in urging Gen. GRANT to guard against the threatened danger . Intent on his great work at Richmond , the Lieutenant-General was not disposed to have troops drawn away from it until absolutely necessary . He knew that his forces could steam night and day from Hampton Roads to Washington before EARLY 'S could reach it from Harper 's Ferry . So far , however , as HALLECK is concerned it is a matter of indisputable record that on the self-same day he urged GRANT to send troops to Washington and telegraphed WALLACE to send troops to Harper 's Ferry , and that this occurred while WALLACE was still at Baltimore .                     