@@745297

txt The active discussion of the means at hand for resisting an invasion of the cholera , which is not only possible but probable next year , calls attention to some features in the condition of Brooklyn that are decidedly more favorable than our own . The chief of these is the water supply . Since the beginning of the administration of Mayor Low a good deal of very effective work has been done in a quiet way in this direction . It has , in fact , been done so quietly that some of the citizens of our neighboring city are hardly aware of its amount and excellence , and of the advantage which they enjoy from it . There has been a very considerable addition to the available water in the reservoirs procured by driven wells within an area controlled by the city , and this has been accomplished , not by draining a surface not before used , but by utilizing subterranean springs and sources which , while yielding extremely pure water , have left the ordinary supply from the surface fully equal to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield very satisfactorily , and there has been no occasion even in the long droughts to which the region about New-York has been subjected to tax their full capacity. : Valuable work of a different kind has also contributed even more to the available supply of water . A new 36-inch main has been built from the reservoir at Ridgewood to the Eastern District of Brooklyn  --  a district that has grown very rapidly within the last ten years and is destined Loan almost indefinite expansion . This main is five miles in length , and its construction gives an increased rise of water of 20 feet throughout the district . It is easy to see that this rise not only adds greatly to the comfort and convenience of residents of the district and to the safety of property from fire , but also to the health of the population . It is a matter of general agreement now that nothing is more essential to the protection of a town population from epidemic disease of every character , and particularly from cholera , than plenty of pure drinking water and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also been made in the pumping machinery by which the distributing reservoir is supplied . At all the stations reserved machinery has been constructed , so that there is no longer any danger of interruption or delay  --  a danger which had become very serious . In addition to these improvements , the earthen water pipes throughout the city , which were exposed to breakage and were wasteful , have been replaced with iron pipes , and more than five miles of new iron pipe have been laid for distribution purposes . As a result of these various changes the pumping power has been increased from 45,000,000 gallons daily to 60,000,000 , and the minimum daily available supply of water for distribution has been increased from 30.000,000 gallons to 50,000,000 . This latter is an increase of 66 2-3 per cent. , and taken in connection with the wide extension of area over which water is available , secured by the greater rise in the Eastern District and the new pipe laid , the advantage to the city is very great . The total amount of bonds which it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These bonds , it may be remarked , are provided for by the assessments on consumers of water , and do not enter into the general tax levy . The sewerage system of Brooklyn has also been greatly improved within the last three years , and will be further extended before another year . The Third-avenue sewer , which was in its inception a good deal of a political speculation , and on which much money was wasted , or worse , under the old system , had been left to empty at a temporary outlet on the low land and shallow water at the foot of Twenty-eighth-street , in the harbor . All attempts to complete it had failed until the Court of Appeals decided that the city was responsible for damage done by this shamefully inadequate arrangement , and then the extension of the sewer to For-. ty-ninth-street , with a proper outlet , was undertaken . The Knickerbocker-avenue sewer , in the opposite corner of the city , had emptied in a still more dangerous fashion on the marsh lands around the head waters of Newtown Creek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liable under the decision of the Court of Appeals would be still greater in this case , the sewer has been extended by a proper route to an adequate outlet in the East River . The expense in these cases will be borne , in the first instance , by the city , but ultimately two-thirds of it will be collected from a fee charged to adjacent property for connection with the sewers . A more extensive improvement is the building of the Greene-avenue sewer , which gives relief to a , wide section of the city that for years has been liable to flooding because of the inadequate sewerage . The new sewer will also serve a considerable area now in the process of occupation . These solid and permanent improvements in the most essential parts of the service in Brooklyn have been accomplished under great difficulties . The method of local assessments had been so terribly abused that it had not only accumulated a vast sum of arrearages , but had practically confiscated a large area of the city , and had become absolutely useless for further improvements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy , and nothing but the most prudent , economical , and efficient administration could have effected , so much as has been done without taxing beyond endurance the resources of the city . Thatthis has been avoided has been due to the vigor and strict accountability rendered possible by the admirable system of concentrated power and responsibility in the hands of the Mayor , his independence of politics and the thoroughly business-like methods secured by the reform in the civilservice. 