@@743873

txt A report has recently been sent from Albany that ex-Senator CONKLING had undergone an attack of commonsense and patriotism and was preparing to allow an election of Senators to the places which he and his colleague had given away . It was said that he had become convinced that the Republican Party was entitled to the control of the Senate , that he could not hope individually to dictate the course of the party , and that , therefore , he was intending to make a virtue of necessity , and get out of the way . The reported attitude of Mr. CONKLING was so creditable to him that those who have admired his strong qualities and deplored his errors , were glad to believe it . Men said of him that he was very haughty and headstrong , but that at heart he was a true Republican ; that he had been misled by bad advisers , and had persisted in the fight so long only because of his indomitable spirit which could not brook defeat , but that now he began to see how great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generously sustained him , and was willing to do all he could to repair that wrong . It is not to be doubted that had the report turned out to be true there would have been some chance of a political future for Mr. CONKLING , Party feeling is very strong , and a manly act of unselfish devotion on his part would , even if tardy , have gone far to keep awake and warm in the hearts of New-York Republicans the attachment to their Senator , from which he has already gathered such high honors . Unfortunately , the report was not true . It had no foundation except in the feeling that it ought to be true , and in the wish among many of Mr. CONKLING 'S supporters that it might be true . At the conference of the Conklin ; members of the Legislature on Tuesday night the ex-Senator took the trouble to prove the folly of expecting any reasonableness or loyalty on his part or any course other than an obstinate , desperate , selfish pursuit of his immediate purpose  --  a re-election or an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was at once defiant and cringing , defiant toward those who have hoped that he would get out of the manger , and cringing toward those on whom he must depend to carry out his plans . Of course , it was only on " repeated request " and after " much entreaty " that he consented to appear in the conference and to talk . Mr. CONKLING plays his part well to the last , and will not lay off the heroic air even though the meagreness of his audience and the helplessness of his position make the heroic ridiculous . To the couple of dozen of stolid adherents who were present Mr. CONKLING uttered no word That could be construed as consenting to the election of any one but himself . On the contrary , he urged all to be steadfast , and warned them that if they gave way they must expect to be denounced as having been bribed . He represented his own fight as one between honesty and corruption . It was " almost inevitably a severe task to fight wealth , but more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unscrupulously used by corrupt agents . " But he had entered the contest and he would continue it to the end . After this declaration of implacable war , Mr. CONKLING turned his attention to the question of railway monopolies , and made an elaborate and impudent appeal for support as the champion of the people against the corporations . The power of the corporations had grown immensely in the United States , and it was mostly to be feared when it undertook to debauch sworn legislators . This last feature of the situation troubled the Senator greatly . If this state of things were to go on , where would the party be ? What guarantee would the people have that the Republican Party , which saved the Union and emancipated the slaves , was honestly endeavoring to benefit the entire people ? Where can the citizens of the State of New York find a party to fight their battles against corporate monopolies : and against bribery and corruption in Albany or elsewhere ? These questions were very suggestive . The eloquent exSenator left them " to be answered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " As all who heard him were his followers , blind and deaf to everything but his interests and commands , there was hardly much doubt in the ex-Senator 's mind as to what the answer would be . It would be precisely what he intended that it should be , that the only safety for the people lay in Mr. CONKLING 'S presence irt the United States Senate . The people , however , do not see it in this light . They ask themselves if Mr. CONKLING 'S presence in the Senate be so necessary to their security , and if he thinks so highly of that security , why did he not stay there ? If , having been there , with a commission for four years , with a Republican majority at his side , with a prestige still potent for all legitimate ends , he chose to throw up his commission , to destroy the Republican majority , to surrender his personal prestige , what would be the sense in sending him back ? What guarantee , " to use his own language , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endeavor to benefit the entire people ? " Personal pique , ambition , revenge have caused him at a most critical moment to abandon his post , to betray his party , to surrender the Senate to the Democrats , and to throw confusion in the Republican ranks throughout the country . Is such an act the proper basis of confidence for the future ? The pretension that he is a safe leader against corporate monopolies , or a trustworthy agent in any great public work , after such a scandalous betrayal of trust , is absurdly impudent . Mr. CONKLING 'S latest manifesto shows that he is as blind to duty as ever , and it shows , also , the supreme duty of the Legislature to proceed to a real effort to elect his successor . The delay and temporizing and irresolution of his opponents only increase his obstinacy . They can not be continued without arousing a disgust in the public mind which will complete the work of demoralization in the Republican party which his course has begun . 