@@671796

txt " Will you please tell ' Only a Woman , ' " writes a correspondent of Tan TIMES , " why MOST , who is a jailbird by his own testimony , is not returned to the country that raised him 1 " The sentiment of the - writer , as implied by the question , is one which is growing very rapidly in the minds of law-abiding citizens in this country , who see their patience abused daily by such apes of humanity as Herr MOST , and it is one that is very likely to take form at no distant day in restrictive legislation which will redeem the land from its unenviable reputation of offering an asylum to the criminal elements of the world 's society . MOST is not returned to the country that raised him simply because now , as at the time when he landed in New-York with the odor of an English prison still clinging to his garments , expatriation is not a punishment recognized by American legislation . All that can be done with creatures like MOST , when they abuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been driven from their own land , is to punish them according to our laws . The Mosts now with us we must watch closely and endure , but , the time is ripe for taking steps to prevent any addition to our already too large colony of foreign criminals . The Haymarket riots in Chicago , followed by the execution of the Anarchists ; the violent appeals of Herr MOST , who is too cowardly personally to attempt the crimes which he advocates , but bravo enough to urge his simple-minded followers to commit them ; the spread of Anarchistic doctrine in all our large cities through the teachings of such foreign criminals as MOST ? all these things are awakening the American people to the need . of repressive laws . Dynamite and other terrible explosives have now become the weapons of the lawless enemies of society , and against a sudden attack from such engines of destruction there is absolutely no defense . It is stupid and reckless folly to trifle with the men who boldly avow their intention of using such a weapon in their war upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and property against them is to crush them out of existence . Anarchy is a disease of the body politic which can be easily prevented by repressive measures ; to cure it after it has become deep-seated in the system is a more difficult , if not a hopeless , task . Until within a comparatively recent time there was absolutely no restriction upon immigration to this country , and the result was that the paupers of Europe were turned loose upon us by thousands . When the evil became too glaring to be neglected , legislation was framed under which a person known to be unable to support himself is now turned back at the doors of Castle Garden and . sent to his European home in the steamer which brought him here . The time has come to extend the operation of this law to every known jailbird and Anarchist who comes to our shores . We have room enough and to spare for every honest , industrious foreigner who seeks to better his condition under our liberal institutions , but the United States has become too small to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blessings of a free government and seek to substitute anarchy for the reign of law . Congress will have many very important questions to discuss during its session , but none so important that it can afford to pass this one by in silence . Senator PALMER of Michigan is announced to have a bill in course of preparation designed to exclude Anarchists and other foreign criminals from this country in the future . He has evidently caught the drift of public sentiment , and intends toofollow it to its logical conclusion . We can not get rid of MOST , but the country demands that no more of his fellows shall be allowed to land here . The Chinaman has been forbidden to enter the country at the demand of a few labor agitators . Now let the demand of every law-abiding citizen of the country be met by a law excluding Anarchists and jailbirds in the future . 