@@745148

txt It is a curious sign of the times that most of the weary hours of Saturday night and Sunday were spent in the House of Representatives in that tedious process known as " filibustering " over the Mexican Pension bill . Round and round the sleepy members traveled in the circle of dilatory motions and perfunctory roll calls , waking up now and again to take a vote on- some measure of practical importance from the conference committees . The congeries of measures of which the Mexican Pension bill is now made up reflects no credit on either party in the Senate , those originating with each side being but differing manifestations of greed , demagogism , and reckless extravagance . The bill as it.passed the House was intended as a sop to the survivors of the Mexican war who live in the South . Those of this class who were entitled to pensions for service in the Mexican war producing disability , and who afterward took part in the rebellion , were stricken from the pension list for that reason . The House bill restored them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $8 per month to every man who served 14 days in Mexico , or on its coast , or on the frontier , or en route to Mexico , or were in any battle in that country , and who has attained the age of 62 . This bill , though of the narrowest partisan sort as concerns its motives , did not involve any very great expenditure of money nor for any great length of time . When it reached the Senate that body tacked on to it a bill equally indefensible in. motive and of vastly greater scope . It gave pensions of various amounts to all persons who had served three months on the Union side in the war of the rebellion , and had become , or shall become , " disabled " from any cause other than their own fault , and who are dependent on their own labor for support . There were other . clauses increasing the pensions of widows and of minor children and dependent parents . When th e amended bill , which is grossly loose in its terms , was returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with it . The friends of the amended measure long since lost any hope of passing it , and the contest which has now been going on so long and so obstinately is over their attempt to force a " record , " which may be used in the campaign . It is an empty and disreputable quarrel , in which it may be said that " dishonors are even , " and the history of which is likely to disgust all thoughtful voters with the politicians of both sides .                     