@@744767

txt The United Presbyterian Convention which was held the other day to protest against the introduction of organs into the meeting-houses of the denomination based its opposition to organs on two grounds . It was maintained that to praise GOD with an organ was to commit to a mere piece of mechanism a duty belonging to every Christian , and that the use of musical instruments in public worship was " Popish " 1 and , therefore , as a matter of course , to be utterly abhorred and condemned . These two arguments having once been adopted by a sect distinguished for its conservatism and Scottish persistency can never be shaken . The United Presbyterians who object to organs will go to the stake in support of their principles . No amount of reasoning will : have the slightest effect upon them , and they will continue to class church organs with Buddhist praying wheels , and to despise them . as relics of Popery . On the other hand , there is a United Presbyterian party which is vehemently in favor of instrumental sacred music . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are firmly convinced that they are right , and they will continue to demand organs no matter how earnest may be the opposition to them . It is evident that there is grave danger that the organ question will cause a schism in the United Presbyterian sect , and in order to prevent this calamity it is respectfully suggested that the organists and anti-organists adopt as a. satisfactory compromise the new " Sacred Harp of Eloquence " recently invented by an ingenious and musical Methodist . This instrument is , in effect , a large reolian harp , placed directly in front of the pulpit , and so concealed by carving and other devices as to be nearly invisible to the congregation . It , of course , does not play any tunes , but it furnishes what a theatre-goer would call " incidental music . " During the praying and singing part of the service the instrument is mute , but when the . sermon begins , the minister , by simply pressing a spring , can release the harp-strings so that they will vibrate to the tones of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set in motion solely by the voice of the preacher , and it responds appropriately to every note of his eloquence . When he speaks in a low and solemn voice the harp breathes a soft and delicious accompaniment , and When in thunder tones he denounces dancing , murder , card-playing , and other deadly sins the harp vibrates in a way that gives awful solemnity and persuasive force to his words . In fact , the " Sacred Harp of Eloquence " does for the sermon precisely what " incidental music " does for the melodrama ; and in the Methodist meeting-house in Allston , Ala. , where it has now been tried for eight consecutive Sundays , it has been pronounced a wonderful success , and has brought into the congregation almost as many members as the rival Baptist Society has secured by a long and exhausting camp-meeting . Now , the " Sacred Harp of Eloquence " may honestly be called a musical instrument , and as such will commend itself to those of the United Presbyterians who long for musical instruments . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not by a profane organist , and hence ought not to be objectionable to the anti-organ party . Finally , it can not be called " Popish , " for it has never been in use in any Catholic church . The " Sacred Harp of Eloquence " is the one possible means of preventing a United Presbyterian schism , and its invention just at this time is so peculiarly opportune that it can hardly be called a coincidence except by avowed agnostics.                     