@@744434

txt The hard work which is being done by the Committee of Fifty in the interest of Municipal reform does not lag . Astonishing results have already come from the vigorous campaign which has been pushed , such results , in fact , that the friends of the Citizens ' movement have become convinced that victory is even now assured . But however confident of electing their ticket and routing the professional political spoilsmen , the directors of the Citizens ' movement do not allow their enthusiasm to lessen their labors . Believing that the chief question now ' is merely that of how great the majority shall be , the supporters of the Citizen nominees are determined to spare no efforts to make the majority as large as possible . Looking to the accomplishment of this purpose a long conference was held yesterday between the Committee on Organization of the Committee of Fifty and the Chairmen of the local sub-organizations in the various election districts of the City . Every district was represented , and from each was received information of the most assuring character . Unexpected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower part of the City , and of certain East Side districts , where it has been alleged the Citizens ' movement would receive virtually no support at all . Nearly every district in the City , it was reported , had its local organization completed . and iu thorough working order . Volunteers , active and reliable , had responded to the call from the Committee of Fifty to man the polls and attend to necessary duties incident to election day . It was said , however , that there was still room for more volunteer workers , and steps were decided upon to secure them . Subsequent to this conference of the Chairmen of the sub-organizations , the Committee of Fifty met . Nearly every member of the committee was present , Mr. Joseph H. Choate presiding . Much work of importance was transacted . Upon the recommendation of the Executive Committee some further indorsements were given to Aldermanic candidates , making the completed list of such indorsed candidates as follows : Third District  --  Ferdinand P. Earle ; Seventh  --  Charles B. Waite ; Tenth ? Charles K. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Twelfth ? Jacob . B. Hamburger ; Thirteenth ? William Wade and James A. Cowie ; Fourteenth  --  Samuel B. Folsom ; Fifteenth  --  Anthony W. Miller ; Eighteenth ? Paul Gantert ; Nineteenth ? Michael F. Cummins and Thomas Hagan ; Twenty-first  --  John Cochrane ; Twenty-second ? George T. Herron . A resolution was adopted declaring in favor of the adoption of the canal amendments . Tammany statesmen have lately been exerting themselves in the retail of stories to the effect that Mr. Campbell , as well as the whole Committee of Fifty and all the Citizen candidates , were bitterly antagonistic to making the canals free . Pointing out the immense benefits certain to accrue to this City through the adoption of the constitutional amendments , the Kelly-Keenan henchmen explained that the first and chiefest saint in the free canal movement was Mr. Franklin Edson , failing , however , to call attention to the fact that Mr. Franklin Edson had to be almost dragged into prominent connection with the Free Canal Union . that he several times declined to accept the Chairman . ship of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post only upon the express stipulation that ho was not to be looked to for work : that he had private business affairs to attend to far more important to him than might be any good to come from the abolition of tolls on the canals ; that he was always for himself before he was for the people . The malicious misrepresentation of the position of the Committee of Fifty by the Edson campaigners was met promptly at the meeting yesterday . The resolutions adopted not only declared unequivocally in favor of free canals , but directed the representatives of the Citizens ' movement to work earnestly for the adoption of the constitutional amendments and urging the people to vote solidly for the amendments , and it was further resolved that the Free Canal Union should be extended the privilege of circulating its tickets from the Citizens ' boxes , though it was thought best for many good reasons not to bunch the free canal tickets with those of the Citizens ' tickets . Reports were received by the committee from gentlemen who , for the past day or two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledging support to the Citizens ' ticket . The names of many men prominent on the Produce Exchange have been attached to the indorsement  --  the names of bona fide voters . Before the committee adjourned brief speeches were made by many members , prominent among whom were Mayor Grace , Carl Schurz , Joseph H. Choate , S. P. Nash , Charles W. Day ton , Charles P. Miller , and John F. Plummer , Chairman of the Executive Committee . All spoke confidently of success , though it was pointed out that owing to specially heavy expenses incurred in the distribution of documents , &c.,; more funds would be needed than were now available . It was not believed , however , that difficulty would be encountered in remedying this drawback when the sympathizers of the movement were made acquainted with the need . Arrangements were accordingly planned to secure further financial support from the public . Voluntary contributions have nearly ceased lately owing , chiefly , to the widespread belief that the committee was adequately supplied with funds . Every possible precaution will be taken to secure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Boxes under direction of representatives of the Committee of Fifty will be placed conveniently at all the polls , and one man at least will be kept constantly at each box to see to it that the ballots are neither destroyed nor stolen . Plainly printed posters will designate the Citizens ' boxes . The ballots will be bunched in sets of three , one City and County , and two judiciary . One judiciary ballot will have the name of Judge Andrews and the other that of Mr. Huger at its head . These are the only ballots to be handled or run out of the boxes named by this organization . Any man at the boxes found distributing any other ballots than these will be discharged at once . The counting of the vote after the polls are closed will be closely watched by trusted men , and it is believed that it will be impossible for the professional manufacturers of returns to perpetrate any of their regulation frauds . Information was received yesterday at the Citizens ' head-quarters , No. 1,179 Broadway , that trouble was likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In many districts , it was represented , Tammany heelers proposed to descend on the Citizens ' boxes , smash them in an off-hand way , and seek to terrify the Citizens ' watchers , if Poe wholly drive them from the polls . Enterprising henchmen who may undertake this sort of proceeding will probably regret it very hurriedly . Watchers in the interest of the Citizens ' movement will be fully informed as to their duties and their rights , and they will go to the polls prepared to perform the one and maintain the other . Col. Emmons Clark has written a letter to the editor of the Jewish iiessenger denouncing as maliciously false the stories put afloat by Tammany that he had objected to believers in the Jewish faith becoming members of the Seventh Regiment . Col. Clark sustains his denial by eeferring t o Jewish gentlemen connected with his regiment and his personal friends . The Citizens ' Association of the Ninth Assembly District , of which Joseph A. Jackson is President , has oreued permanent headquarters at Dixon 's Assembly Rooms , No. 280 Bleecker-street . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus tar brought together was held in the Lexington-Avenue Operaeuse last evening by the citizens of the Twentieth Assembly District , for the purpose of indorsing the Citizens ' ticket , with Allan Campbell at its head . The opera-house was Hacked . , and a number of prominent citizens of the district occupied seats in the boxes and on the platform , among them being Chief-Justice Noah Davis , of the Supreme Court ; Robert A. Van Wyck , Henry A. Van Ness County Clerk William A. Butler , Francis M. Scott , John Sanderson , and John J. Aukenbrandt . A band of music added to the enthusiasm of the meeting , which was presided over by Thomas Harland . Mr. S. B. Livingstone offered a ? series of resolutions eulogizing the movement begun by the Citizens , and indorsing Allan ? Campbell and the entire ticket , demanding that clerical place-holders in the Municipal Government be relieved from the danger of arbitrary removal by politicians , and approving the civil service reform principles enunciated by the Committee of Fifty . The resolutions were passed unanimously , and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the purposes and duties of political parties begin and end properly with political questions , and political strife should never be allowed to enter into the question of the election of purely judicial or executive officers in the City Government . The Citizens ' movement , said the speaker , means that we have abdicated the right of self-government in this City and allowed a clique of political bosses to run our Government , until at last we are aroused to our rights and duties as citizens and are determined to strike a blow . for freedom again . After referring to the economical system adopted by Controller Campbell in conducting the financial branch of the City Government , Mr. Yeaman said that with such a man as their leader the citizens could succeed if they would , but if they failed on Tuesday next they would still have achieved a glorious victory by arousing the people to a sense of their duties , which would be sure to put an end to the boss system in the future . Mr. Julien T. Davies followed in a short address , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purely a business matter , and asserted that the citizens , who pay the taxes , have a right to demand a dollar 's worth of work for a dollar paid . This they have never received from the political " bosses , " and this they were sure to receive from Allan Campbell . The mention of Mr. Campbell 's name was greeted with loud applause , as was also that of County Clerk Butler , whom the sneaker eulogized as a faithful officer and predicted that he would be triumphantly re-elected . Mr. James C. Carter reviewed the history of the disgraceful manner in which the City has been misgoverned by the politicians , and urged his hearers to vote and work for the Citizens ' ticket . Timothy Shea then made an appeal to the County Democrats present to sustain the Citizens , because they had been betrayed by Hubert 0 . Thompson , who had bargained to deliver their votes to the master of Tammany . At the conclusion of Mr. Shea 's address there were loud cries for Butler , and the popular County Clerk stepped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three cheers and a tiger . He spoke but about three minutes , stating that unlike most candidates , he had no promises to make on the eve of election , but he confidently pointed to his past life as his best claim on the suffrages of the people . " I had rather he defeated on a nomination by the Citizens , " he said , " than to be elected on a corrupt deal . I stand to-night as I stood in 1879 , when I ran on an independent ticket and was elected , and against all bosses and against all rings . We have grown richer since then . We had but one King then . and now we have three , two Johns and one Harbert , laughter , but in my judgment they will not be able to deliver the votes that they have Promised . Applause . We are not building any new Court-houses just now , but we have one large enough to justify me in inviting all of you gentlemen to meet me there on the 1st of January  --  the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given for Mr. Butler , and the meeting then adjourned . The blare of trumpets , the glare of a bonfire , and the flare of rockets brought together a crowd of 1,200 or more citizens in the square at the junction of Chambers , West Broadway , and Hudson streets last evening , where an open-air mass-meeting was held under the auspices of the Citizens ' Association of the First Assembly District . Upon a temporary stand in the centre of the square were William H. Naething , the Chairman of the meeting ; George Dessoye. the Secretary ; Henry J. Rottman , Jr. , First Vice-President of the association ; Samuel Morris , the Second Vice-President ; Oscar Woodruff , the Treasurer , and several speakers . The Citizens ' County ticket and Patrick H. Duffy , the district nominee for Alderman , were indorsed . Addresses were delivered by William H. Burns , A. A. Hayes , and William H. Johnson , after which , headed by the band , the party marched to the residence of Mr. Duffy , and tendered that gentleman a serenade .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          