@@780689

txt The summons in the libel suit of the Central News against the kSvortsman , because the latter charged the association with issuing bogus news , was dismissed to-day after a further hearing before Alderman Knight . The suit of the Central News was based upon an article printed in the . ports . an of Sept. 20 . The following is the article referred to : " Of course , items of news ' are uncommonly scarce during the so-called silly season . and a great deal of allowance ought to be made for the purveyors thereof , especially if they have , as it were , pledged their reputations to keep up their stream of intelligence all the year round , quite irrespective of surrounding influences . It is proverbially difficult to make bricks without straw , and a hardbaked one . ' possessing little cohesion , or indeed coherency , might occasionally be passed over with a pitying sigh . But there is a sort of limit to human endurance , and , when that is passed , it behooves some one to utter protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty to publish a cablegram received from our Australian correspondent announcing that Elias C. Laycock. the oarsman , had had the misfortune to break his leg , and that therefore , all chances of his rowing a match this year with Edward Hanlan. the champion , were dispelled . This news was proniptly cabled to America . On Sept. 19 Hanlan. at Chicago . expressed his great regret that the projected match had fallen through . Now , mark how the enterprise ' stepped into the breach and tilled it like a plug . On Sept. 21 , or seven days later , a certain news retailing institution which professes to pride itself on its smartness and accuracy sent the round of the press a message said to have been received from its Toronto correspondent and dated Sept. 25 , ( midnight ) stating that Hanlan accepted the Laycock challenge , and was willing to row in Australia providing that ? 300 expenses were allowed . - In other words , it would seem that the champion of the world had descended to the7rqeanness of wishing to row a cripple . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the news institution a fabricator or a myth , Or has the news organization a home manufactory of current items ? ' And can it be possible that the ' Horrible Lightning Express Accident ' and the ' Fearful Theatre Gallery Fall ' have emanated from the same source ? An explanation is needed . We may he able to put up with commonplaces during the empty period , but inventions can scarcely be relished . " The plaintiffs maintained that this referred to the Central News , and evidence was given that the association gave the Toronto dispatch ( relative to the excitement there consequent on the rumor that Lord Landsdowne was to be assassinated ) to the Electric News Company , which published it . lir . Montagu Williams , counsel for the defense , demanded the summons be dismissed , as there had been no evidence produced that the paragraph in the oportswait referred to the Central News , and it was highly improbable that any jury would convict the defendants . He contended that , after the revelaticins that tad been made in the suit against Judy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had brought this charge , and that they should not be encouraged in such prosecutions . These Ill-advised prooeedings have revealed how telegrams were manufactured , and the question now was . could we believe that all the so-called telegrams we daily read were transmitted by wire . Alderman Knight said this was very different from the Judy case . The evidence was not sufficient to indicate that the Sportsman alluded to the Central News , and for this and other reasons he dismissed the summons . The plaintiffs then elected to prosecute the case at the next sessions at the Old Bailey .                     