@@780901

txt from manufacturing towns , and with regard to them the impressions formed are for the most part unfavorable . They have much of the ignorance and stupidity , with none of the physique , of the agricultural laborer . Many of them can not read , and still more know nothing of their destination or of what they are going to do . They are pitiful specimens of manhood , and England suffers as little by losing them as America gains by the acquisition . Indeed , few things have struck me more painfully than the deterioration which has taken place , within my knowledge of England , in the character , stamina , and habits of the English working man . This is not the occasion for discussing the relative strength of the influences which have contributed to this result ; but the result is undeniable , and its More palpable causes are working with unabated force . Hence it comes to pass that the great proportion of the English steerage passengers  --  the limp , listless , pale-faced young fellows , with pipe in mouth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women who ac- company them  --  must be regarded as a curse rather than a blessing to the country which acquires them . Fortunately for the West , it will receive very few of them . And in judging of the emigration movement in this country , as it now appears , they must be left altogether out of the reckoning . perhaps there has been a certain degree of exaggeration in Lthe statements put forward with reference to the movement among the tenant farmers , so far as immediate results are to be considered . There is not , and there is hot likely to be , a heavy rush of farmers , or of Other classes with corresponding means , to America or elsewhere . Various reasons account for this fact . The principal are ( 1 ) the habitual unfamiliarity with the associated effort which alone would challenge special attention , and ( 2 ) the difference in circumstances which compels farmers to proceed , each on his own account , both as to time and destination . Apart from these considerations , it may be safely said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired unexampled strength among English and Scottish people to whom , until now , the idea of emigration has been repugnant . In-sickad of a sudden and violent movement , which in the nature of things would soon exhaust itself , there is a wide and settled purpose , not con fined to any class , to transfer to other lands the imowledge , energy , and means which no tenger command a fair field here . Among farmers particularly , the conviction prevails that the wiser course is to transfer effort to the country which will hereafter compete with nearly all the conditions of assured success on its side . A promise of a good crop does not ma-terially affect the feeling . Intelligent farmers are persuaded that in this country they are overweightied , and though for the time unable to remove , they do not conceal their desire to go as soon as the opportunity presents itself . There may not be an enormous exodus of English or Scottish farmers this year , but enough will go to indicate the depth and extent to which the agriculturists are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected it to be , but it will be wider and more constant than others have anticipated . Moreover , it will embrace classes who have not the farmer 's reasons for anxiety . From widely separated quarters  --  from Manchester and Glasgow , from Sheffield and Dundee , from Essex and Aber-deen , and from nearly all parts of Wales  --  evi-dences come of change on the part of men having more or less realized property , who recog-nize the coming supremacy of the United States and want to participate in their pros-perity . Two instances are in my eye at this moment , one at Manchester , the other at Glasgow , in each of which the owner of ? 10,000 is arranging for a trip with the view of set-tling in the Western States . Other instances there are , where men high in official position ? officers in the British Army , relatives of Cabi-net Ministers , and so on  --  are determined to send ' out their sons to carve their fortunes in the trans-Mississippi country . All the efforts of the Canadian Government to turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not perceptibly affect the current of thought in the circles contemplating emigra-tion . Australia , too , is losing its power to charm . And New-Zealand suffers from the apprehension of financial collapse , occasioned by wild efforts of the kind to which Canada , with various modifications , is now committed .                     