@@744485

txt A statement is published as coming from Attorney-General RUSSELL with reference to the propriety of his acting as private counsel for JAY GOULD and Mr. W. H. CAMERON in the suit brought against the Mutual Union Telegraph Company for the purpose of having its charter vacated . Mr. RUSSELL neither admits nor denies that he is retained as such counsel , in case the suit is to go on , but claims that there is nothing to prevent his being so retained . He says there is no legal barrier in the way , and intimates very clearly that he sees no consideration of propriety to hinder him from accepting Mr. GOULD 'S money for such a service . If this is really his position and if he has accepted a retainer from one of the parties in this case , he has shown an indifference to the proprieties of his official station and a disregard for public opinion which are discouraging to those who hoped to find in him a stanch defender of public interests against corporate aggression . Mr. RUSSELL thinks that the law which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was framed with a view to allowing him to earn fees as a lawyer in cases in which the people " are not interested as either plaintiff or defendant . " In this case , he adds , the function of the Attorney-General as the law officer of the State ceases when consent to bring the suit is given or withheld . It may be doubted whether it was the intention of the law that the Attorney-General should continue his private practice as a lawyer while in the public service , but , however that may be , there can be no possible question as to the impropriety of his appearing as counsel in a suit which he is instrumental in having brought while acting in the name of the people . Nothing could be more vicious than the principle which he is reported as enunciating . Nominally the contention in this suit is between private parties  --  the corporation itself and certain of its alleged stockholders  --  but interests are at stake and questions are involved in which the public have a deep concern . It is for the Attorney-General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be made for leave to bring the suit , and in deciding that question he should be swayed by no consideration except the requirements of the law and of the public interest . If it is to be understood that in case leave is obtained he may become the paid counsel of the parties petitioning for the application , it is plain that he may he subject to a strong bias of self-interest . Where the petitioner and prospective client is a man like JAY GOULD , there is good ground for assuming that the fees will be liberal , and that the consideration for them was intended to be as much the decision of the Attorney-General as the service of the private counsel . The way is open for corruption of the most insidious and debauching kind . The Attorney-General may make for himself a lucrative practice by the exercise of his official discretion . There is another view of the case which brings into startling relief the possible effect of such a practice as Mr. RUSSELL defends . The Mutual Union suit , as is well known , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company for the control of that corporation . In this Mr. GOULD was the chief operator . Having failed to secure the control which he wished , he determined on the destruction of the growing rival of his greatest monopoly . It was for that purpose that the petition was addressed to the Attorney-General for the bringing of a suit to vacate its charter . Now , if the AttorneyGeneral can grant the petition and then become the counsel of the petitioner to carry the suit through the court , the chief law officer of the State may be made the paid agent of the monopoly in breaking down its rival . Moreover , there is another side to this contest . The officers of the Mutual Union who are also stockholders in the Western Union turn around in self-defense or retaliation and ask the Attorney-General to apply for leave to bring a suit to vacate the charter of the latter corporation on grounds stronger than those on which the first application was based . If he is already in the pay of JAY GOULD as private counsel and practically bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy , how is he to hear and decide the new question brought before him with the impartiality that should belong to his office ? May he in that case also become private counsel either for or against the clients who have already retained him ? There is no manner of doubt that in a contest of this kind JAY GOULD will secure the Attorney-General in his interest if he can ; and all suits in which he is concerned will be brought , if possible , before a Judge who is equally in his interest . There is more than a passing significance in the fact that the application for a suit against the Mutual Union Company was brought before Judge TRUAX , of the Superior Court , whose decisions have heretofore been at the service of the elevated railroad and Western Union Telegraph monopolies and Mr. JAY GOULD , and in the further fact that the leave applied for was promptly granted , out of court and in spite of obvious irregularities in the proceedings . It is coming to be a serious question whether our courts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon to maintain their integrity and guard the rights of the people when these great corporations have occasion to bring their wealth and power to bear upon them for ends and purposes of their own . We charge Attorney-General RUSSELL with nothing in fact or intent in connection with these telegraph suits , but we do assert that , if he is correctly reported , he defends a principle and a practice so pernicious and degrading that it is astounding that one holding an official position like his should fail to see and appreciate their consequences .                     