@@781672

txt The charge of official prostitution against Mr. BLAINE rests on strong evidence from various quarters . ? Unfortunately there is too much in the career and character of the man that sustains it to allow of its being lightly dismissed . , In a letter which will be found elsewhere the Rev. HENRY WARD BEECHER relates in detail what , in a " partial and imperfect " form , had already " not with his knowledge or privity " got into print . - At a dinner party on the 29th of September , 1877 , - Mr. JAMES F. JOY , the prominent railroad owner , of Michigan , gave this statement " : " When a difficulty occurred . in , regard to certain lands in the Southwest in which I was interested a committee was about to be appointed by Congress to examine the matter , BLALNE being Speaker of the House . Through a friend I asked Mr. BLAINE to have one sound lawyer appointed on that committee ; I did not care of which party . I simply wanted a sound lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me word through a friend that he had certain depreciated bonds , and that if I would enable him to place them at par I could have my committee as I wanted it . ' " " I can not forget , " adds Mr. BEECHER , " with what cutting scorn Mr. JOY leaned back in his chair and said : That is the man BLAINE is . ' " It is also stated by Mr. BEECHER that he , at BLAINE 'S request , in 1880 , had an interview on this subject with Mr. BLAINE at the Fifth-Avenue Hotel . - " I can hardly believe , " he remarks , " that he has forgotten that . " It will thus be seen that Mr. BEECHER 'S statement is not a random one ; that it is specific as to dates , circumstances , and language ; that the facts had been discussed by him with Mr. BLAINE himself , and that the present account is given with full reference to all these connected and connecting incidents . Mr. BEECHER feels himself justified in saying to Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement as to this matter : " Please send to him the following narrative , and you may depend upon it Mr. JOY will not contradict its substantial accuracy , neither will any one of several gentlemen who were at the table with me ; nor will other witnesses , not a few , deny that the same substantial statements have been made by Mr. JOY to others not infrequently . " A dispatch from Detroit in the NewYork Herald of Sept. 27 , 1884 , states that Mr. JOY " unquestionably made to several intimate friends and at various times " a statement similar to that made to Mr. BEECHER . The same dispatch attributes to ex-Mayor WILLIAM G. THOMPSON , of Detroit , who is now opposing Mr. BLAINE , the following remarks made to ex-Senator BALDWIN , also of Detroit , and quoted in the Free Press of Sept. 26 : " You know the particulars of JAMES F. JOY 'S going down to Washington when Mr. BLAINE was Speaker of the House to consult him about putting a certain man on the Railroad Committee . You know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that when Mr. JOY returned he denounced BLAINE in a leading bank here as a dishonest man . " We repeat that such a charge , made in this open manner by Mr. BEECHER , under the responsibility of his own signature , confirmed by the testimony of other witnesses in no way connected with or inspired by Mr. BEECHER , can not be lightly dismissed , and certainly it can not be readily disproved . It fits accurately to what is known of Mr. BLAINE 'S course in like matters . It is in perfect harmony with his reminder to , CALDWELL that he had as Speaker done him " a favor " which should incline him to accord the pecuniary advantage which BLAINE was seeking of him . It fits with his assurance , with which he had preceded his reminder , that he " saw various channels in which he knew he could be useful " It accords with Mr. FISHER 'S undenied assertion that " owing to his political position he was able to work off all his Little Rock bonds at a very high price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter of the 18th November , 1869 , in which he offers to the men from whom he was begging a fat share in a speculation to use " his power " to secure by " favoritism " a charter for a " very profitable institution . " Is it a wise and safe thing to elect such a man to the Presidency ? Would not his election , in itself , be a disgrace to the country ? Considering his past , and the associates with whom he is now closely linked , would there not be grave danger that still deeper disgrace would follow ?                     