@@745492

txt The navy will receive with satisfaction the revocation of the famous order of July 5 , .883 , regulating the residence of officers ' families . Possibly this act may again bring upon the head of the department the wordy wrath of his predecessor , but abuse from Mr. CHANDLER on this score would be out of place . The most signal instance of the enforcement of the obnoxious order , No. 309 , was furnished by Secretary WHITNEY himself , under whose direction three officers , Chief Engineer TRILLEY , Assistant Paymaster CORWINE , and Lieut . KARMANY , were punished for violating it . These officers were detached from the Asiatic station , two from the Trenton , and one from the Ilionocacy , , for having taken their wives with them from the United States , and were placed on waiting orders . This occurred a month after Mr. WHITNEY took charge of the department ; and although an expression dropped by him at the time indicated a doubt of the wisdom of his predecessor 's edict , he not only enforced it then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed nearly three months to elapse before its abrogation . The objection urged by many naval officers to Mr. CHANDLER 'S injunction of two years ago was that it undertook to carry the control of the department beyond its legitimate scope . There is , perhaps , significance in its wording ? " naval officers attached to cruising war vessels , especially commanding officers , are expected to leave their families at their usual or fixed places of abode , and not to attempt to transfer them to more convenient visiting points , " But if absolute authority of the department over the homes of officers was not asserted the practical result was reached by threatening to relieve officers from full pay duty for ' violating the department 's expectations in this particular . Wives and daughters of army and navy officers often speak of themselves and of each other with a natural pride as " belonging to the service , " but they can hardly desire to have this expression taken so literally as to bring their comings and goings under the direct control of a civilian Secretary . Regulations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of officers ' wives may be reasonable , since the vessel is as much Government property as a fort on land garrisoned by army officers . But to prevent the families of officers from living in one country rather than another , and to insist on their having a usual or fixed place of abode if they do not want one , is exercising an unwarrantable supervision . The ground of Mr. CHANDLER 'S order was understood to be that the proximity of the families of officers on foreign stations had injured the efficiency and discipline of the service . It was urged that commanding officers of vessels had neglected their duties aboard ship for the sake of being with their families ashore ; that others were shifted forth and back on the vessels of a squadron for the same purpose ; that sometimes a flagship in the Asiatic squadron would be kept for a year or two cruising only between Hong-Kong and Yokohama , perhaps taking in Kobe by the way , while the wives of officers led the way in the transit from one to another of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the liberty formerly given in this particular , it was abuse by individuals , and the whole service need not be called to account for it . A like risk is run to a certain extent in the land service , where an officer may neglect military duty for domestic interests . It is a fair inquiry also whether there may not be some advantages as well as drawbacks in the presence of an officer 's family with him on a foreign station . Mr. CHANDLER , however , though in many respects an effective administrative chief , was apt to be peremptory , and his attitude concerning the residence of officers ' wives was like his attitude concerning the right of officers to send communications directly to Congress , and was defended in the same dogmatic way . Many officers also thought him too ready to act on accusations from correspondents whose alleged revelations of misconduct might be influenced by private grudge . Whether there was or was not less basis for censure in individual cases than was claimed , Secretary WHITNEY 'S removal of the general restriction on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old freedom of action in this particular restored officers may perhaps feel it especially incumbent on them to give no occasion for its future modification .                     