@@745329

txt The Chamber of Commerce yesterday gave a verdict against the Spanish commercial treaty which will , beyond any reasonable doubt , be indorsed by Congress , and which unquestionably expresses the judgment of the great body of business men in the country . The manner in which the verdict was reached will add to the weight attaching to the opinion of the Chamber on this class of subjects . A committee of able and experienced members was formed , who studied the matter with care , and the majority of them submitted to the Chamber what may be accepted as the strongest arguments to be found in its favor . These arguments are not without force , and we have already alluded to them as deserving careful consideration . But the majority , while laying great stress on the permanence and probable increasing value of the advantages to be derived from the treaty , are compelled to proceed on the assumption that the treaty is a part of a general scheme to be adopted within a very short time . This assumption carries with it the admission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scheme to which it belongs are not adopted , will confer no benefit on the American consumer of sugar and no other benefit that can be at all compared with the great loss of revenue . This revenue , in that case , would be given up to the Cuban planters and refiners of sugar . It is hardly necessary to say that this would not be statesmanship . It would be the grossest blundering . There is no probability , there is scarcely a possibility , that the system of treaties of which that with Spain is the first and most important , can all be adopted . The present Congress certainly will not ratify those already negotiated . Those not yet negotiated would have to be taken up by the new Administration . Supposing that the new Administration is prepared to take from its predecessor a policy of such importance  --  a supposition of the extremest kind  --  there is no chance that it would carry out that policy without ample opportunity to study it . The country would thus be left , were the Spanish treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time under its partial and one-sided operation . To give away thirty to sixty millions of dollars on the chance that Mr. CLEVELAND 'S Administration may follow the cue given it by that of Mr. ARTHUR , and with the certainty that if it did not do so the loss would be thirty millions a year indefinitely , would be a piece of folly that needs only to be understood to be rejected . At the same time we are glad to see that the Chamber did not commit itself to the absurd propositions of Mr. AMMIDOWN 'S report and resolutions . Mr. JACKSON S. SCHULTZ is by far too alert to be caught by a trap set so plainly in his sight , even when baited with statements that he approves as cordially as he does the simple condemnation of the Spanish treaty , and he called for a division of the resolutions . Though not stated in the latter , Mr. A31-11IDOWN 'S report contained a specious argument in favor of extreme protection to the sorghum and beet sugar industries . Surely we have had enough experience with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems almost incredible that at the moment when our manufacturers are loaded down with the accumulation of goods that can be sold only ft a great loss or at no profit an intelligent man should be found asking the Chamber of Commerce to proclaim that " the home market is the best market . " Our manufacturers have the home market . It has been secured to them by war taxes continued in time of peace for 20 years , forming a Chinese wall which , if it does not keep all foreign goods out , certainly keeps our own in . We do not see how they are to be helped by building the wall higher , by adding to the already undue cost of production taxes to be paid for the encouragement of new and doubtful industries , which , if there were any money in them , would be eagerly sought and vigorously prosecuted by unaided private enterprise . In fact , the strongest argument against the Spanish treaty , either by itself or as a part of the scheme that is intended to remit the duty on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mischievous fiscal system which Mr. AMMIDOWN wishes to extend and perpetuate . What the country needs is not small markets opened at great cost , such as Cuba and Porto Rico and San Domingo , nor new taxes to help establish steamers for ports where there is little trade for them , nor any other sort of factitious and artificial help from taxes taken out of our own pockets . It wants the grip of arbitrary taxation taken off from the raw materials and necessaries of living , and a free field given to the energy , ingenuity , and capacity for business of its people . Give us that simple justice and we will find the " best market , " whether at home or abroad , and make money in it .                     