@@781753

txt deleted 18 lines shows that in other circles of theoretical and active philanthropy the humanizing work is still going on , and the dream of universal peace is still cherished . Under its present name and organization the association which has just met at Berne has held eight annual conferences , the first having assembled at Brussels in 1873 . It is still a peace association in so far as it is earnestly laboring for a codification of the law of nations , a work which would do much to diminish the chances of war . In the main , however , its conferences are given up to the discussion of questions growing out of the commercial relations of the nations its members represent . The York-Antwerp rules of general average , which have been widely adopted in the sea-ports of Europe and the United States , were drawn up by a committee of the association . Marine signals , lighthouses , collisions at sea , quarantine regulations , bills of exchange , bills of lading , and other matters of every-day interest to mariners and merchants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been considering the law of negotiable securities , and international copyright , uniform weights and measures , patents , and bankruptcy were among the subjects discussed at Berne . The American members of the Committee on International Copyright aroused considerable interest , particularly among the English representatives , by presenting a copy of a memorial on that subject which they had addressed to Secretary EVARTS . A London newspaper learns that " the general expression was that the United States authorities , who have power under the Constitution to promulgate an international copyright , will before long adopt some effective measures in the matter . " This statement gives a somewhat singular idea of the powers the " United States huthorities " enjoy " under the Constitution , " but the subject is certainly within the field of effort occupied by the association , and there is no source to which we can look with greater confidence for organized intelligent action on international copyright . A paper on " Consular Jurisdiction in the Levant , " by Sir TRAVERS Twiss , gave a clear idea of the maladministration of justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Embassy , Mr. IRIGA , explained the workings of consular jurisdiction in Japan . In Turkey it is indispensable that foreigners should have the privilege of being tried before a Consul of their country , for the native courts will not recognize their equal right to justice . In Japan , where Consuls also try offenders of their own nationality , the system is impaired by gross abuses , and the natives seem to be the chief sufferers . It is complained that the Consuls are too lenient , and that the Japanese authorities can neither enforce their own laws nor secure the punishment of criminals according to the laws of their native countries . In addressing the conference held at Loudon , last year , Sir ROBERT PHILLIMORE eloquently set forth the need of an international understanding on the subject of marriage and divorce . The need deleted 18 lines                     