@@672103

txt A Washington special to the Baltimore Bun , based on conversations held with Mr. Bayard , gives an outline of the policy which has controlled the actions of the Department of State during the past fouryears . It has been frequently asserted that Mr. Bayard has had no policy , whereas he has all along had a very definite and peculiarly American polls , . He believes that the American people have a higher and a nobler destiny than that of swaggering about among the nations of the earth , " daring " somebody , to use a homely expression , to " /mock a ebb ) off " their shoulder . He thinks it is their mission to take the lead among nations in sub " stitutIng pacific methods for force in settling international disputes . Mr. Bayard 's theory of statesmanship is that nothing should be done to disturb or imperil our peaceful conditions , but that , on the contrary , the highest duty of the patriot is to contribute , as far as he can , to their perpetuation and development . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a republic , except in so far as it is necessary for purposes of defense , because in its abnormal development It is destructive of liberty and necessarily hostile to the genius of free institutions . In oonversatIon with the writer on this point Mr. Bayard said ; " The American people should always bear in mind that the military spirit , the thirst for conquest and ? glory , ' as it is termed , really means What is war but destruction I Destruction for us or the enemy . Is a spirit of which war is the logical and inevitable outcome a condition to be encouraged by a great and enlightened people 4 On the contrary there le a controlling reason why we , of all nations , should diecountonanee such a tendeacy . What is it that has built up and preserves the autocrasies of Europe% War . Look at Germany , at Italy . at France , with their huge standing armies grinding out the happiness and prosperity of their people , Every soldier maintained in these armies is an individual subtracted from the producing classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great army means repression , and repression begets discontent and anarchic conditions . The Nihilists of Russia . the Socialists of Germany . and the fire bran is of other autocracies are the result . Encourage the military spirit in this country and you will soon have a war . A war necessarily means an army , and if once the military spirit got thorough possession of the people this army would become a permanent establishment . It would , of course , have a leader , and if the army became the dominant force In the State it would be but a step to a dictatorship . Sooner or later our liberties would bo trampled in the dust ; the rights of the Individual would disappear , and upon the ruins of our cherished institutions would be reared the fabrio of a military despotism . " On another occasion Mr. Bayard , commenting on the clamor in certain quarters over the Samoan episode , said ; " What is it they want me to do I To provoke a war , I do not believe the people want to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . If they do want war they must get another Secretary of State . " At one time or another ho has felt called upon to make protests to some of the greatest powers in Europe which were almost aggressively plain spoken , as in the case of Germany and England . So of Austria , Italy , Mexico , France , . The official records prove that where the oilRaney demanded he has not hesitated in firm but courteous terms to force apex ; them distinctively Atuerican views of the Issues involved , which were probably anything but palatable . The underlying spirit of Mr. Bayard 's policy , however , has been to humanize International relations . He regards the principle of arbitration as one which could be extended with vast benefit to mankind , and be would like especially to see the neutralization of private property applied to property on sea as well as on land . " Think of the fact , " said he , " that on twothirds of the globe the property of non  --  sombatante is , by the present Usage o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a war on land the officer or soldier who took possession of private property without paying for it would be justly regarded as a brigand , yet on the sea a man 's whole fortune invested in a ship or cargo may be swept away without redress . " Another favorite theme with Mr. Bayard is the neutralization of certain localities whielt are useful to all the powers and incapable of defense , without disproportionate cost , by any one of them . He instances the neutralization of the Suez Canal by the common consent of the European powers as an example of the important benefits to be secured by the application of this principle . Some similar arrangement would have to be entered into to protect the inWrests of this country if a ship canal across the Isthmus of Panama Is built . It would not be sufficient protection for the United States to have control of such a canal . The only adequate protection is to be secured by the neutralizelion of the canal by consent of all the powers . Mr. Bayard sought to apply this principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition that the United States should guarantee the neutrality of those islands seemed to him to be unwise , for the reason that is guarantee the neutrality of an independent sovereignty , especially one as weak as Samoa , would be to expose this country to the constant risk of embroilment In the relations of Samoa with other powers , We would be responsible for whatever Samoa might choose to do without the power to regulate her conduct . It would be cheaper to annex the islands at once , for then , in assuming the responsibility of defending them against all comers , we would aoeuire the right to provide them with a safe and stable Government . To do this it would be necessary to build great fortifications at Pango-Pango , to furnish them with a powerful garrison , and to maintain a strong fleet in the South Paoillo , The cost would be enormous , and after all this expenditure American interests In Samoa would not be as safe as under a guarantee by the powers interested of the neutrality of the Islands . Mr. Bayard looks upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaties as unfortunate for the country . He does not regard the Wien of the Senate as justly involving any reflection upon the actual merit of the treaties themselves . Senator Sherman has admitted that the Chinese treaty was an acceptable measure . Mr. Bayard says that his regrets at the course which party opponents have seen fit to pursue , %roceed not from any personal fettling of ree. , otment , but from disappointment that they , for the sake of mere party or personal advantage , have not hesitated to avail themselves of every opportunity to hamper and embarrass him , Ignoring the fact that it was their duty to treat him , not as an lidividnal , but as a public servant charged with a public trust , the performance of which they should have facilitated by every means in their power , 