@@780603

txt A denser fog than that which hung over the waters of the port shortly after daylight yesterday morning has rarely been experienced in this region . So dense was it that for more than an hour traffic upon the rivers and in the harbor seemed to have been almost entirely suspended . On none of the ferry lines did more than one boat run at a time . The pilots could scarcely see beyond the bows of their boats . Those which did run moved slowly and with the greatest caution , sounding their shrill whistles every moment or two . Along the ferry slips the fog bells rang incessantly in order to guide the pilots who were feeling their way through the dense mita : . outside . Passengers from the incoming New-Jersey trains thronged the ferry houses upon the opposite side of the North River , and in many instances wore obliged to wait front half an hour to an hour before they could secure even standing room upon the boats . Even the residents of Staten Island , who usually count upon crossing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerably delayed yesterday morning . The East River boats were delayed as a rule . The rush over the Brooklyn Bridge was enormous . Not only were tlto cars from the Brooklyn aide packed , but the promenade was filled with *people hurrying toward the New-York side . Below them was a great sea of mist , out of which came a babel of steam whistles . Few craft except ferryboats ventured out into the stream . Vessels whin were to have sailed remained at their docks or in the stream , while incoming craft lay to and sounded their whistles constantly , Tue steamship City of Savannah , from Savannah , reported having been detained eighteen hours by the fog , and the Knickerbocker , from New-Orleans , was cadged to lie outside of Sandy Hook for twelve hours . But fortunately the fog , although very dense , was short-lived . At 9 o'clock it began to lift , and during the remainder of the morning navigation could be conducted with some safety where great caution was observed . The river pilots say that the fog , although unusually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sun could frequently be seen , although everything around was shrouded in mist . The steamship El Mar of the Morgan Line . which arrived from New-Orleans Monday evening , was coming up the North River to her dock early yesterday morning when she was overtaken by the tog , Capt . Hawthorn at once ordered the anchor to be let go . The befogged steamer came to a standstill opposite Pier 35 . Although ene sounded her whistles constantly , this did not keep off all of the ferryboats which were then cruising around in her neighborhood . At about 7:30 the ferryboat Hudson City of the Pennsylvania Line suddenly appeared in the tog . She was fortunately proceeuing very slowly . Her pilot strove to alter his course , but the boat grazed against the stern of the El Mar . The steamer was uninjured , but the ferryboat had a portion of her railing carried away . No one was injured . A short time afterward the officers of the El Mar saw another ferryboat emerge out of the fog close upon them . This proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also grazed agatust the steamship , injuring herself somewhat . but causing no damage to the anchored vessel . No one was injured on board the ferryboat , but atter finishing her trip she laid up . The fog delayed travel on both the James-Slip and Thirty-fourth-Street Ferries between this city and Long Island City . On the former the boats were laid off for over an hour . On the latter the boats were all the way from fifteen to twenty minutes late . The utmost precaution was taken and accidents avoided . Newtown Creek was entirely deserted until noon . The densest fog , the railroad men say , that has struck New-Jersey in ton years enveloped the river cities and towns yesterday . Travel on the railroads was dangerous . and much delayed . On all the lines trains crept cautiously from station to station . It was impossible to see more than ten feet ahead and signals were invisible . In spite of all the caution there was quite a serious collision in tile Erie Railroad yards in Jersey City . West-bound train No. 106 was leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the locomotive ran into a freight train that was being drilled on the track . Toe freight train should have been switched of at Henderson-street , but the switchman , a new man , neglected to perform his duty . Thu trains were traveling In opposite directions , and they came together with acrash . The forward part of Engine No. 106 was completely demolished and the passengers were panicstricken . John Nestor , a dock laborer , who had jumped on board the freight train for a furtive ride , was thrown from the car and so badly Injured that his recovery is doubtful . The ireight cars were derailed and upset on the west-bound track . Wreckers were put at work and the dabris was cleared away . The company 's property is said to have been damaged to the extent of $5,000 . Long Island as far east as Port Jefferson was enveloued in a fog for several hours in the morning . The fog was very dense along the shore and navigation was entirely stopped . A large number of Sound steamers and coasting vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glen Cove , Lloyd 's Neck , and Port Jefferson . Trains on the Long Island Railroad were delayed a half to three-quarters of an hour , as the fog in Long Island City was very thick and the utmost caution was necessary in entering the station . A fatal accident , due to the fog , occurred at the East-avenue crossing of the Long Island Railroad at 8:30 o'clock . Charles Carr of NewYork , while driving a truck of the New-York Creosoting Works , drove past the flagman . The horses cleared the track , but a switch engine struck the truck , entirely demolishing it and killing Carr instantly .                     