@@744595

txt Some of the Republican editors and other " leading men of the party " in the State of Indiana had a conference the other night , in which they exchanged views in regard to prospects , with an incidental reference to principles . Gen. HARRISON is said to have taken occasion to be " very emphatic in his remarks upon the absolute necessity of the Republican Party standing squarely and unflinchingly by the principle of protection to American industry . " He further declared that it was a " fundamental principle of the party . " Possibly it is not for Gen. HARRISON to define the fundamental principles of the Republican Party , and he undertakes to go a little further than any National Convention has yet ventured . He stands by the law as passed by the last Congress , for though it is " not what anybody wanted , " it settles the rates of duty so as to give " assurance of certainty for a year at least . " There may be some comfort in that , but what the country wants is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year to another , but a settled and permanent policy . In order to reach that we must have the Tariff law in a sl a7e that will not only satisfy somebody , but will satisfy a majority of the people . Protection to American industry , as that phrase is generally understood and as Gen. HAEnrsox intends to be understood in using it , can not rightly be called a " fundamental principle " of the Republican Party . So far as it is among the possessions of the party at all it is an inheritance from the old Whig organization . It had no part in the purpose for which the Republican Party was formed , and was not one of the issues on which its historic record was made . The struggle for the Union created the necessity for a large revenue and out of that necessity a tariff was wrought which was inevitably protective to a large extent . It was , no doubt , made protective to a much higher degree than a strict regard for the revenue demands of the Government required , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or any settled sentiment of the party . The war tariff has owed its continuance and its obstinate defense to the interests which were built up under its operation . Those interests have been far more potent in shaping the recent action of Congress than has the influence of Republican sentiment in the country . There is no doubt that in absorbing a large share of the remnants of the old Whig Party the Republican organization took into itself some part of the latent faith in the policy of protection for its own sake . Under the renewed agitation of the question , through the absolute and pressing necessity of revising the war tariff , it has awakened into life and is now assuming to be an essential part of the Republican faith . But the Republican policy of 1884 and the years to come is to be laid down by the living Republican Party and not by the defunct party of Gen. HARRISON 'S illustrious grandfather . Within the ranks of the living organization has grown up a generation of progressive men in whom the Whig traditions excite not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown out of its childhood and is disposed to put away ehildish things . It has had experience of the effects of economic legislation , and it has produced a new breed of students of economic questions . There are two facts that will hardly be disputed by Republicans . One is that the progressive and enlightened sentiment on this subject , that which comes from keen observation , careful study , and logical reasoning , is unfavorable to the doctrine of protection by taxation . The other is that sentiment derived from those sources is much more characteristic of the Republican Party than of its antagonist in the political arena . No thoughtful or practical man is in favor of a sudden tearing down of the supports of American industry in special fields , which have been built up by the protective policy . Absolute free trade is not talked of as a practical issue at present , but in the revision of the tariff laws , which is now far from complete , there must be , and there inevitably will be , a tendency to revenue principles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can afford to make the latter fundamental in its platform , and least of all the party which claims to be progressive and to include a large share of independent and thinking men in its ranks . It could adopt no surer means of putting itself in a permanent minority and sharing the fate of the ancient Whigs.                     