@@744437

txt Whatever may be the result of the elections for Congressmen held to-day , they will not be sufficient to warrant the friends of sensible and conservative reform of our revenue system in relaxing their efforts to concentrate the influence of public opinion upon Congress . On the other hand , it has been plain all through the canvass that the sentiment in favor of reform is steadily strengthening , and that in the probable condition of parties two years from now some definite political action may become practicable . In the contest of 1884 , whatever may be the course of the two principal parties on the Presidential question , it is reasonable to expect that a considerable number of Congressional districts will lie close enough to give a decided weight to an organized body of independent voters , determined to cast their votes and use their influence with reference to the single issue of the revenue policy of the country . In the meantime , the work which is the most pressing , the most important , and the most promising , is that of persuading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer be ignored . Although it is exceedingly improbable and substantially impossible that anything will be done at the remaining session of the present Congress , the presentation of the report of the Tariff Commission will give occasion for a renewal of the discussion of the subject , which will unquestionably be seized both in and out of Congress . The evidence taken by the commission will soon be sent out , and , imperfect and incomplete as it is in many regards , it will include a great many facts conclusive of the necessity of a radical modification of our revenue policy . These facts , with the conclusions fairly to be drawn from them , it will be the duty of those engaged in the reform to use with the greatest possible effect . The testimony taken by the commission leaves no further need of general discussion , but furnishes material for argument based on specific facts , which is very much more effective . A. col-. lection of the statements of manufacturers who have testified before the commission that their business was injured by the taxes which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that with the markets of the world to buy in they were prepared to carry American manufactures profitably and extensively into foreign countries , would make a very strong impression upon those who have accepted the idea that the present tariff is essential to manufacturing prosperity in the United btates . In the same way , the testimony of merchants as to the difficulties and embarrassments with which they have to contend in the transaction of their business with other countries in consequence of the intricacies and uncertainties of the tariff would appeal to the common sense of a very large proportion of the American people . We make these suggestions only to indicate the lines along which the advocates of revenue reform can most properly and successfully pursue their work . Mr. DAVID A. WELLS has commenced a series of articles in the Princeton Review , the first of which shows that the most prominent of the advocates of freer trade appreciates the task before him and the opportunity afforded by the Tariff Commission 's action . We regret to notice the announcement that the report of the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the report will be of no great value . The majority of the commission , judging by their previous record , their business connections , and the tenor of their remarks and questions at the public sessions , are hopelessly wedded to the notion that the present tariff is protective in ; reality as in name . The most that they are likely to be brought to concede is that soma of its provisions shall be simplified and its manifestly absurd formal requirements in the transaction of business with the Custom-houses shall be abandoned . It is impossible that these concessions should meet the views of all the members as to the real needs of the country , and it would be extremely foolish in the minority to accept them for the sake of mere unanimity . It would certainly be far better to allow the majority to frame their report on any basis they may choose to adopt , and to present a minority report resting on the facts as brought out by the evidence . The acquiescence of the pronounced protectionists in a few insignificant improvements is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of giving a comprehensive and explicit account of the requirements of the country clearly indicated by the testimony . It would be especially valuable service if one or more of the Commissioners would present to Congress a succinct analysis of the duties enforced by the existing tariff , which were originally enacted as compensation for internal revenue taxes since repealed . Such a statement , fairly made , would demonstrate beyond dispute the excessive character of a very considerable portion of the duties now enforced . But if the minority of the Commissioners , acting on a mistaken notion of expediency , should fail to embrace the opportunity offered for this and similar service , the work will go on , more slowly perhaps , but with entire certainty . Every month the expanding energies of the Nation feel more keenly the restricting and injurious influence of our war taxes , and some means will be found to break these bonds .                     