@@743380

txt The debate in the House on Saturday on the Refunding bill was marked by a speech of more than usual interest from Mr. FELTON , of Georgia . This gentleman is usually classed as an Independent Democrat , and he has several times shown considerable courage in opposing the general purposes of the majority . He has also made some reputation as a man with views of his own on the tariff question , though , in regard to this , his ideas are not unlike those of the old school of conservative Northern men who were opposed to slavery " in the abstract . " He has not yet found any single abuse in the tariff which he felt called upon to attack . He defended his course in voting to postpone the reduction of the duty on steel rails by the remarkable theory that it was a matter between the rail-makers and the railroad companies , and " GOD forbid " that he should side with the latter to the injury of certain iron mills in his own district . Nevertheless , Mr. FELTON is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does study questions of a material rather than those of a purely partisan or sentimental nature ; he has grasped certain principles governing these questions with a marked degree of firmness ; he is capable of making a straightforward and rational statement of his views , and he is more likely than almost any of the Representatives of that section to sustain a conservative and honorable financial and fiscal policy . It is on this account that we regret the more that Mr. FELTON has adopted with zeal and urges with pertinacity certain ideas of finance which are to the last degree mistaken and mischievous , and that we regard his attitude , on the whole , as extremely discouraging to those who had hoped that the South might soon contribute some essential aid to the safe solution of the problems in public affairs which are pressing upon the American people . Mr. FELTON recognizes in. terms which are unqualified and even eloquent , the binding obligation of the national debt . He holds to the just view that all taxation , whether for interest or for the expenses of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of the country , and that when this burden exceeds the proportion which canbe paid from that production without distress , the prosperity of the country is checked and capital is impaired . He condemns the extravagance of Congress in subsidies , pensions , sinecures , " roving commissions , " and " itinerating committees of investigation . " He advocates the payment of the public debt as promptly and with as little injury to the people as possible . But when he comes down to the definition of the methods ' by which he would reduce the debt , and to the indication or the portion of the debt to be reduced , he shows himself wholly under the dominion of some of the worst and most mischievous illusions to which the public mind has been a prey in the United States . He would pay the bonded debt by " the unlimited coinage of standard silver dollars , " and he omits any : expression of an intention to pay the non-interest-bearing debt at all . Ho believes that " it is the debt-paying value of silver which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial value , which will keep it on . an equality with gold . So long , " he says , " as the law-making power of the United States decrees that a silver dollar of 41212 grains is equivalent to the gold dollar , so long will this dollar of the Constitution , this dollar of our fathers , ' be on an equality with gold . " Therefore , he would coin every ounce of silver bullion that the Government can obtain , and with the coin , or certificates therefor , he would pay the holders of the national bonds . He would keep 25 per cent . of the greenbacks in coin in the Treasury as a concession to prejudices on that subject , but beyond that amount he would pay out all the coin received in discharge of the maturing bonds . This is a charmingly simple programme . It would certainly do away with all necessity and all possibility of refunding . When the United States has commenced to pay its bonds in dollars worth intrinsically only 87 cents each , it need concern itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . or 6 per cent . or 412 per cent . debt for a debt at 312 per cent . It could not borrow money at any of these rates . It would be reduced to the alternative which Mr. FRYE pointed out , " to that crazy scheme of setting the printing-presses to work , and paying the debt in irredeemable paper money . " For the policy proposed by Mr. FELTON , would put an end to the redemption of the greenbacks . The complete recognition of depreciated silver as the principal component element of our cuikeney , would reduce the whole body of that currency rapidly to the level of the silver . Gold . would leave the country far more rapidly than it has of late been coming : Silver , too , would come from lands happy to find a market in which seven-eighths would be accepted as equivalent to a whole . We should be left with a dishonored public credit and a depreciated currency . There would follow disordered and fluctuating prices , periods of speculation succeeded by periods of depression , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversion of our reviving business into feverish gambling . And in this confusion and bewilderment of affairs , the class which would suffer most and longest , which would sink the deepest and recover the most slowly , which would be most cruelly preyed upon by others and find its ultimate distress the most irremediable , would be that composed of the laborers and producers for whose interests Mr. FFLTON , and those who believe with him , are so deeply concerned . We have said that such views as these from a man of so much general capacity as the Representative from Georgia , whose position enables him to act , if he would , so independently of the general tendencies of his party , is extremely discouraging to those who had . hoped that the South might lend some appreciable aid in establishing the relations of the Government to the material interests of the country upon a sound basis . If this is what we get from one who ought to give us the best the South can offer , it is obvious that the best is but very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men who entertain such wild views as these will be able to defeat the Refunding bill , at present the most important financial measure before Congress , provided that the Republicans do their whole duty in the premises . If they unite with the Conservative Democrats in support of the measure , as doubtless they will , the men who are riding such hobbies , even if they should combine their forces , will not be able to offer any successful resistance .                     