@@744274

txt It is rather unfair for Americans to find fault with the representatives of the Republic at foreign Courts on the ground that they do not conduct themselves as representatives of the Republic should . It is frequently urged against this or that Minister that he adopts the habits of the people among whom he resides ; that he dines with foreigners and exchanges compliments with them , and that in these and other ways he becomes denationalized and unlit to represent true Americans . The unfairness of these complaints consists in the fact that our Government has never issued any code of instructions to its Ministers on social matters . They are left to exercise their own judgment , and we have . no right to abuse a Minister for dining out or for generally conducting himself like a gentleman when he has never been instructed to conduct himself in any other way . Once , and once only , was any official at- , . tempt made to prevent our Ministers from adopting the manners and customs of effete Europe . Mr. Miacy , when Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wear Court uniforms and ordered them to wear black coats and trousers . The result was that at almost any Court ceremony the American Minister was habitually mistaken for a waiter , and was sent to call carriages and to bring refreshments ; or was loaded with shawls and overcoats tossed into his astonished arms by heedless foreigners , who never dreamed that he was a Minister . Mr. MARcv 's order was soon disobeyed , and then totally forgotten ; but it was an effort in the right direction , and it should even at this late day be followed by a series of orders that would prevent our diplomatists from forgetting that they are Americans . Dining with foreigners is perhaps the greatest danger to which our Ministers are exposed . Experience has plainly shown that if an American Minister is given a thoroughly good dinner he loses every vestige of patriotism , and devotes the rest of his existence to flattering the nation to which he is accredited . The way to put a stop to this evil is for the State Department to issue an order forbidding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any foreigner , and ordering him to eat nothing at any time except the simple " hog and hominy " of the South . and West  --  articles of diet which our Government might wisely undertake to supply to all its representatives . If Mr. LOWELL had been obliged to refuse all invitations to dinner , and compelled to dine on purely American dishes in the privacy of his own broom , he might now be a Minister of whom even Western statesmen could heartily approve . So far as the post7of Minister to England is concerned , it should never , under any circumstances , be given to a " Jittery feller . " Men of this class invariably have an unpatriotic fondness for English literature , and this fondness blinds them to the fact that there is not and can not possibly be anything connected with England which it is not the duty of patriotic Americans to hate . Had Mr. LowELL been simply an honest , practical Western statesman , untainted by the culture of Boston , and entirely ignorant of British literature , he would never have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon him , and he would have had his Americanism strengthened by the feeling of isolation which would have come upon him when in the company of educated Englishmen . There are a few unimportant consulates in different parts of the world to which an occasional " jittery feller " might be sent without doing much harm , but under no possible circumstances should a " littery feller " be sent to the Court of St. James 's . American Ministers should be strictly forbidden to give the slightest countenance to the absurd and degrading formalities which are observed in the corrupt society of the Courts of Europe . If an American Minister finds it necessary to attend a " drawingroom " he should wear his ordinary clothes , and should conduct himself as if he were in a Chicago or Oshkosh parlor . Especially should he refuse to recognize the airs assumed by European monarchs , who are certainly no better than himself . Mr. LOWELL , for example , ought to make a point of calling on the Queen and talking over the affairs of the day with her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be advisable . He need not be rude , and indeed he should always remember that the Queen is a lady . When he wishes to see her , he should write her a note , informing her that he will call on her at , say , 2 o'clock , to talk over Irish affairs , and that he trusts she will not keep him waiting , since he has no time to spare , and is , moreover , the representative of the greatest nation on the face of the earth . He would thus sustain the dignity of his native country , and preserve his Americanism unalloyed . Such a code of diplomatic etiquette as our State Department ought to issue should neglect no detail , however small . Ministers should be instructed not to spit behind a royal sofa when there is an accessible fireplace or other more appropriate place . They should be forbidden to address so-called noblemen by their titles , and it should be understood that any Minister addressing any monarch as " your Majesty " would be immediately recalled . When such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may properly be denounced by the patriotic press ; but to denounce Ministers in the absence of any such code , merely because they may happen to be cultivated gentlemen , is unfair and unjust . 