@@744799

txt The arrival of 1,500 parrots at this port the other day was an unusual and significant fact . These parrots were not imported to meet a sudden demand on the part of the spinsters of America for conversational birds . The demand for parrots is small and steady , and it would be folly to suppose ' that 1,500 unmarried ladies of a certain age had simultaneously given up all hopes of matrimony and resolved to solace themselves , with parrots . Neither were the birds imported by a speculator willing to take his chances of finding a market for them ; for no speculator could possibly imagine that the volume of parrots could be so largely and suddenly inflated without producing a very great decline in the market value of parrots . The birds must have been brought here for a specific purpose , and it becomes the duty of every inquisitive person to ask what that purpose could be . It is asserted that during the voyage of the steamer on board of which the 1,500 parrots were passengers daily instructions in English and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching was adopted , and instead of being required to learn the time-honored phrases " Polly wants a cracker , " or " Polly wants a cake , " which are found in " 011endorf 's ParrotEnglish Grammar , " the parrots were taught to cry : " The Republicans must go , " " Turn the rascals out , " " Down with monopolies , " " Give us harmony , " and " Hurroo for Joint KELLY , bedad ! " Wonderful proficiency was made by the parrots in studying English in accordance with this system . Toward the end of the voyage they conversed with one another exclusively in English , and on the occasion of a severe storm which occurred on the 9th inst. the parrots talked so loudly and incessantly that many of the other passengers imagined that a Democratic convention was in session on the main deck . A very little reflection will show that these 1,500 parrots have been imported by political managers for use in the next political campaign . Probably Tammany Hall is the real importer of the birds , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether he intends - to place them on the Tammany General Committee , to send them as Tammany delegates to the State Convention , or to place one of them in the office of each of the leading Democratic newspapers , where they can dictate political articles , the public has , of course , no means of knowing . The great fitness of the parrot for making Democratic speeches or dictating Democratic leading articles is so evident that it is a wonder that the entry of parrots into political lite has been so long delayed . Mr. KELLY , however , seems to have forgotten that his parrots are not naturalized citizens and it is quite possible that he may find some trouble in procuring certificates of naturalization for them promptly and cheaply . 