@@744956

txt It would be a good thing for the country if a majority in Congress  --  not " the majority " in either house , but simply the greater part of the men to whom the Nation has intrusted its legislative powers ? could get to see that the tariff is not essentially a question of abstract . philosophy nor yet of politics , but . a question of business . The principal trouble is , of course , with the politicians . ' Everything done or proposed by any one in Congress is regarded from the point of view of the coming election . - Is a suggestion made to put certain raw materials on the free list , or to repeal the tax on sugar , or to secure reciprocal trade with Canada , or to make a horizontal reduction of the present import duties , each of the two parties is instantly divided by considerations which have nothing to do with the real and substantial interests involved . A portion of the Democrats resist on the ground that a.minority of their party are protectionists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be committed to any such propositions . . A portion of the Republicans resist on the ground that the majority of their party are in favor of a high tariff , and that they will be alienated by anything that savors of " free trade . " Between the two Congress is practically paralyzed . To add to the confusion come the Democratic journals who have staked ' their all on keeping the Democratic Party in a line with Mr. RANDALL , and raise the cry that all these moderate measures are in bad faith , that the election of Mr. CARLISLE pledged the Majority to a tariff for revenue only , without a scintilla of protection resulting from it , and taunt the followers of the Speaker with cowardice , hypocrisy , want of conviction , and lack of every virtue which ideal statesmen should possess . Their object is simple . They wish to prevent any action whatever , and , like the newly arisen PAYNE , of Ohio , to keep the tariff precisely where it is , with enormous duties on the necessaries of life , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a general stagnation in the cribbed and cabined " protected " industries of the land . The unfortunate citizen who works and buys and sells for a living is ignored . His interests , which are obvious , simple , important , are not considered worth attention unless they are expressed in a vote . The crushing burden of unnecessary taxation , heavier than any other civilized country would bear without revolution , rests on his patient shoulders untouched , while his elected rulers squabble as to how the removal of that burden would affect their share of the spoils of politics . The wiseacres of both parties and of no party give him advice and explanation by the ream as to the commercial depression which prevails in the country , as if any country could be steadily prosperous from the yearly earnings of which over a hundred millions of dollars are needlessly drawn , while its commerce is hampered and embarrassed at every point by the arbitrary meddling of a selfish and ignorant Legislature . If there could but be found in Congress a majority of honest , cool-headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration , the excessive taxation and its burdensome nature , and join in voting a moderate but substantial reduction , they would earn the lasting gratitude of a party-ridden , party . cursed people . And if the politicians had but the wit to see it , such a course would be a happy escape for them , for if action on the tariff is to be taken from the party point of view , none of them can tell What its effect Will be , whereas a practical and real relief from oppressive taxation would measurably take the vexed question out of politics . That is a consummation which they pretend to devoutly wish . Here is a chance to bring it about .                     