@@781195

txt In an interview to-day Mr. Parnell said he did not attach serious political importance to Lord Randolph Churchill 's speech at Belfast . His visit to Ulster was likely to end in smoke . It was not generally known that the proportion of Catholics to Protestants in Ulster was as 49 to 51 . Churchill was a most Contemptible politician . He would have taken either side just as suited his purposes at the Moment . He was virtually on the National side and against the Orangemen just before taking office . He was extremely unpopular with the Orangemen then . His militant orations may be Summed up in one word ? " talk . " The Orangemen do not intend to fight . The last Orange demonstration in Ulster proved this . As soon as a few Orangemen were pricked with bayonets by a handful of policemen all bolted . Churchill was no more violent than was to be expected . Mr. Sexton , in an interview , said the speech rendered Churchill impotent to affect English opinion . Churchill 's position on the Irish question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elections had made Salisbury independent of the Orange members Churchill would now have been engaged on a home rule bilL Churchill now appealed to Orangemen under the delusion that they would put the Tories in power by winning British sympathy . His Speech showed ignorance of Irish politics as Well as of human nature . Within living memory men had been hanged forlanguage not more traitorous than Churchill 's . Within Mr. Sexton 's own knowledge members of the League had been sent to prison for life for using such language . Churchill was a political outlaw . It was impossible for him to speak for the mature leaders of a party . Mr. T. P. O'Connor in an interview said : " Churchill failed to do his best for the NationBllsts , and is now doing his best against them . With folly arising from a shallow mind and abSolute illiteracy he attacks a most sacred Catholic belief  --  the confessionaL His speeches appeal to the lowest form of bigotry . They will do the Nationalists an immense amount of good . " Mr. Healy said be believed Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benent the Nationalists . " It is an attempt , " he continued . " to drag sixteenth century feuds into the political arena of to-day . The story of Churchill 's relations with the Parnellites is bosh . I never conversed with him longer than five minutes at a time in my life . " ! dr . O'Brien said : " Churchill is serving us so hugely that I almost think he is revenging himself on the Orangemen who threatened to spoil his meeting at Liverpool a few months ago . ' ' In an interview yesterday Mr. Chamberlain said that he felt it would be improper for him to discuss home rule before Mr. Gladstone had matured and propounded his scheme . " My speeches on the subject , " he said , " are well known . I see no reason yet to abandon the views I have expressed in regard to home rule , although possibly later information might cause tslight modification of my views . Attacks by rish members of Parliament will be ignored . heir utterances . so far as they refer to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parnell and Arthur O'Connor have been nominated to represent the Parnellites on the Procedure Committee of the House of Commons . At the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce in this city to-day Mr. Forwood , Conservative member of Parliament from Lancashire . and a prominent merchant and ship owner of Liverpool , presided . He attributed the present depression in British trade to the appreciation of gold , assisted by the competition of foreign products and manufactures turned out by skilled labor improved by technical education . The Dublin Chamber of Commerce offered , and the Glasgow Chamber seconded , a resolution " against weakening the union between England and Ireland " because of " the dinstrous nature of the results which would ensue to the commercial and trading interests of Great Britain . " The meeting , by a vote nearly unanimous , resolved that " the depreciation of silver and its present tendency toward disuse as money are disturbing trade generally and England 's Eastern commerce in particular . " Another resolution adopted by the meeting contained the following language ; " We urge the Government to unite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its former function as a legal tender , thereby giving it a permanent instead of a fluctuating value . " Mr. Joseph Chamberlain , President of the Local Government Board , was visited to-day by a deputation of unemployed workingmen , who stated their grievances and asked what the Government meant to do to relieve the prevailing distr , ss . Mr. Chamberlain , in his reply , deprecated riots and all similar forms of disturbance to manifest the needs of help . He said he was opposed to emigration as a means of relief , unless the distress were chronic . This opposition was based on many grounds , not the least among which was the fact that the colonies would refuse to welcome large numbers of paupers , because , among other reasons , their influx would cheapen the labor Market . Mr. Chamberlain added that he hoped the Government would soon be able to establish the British laborer upon the soil he tilled . Pending the accomplishment of this , he ( Mr. Chamberlain ) would not cease urging the local boards to start relief works , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of subsistence to such as were in absolute need . The London trades unions unanimously rejecteu aid from the Mansion House relief fund . They declare that they are able to provide for their own members out of employment . The ratio of their members out of work is only 3 per cent . The successor of Col. Henderson as Chief of the Police Depaptment of London will be either Capt . Shaw , Chief of the London Fire Brigade ; Coi . Vincent . member of Parliament , or Mr. Jenkinson , of Dublin . Mr. Jenkinson is most likely to receive the appointment . The committee investigating the recent riot has found that Col. Henderson 's instructions to the police on the 8th inst. , the day of the Trafalgar-square meeting , were meagre and inadequate , and that although he bad been fully warned he had nothing arranged to control the mob . The committee declares that after the meeting had ended Col. Henderson ought to have used cabs , telegraph lines , and scouts to give warning before the mob 's march westward . The Dilke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a march on the other members in adopting the resolution of confidence in Sir Charles Dilke . The majority of the council had no intimation that the resolution would be brought up . The meeting was convened ostensibly to hear a member read a paper on free trade , and only Dilke 's friends were present . Dilke appealed to the feelings of the meeting , but gave no good reason why he did not go into the witness box during the recent trial . The Liberals intend to demand of Dilke a public statement that he did not pack the meeting . Mr. Ames Bryce , Under Foreign Secretary , answering for the Government a question put by the Hon. Bernard J. S. Coleridge . Radical , in the House of Commons , this evening , stated that the Government did not entertain the opinion that the present was a favorable time to approach the Sultan with a view to securing a cession of territory to Greece . The statement was cheered by the Conservatives . Lord Rosebery , Foreign Secretary , has received from Sir Horace Rumbold , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal submission of Greece , and stating that Premier Delyannis will prepare a protest to the powers that Greece submits only to force inajeure . LONDoN . Feb. 24 . ? A deputation of " fair traders " waited upon Col. Henderson five days before the meeting and warned him of a probable collision with the Socialists , who at a meet-ingt had advocated storming the fair traders platform . Col. Henderson provided a police force at Trafalgar-square , where he himself strolled in mufti during the meeting , at the close of which he ordered a force of police to proceed to Pall Mall . By an error of subordinates the force was sent to the Mall , St. James 's Park , : instead of to Pall Mall . CoL Henderson admits that he depended on what he bad observed to be a fact . that crowds always returned by the way they bad come . In this instance the theory was upset . Sir Robert Fowler , member London City , gave notice in the House of Commons of a motion on the subject of the summary acceptance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Lord Aberdare , in the House of Lords . paid a tribute to Col. Henderson 's success in lessening crime and minimizing convictions . The press generally expresses regret at Col. Henderson 's retirement , but concurs that his blunders more than sufficed to balance his distinguished record . The standard 's Rome correspondent learns from the Jesuit portion of the Vatican that the Pope does not favor the separation of England and Ireland , on the ground that separation would be inimical to the Catholic religion . Several thousand Scotchwomeu have been thrown out of employment by the collapse of Skirt and ruchings industry due to the American increase or duty on goods of that class . Col. Burnaby 's widow will marry Prof. Main . The Standard says that the Under Secretary for Ireland has submitted a scheme for home rule to the Government .                     