@@780607

txt Letters received by THE TIMES from 84 of the 58 counties in this State , outside of NewYork and Kings , present a strikingly impartial review of the political situation . The correspondents from whom these come are gentlemen who are capable of forming accurate opinions of the events of the day as they observe them . Many of these gentlemen are prominent members of the communities in which they live , and some have a reputation throughout the State . That they have given a fair and unprejudiced statement of the sentiment in their respective neighborhoods no one who reads their letters will doubt .. From all sections of the State come words of good-will and encouragement for the Republican standard-bearers , and as each section is represented in the correspondence it is a good indication of the results that may be expected . at the November elections . The situation in nearly all of the Hudson River counties is given fully and comprehensively ; the section between the Hudson and Delaware Rivers is represented by Sullivan County the Southern tier by Broome , Steuben , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Genesee , and Livingston ; the Lake Ontario border by Orleans , Oswego , Monroe , and Jefferson ; Northern New-York by St. Lawrence and Franklin ; while the sentiment of the great central section is represented by Chenango , Cortland , Fulton , Herkimer , Madison , Onondaga , Ontario , Otsego , and Seneca . In all of these the Republican . Party is united in support of Garfield and Arthur , and nowhere is there any talk of bolting or scratching . The loud boast of the Democrats that Gen. Hancock would capture the soldier vote is refuted in every instance , and it is made evident that the large majority of political converts this year will be accessions to the Republican ranks . In all the counties from which returns have come a large vote is expected , and from all comes the prediction that Garfield and Arthur will receive a much more solid support and larger majorities than did Hayes and Wheeler in 1876.                     