@@745572

txt The most impressive moral inculcated by the Roumelian news is the extreme instability of the balance of power in Europe . That , indeed , is no new thing . The attitude of reciprocal vigilance is one that has been maintained by all the powers for considerably more than a century . During this period nearly all the diplomacy of Europe and a great part of its politics have been concerned with this question of the balance of power . It is not quite fair to say , as is sometimes said , that this absorption of the energies of European statesmen in questions of national aggrandizement is a survival of dynastic as opposed to constitutional politics . No doubt the constitutional countries are less absorbed with these questions than the countries which are still more or less governed by intrigues of the palace . But it is in part a reversal of the true state of the case to assign the comparative lack of interest in domestic politics of the countries still governed autocratically to their political backwardness . Perhaps the truer way of putting it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessity they are under of making foreign politics their chief business .. The Latin saw about laws and arms finds its practical translation in the Roman practice of a dictatorship . Undoubtedly a republican or any constitutional form of government is not the most efficient method of making the resources of the nation available in war . So long as wars and rumors of wars are the staples of diplomacy and the principal business of statesmanship , constitutional government is a luxury that a country engaged in this chronic struggle for existence can not afford . The Roman method of allowing the conscript fathers to settle questions by votes after hearing argument , except when danger was imminent , and then handing over the whole power of the State to an irresponsible dictator with instructions to take care that the Commonwealth receives no injury , is impracticable in modern States . In proportion to the remoteness of danger from abroad can freedom and publicity be safely allowed to the constitution of government at home . After every war the map of Europe must be remodeled and the balance of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ag= grandizement , but it may become a question of national existence with each of the powers whether another shall be permitted to acquire this or that patch of territory . Nations in this condition are not in a position favorable for extending popular liberty and representative institutions , and they are far from being objects of envy to nations more fortunately placed . It will not be disputed that in the matter of political liberty Great Britain has for generations held the leadership of Europe , but it is not sufficiently remembered how much her geographical detachment from the Continent has enabled her people to do for the development of constitutional government . Every question of the balance of power that arises is not to her , as it is to the Continental nations , a vital question . Her national interests are not compromised nor her national existence threatened by events that are of the gravest concern to every Continental Cabinet . She can scarcely be brought into these questions except willfully and perversely through the incompetency of her own Government . It would puzzle anybody to tell now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which she was engaged  --  that of the Crimea . It would be quite as difficult to tell what national business she has had in Egypt , or why Lord SALISBURY 'S Government should take any proceedings in the present disturbance of Southeastern Europe , except such as may be neeessary to keep out of the same . Our own position is still - more fortunate . We can contemplate these complications , which are so alarming to Europeans , with little more emotion than if we were inhabitants of another planet instead of being inhabitants merely of another hemisphere . This happiness is not the result of our wisdom , but of our fortune . All that we can do , or need to do , in order to preserve it , is to appreciate it and to refrain from entering upon the " entangling alliances " in . which WASHINGTON foresaw a danger to the young Republic . Attempts have not been wanting , upon the part of diplomatists with a tendency to magnify their offices , or of Secretaries eager to distinguish themselves by a " spirited foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain course of minding our own business . There is nothing of which we are less in need than of a spirited foreign policy . It is only by permitting the restless vanity of aspiring politicians to mislead us into such a policy that we can forfeit one of the chief felicities of our birthright .                     