@@744712

txt The Niagara Falls Commission yesterday referred to the Attorney-General the question whether it was bound to pay the State Engineer for the map of the Falls and their surroundings which he is directed by the law to make for the use of the commission . To laymen it seems that the only use of that provision ? of the law is to save the State the cost of a special map made by a private surveyor . Otherwise the provision simply deprives the commission of the power of employing any surveyor it chooses , and shuts it up to the appointment of a particular surveyor , to do , at his own price , a piece of work for which there is no reason to suppose that he has any special fitness , and about which the Legislature has much less fitness to judge than . the commission . It is not to be assumed , without evidence , that the Legislature meant to do so very absurd a thing . Another matter , of even more public interest , was the proposition made by Mr. GREEN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include a survey of the whole distance from the Falls to the whirlpool . - We quite agree with Mr. GREEN that this would be a good thing in itself . In fact , as was suggested during the debate , the whole gorge . of the river below the falls , down almost to Lake Ontario , and the rapids above the falls as well , . form a succession of striking and sublime objects the preservation of which from the vulgar incidents of ordinary commercial uses is a legitimate object of public concern . But it is to be remembered that an opposition , which seems curiously strong to intelligent people , was developed in the Legislature even to the limited project of reclaiming the land immediately adjoining the cataract .. The scheme as it was discussed in the . Legislature was confined to this , ' wind yet it encountered hostility . This hostility would be reinforced if the commission were to undertake any enlargement of its powers beyond those unquestionably conferred upon ' it . The adoption of Mr. GREEN 'S resolution would have been construed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Legislature , even if they are within the letter of the statute . For that reason , no doubt , Mr. GREEN 'S colleagues overruled him . But this proposition is only objectionable as being premature . The time will come when it will be recognized as the duty of the State to take care , in behalf of CiViliZStion , of all the surroundings of Niagara which in any degree contribute to its unique impressiveness . The existing commission can do nothing . so well calculated to hasten the coming of that time as to do thoroughly and well the limited work already committed to it .                     