@@744243

txt Some of our California fellow-citizens , angered by the prevalence of what they consider to be a pro-Chinese sentiment in the Eastern States , have resolved to try what virtue there is in boycotting . Certain merchants and business men in New-York and Boston lately signed petitions and memorials against the enactment into a law of the bill to suspend Chinese immigration to this country . As the California merchants buy largely In these two cities , it was at once suggested that the California trade should be withdrawn from the men who had signed the memorials . On this hint the ? names of the signers , their business and their places of residence , were telegraphed from Washington to the California papers . The curious reader may find in those journals long lists of mercantile and banking firms and individual business men , who are thus posted as unworthy of the patronage of a people who have set their hearts upon the suspension of Chinese immigration by act of Congress . It is further proposed that a league shall be formed for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obnoxious memorials and petitions . This is boycotting at the Eastern end of the line . At the other end is the Chinaman . It is proposed that he shall be severely left alone to produce what his Caucasian neighbors will not buy . Something like this was suggested in the United States Senate , the other day , when one of the opponents of the bill to suspend immigration from China seemed to think he had made an unanswerable argument in the assertion that the white people could drive out the Chinese by refusing to hire them or buy of them . To enforce a non-intercourse act as against the Chinese in California would be difficult , if not impossible . Nevertheless , certain stern patriots have resolved to try what can be done in this direction . They have taken a solemn vow to refuse anything of Chinese manufacture , and to refrain rigorously from employing and hiring the Chinese in any manner . The members of the Anti-Chinese League will not knowingly aid , abet , encourage , or sustain the Chinese by any commercial or business transaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberties , and their sacred honor . Left to themselves , " the hordes " will prey upon each other until none is left to tell the tale of their miserable end by starvation in a strange land . Exactly where the Californians propose to buy their goods , when nearly all of the leading dealers in two principal cities are in a state of boycotting , we can not see . But if Philadelphia , Baltimore , and Chicago are wise , they will abstain from signing any memorials against the anti-Chinese bills . In old times it used to be said that Philadelphia secured a large Southern trade in consequence of the good-natured inability of the merchants of that city to see anything wrong in the institution of slavery . Of course , this was a slander , and the Southern merchants bought in Philadelphia because they were given longer credits and lower prices there . If the war had not come just as it did . New-York streets would have been grass-grown , and New-England cotton and woolen mills would have been made over into alms-houses , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To a certain degree , even'this may now be accomplished , provided the business men of the Quaker City will only maintain a discreet silence on the subject of Chinese immigration . Meantime , the California merchants are not expected to buy where they can buy to the best advantage , but where they meet with sympathy on the Chinese question . If , as has been alleged , the Chinese in California have taken possession of nearly all the avenues of trade , it will not be easy to boycott that indefatigable and pervasive people . Housekeepers may not buy vegetables of Chinese peddlers , as has been their wont . But what security have they that the stuff offered to them by unmistakable Caucasians has not been raised by the pagans ? Unfortunately , the average Caucasian is not above turning an honest penny by ways that are as dark as any Chinese cheap laborer 's . To boycott the Chinese producers effectually , it would be necessary to provide a system of stamping , sealing , and certifying by which the consumer should be assured that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The middlemen must be sworn to sell no Chinese products , and detectives and spies must watch and report to the grand centre any attempt to impose upon a confiding public anything the sale of which would bring profit or revenue to a Chinese resident . A bare suggestion of these difficulties will indicate the infirmity of the proposition .                     