@@672204

txt There is an air of prearrangement about the emphatic discussion now going on between some of the Republican organs and a few so-called Democrats and Democratic journals as to a great " struggle " that is to take place on the opening of the next session of Congress . The matter does not excite the great body of voters of either party , or even the ordinarily-alert political newspapers of either party , as it might be expected to excite them if it really involved any such important issues as is pretended . When we note those who are immediately engaged this is not so singular . On the one hand , it has been given out  --  originally , we believe . by the Chicago Tribune  --  that Mr. HARRISON , on the advice of Republican leaders in and out of his Cabinet , ( chiefly out , for we do not recall any actual leader within that circle , ) is intending to call Congress in extraordinary session in October in order that the Republican majority can amend the rules so as to prevent filibustering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of extreme partisan that he always assumes during the recess of Congress , makes haste to declare that this is a dastardly plot to rob the minority of their constitutional rights , and that it will be resisted if the Democrats have to block all legislation for a year . To this the New York Tribune replies , with a , very apparent desire to strengthen Mr. RLNDALL 'S pretensions as a Democratic leader , which have been found so useful to Republican plans in the past , that Mr. RANDALL is a truculent partisan , and that he will find that the majority will insist upon their power to control business , no matter how long it may take to subdue the obstinacy of the Democrats . To reinforce the combatants in thisrather artificial dispute , the Richmond Despatch , which enjoys the distinction of being the only journal now printed in the English language that regards the right of secession as a live topic for discussion , draws what is meant to be a gloomy picture of the terrible purpose the Republicans have in view . It is nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deciding contested elections in their own favor , and then passing an election law by which all elections will be placed under the control of their own . unscrupulous agents , and thus perpetuating - the rule of the party indefinitely . As to this whole business , we can only say that if Mr. RANDALL wished to bring about a state of things in which party excitement and passion should be aroused , and in which h 3 should become the central figure in order to make his party forget his treachery to it , and to arm MAI with new power to repeat that treachery . he would like nothing better than the " struggle " which he announces and is trying to bring on . On the other hand , such a result would be extremely pleasing to the Republican leaders who have profited by Mr. RANDALL 'S treachery in the past , and who now see that he is badly discredited and nearly helpless to do any more mischief in the party to which he pretends to belong . It suits Mr. Randall 