@@745944

txt To thoughtful American citizens the case of the Rev. Dr. EDWARD MCGLYNN has a significance that extends far beyond its personal aspects and transcends all questions of ecclesiastical discipline . It brings to an issue , premature perhaps , the conflict- between the Americanizing influence in the Catholic Church and . the unbending authority of - the hierarchy that has its head . at Rome and derives its traditions from the dark ages . There is no question of Dr. 's faithful adherence - to the doctrines of his church , so far as these pertain to matters of faith and . of religious observance . He has shown no spirit of apostasy . He is admitted . to be a devout man , earnest and fervent as a priest and obedient to all the behests of his church in matters purely religious . But EDWARD MeGria-.sT is an American . a believer in free institutions , in the rights of the people , and in the duty of the citizens of ' a republic to do their share to uphold and defend its integrity , though in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he appears as holding views of land ownership which are abhorrent to most Americans . Archbishop ConatGAN represents - the power of the church and . the control of that power which has its source in the Bishop of Rome and the edicts of past ages , a power that has undergone in the last three centuries a constant curtailment of its pretensions to rule men in other relations than those of spiritual life and duty . This power is antagonistic to free institutions and to the rights of citizens to think and act for themselves even in matters which have no vital connection with religious faith and worship . It is a question whether the Catholic Church ' in America is to be Americanized and brought into harmony with the spirit of our institutions or whether it is to Romanize those institutions . Dr. MCGLYNN represents the tendency in the church to become Americanized . He long ago admitted the right and . duty of the State to provide for and to supervise the education of its people in secular matters as a necessary safeguard to the prudent exercise of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that position that the church should confine its teaching in an authoritative way to matters of religious belief and practice . It was his position on the subject of public education that first brought Dr. into collision - with the ecclesiastical authorities . He has also taken the ground that it is the right and the duty of every American citizen to take part in the work of self-government , upon which the maintenance of our institutions depends . What has brought him into conflict with the authorities of the church in this matter is not exclusively the particular theories that he has espoused , but his insistence upon the right to avow his political principles and . to promote their adoption , a right that belongs to every American citizen , whatever his profession or his faith . It is the individual right of the priest as a citizen and an American that i s also objected to , and the exercise of that right otherwise than in obedience to clerical superiors . Catholic dignitaries are by no means averse to the exercise of political influence , provided it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . They have used political influence against the system of public education , and to obtain public money for their own institutions , which are more religious than educational and charitable . MICHAEL CORRIGAN , as Bishop of Newark , in 1875 tried to use the whole power and influence of his position to defeat a.mendinents to the Constitution of New-Jersey requiring the maintenance of free public schools and forbidding the appropriation of public money for the use of " any society , association , or corporation whatever . " There is , we are informed , authentic evidence that the present Archbishop 's influence and efforts were exerted in the very last political canvass hero against the proposition for a Constitutional Convention as well as in favor of one of the candidates for Mayor . The question which will sooner or later come to an issue in this country in such a form that ecclesiastical discipline emanating from Rome can not suppress it , is whether a man can be an adherent of the Catholic Church in full favor , and at the same time an American citizen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That result will be only attained when it is admitted that the jurisdiction of the church , wherever its head may be located , is limited to the domain of spiritual and religious affairs , and that a man 's allegiance and obedience in other matters are to the institutions of his country . In the growth of this Republic and the development of the spirit of American citizenship , and in the spread of the faith and discipline of the Catholic Church in this land , we have no doubt as to which will ultimately prevail . There will be some struggle and conflict in the process , but the tendency will not be checked thereby .                     