@@743511

txt The Concord School of Philosophy and the religious and educational assemblies at Chautauqua have developed into what we are accustomed to call " institutions . " A few years ago they had not been heard of or had attracted the attention of only a small and interested circle . They have passed from experiment to success . They seem this year to have reached ' the full maturity of vigor , and to have taken on a national character . Philosophers from beyond the Mississippi are lecturing at Concord , and men . ; and women from all over the country give and receive instruction in the groves of Chautauqua . This return to the Academic method of mental cultivation can not be too highly commended . It is evidence of a genuine and healthy intellectual appetite . It is flattering to our national self-esteem . If we were a sluggish-minded people , or imbued with a pedantic spirit , we could show nothing like this . ' the success of the movement is based on our mental alertness and keen desire to learn something new . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two academies is ? for its own sake . Our young and raw nation has at length reached . a point where a portion of its people can leave practical questions for pursuits purely intellectual , having no relation to dollars and cents . That is a mark of growth . We experienced a need , and a new organ was developed to meet it . A score or more of thoughtful men with a turn for metaphysical speculation or ethical inquiry , desiring to interchange ideas and offer the fruits of their thinking to all who desired to partake of them , and finding no adequate machinery for the purpose , revived the academy of PLATO in the Concord apple orchard . So ConvrNias 's plan of an academic city is transferred from the banks of the Danube to the shores of Chautauqua Lake , because our schools and colleges were too staid or languid to yield to the fresh , pushing , creative spirit which felt that it had outgrown that set , hard educational method which proceeds on the theory that boys , like peas , are all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object to any mention of their advanced pursuits in the same breath with what ' they would probably call the Sundayschool scheme for elementary instruction at Chautauqua . Deep philosophic4 speculation is apt to foster intellectual pride ! ' and exclusiveness . This claim to a higher calling , beyond the ken of the vulgar world , has at least been put forth in their behalf , though , perhaps , not with their sanction . It is not for an instant to be admitted . ' They are engaged in a praiseworthy effort to make man wiser and better , and are to be respected for their good intentions and industry , just ' as miners and railroad laborers , are . But we are to stand in awe of one no more than of the other . The common people understand these philosophers very well when they talk sense , and none can understand them when they talk nonsense . These gentlemen should remember that there is nothing peculiar about the business which draws them together . There is no luxury so cheap as a system of philosophy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember , too , that of all fields of human thought or enterprise , this is the one in which the smallest substantial and lasting success has been gained . There : has been a liberal sprinkling of speculative philosophers in every age , from the remotest to the . present , but none of them ; have ever settled anything beyond dispute . Each philosopher 's system was , and is , his own , and , unless he be a mere imitator , is generally incompatible with all others . Most of them , in seeking to unwind creation and get at its secret , have fumbled the subject , like a kitten playing with a ball of yarn . Meanwhile the world waits patiently for some clear and tangible result from their labors . Still they are to be respected for their honest endeavors . We are not to indulge in hasty exclamations even when a Concord philosopher gravely informs us that the beautiful in nature is never comprehended save when the soul is concentred with the universe , and assimilates all space . These professors and lecturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of HOBBES , of Malmesbury , but some of them literally accept and act upon his saying , that words are the wise man 's counters , but the fool 's money . It happens , however , that those who make their words mean anything they choose , and are thus intelligible only to themselves , have really nothing to say that it is worth any man 's while to listen to . The discourses of the others will repay the closest attention , as the outgivings of wellstored minds , stimulated to their highest working power by contact with a kindred and sympathetic audience . The work at Chautauqua is , in part , of a practical character , as many teachers go there to add to their equipment . The school of languages has proved to be one of the most useful features of the assembly . Hebrew , 9-reek . Latin , and the modern tongues are taught by the natural method  --  that is , conversationally from the beginning , the study of grammatical forms being introduced later on . It is found that pupils make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expression in the six or eight weeks spent at Chautauqua . The most beneficial result achieved , however , is in the dissemination of the principles of the natural method . A hundred or more teachers are drilled in it each year and carry it into their own work . The school by the lake-side is thus spreading the leaven and helping on the revolution that will ultimately crowd out of use the old , laborious way of mastering foreign languages . In the study of literature , art , and the general methods of teaching , some excellent work is being done ' at Chautauqua . The programme of lectures affords an ample range in the choice of subjects , and the time of year in which the sessions are held enables teachers or professional men to combine the advantages of study with the pleasures of a vacation . 