@@743386

txt Superintendent Christy , of the Muskingum County Infirmary , has become deeply interested , within the past few days , in an inmate of that institution who , he thinks , has a history connected with which is something mysterious . The case is that of an old lady who was sent there on Sept. 9 last . She is about 60 years of age , of tolerably heavy figure and fair complexion , has good eyesight , and , just at this time , is in excellent health . At the time alluded to she was taken from the train at the depot , being very sick and partially deranged . She was unable to give any account of herself at the time , except to say that she had taken medicine which made her sick . The City Infirmary doctors ordered her taken to the infirmary , where the best care was taken of her , and she recovered from her physical ailment , but mentally she has never been right . She has plenty of good clothes , and abundant evidence - surrounds her showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth . She has an occasional lucid interval , and , for a few minutes at such times , will talk very sensibly . Mr. Christy has noticed lately that her mind was upon a matter that has given him much thought , and , in fact , serious apprehensions that the old lady has been foully dealt with . In one of her lucid intervals , a few days ago , she became quite interested to know how she got where she now is . She said she left Winchester , Va. , last Fall , in company with a man named Welch ; that she started for London , Ohio , where she says she has an interest in an estate of some magnitude , and where her relatives live . She also claims to be well acquainted about Muncie , Ind. , and frequently speaks of Charles March , who. she says , resides there . She can talk intelligibly but a few moments at a time , when her reason becomes dethroned and her mind wanders , The Superintendent has been able to get enough out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arouse his suspicion , and he thinks the matter should be looked into . The fact that she has such an abundance of good clothes , many of them exceedingly fine , inclines him to the belief that perhaps some of her relatives have shipped her away to secure her part of an estate . She has not the slightest idea why she should be in the infirmary , and becomes Quite despondent at lucid intervals at the thought of such treatment . She says her name is Martha Hunt , and that her relatives know her best by the name of " Patsy " Hunt . 