@@672033

txt HUGH J. GRANT , the Tammany candidate , has been elected to the office of Mayor of this city . This result was unquestionably brought about by the Republican organization and by those respectable Republican voters who allowed themselves to be blinded by partisanship or deluded into the idea that ERHARDT was put up to be elected and might be elected . Evidence is plentiful that a large part of the " machine " vote went to GRANT through trades on other local candidates or through the preference of the voters themselves . The machine leaders understood perfectly well that ERHARDT could not be elected and cared nothing for supporting him . On the other hand , they preferred the election of GRANT to that of HEWITT , knowing full well that it was their only chance of securing any share in the spoils . No doubt where they could gain anything for other candidates by trading on ERHARDT 'S candidacy they did so , but where that could not be done they gave votes to the Tammany candidate from mere preference . This is precisely what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . other hand , the respectable . Republicans , who from every consideration of enlightened regard for the interests of the city ought to have aided in the re-election of HEWITT , gave their votes by the thousands blindly to their party candidate . Not many could have been finally convinced that there was a chance of his election , but they were so carried away with party spirit that they voted for him merely because he was the candidate of their party . Their action was less creditable than that of the hordes of voters who do the bidding of the machine leaders with blind obedience because of their superior claims to intelligence and judgment and the greater stake which they have in the good government of the city . Whatever may be the evil consequences of a restoration of Tammany rule in the city they will have to be attributed to the conduct of the Republican organization and the so-called " better class " of Republican voters . In justice to Tammany Hall it is to be said that there is no evidence that its leading men sanctioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate for Mayor . So far as we can judge at this moment they " pulled straight , " though some of the underlings may have sold out the Electoral ticket . Tammany has of late been making loud claims to public virtue and through its candidate for Mayor it made very definite and positive promises of reform in conducting the municipal administration . These pledges are likely to be put to the test , and there will be a very close watch and a severe scrutiny of the manner of fulfilling the promises . If Tammany is such a regenerated body as it pretends to be it will have an opportunity of showing it in the next two years . The best that the citizens can do is to direct the full force of public sentiment upon its course and hold it to a rigorous accountability for the trust which it has secured to itself .                     