@@745439

txt Our valued contemporary the Brooklyn Union has made a microscopic examination of the bridge extension question and finds eight reasons why the clauses providing for the extension should be stricken from the bill before it passes the Assembly . If the Union will pursue its study of the transit problem in a spirit of similar minuteness 1. , t may find eight , eighty , or eight.hundred reasons why the great bridge itself should never have been built . We are not very profoundly impressed with the Union 's allegations that the extension from Sands-street to the City Hall is " liable at any time to be gobbled up by a private corporation ; " that this bill will , in various ways , derange the finances of the bridge and raise the cost of rapid transit from New-York to the outer wards of Brooklyn to a minimum of ten cents , and that the plan adds " a mere paper " project to the mass of abortive rapid transit schemes in Brooklyn . The objections and dangers our Brooklyn contemporary dwells upon are either imaginary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature . And they are all sent skyward out of human sight when weighed against the one obviously true and unanswerable assertion that something ought to be done , and at once , to make the bridge useful now and in the future to the greatest number of the inhabitants of Brooklyn . The extension of the bridge railway as proposed , though a " paper project , " is the only one which contains the promise of any progress whatever toward the attainment of that most desirable end . Brooklyn has for years with pusillanimous weakness and hesitation dallied with the important question of rapid transit . It will be but a further evidence of her childish timidity if the petulant protests of the owners of property on half a dozen blocks awe into silence the tens of thousands of weary slaves of the Brooklyn City Railroad Company who are looking with hopefulness to this extension as to the beginning of their deliverance . Wake a Brooklyn man up in the middle of the night and ask him what he wants , and . he replies instantly : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody in Brooklyn wants , and that need need overshadows every local interest . Twice daily that huge multitude must traverse the distance between its homes in Brooklyn and its offices and workshops in this city . For ? years it has endured , with mixed patience and profanity , the unspeakable discomforts of the horse cars and the ferries . And now , when a plan reasonably complete and well adapted to its purpose of the more rapid transportation of these thousands of daily passengers  --  a project , moreover , which paves the way to still more advantageous transit arrangements ? is submitted to the Legislature in the interests and for the relief of these thousands of much-enduring Brooklyn people , a cry goes up from a group of property owners along the line of the proposed extension , a group small in numbers but stout in lungs , that the project is a " job , " , that it is a scheme of Mr. CORBIN 'S to confiscate the bridge , and that it will impoverish and bankrupt the hosts of passengers who are so impatiently waiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Legislature is disposed to grant the relief asked for by the tens of thousands living in remoter Brooklyn rather than to listen with acquiescence to the selfish and obstructive protests of the ten dwellers in Washington-street.                     