@@672216

txt The Commissioners appointed to deal with the Sioux for - the purchase of about 11,000,000 acres of land , constituting half of their reservation . after protracted . labors have substantially triumphed . The decisive point was the Standing Rock Agency , and there for many days the outlook was most unpromising , until at last a break in the Indian opposition occurred , begun by JOHN GRASS and his band , aud. followed by the great warrior GALL . Taking the reservation as a whole , the required . threefourths vote has easily been obtained , especially as there wore some gleanings of signatures in favor of the sale after the departure of the Commissioners from the agencies earlier visited . The result is creditable to the tact and resolute patience of the Commissioners , who showed good temper under the taunts of some of the chiefs , and furnished very clear explanations of the proposed agreement , so that all objections could be removed . They enjoyed a great advantage , not only in profiting by the experience of their predecessors of last year , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be recalled that after last year 's commission had failed delegations of the Sioux went to Washington and explained their objections at length . These were obviated to a great extent by Congress at the session following , and in the new boundaries proposed for the six agencies , the price to be paid for the lands , and the mode of holding and distributing the funds , the concessions were specially liberal . But while these changes aided the Commissioners , much of their success must also be in justice ascribed to their mode of operations , and . in these they possessed au advantage in having as one of their number Gen. GEORGE CROOK , whose reputation with the Indians , both as soldier and negotiator , came into good play , while his knowledge of what arguments to use and his mingling of good humor and firmness were effective . The change of route adopted by the present commission also proved judicious . Last year Messrs . PLATT and CLEVELAND entered the reservation from the northern end and visited first the Standing Rock Agency . There were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most unpromising ground , and after remaining there an entire month obtained . only 22 signatures from the 1,100 adult males entitled to vote . The check was so overwhelming that they kept on down the Missouri , past the Cheyenne River Agency , to try at Crow Creek and Lower BrultS , where they knew they could do better . At the former they gathered in 244 signatures out of a possible 306 ; at the latter 120 out of 282 . But the blow at Standing Rock had been too severe , and as getting the required three-fourths vote was out of the question , they gave up without visiting the other three agencies , from which great opposition was reported . This year the commission began at the southernmost agency , the Rosebud , considering that if the Indians there should be inclined to the scheme they would at least not be restrained by any recent vote against it , as might be the case at Standing Rock . They were exceedingly successful at Rosebud , receiving about three-fourths of the votes at this most populous of all @ @ @ 