@@745156

txt The fruit dealers and the farmers of Western New-York are engaged in an in ; eresting controversy about the proper size pf an apple barrel . It is needless to say that the farmers are in favor of a smaller apple barrel than that which would suit the fruit dealers . There is little objection to the farmer calling a quart a barrel if he likes , provided there is a clear understanding that when a farmer says a barrel he means a quart . In that case he will be sure of not getting the price of more than a quart . One would imagine that questions of this kind could easily be settled by reference to the standard established by the State , but it does not appear that the State has ever established a standard . The chapter on " Weights and Measures " in the Revised Statutes is defective , besides being clumsy and bungling . All that it says bearing on this controversy is that the measure of capacity for fruits shall be " the half bushel and its multiples and subdivisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All that we can get out of this is that an apple barrel ought to be a multiple of a half bushel , which probably neither the apple barrel contended for by the farmers nor the apple barrel contended for by the fruit dealers is . The latter is simply a flour barrel , calculated to hold 196 pounds of flour and probably devoid of an easily estimable relation to a half bushel . The farmers take their stand upon the impregnable position that flour is flour , while apples are apples . It is a pity that the controversy has arisen after the State Conventions have adjourned . Those bodies would have discerned with intuitive sagacity that whatever the merits of the question might be farmers were more numerous than fruit dealers , and would have promptly denounced the giant wrong committed by monopolists in trying to deprive the farmers of the barrels of their fathers and to confine them to a Procrustean and theoretical standard of capacity for apples . It is not too late for the State Committees to repair the omission and to disown all sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would like to have an assurance of what he gets when he pays for an alleged " barrel " of apples . The only way- to gratify his reasonable desire seems to be by an amendment to the law of weights and measures . 