@@745255

txt It would be a good thing if all the State elections in this country were held on the same day , and if that day coincided with the . date of the Presidential election . When- the little State of New-Hampshire had the first election of the year it was regarded as very important as indicating the drift of political sentiment and setting the current of the canvass throughout the country . As a consequence National Committees ? gave particular attention to that State and sent funds there to be disbursed by the local managers . It was then that the State gained a reputation for political corruption from which it has not yet recovered . The Portsmouth Navy Yard and the Federal offices in the State became agencies of political debauchery , and the bribery of voters was flagrant and scarcely ' concealed . Tile September election in Maine this year was regarded as of peculiar significance on account of ' the fact that the Republican candidate for President was a citizen of that State , as he must always be a citizen of some State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State canvass and the production of a factitious excitement that precluded the possibility of a calm consideration of the issues involved . Funds were lavished upon the canvass , and the buying of votes was open and shameless . The mischief is still greater when an election occurs in an important State within a month preceding a Presidential election . It is not easy to conceive the disturbance of business and of popular equanimity , the abuses and corruption that might be produced in this State in a campaign like the present , if there were a State election in October . Pennsylvania and Indiana have been through the experience , and their citizens have been wise enough in their own interest to take them out of the turmoil of October elections . The majority in Pennsylvania used to be regarded as a presage of the result of the Presidential contest , and under the stress of the efforts to increase or diminish it every form of abuse and corruption prevailed in the State canvass . The work of carrying Indiana four years ago by the application of " soap " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DUDLEY is well remembered . Its effect upon the standard of public morality was not confined to the people of the State . It defiled the public service in Washington , where Commissioner BENTLEY , an efficient and experienced officer , was removed in order that DUDLEY might have his reward . It even entailed obligations to DORSEY which had much to do with the failure of the efforts to bring him to justice for his participation in the star route frauds . This year the October election has made of Ohio the scene of a shameful exhibition , which fails to produce its legitimate effect on the popular judgment because in its main features it is too familiar . There has been no chance in that State of a fair contest of strength between the two parties , because the conduct of the canvass has practically been taken out of the hands of the people of the State . The candidate of one party in the national contest , with which the State election has no direct relation , has been Paraded tin and down the State for the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens . The efforts and resources of the National Committees have been concentrated upon the State in a fierce struggle for votes . In defiance of every principle of civil service reform and public decency Federal officers from the capital have been acting as campaign workers for one party at the expense of the people of the whole country , and United States Marshals have considered themselves the servants of a party bound to use their power for its success . Evei7 abuse of the elective franchise , such as colonizing voters , repeating at the ballot box , and direct bribery , have been encouraged , and in the large cities the election has been made the occasion of tumult , disorder , and violence . Popular government is beset with many dangers , and the corruption of the franchise and the prostitution of the public service to party ends are among the greatest . These are vastly increased by the holding of State elections within a few weeks previous to the national election . Ohio will do much toward mitigating these evils by holding its elections hereafter in November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States .                     