@@744031

txt Prof. HENRY YOULE HIND continues to make himself disagreeable to a number of official personages in Canada by a persistent reiteration of charges of falsification of public documents and the publication of fraudulent statements regarding certain public interests . Prof. HIND , as is well known , was the compiler of the analytical index of the documents used by the Halifax Commission in 1877 . It is equally well known that he professes to have discovered gross falsifications of official documents presenting the trade statistics of Canada upon which the claim for compensation for the fishery concession to the United States was in part based . He has several times set forth his charges in a public manner , and has endeavored to obtain an investigation of them at the hands of the Canadian Government . He has also urged them upon the attention of the British authorities , and endeavored to secure some official action which should either result in refuting the charges or in clearing the British Government of responsibility for the alleged wrong . The Canadian authorities have affected to treat the subject with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to blast him as a black-mailer and a malicious plotter of mischief . The imperial Government has , to all appearance , simply treated the allegations of the Professor with neglect or indifference . But nothing seems to discourage or to silence him . A letter addressed to Lords GRANVILLE and KIMBERLEY , respectively Foreign and Colonial Secretaries of the British Government , has just been published reiterating once more , with considerable detail and voluminous reference to documents , the charges previously made . An investigation which should fully verify all of Prof. HIND 'S statements would be a difficult and wearisome matter if privately made , but it is certain that no investigation has yet refuted them . He has during the past Summer made a new examination of authentic documents , comparing their contents with those of the memorandum prepared for submission to the Halifax Commission . He points out many specific instances of what he claims to have been deliberate and - intentional changes of official statistics , the . purpose of which was to mislead the commission and increase the compensation to be allowed for the advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty of Washington . Prof. HIND makes out an extremely strong prima facie case . His statements are very specific , and his comparisons are made with considerable detail . If his allegations are without substantial foundation , they can certainly be refuted without difficulty . If they are well founded , they are of serious import . It is not easy to see how they can be honorably passed over . Prof. HIND strongly intimates that this is not altogether a matter of past dereliction . He declares that the position of the Canadian authorities is intended to maintain the integrity of the Halifax exhibits with a view to using them over again " in 1883 or later " in the further treatment of the fisheries question . Whatever may be done in regard to their use in 1877 , it is pretty certain that they will not be made the basis of any new negotiation or arbitration in which the United States is concerned without being subjected to a searching examination which will ascertain their real character . It is difficult to conceive any purpose that Prof. HIND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such persistency unless he is persuaded of their truth . Prior to the Halifax arbitration he was reputably known in Canada as a man of science , the head of important exploring and surveying expeditions , and the author of works that gave him a respectable standing . There could be no inducement for him to throw away a well-earned reputation for the notoriety to be gained by attacks upon the good faith of Canadian officials in an important international transaction if these could be successfully repelled and shown to be malicious . The fact is very significant that during all this time no serious effort has been made to refute his statements or to vindicate the integrity of the exhibits of Canadian trade submitted to the Halifax Commission . Prof. HIND supplements his reiteration and amplification of old charges with matter entirely new , which , however , does not directly concern the United States . In a separate letter to the Earl of KIMBERLEY he takes up certain pamphlets , which have the sanction of the Canadian authorities , setting forth the attractions and advantages of the North-west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is false and misleading . These pamphlets are intended for distribution in England for the purpose of attracting emigrants to the lands on the Canadian Pacific Railroad . They represent vast unexplored areas , known to be made up in part of arid plains and uninhabitable swamps and to be subject to Summer frosts , as a smiling region of possible wheat-fields and happy homes throughout their whole extent . Prof. HIND shows up the baseless assumptions and reckless misrepresentations of these pamphlets in a way that will make him still more disliked by the syndicate that seems to be engaged at once in projecting railroads , disposing of public lands , and running the Dominion Government .                     