@@743988

txt It is a significant recognition of the demands of public sentiment that both political parties in their recent conventions were constrained to declare themselves in favor of the regulation and supervision of railroad transportation by authority of the State . The last xesolution of the Republican platform , as reported by the committee , was somewhat vague and equivocal in declaring opposition to " all monopolies that oppress the people or unfairly discriminate against local interests . " This is a statement from which no one can dissent without acknowledging himself in favor of oppression and injustice , though it seems at the first glance to have some positive virtue in it . It would certainly be a very bold and reckless political party that would openly declare itself in favor of anything that oppressed the people or discriminated " unfairly " against anybody . But a vigilant delegate who believed in declarations on practical questions which mean something proposed a resolution in favor of " a Railroad Commission to represent , within proper limits , the State of New-York in its dealings with railroads and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affected by them . " This was added to the platform , and distinctly pledges the Republican Party to the policy of State supervision . The unfaithfulness of its representatives in the last Senate gave the Democrats an opportunity to denounce the party itself and to declare it responsible for the defeat of " every measure of transportation reform . " It can not afford to tolerate any further exhibition of such unfaithfulness . In point of fact , the party was in favor of the reform , and the efforts made to promote it came chiefly from Republicans in the Legislature . While the Democrats now put forth claims of superior virtue , they have made no record on the subject as a party and given no evidence that they would have done anything if the majority had been on their side . Democratic interest in this subject is of recent date . Sin ce.the Anti-Monopoly League began its agitation certain men with a turn for demagoguery have conceived the idea that there might be political capital in opposition to " monopolies " and " moneyed corporations . " JOHN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. intuitBER , and he promptly pledged Tammany Hall to the cause of " antimonopoly " in the hope . thereby of catching the breeze of popular favor . The same spirit showed itself in the State Convention at Albany . The temporary Chairman in his remarkable oratorical effort reminded the delegates of their duty to declare " unswerving opposition to monopolies of every kind , which are fast usurping the rights and prerogatives of the people . " The platform pledged the party to the " adoption of measures to restrict the growing power of such monopolies . " What these measures should be is indicated in the statements that the monopolies  --  railroad corporations being apparently meant there . by ? " should be subject to the supervision of Commissioners established by public authority , " and that " unjust discriminations in the transportation of passengers and merchandise should be prohibited . " Thus we have both parties pledged to the establishment of a Railroad Commission , and , either expressly or by implication , to the prohibition of such discriminations as work injustice to individuals or communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been contending so long . But in the declarations of the Democratic convention and of " anti-monopolists " generally there is a tone and spirit that savor 's too much of demagogism . As we have heretofore pointed out , the word " monopoly " is used overmuch and in a misleading sense . While railroads are necessarily in the position of enjoying certain special privileges that carry responsibilities to the public with them , and while the circumstances and conditions of their business make them in a measure free from the pressure of competition , they are in no proper sense monopolies , nor should they be the objects of popular hostility . Their privileges are necessary to the successful prosecution of their business , which is one of vast importance to the public . They should be held to their responsibilities and be compelled to recognize the principles of equity which it is the function of the State to enforce in behalf of its citizens , but no policy should be adopted which is calculated to cripple them or interfere with that freedom of management which is essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " from the purpose " to denounce corporations , " moneyed " or otherwise . The aggregation of capital by means of chartered associations is necessary to the successful prosecution of the great enterprises of modern industry . They serve a beneficent purpose , and should not be restricted in the legitimate use of their powers , though they should be prevented from abusing them . The somewhat intemperate and ill-considered language of so-called anti-monopolists has threatened to compromise the cause of rational transportation reform . The defenders of the railroads have been assuming that the object was to regulate modes of doing business , to limit charges , and to substitute the authority of the State and the fixed requirements of law for the discretion of managers and the liberty of conforming the conduct of business to exigencies as they arise . What is really proposed as practical measures is the establishment in the State and in the Nation of commissions whose function shall be to supervise the working of railroads and secure the enforcement of laws relating to them and the prevention of ? such discriminations as favor one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work practical injustice among the people . Precisely what and how much legislation is needed can only be known alter a beginning has been made and the proper agency is set at work for bringing the great system of railroad transportation into practical relations with the State . What the beginning should be is pretty clear , and it is only by taking the first steps that we shall be able to see our way to the next . First of all We should have the official connection between public authority and the railroads established by means of commissions , and these should be made an effective agency for preparing the way to a definite and settled policy adapted to secure all the rights and interests of the public without interfering with those which justly belong to railroad corporations .                     