@@780594

txt Just what Russia means by her concentration of troops on the AustrianGerman frontiers nobody is able to guess . It seems against all known signs of the times to assume that it means a truculent attitude , but still everybody is asking what else it can mean . Whatever the explanation is , it is certain that there is a prodigious scare in the financial circles of the continent . I have not seen such evidences of uneasiness since last Spring . However , people who are in a position to know tell me that the English Cabinet is unaware of any new reason for alarm . I hear from an absolutely trustworthy source that the Orleanist managers consider that Carnot 's election to the Presidency has postponed their Propaganda ten years . The Duc d'Auinale says that 1f , at the next election , which can not be long postponed , the Monarchists carry onehalf of the seats they now possess they will do astonishingly well . The hitch about the formation of a new Ministry is purely a personal and formal affair , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word that the Princess of Wales is quite ill , and that the tone of the physician who confided the news to him led him to suspect it to be a serious malady . George Fawcett Rowe sails for New-York from Havre next Tuesday . The new piece written by Robert Buchanan for the Haymarket will be called " Partners . " The play , which was to have been produced on Saturday , will not be brought out until Jan. 5 . In addition to the regular company of the Haymarket the services of Misses le Thiere and Kingston have been secured . The latter lady is a well-known professional beauty who has had some experience in the provinces . She will be intrusted with an important role . The story of the play is as follows : An old German merchant 38 possessed of a beautiful wife , with whom his partner falls desperately in love . The German trusts both man and woman implicitly , despite the warnings of friends and enemies . During her husband 's absence on the Continent the wife has a passionate love scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He urges her to flee with him , which she is about to do , when the voice of her child is heard calling her from an adjoining room . This brings her back to her proper self , and she refuses to betray her husband . This is an excellent scene , and althodgh the idea has been used before Buchanan 's treatment of it is forcible . Tne husband returns after being ruined by the failure of a Continental firm . From a conservatory he sees the two together and hears the woman avow her love for Charles , but he does not hear her avow that gratitude and respect preclude her from wronging her husband , even if the motherly love stirred by the voice of her child was not sufficient . Further , he is poor now , and her duty compels her to remain . The hus mnd 's eyes are at last opened , and in a strong scene he drives her from his house without listening to her story . In the fifth act it is Christmas , with its sacred and peaceful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gladness around him , breathes forgiveness on his wife and partner , and the curtain falls on a holly-decked apartment in which once more reign domestic peace , happiness , and love . W. G. Wills and Sydney Grundy have written for the Haymarket a powerful historical play of the reign of Louis XV. , which will follow " Partners . " The authors have decided to name the piece " Pompadour , " and the life of the famous French courtesan will be depicted to her fall . Mr. Tree has a part which is entirely different from anything he has ever before attempted , and which , if successful , will enhance his already good reputation for versatility . C. H. Hawtrey has leased the Comedy and removed " The Arabian Nights " from the Globe .                     