@@745251

txt At 12:30 this afternoon the city was startled by a loud explosion which shook houses and rattled windows . The intelligence quickly spread that an attempt had been made to blow up the Parliament Buildings now in course of construction , and crowds of people quickli ? flocked to the scene . The attempt had been partially successful , as a large piece of the front wall facing the east had been blown out , the heavy nieces of cut stone being burled long distances . The departmental buildings which adjoin and are used for Government offices were shook to their foundations , and the windows of that large structure were badly shattered . The excitement had barely subsided - when another and more destruetive explosion occurred at the northeast corner of the same building , shaking the masonry from the roof to the foundation , driving cornice stones out of position , and more or less i wrecking the whole structure . The work of destruction was undoubtedly caused by dynamite I or some other powerful explosive , but what object the perpetrators had in view does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , are in circulation , one being that it is the first of a series of attempts to be made of blowing up all public buildings by dynamiters . So far there is not the least clue as to how the material was placed in the building. , although workmen say that a couple of suspicious persons were seen in the building this morning , one of whom had a small square box and the other a leather bag . At any rate , there is not a vestige of the material remaining to indicate the nature of the explosive material used , but probably some of it will be found when the debris is removed . Fortunately no lives were lost , but several narrow escapes are reported , and one man was badly cut by a piece of stone . Had the explosion taken place at any other time except when the workmen were all away at dinner considerable loss of life must have resulted . The damage caused by the explosion will foot up about $20,000 . The east face of the building will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are hurrying the building forward , so as to have it ready for the meeting of the local Legislature , which takes place in January , sittings of which were to be held in the new building , and one theory is that the act of destruction was done for the purpose of frustrating that object . The contractors are unable to account for the act . They have been using no explosives in the works , and have had no disagreement with any of their men , so that they do not attribute it to personal Spite or anything of that kind . The Executive body met this evening , and after discussing the affair issued a proclamation offering $1,000 reward for the arrest of the perpetrators . An available detective service has been secured and set to work , and there is a determination to get at the bottom of the affair . A detachment or A Battery , Canadian Artillery , was marched down to the building to-night to keep guard . It is thought a regular train has been set in the building and more explosives are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the explosion . The French employes state that the work was done by Irish dynamiters , while some Irish citizens say , and the opinion is shared by a great many , that French workmen committed the deed with a view to injure the contractor . Serious trouble is feared between the two nationalities if these accusations be carried much further . The Telegraph , in an editorial ; says : " Nationality must not be used to screen any element of the community . Our opinion is that the man who put the dynamite to the new building himself was seen hunting for the culprit , and when he is discovered , that is provided the police are clever enough , it will be seen that , far from it being an Irishman or a Rosso , emissary , the scoundrel was actuated through other motives . "                     