@@780674

txt Paragraph 3 , special orders No. 278 , Deo. 31 , 18110 , is so amended as to direct First Lieut . John McClellan , Fifth Artillery , acting Signal Officer , to proceed from Augusta , Ga. , to Atlanta , Ga. , and from thence to Charleston , S. C. The leave of absence granted Surgeon Charles R. Greenleaf has been extended to May 1 . Chaplain George G. Mullins , Twenty-fifth Infantry , has been ordered to proceed from St. Louis to New-York on business connected with education in the Army . The Committee on Military Affairs to-day agreed to report favorably to the House Mr. Sparks ' s bill which authorizes and directs the Secretary of War to constitute a board to consist of one Major-General , one Brigadier-General and three Colonels , three of said officers to be selected from . among those appointed to the regular Army on account of distinguished services in the volunteer force during the war , and before whom the the Secretary of War shall cause to appear all officers of the Army deemed by him unfit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except from age , injury received or disease contracted in the line of their duty , and directs said board to examine and report frilly and specifically the nature and extent of such alleged unfitness , and that on recommendation of such board the President shall muster out of the service any of the said officers so reported , with one year 's pay , but that such muster out shall not be ordered without allowing such officers a hearing before such board to show cause against it . Secretary Goff has received a communication from the commander of the United States steamer Kearsarge at Port Royal , Jamaica , stating that the vessel arrived there on the 12th inst. , having left Curacoa on the morning of the 8th . The flag-ship Tennessee which was last heard from at Laguayra , Venezuela , was hourly expected to arrive . The health of the officers and crew on the Kearsarge is reported as being very good , as is also the general health of Port Royal and Kingston . Lieut . Commander Henry O. White has been ordered to temporary duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , League Island , Penn . Sail-maker Truman B. White to the receiving ship Colorado , at New-York , on Feb. 1 ; Capt . William A. Kirkland has been detached from special duty at Washington on the 31st inst. and ordered to takepassage in the steamer Britannic on Feb. 5 , for Liverpool , thence to Montevideo , and on arrival there to report to the commander of the Shenandoah ; Commander Merrill Miller has been detached from the command of the Yantis and placed on sick leave ; Sail-maker Charles C. Freeman from the receiving ship Colorado on the 31st inst. , and ordered to the Trenton , European Station , per steamer of Feb. 9.                     