@@743837

txt While the Postmaster-General with his subordinates is collecting the evidence which will be used in the courts against those persons , in or out of his department , who have robbed the people of millions of dollars , the books and papers of the contract office supply an abundance of testimony for the conviction of the guilty before the bar of public opinion . There are in the bureau once controlled by THOMAS J. BRADY volumes whose pages are covered with the record of corruption . An analysis of some of the contents of these books furnishes almost as conclusive evidence of bribery , conspiracy , and theft as could be afforded by the confessions of the guilty men . The chapter which we print this morning illustrates one of the methods of robbery which has been suggested in preceding articles . The bestowal of contracts for what was called temporary service , in the last year and a half of BRADY 'S official career , became so flagrant an abuse of power that it must have a prominent place in the indictment which the people will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he describes are not exceptional , but are only the beginning of a long list . It is shown that the officers of the department were not satisfied with the gift of newly established routes , at absurdly high prices , to their enterprising friends , but changed existing routes so as to gain a pretext for taking them from working contractors and in this way creating another channel through which the people 's money might run into the pockets of favorites . So suggestive are the sums which were given to ANDREWS for the routes from Rolla to West Plains and from Fayetteville to Eureka Springs , and to CROSS for the route from Ozark to Eureka Springs , when considered in connection with the bids for the same service afterward submitted by these men , that no explanation will suffice which is not based upon the hypothesis of bribery and collusion . The desire of BRADY and his friends to avoid the competition of honest bidders is exhibited throughout these transactions . It will be hard to find , even in the contract office of the Post Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all rules of fairness and honesty than , that of the route from Georgetown to Kokomo . The working contractor for Summer service , trusting that the officers of the department will at least give him an opportunity to bid for Winter service , if they decide to put such service on his route , discovers that he , has been ignored ; that the Winter work has been given without competition to COLE.GROVE , a favorite , at a price which stamps'Ohe transaction as a dishonest one ; and 1that the officers whom he trusted had - .71- refused to communicate with him on the'tsubject . He had spent his money in building a road for COLEGROVE 'S wagons . In suc'h ways as this have honest men been driven out of the Government service . The more familiar method of " increase and expedition " is shown in the story of the route from Prescott to Mohave City . This at first fell into the hands of a man who seems to have been an unpopular member of the Dorsey party . He failed to fulfill his contract , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to MONROE SALISBURY , the head of the most powerful of existing mail route combinations . Within a few months the pay , originally $7,440 per year , became $70,460 . Of this sum $40,920 per year was expended for quickening the service from four miles to five and one-quarter miles per hour . And now the man ' who bought this profitable route from SALISBURY is quaking with fear because " new men have taken the old ones ' places in the department . " The character of the revelations already made proves the necessity for a most thorough investigation . The contents of the books and accompanying papers should be carefully examined and classified by experts . The service which has been distributed by corrupt methods should be inspected by competent men . All facts which can throw light upon the iniquitous schemes by which the people have lost many millions of dollars should be industriously gathered . If there are enemies concealed in the fortress they should be unearthed and driven out . Every effort should be made not only to pursue the guilty and punish them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its next session a comprehensive statement of the contents of the books and the discoveries made by Special Agents . The Postmaster-General , who has begun this great work with a determination which ought to insure ' complete success , is doing all that lies in his power . If he finds that the agents at his disposal are few , and that the force available for the thorough inspection and classification of the records is small and insufficient , the investigation should not be allowed to suffer on that account . The instruments for the most effective work should be in his hands . No question of expense should interfere with the progress of this most important inquiry . An intelligent and liberal use of money now , in making the investigation an exhaustive one , would be most praiseworthy economy .                     