@@781171

txt The Harris telegram Is now the all-absorbing topic of conversation in this district . The reports concerning it heretofore published are not exactly correct . but the true account appears in to-day 's Unionist-Ga. stile , and is as follows : On the morning of the Somerville Republican Convention , Isaac F. Ward , of Oxford . N. J .. a delegate in favor of the nomination of Dr. Clark , of Belvidere , for Congress , and also , at present the Chairman of the Republican Executive Committee of Warren County , was at Somerville atteudiug the convention . Not finding Dr. Clark  --  who had the day before told Mr. Ward not to use his ( Clark 's ) name  --  Mr. Ward concluded to telegraph him , nod did so at 6 : : 10 that ( Friday ; morning . the day of the convention . That dispatch stated the political situation . and asked him " to leave the question of his eandidacy to my ( Ward 's ) judgment . " The Warren caucus met at 10:30 A. M. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark did not intend to reply . Mr. Ward withdrew his name . About 11 o'clock a dispatch came , not from Dr. Clark . but front Dr. Beasley , of Belvidere , a half-way Republican , which said : " lhe party to whom your message was addressed thinks it would be improper for hint to say anything under the circumstances . ' This did not puzzle Mr. Ward , as ho knew Dr. Clark to be sick in bed . curl suppOsed Dr. Beasley had been present on the receipt of the telegram and had been requested to answer it . Judge of Mr. Ward 's surprise , two days lat , ? r , when he learned that Harris had received and opened his dispatch , and had Dr. Beasley ( his brother-In-law ; send that misleadiug reply Dr. Clark never saw Ward 's telegram . The Western Union Telegraph CompanY , instead of delivering it to Clark , de-livered it In 8011183 way to Henry S. Barris . He received and read the message . Bo knew it was not for him . but he did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark nominated ; at least It Is known he was more afraid of the candidacy of either Capt . Howdy or the lion . Jolliet G. Shipman than of any one else : and . to mislead , had the dispatch answered . Dr. Clark , when the matter came out , went to see liarHa . Harris admitted It . Ile claimed that the envelope was addressed to him . but did not deny that he knew the disputed was intended for Dr. Clark . Ills excuse for not delivering it was " that he thought Dr. Clark had gone to Somerville . " Mr. Ward aloe saw him , Ho stated to Mr. Ward that , believing It improper to answer it in his own name , he got Beasley to do it , and " dictated the reply . " Mr. Ward complained to the telegraph company . and publishes this statement with regard to the re-sult : " I Immediately went to New-York and entered complaint in due form at the Western Union Telegraph office , ant was assured that a speedy investigation would renew , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiting vainly for a report for a week . I again saw the Superintendent of the telegraph company in hew-York. and was presented with a report which said that my tlispetch had been correctly delivered . tut on pressing the matter home to the Superintendent I found that May had traced a dispatch sent by another man to Dr. Clark , and had done nothing to investigate my complaint . I renewed toy complaint ; a week again has elapsed . but I have sines then heard nothing front the telegraph company . " As Mr. Harris is believed to have had the same censorship over political telegrams sent to and from Belvidere in l8.0 , when he first ran for Congress , it will he seen that the Republicans feel greatly annoyed and incensed at the present state of facts .                     