@@745519

txt A good many of the more adroit advocates of silver imagine that they have proved that payments in silver would have no ill effect in this country when they point out that there is already so much gold in London and other Old World centres that there would be no demand for gold . It is not at all impossible that we might reach silver payments in the United States at a time when there was very little or no demand for gold abroad , and so long as there was none , the immediate inconveniences of a currency on a silver basis would not be felt . But it would be very rash to suppose that such a condition of things could be maintained indefinitely or for any considerable length of time . Our currency consists at present of paper , silver , and gold . The paper includes the national bank notes and the legal tender notes of the Government . If it came to be understood that these , amounting in round numbers to $700,000,000 , were to be ultimately redeemed or redeemable in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very closely and suspiciously . The moment they saw a demand , or a probability of demand , for their gold they would act upon it . The sign which they would scrutinize most closely would be the rate of foreign exchange . At present this is at a point which offers no encouragement to the movement of gold one way or the other , but if exchange should begin to rise , and the incubus of the compulsory coinage of silver should not be removed , there would immediately and certainly begin a withdrawal of gold from the banks , and this withdrawal once begun would stimulate the advance in exchange , and there would be a tendency to an accelerated rate of withdrawal . It is entirely true that the conditions now are not the same as those under which gold went to a premium during and after the war . But they differ in degree rather than in kind . Then we had an indefinite issue of notes by the Government , with a limited issue of notes by the banks , with uncertainty as to whether they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a limited issue of notes by the Government and an issue not strictly limited of notes by the banks , and so long as the forced coinage of depreciated legal tender silver dollars goes on we have an increasing uncertainty as to whether these Government notes and bank notes can finally be redeemed at par in gold . In the former instance the uncertainty arose first from the hazards of war and afterward from the irresolution of Congress . In this case it arises from the irresolution of Congress alone . Unless Congress suspends the coinage , however , every kind of currency we have in this country must fall to the level of silver , except gold , and that will be gradually withdrawn . We are told that gold can not be withdrawn because the contraction of the currency thus made would make prices lower , stimulate purchases from abroad , and keep down exchange . This would in all probability happen were it not for the steady inflation of $28,000,000 a year required by the silver law . Ultimately this , unless stopped , would have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold . But it is not inflation ' that we should first have to deal with ; it is the general want of confidence produced by the silver law and its workings , and which will go on from bad to worse so long as the law remains in force . This want of confidence has already been productive of very great injury , and it is easy to see that it may , at a given moment , assume the form of panic . Against that the country has no complete safeguard . It can , however , protect itself in great degree by the suspension of the silver coinage. 