@@781697

txt The now famed case of TEBBS was again before the Senate yesterday . The debate , after the usual fashion of the Senate , was carried forward in that slow , deliberate , and exhausting manner which indicates utter obliviousness on the part of Senators to all exterior considerations . The Senate is eminently deliberative . When it gets into a talking vein , it talks on and on , as if there were no hereafter , no time , no limit to the existence of earthly things , and nothing necessary to be done but to talk . In this dilatory and prolix manner , the Senate is considering the case of TEBBS . TEBBS , seventeen or eighteen years ago , was a page in the rebel Congress . He fetched and carried messages for rebels who were playing at legislation , and , like many another boy , shirked his duties to the best of his ability . Young TEBBS did not then dream , while he was darting about with orders for stationery and postage stamps , that he was engaged in rearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While the lad was skylarking in the corridors and planting cruel pins for the torture of other and unwary pages , he could not have given a thought to the enormity of his pursuit . At that time , blithe though his life may have been , this treasonable boy was engaged to the best of his ability in sapping the foundation of the best Government the world ever saw . TEBBS played at mumblethe-peg and marbles when not on duty as a fetcher and carrier of messages , unconscious of the fact that he was a rebel whose punishment was delayed but certain . In process of time TEBBS came of age . The war was over . The Confederacy had vanished like a noisome exhalation . TRIMS may have forgotten that he had been a page in the rebel Congress . But when , in 1882 , ho hankered after service in the Army of the United States , his past treason was unpleasantly brought before him by the exhibition of a statute of the United States forbidding any person who had been in the rebel service from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally , TEBBS went to Congress and asked that this disability might be removed , as similar disabilities had been removed from other persons . It was an unlucky day for the business of the country when the petition of TEBBS came before the Senate . The moat natural thing to have done under the circumstances was to have removed TEBBS 'S disability , seeing that it was only a little one , and to have gone on with the public business . There are many important matters now waiting for the action of the Senate , and if Congress really wants to keep standing in the statute-books a monument to the war , this purpose can be accomplished by maintaining the necessity for ex-rebels to come to Congress for a removal of their disabilities as a condition precedent to their entering the public service . But this would not suit Mr. EDMUNDS . Or , if it suited him , in the abstract , it would not serve his present purpose , which is to fight the war over again as often as opportunity presents . Therefore , while various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate , the country is enlivened by a solemn debate over the imaginary proposition to abolish all legislative enactments which have had their origin in the late war of the rebellion . TEBBS has gone under , overwhelmed and forgotten in the flood of words evoked by his humble petition . Undoubtedly , the arguments on both sides of this momentous question are of the very finest quality . It would be impossible for Senators who care to talk as well as Mr. EDMUNDS does to say much to no purpose ; and the debate has only just begun . TEBBE. has been the unwilling cause of a ponderous discussion which reaches back to the very foundation of things terrestrial . The Southern Senators impatiently say that , while the individual TEBBS , individually , is to them a person of no account , they embrace this occasion to say  --  a great many things . Mr. EDMUNDS , who has an eminently judicial mind , and who will eventually vote for TEBBS 'S rehabilitation , thinks that he discovers in this apparently harmless proposition a plot to remove from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes , then , a question of monuments . HAMPTON and other Southern Senators declare that in the anti-slavery legislation and constitutional amendments there are monuments enduring and significant . The men who were engaged in the rebellion are now too old , it is said , to seek service in the Army or Navy of the United States . Why preserve these monuments 2 To this it is replied , simply , " They are monuments , and we are determined to keep them there . " The real explanation is that they are something besides monuments . They afford frequent pretexts for fighting the rebellion over again . The Senate is going through the motions now , whenever opportunity offers . Afar off the country looks upon this whole business with impatience and disgust . There is before Congress no bill , no proposition , toa bolish the disabling statute affecting ex-rebel officers . The simple issue is , Shall TEBBS be allowed to enter the Army 2 But on that , although the citizens of the Republic are inexpressibly weary of the everlasting reopening of a closed case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again for the nine hundredth time . If there was nothing for Congress to do but to debate , the country might endure with comparative patience this needless twaddle . But while Senators talk , the business which they were sent to Washington to do is left undone , and a weak and wishy-washy everlasting flood is poured out and dead- and gone questions are fought over once more as though they were new . When Congressmen learn forbearance with the tongue , the legitimate business of Congress will cease to . be disastrously behindhand.                     