@@743674

txt An intelligent observer who has recently visited the South is impressed with the great industrial revolution which is fairly under way in that section . Such a revolution was inevitable after the stupendous change in the social and political structure which was wrought by the destruction of slavery . It has been delayed by the violent dislocation produced by the war and the disturbances attending the process . of readjustment , but there are many indications that the time has come for it to begin the development of its full energy . Since the November election the predominating idea in the Southern mind seems to be that fierce political agitation is the bane of the Southern States , and their people should . now devote themselves to building up their material interests and to growing rich by industry and trade . Under the old system labor was regarded as degrading to a free man and trade was beneath the dignity of those who could live at ease on the fruits of the toil of menials whom they owned . The result was an aristocracy in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrogant in their power , ruled iu society and politics , and neglected every industrial interest save that which contributed to their individual wealth . The poor whites had no incentive to industry or effort and sank into indolence and degradation . But now labor is rising to ? its proper dignity , and traffic , instead of the ownership of human beings , is coming to be regarded as the source of wealth and impo  --  tance . The South is gradually waking to an appreciation of the value of its natural resources and advantages . The greed of commercial gain , which it used to scorn , is asserting itself as a motive to activity and enterprise , and threatens even to overcome the obstinate social and Diffltical miudices whose deep and te- nacious roots were planted in the institution of slavery . One of the most obvious opportunities of the South is to be found in the manufacture of the great staple production of its soil . While free labor will.give greater variety to its agricultural industry and utilize the neglected capabilities of soil and climate for many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold a foremost place . A large part of the world 's supply comes from the States that skirt the South Atlantic and Gulf coasts and the banks of the Lower Mississippi . Tile demand for the precious fibre from the North and from foreign countries is likely to keep pace with any probable increase of production . The raising and shipping of cotton will continue to be an important and profitable interest of the South , but in its desire for varied industry and rapid growth in wealth it can not overlook its manifest adVantages for manufacturmg it at home . Georgia , the most progressive of the Southern States , has already forty cotton factories and is planning the establishment of many more . South Carolina has made a beginning ; and its leading newspapers are clamoring for a vigorous extension of the business . The advantages of the cotton States for this branch of industry are not confined to their almost unlimited water-power and the possession of the raw material ready to hand . The present cheapness of land and the mildness of the climate are favorable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience in the business , and a proper labor force . These can be won rapidly by assurances of their legitimate reward . They stand ready to flow in the moment they feel assured of liberal treatment and profitable employment . It is said that the labor of the colored freedmen is most valuable in the fields , and that they do not make good operatives . But there is likely to be use enough for them out of doors , and manufacturing industry will attract the poorer whites , and draw upon the currents of immigration . The accession of population with capital , skill , and industry will do much to accelerate the social and political regeneration which is to bring the South into harmony with the rest of the country . But if manufacturing industry is developed in the South , what will be the effect upon those communities of the North in which it has long been a leading interest ? We see no reason to apprehend any loss to them from the gain that will conic to the Southern States . While there arc advantages in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheapness of labor in a genial clime and a fruitful land , there are other advantages iu accumulated capital and acquired experience and skill . For a long time the South is not likely to produce any but the coarser and more common fabrics . As the grade of production rises and involves more of taste and skill , a slight difference in the cost of raw material is of less relative importance , and the results ot experience and cultivation tell with greater effect . If factories are built near the cotton fields in which coarse yarns and cheap cloths may be successfully made , Lowell and Fall River and Providence have only to devote themselves with more energy to the produc ? tion of the finer and higher priced products . They must adopt means for raising the standard of taste , improving designs , and bettering the quality of their fabrics . Then a new and no less profitable interchange of the products of industry may be established . It matters not if the old manufacturing communities take both their raw material and their cheap cotton fabrics from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a better customer for finer and more expensive goods . They can still lead the van in a branch of industry in which they have obtained the start , and the industrial development of the South will work to the advantage of the whole country . The richer one section becomes the better for all . Besides , the manufacturing facilities of the older States of the North are by no means confined to cotton , and the field for expansion and improvement is a wide and varied one . Neither are their markets to be forever confined to the limits of our own country . When Northern manufacturers are ready to make or to confess themselves strong enough to go alone , they may place themselves in competition with any in the world , and find a profitable sale for their products in places which are now virtually shut against them .                     