@@744820

txt In submitting a presentment in relation to the recently discovered frauds in some of the City departments the Grand Jury which was discharged yesterday made two important suggestions . One is that a uniform and thorough system of recording transactions in the several departments be at once adopted , and the other that a board of experts be appointed to examine the existing records from the 1st of July , 1877 , to the present time . Commissioner THOMPSON appears to think that there is nothing the matter with the system of recording receipts in the Water Bureau , and says that no system can stop fraud where several persons are in collusion . Of course , if all the persons concerned in the receipt of money in any bureau are engaged in a conspiracy to rob the City they can so doctor their accounts as to defy discovery for a time . Nothing but the accidental testimony of some outsider who has paid money the receipt of which has not been duly recorded , or an inspection sufficiently intelligent to make a comparison of the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that case bring the fraud to light . But are we to suppose that in any of the bureaus collusion is carried to such an extent that a proper system of checks would not reveal fraud very promptly ? There is as yet , happily , no evidence of this . In the case of the coupon frauds it has been persistently claimed that there was-no collusion whatever , and that one man was able to pocket the City 's money at the rate of thousands of dollars a month without awakening the suspicion of his associates . In the Water Bureau a comparison at any time of the record of receipted payments with the accounts of actual cash received would have revealed the " irregularities . " If there is nothing the matter with the method of keeping accounts there must be a remarkable laxity in applying the method for the purposes it was intended to serve . It is useless to have a system of checks in the method of keeping accounts if it is expected to run itself and nobody looks to see whether or not it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods themselves are susceptible of great improvement , but the chief need seems to be somebody in charge of them who will make it his business faithfully to look after their working . There is certainly occasion for the examination recommended by the Grand Jury . At present the public is justified in suspecting that the municipal administration may be honeycombed with fraud . We are not sure that any bureau exists in the departments at which money is received , where peculation on a greater or smaller scale has not been going on for years . Whatever the merits of the " system , " the practice seems to have been to let it run itself in the hands of clerks without any supervision worthy of the name . Three things are evidently needed in the public service of the City . In the first place , some efficient investigating body , with no motive or interest except to get at the truth , should be authorized to make a thorough overhauling of the accounts , records , and methods of all the departments concerned in any way with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition . Then such reforms in the systems of accounts and records as expert knowledge may suggest should be speedily adopted . Finally , some means of regulating appointments in the municipal service should be devised which shall secure efficiency and fidelity . Probably the practice of appointing men to office because they are recommended by somebody already in office or have been serviceable in local politics to some faction is at the bottom of the lax , inefficient , and dishonest way in which the public business is done . The City service needs to be reformed altogether .                     