@@743543

txt Proof that the Republicans and all others opposed to the Democratic Party were systematically disfranchised and counted out at the recent election in Alabama has been placed before the country in many private letters from that State ; in the statements of Greenback speakers who went into the State from the North ; in the Alabama Republicans ' address to the country , and in the election returns themselves . In the light of this proof , it is easy to see why Wade Hampton and the other rebel Brigadiers are sure of the solid South which they laid at the feet of Hancock . At Cincinnati other proof is constantly coming to light , showing that these methods are not confined to Alabama , and exhibiting what the words " a free ballot and fair count " mean in the South . On the 5th of this month an election was held in Shelby County , Tenn. , for Sheriff , Chancellor , Trustee , and Judge of the criminal court . The Republican Executive Committee of the county has issued an address to the voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that election . The Democrats were confronted by a Republican majority . The census shows that the number of colored men over 21 years of age in the county exceeded the number of native and naturalized whites by 465 . This majority , added to the white Republican vote , would ordinarily give a Republican majority of more than 2,000 in the county . The address says : " These figures made the Democrats desperate , and to accomplish their purposes they made use of the following means : They procured the appointment by their Democratic county court of three Democratic Judges and two Democratic clerks for each polling precinct in the county , save three , which had one Republican each , giving the Republicans no representation . This was unfair , if not illegal , and was no doubt done that they might have supple tools on the inside to co-operate with their bulldozers , repeaters , vote-purchasers , and other Democratic roughs on the outside on election day . They raised the bloody shirt through their three Democratic newspapers in Memphis and their stump increasing and kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to day until the election came on . They denounced the white Republicans on the ticket in unmeasured terms . This was done to create a public feeling that would justify them in the illegal acts they were about to perpetrate on election day . " The committee then quotes liberally from editorial articles in the Memphis papers , in which violent language is used to excite the prejudices of the Democrats and induce them to take desperate and lawless measures to carry the election . The committee declares that these inflammatory appeals accomplished their object . On election day two gangways of approach were provided at each polling-place , one for whites and the other for colored men . The Chickasaw Guards were put under arms on election day , and this action was made known to excite the fears of the colored people and keep them from the polls . The address continues as follows , showing the remarkable results of the election : " By statute each elector in Tennessee is required to vote in the ward or district in which he lives . In the First Ward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male persons over 21 years of age to be 1,086 ? white , 587 ; colored , 489 . The returns show 1,408 votes cast in the ward-1,168 Democratic , 167 Republican , and 73 National , and a comparison of the poll-book with the census returns shows over 700 names on the poll-book that do not appear in the census returns . The vote of this ward in 1878 , at the August . election , which occurred just before the fever epidemic of that year , was S89 , of which 667 were cast for the combination ticket , Republican and National , and 212 for the Democratic ticket . The census shows a loss of about 8,000 population in the city through the two epidemics of 1878 and 1879 , while the Democratic officers holding this election show an increase of 519 in the vote of this ward , and a change of the Democratic vote from 212 to 1,108 . The county undertaker was one the Judges at this poll , and , it is said , had his dead-book with him , and the figures would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corpses buried by him for the last two years for the Demonratic ticket . This is the only way the result can be accounted for . " The census shows the male residents of the Second Ward over 21 years of ago to be 656 ? white , 507 ; colored , 149 . The returns show the vote cast to he 680 ? for the Democratic ticket , 554 ; for the Republican , 79 ; for the National , 47 ; and a comparison of the poll-book with the census returns of this ward shows 363 names on the poll-book that do not appear on the census returns . The census shows the number of male residents over 21 years of age in the Third Ward to be 940 ? white , 817 ; colored , 123 . The returns show 1,105 votes cast in this ward  --  Democrats , 1,015 ; Republicans , 53 ; Nationals , 37 . In 1878 the whole vote cast at the August election was 748 ? Democrats , 445 ; Republicans and Nationals combined , 303 . The census shows the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ninth Ward to be 643 ? white , 331 ; colored , 312 . The returns show the whole number of votes cast in this ward to be 442 , of which 140 were Democratic , 209 Republican , and 93 National . In this ward there was one Republican Judge , and the election was fair . The wards referred to lie adjacent to each other , and are a fair sample of the work of the Democracy in the various wards of the city . They carry on their face such overwhelming evidences of the frauds perpetrated by the Democracy on the ballot-box that comment is unnecessary . " From this statement it appears that the preliminary measures of the Democrats were not sufficient to produce the desired result , and that there was a resort to the Alabama plan , which did the work satisfactorily . It becomes plainer every day that the ballot-box in the South has no rights which the best citizens feel bound to respect . In conclusion , the committee speak as follows : " The foregoing facts and figures show that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1861 . Neither Constitutions nor statutory enactments stand in the way of the accomplishment of its purposes . It brushes them aside as mere gossamer . The principle announced in the Dred Scott decision , that the negro has no rights that the white man is bound to respect , is just as firmly fixed in the heart of the Southern Democracy as it was when that opinion was delivered . They have no idea of allowing the negro to vote freely and to have his vote fairly counted unless he votes the Democratic ticket . Democracy has come to be considered hereabout as sacred a thing as slavery used to be , and it is about as dangerous to speak against it as it used to be to speak against slavery . Republican government does not exist in Shelby County , nor , in fact , ' in the whole South . The people are governed by a lawless aristocracy , under the name of Democracy . There are many Democrats in the North who do not believe that the reports about counting out in Alabama are truthful . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but as one gets nearer to the States in which these things are done , he seldom finds any of these unbelievers . In this latitude , intelligent Democrats admit in private conversation that the statements are true , and defend such methods on the ground that the colored men ought not to be allowed to vote , and that Southern Democrats are doing right when they use any means to prevent them from voting . In this way have the Democrats of the Confederacy ' accepted the results of the war . ' " 