@@745172

txt The story of the discovery of the manuscript of the " Teaching of the Apostles " was accepted in this country with a credulity that was extremely flattering to Bishop BRYENNIOS . The fact that the writer of the manuscript made no mention of Bishops as a distinct order of clergy had a great deal to do with the ready acceptance which the " Teaching " met at the hands of the sects which reject episcopacy . They triumphantly pointed to the absence of any mention of Bishops in a manuscript alleged to have been written in ' the second century as a conclusive proof that Bishops were unknown in the early church . The clergy of the Episcopal Church were as credulous as their opponents , for they did not think of questioning the genuineness of the " Teaching . " They explained the absence of the term Bishop by claiming that the " Teaching " really referred to Bishops in the passage where it makes a vague reference to " apostles . " The " apostles " mentioned in the " Teaching " were apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of courage to assume that they were really Bishops , exercising episcopal functions . Another explanation of this omission to mention Bishops was the theory that the " Teaching " was - written by a member of a certain heretical sect existing in the second century , which denied the authority of Bishops . : This explanation , which was ingenious and plausible , did not , however , meet - with much favor . THE Timm suggested at . the time of the alleged discovery of the " Teaching " that Bishop BRYENNIOS was discovering rather too much . He had already discovered manuscripts of great antiquity and value , and he professed to have in his possession manuscripts of still greater value , which he was preparing for publication . It was likewise suggested that inasmuch as all students of ecclesiastical history , whether Catholics or Protestants , were agreed that in the second century Bishops were universally recognized as a third order of the clergy , it was very strange that the author of the " Teaching " seemed never to have heard of them . Even the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century as a ' historical fact , and those who accepted the " Teaching " as an argument against episcopacy could do so only by assuming that history had shamefully lied . On the other hand , a cunning forger desirous of securing acceptance for a pretended manuscript of the " Teaching " would have been very apt to avoid so hotly contested a question as that of , the origin of episcopacy , and would have endeavored so to word ? his forged manuscript as to enable both Catholics and Protestants to concede its antiquity without abandoning their views as to the constitution of the early church . It now appears that there are other reasons for doubting the genuineness of the " Teaching . " Instead of submitting the original manuscript to German scholars for examination only a copy was so submitted , and the original has never been out of Constantinople . Recently a gentleman sought permission to photograph a page of the manuscript , and it was granted , but those in charge of it would not permit him to touch it , and although they pretended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he found on his return home that they had deceived him , and that he had unwittingly photographed a page of some other manuscript . To these suspicious circumstances should be added the fact that the pretended manuscript was discovered in a library in Constantinople ' which has been ransacked scores of times , and which contains only . about 600 manuscripts . It is in the highest degree improbable that the keen hunters , who had examined again and again this small number of manuscripts should never have discovered the " Teaching " if it was really among them . Those who have been so ready to believe that they have read the genuine " Teaching " referred to by EusEBrus will perhaps begin to think that they were hasty . Here is a manuscript which contradicts a known historical fact . It is said to have been discovered in an improbable placo by a man who will not let it be examined by competent scholars , and when an attempt to photograph a page of it is made the attempt is defeated by trickery . Persons who have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to doubt the inspiration of the Book of Mormon and the supernatural powers of Mme. BLAVATSEY , thus showing what would otherwise be doubted  --  that there . is a limit to their credulity .                     