@@780661

txt The Hon. Ramon C. Walker , Consul-General at Havana , who is here on leave of absence , does not very strongly sustain the claims of Sefior Cirilo Pontle , now languishing in jail in Havana , to be considered a nun-Wass American martyr . The facts in possession of Consul-General Walker rather indicate that Sefior Pontle has abused the shelter and hospitality afforded him in the United States , and has availed himself of the naturalization laws of this country , not in good faith but simply as a cloak under which to carry on , at diminished risk , hostile and revolutionary enterprises directed against a power with which his pretended adopted country is at peace . The record shows that within 22 days of his taking out his naturalization papers and swearing to observe the Constitution and laws of the United States Seiler , Cirilo Pontle embarked for Cuba , bearing with him a number of commissions for Colones , Generals , and everything else issued by the Cuban Revolutionary Junta , which holds its sessions in New-York and sniffs the battle from afar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22 days ' citizen of the United States , as Secretary of State of the republic of Cuba . He was captured in Cuba with these incriminating documents in his possession and his friends are now endeavoring to raise an outcry because the Administration does not demand his immediate release as an American citizen , wrongfully imprisoned in Spanish dungeons . It rather looks as if Cirilo Pontle 's friends , by clamoring for a speedy trial , are not improving his prospects for longevity . Mrs. Hendricks , widow of the late Vice-President , has undertaken to set at rest any uneasiness as to the publication of her distinguished husband 's correspondence . Mr. Hendricks was very frank and outspoken in the expression of his views on current events , and many of his friends and political associates wrote to him with as much freedom as he was accustomed to speak to them . Consequently a rumor that his correspondence would be edited and published by his widow caused some commotion , as it was supposed that letters which might injuriously affect prominent public men still living would be brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hendaricks has authorized a well known Washington correspondent to say Mr. Hendricks destroyed everything of that nature . Mrs. Hendricks added : " He did not think it right to keep such letters , and no one appreciated better than het how letters might read after the circumstances under which they were written had changed . I have- received letters from many persons who have feared that such was not the case , and have found it hard to convince them that their letters have been destroyed . A NewYork politician , who has been making a record of and gathering together his correspondence written at the time of the Tilden campaign , was positive that nis letters must nave been kept . I went over five trunks of papers and failed to find them . Mr. Hendricks was a courteous man in such things . He did not like to write letters , and never did so when he could have a personal interview . He did not care for himself , but he was afraid that in some way his party or his friends might be injured . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number , is now engaged in making the annual inspection of the 19 divisions in which the customs offices of the United States are classified . They have found some details needing correction , but no serious irregularities of any kind thus far . The complaint which Secretary Bayard is represented to have made of the delay and circumlocution and dangerous friction attending the negotiations with the British Government on the fisheries question is fully borne out by the official records . The case of the . Adams and the claim of the United States Government that the seizure of that vessel was a violation of treaty rights of the United States was pointedly brought to the attention of the British Minister in Washington May 10 , 1886 . This was followed by other protests of increasing vigor , dated May 20 , May 29 , June 2 , June 7 , June 14 , July 2 , July 10 , July 16 , and July 30 , 1886 . On Aug. 2 , 1886. the British Government replied to tliree of the protests made the preceding May , and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oct. 12 her Majesty 's Government replied to complaints preferred by the United States on June 14 and July 10 , and on Nov. 9 following ' answered the complaint of the previous 16th of July . Similar delays of four to six months run all through the correspondence , as Mr. Bayard says . His proposition dated Nov. 15 , 1886 , personally laid before the British Foreign Office by Minister Phelps on Dec. 3 , 1886 , remains unanswered . A dispatch was received at the Treasury Department to-day from San Francisco stating that the whaling fleet tender Pearl , which arrived at that place yesterday , reports that the revenue cutter Bear , which was reported to have been lost , had been with the fleet and gone north of Point Barrow .                     