@@781644

txt The officer who has for several years occupied the important position of Chief of Engineers of the Army , and who became famous during the civil war as one of the ablest of the Union corps commanders , was yesterday placed on the retired list , having reached the compulsory statute age of 64 years . It would be not only a graceful but a just recognition of hisdistinguished abilities and services should Gen. HORATIO G. WRIGHT be put upon that list in the grade above the one to which he now belongs , and be retired as a Major-General . Twenty years ago Gen. WRIGHT played a most memorable part in thwarting an audacious and dangerous expedition against the national capital . During the Virginia campaign of 1864 Gen. WRIGHT was appointed to command the Sixth Corps after the death of SEDGWICK . He proved a worthy successor to that stanch soldier , and when in July Gen. EARLY , having made his long march from Lynchburg down the Shenandoah . Valley , prepared to cross the Potomac and threaten Baltimore and Washington , Gen. WRIGHT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . meet and check this new peril . Whoever can recall that exciting midsummer of 1864 will remember the popular anxiety lest succor from the Petersburg lines should not arrive in season to save the menaced capital ; and EARLY 'S easy defeat of Gen. WALLAcE 's small and hastily gathered army on the Monocacy intensified these apprehensions . It turned out that just as the weary advance brigades of EARLY were reaching the suburbs of Washington on the north the troops of WRIGHT were landing at the wharves on the south , and by the time the Confederate forces were deployed in line and ready to attack the forts , WRIGHT 'S men , . aided by some troops from the Gulf and such others as could be hastily gathered , stood ready to ' meet any assault . As is well known , EARLY was forced to withdraw by WRIGHT 'S opportune arrival , and his retreat was accelerated by a strong reconnoissance which Gen. WRIGHT pushed out . " I have sent from here , " wrote Gen. GRANT to Mr. LINCOLN at that time , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and to a prominent official of the War Department he declared that " boldness is all that is neededto drive the enemy out of Maryland , " adding that jie believed that " WRIGHT is the man to assure that . " In fact , EARLY 'S retreat out of Maryland , with WRIGHT pursuing , was completed within thirty-six hours of the driving back of his skirmishers at Washington . During the subsequent famous campaign of Gen. SHERIDAN in the Shenandoah Valley , Gen. WRIGHT was his senior corps commander , and he and his troops took a very prominent part in those operations , crowned with so many victories . Returning to Petersburg , Gen. WRIGHT was conspicuous throughout the final movements that led to the surrender at Appomattox . Congress need hardly hesitate to fitly recognize , on his retirement from active service , the merits of a soldier who has richly deserved whatever laurels he wears.                     