@@745570

txt The renewal of Capt . RENARD 'S balloon experiments at Meudon , on the Seine , seems to have met with a good degree of success . Of course favorable circumstances were chosen , the wind on one trial blowing only about two miles an hour and on . the other perhaps six or eight . Still , to make progress against any wind is a gain in aeronautics . In the recent trials on two successive days the distance undertaken was about five miles , the journey outward in one case and homeward in the other being made against the wind . The trip to windward occupied about three-quarters of an hour , or twice as long as the one before the wind . No effort , of course , was made to reach a great altitude . Journeying through the air in ships has always been an aim of mankind , while the analogous desire for wings like a bird 's has , from . the days of Icarus to ours , produced bold attempts at flights with artificial pinions , not seldom resulting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society of Great Britain gave much attention to this latter quest . A Mr. SPENCER at that time claimed to have taken leaps of a hundred feet from the ground by mechanical aids , and a Mr. KAUFMA.NN built a machine which was to be sustained and propelled by huge wings . These curious devices came to nothing , and doubtless had been resorted to because the ordinary balloon seemed hopeless to rely on for navigable air ships . To get adequate power without too heavy weight had been found impossible ; and applying a gas balloon to help hold up the machine created a volume which put the apparatus at the mercy of the winds . But after the failure of the devices just spoken of , and after two flights with wings in Paris and Vienna had nearly or quite killed the experimenters and were shown to have been mere descents earthward , this temporary effort to solve the problem of aeronautics by " going to nature " and playing bird was abandoned . Wings were left to theatrical fairies and air ships proper again essayed . To recount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long task . Scores of machines have been built , with great pains and cost , only to fail when they attempted to face an adverse wind . The devotees of perpetual motion have not been more persistent than those of aerial navigation . But the old difficulty always returned , that power required weight , and artifices to offset weight by extra levity made the lightened structure a prey for winds . At length the storage of electrical power revived hopes of success , and last year , a little more than a century after the MONTOOLFIERS had introduced ballooning , a step toward aerial navigation was taken . The TISSANDIERS used storage batteries , but with little success ; then , in August , Capt . CHARLES RENARD , of the French engineers , made an ascent at Meudon in a cigar-shaped craft filled with hydrogen gas and provided with a rudder and a screw propeller . The machine rose to a short distance above the plateau of Chatillon , and , after some rocking , the propeller , driven by electrical power , carried the balloon rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the air ship turned toward Petit Bicetre , and finally made a complete circle , so that after a voyage of 25 minutes it descended exactly at the point whence it had started . That was the first genuine balloon steering that had ever been accomplished ; and great was the enthusiasm over it . At Kiel , at St .. Petersburg , at Okhta , like devices were undertaken , and in this country a dirigible war balloon was announced . Meanwhile M. HERVE MANGON informed the French Academy of Sciences that the problem of aerial navigation was solved . Unfortunately , the following month , when the machine was tried again , it made a failures the screw working for less than a quarter of an hour . The new trial had been undertaken against a fresh preeze , and that proved fatal . Two months more elapsed , and then Capt . RENARD with a brother officer made a third experiment , which resulted , like the first , in successful steering , the journey occupying about three-quarters of an hour . The general judgment of aeronauts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short time in calm or light breeze had been produced , but not one that could breast winds . The recent trials of a new air ship indicate that some gain has been effected . Last year 's balloon was said to be of ten horse power , working four hours . This year 's seems to be about a fifth less powerful , and with capability of working only half that time . But it is steadier and seems to have gained in lightness , although now carrying three persons instead of two . Perhaps , also , the power of last year 's machine was misstated and exaggerated , since in the actual trials it did not operate consecutively for an hour . Within certain limits and under certain conditions of very light wind the steerable balloon has apparently advanced enough for purposes of occasional experiment or pleasure ; but there are great steps yet to take before securing ordinary and practicable travel in the air .                     