@@745134

txt It is often alleged that it is dangerous for a man to travel in a compartment of a European railway car in company with an unknown woman and no other person . However dangerous this may bermen who travel in our crowded saloon cars are by no means free from danger . There are women who travel by rail merely in order to get rid of superfluous infants . Their method is a very simple one . ? The mother , or woman to that effect , asks an unsuspecting man to hold her baby for a moment , while , she leaves the train on some pretext . Of course , she never returns , and the unhappy man 's existence is blighted by a fortuitous and undesired infant . This is a terrible danger , and one from which no man is safe who travels in any American railway car , except the smoking car . The Rev. Mr. , a most estimable young and unmarried clergyman , had heard of the wicked practices of women traveling with infants , and when , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Albany for . New-York he was made rather uneasy by a woman with a baby in her arms who took the vacant seat beside him . In course of time the woman fell into conversation with him , and , as she professed to be an earnest churchwoman and conducted herself like a latly , his fears gradually subsided , and he even offered to hold the baby for a few moments and to try to calm its excitement on the subject of an undiscovered pin . When the train reached Poughkeepsie the baby was sound asleep , and the mother , remarking that she Would try to get some milk for it , left it in. charge of Mr. while she went to the refreshment-room . ? He watched anxiously for the woman 's return , but she came not . It was nearly time for the train to start when he caught sight of her , as he thought , stepping on board the northbound train . He instantly perceived that it was the wretched woman 's intention to abandon her child , and he determined not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and began an indig ? nant search for the mother . He found her , as he supposed , and with a fervid denunciation of her conduct placed the baby in her lap . The astonished woman denied the slightest ownership of the child , and called on the conductor fox protection . Mr. had made a mistake . The woman of the north-bound train was not his fellow-passenger from Albany , although she somewhat resembled her in appearance . She had traveled from New-York , and the conductor , who had punched her ticket on the way up , assumed that Mr. was either drunk or crazy , and ordered him to go into another car . Convinced by this time of his mistake , Mr. begged the conductor to stop the train , but the latter refused . It was the fast express , stopping only at Poughkeepsie , and the unhappy clergyman saw himself compelled to pay his fare and to carry the stolen infant and bag back to Albany . The horror of his situation overcame him . He sank into a seat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He let it cry , heedless of the indignant glances of the passengers . A kind-hearted woman finally quieted the child , and the conductor informed Mr. that he was a brute as well as a scoundrel . At Albany the wretched man stepped off the train into the arms of a policeman , who arrested him for theft and abduction and escorted him to jail . Of course , the clergyman was able in time to explain the matter , but his reputation was ruined . He received in the court-room a telegram from his Wardens informing him that he need not return to his church . He fled to the far West , where he now earns a living as a bookkeeper , and never travels by rail without sitting during the entire journey either in the smoking or the baggage car .                     