@@780635

txt Col. Frank E. Howe , formerly well known as the Pension Agent at New-York and a once prominent member of the Union League Club , died hero suddenly to-day . No one except a few persons in the State Department knew anything about it until even-ing , when Mr. Hill . the Statistician of the State Department , said that Mr. Howe had been taken ill while out driving and had been taken to the home of the hackman instead of to his own lodgings , and that he died there . Mr. Rill was understood as saying that Mr. Howe had been ill for some weeks , and his trouble is said to have been congestion of the kidneys . Be was out just a week ago to-day . and , in company with a friend or two , witnessed the march past of the Army of the Potoftiac , at the White House . standing immediately opposite the reviewing platform occupied by the President . He was then looking very well . Mr. Howe has been in this city frequently during the last year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hair and board , and a noticeable indifference to fashion , he had not changed a great deal from the person who was once so conspicuous a figure as Pension Agent . Mr. Howe 's body is now lying at an undertaker 's , awaiting removal to Boston . An ineffectual search was made for the hackman at whose house ho is reported to have died . Some reticence is observed among his friends about the illness , and the fact that he was carried when ill to the hackman 's house instead of to his own lodgings . Col. Howe ; was a native of Dorchester , Mass. , was barn July 4 , 1829. and at one time was an officer in the Boston Cadets . At the opening of the rebellion he became widely and favorably known for his exertions in caring for the soldiers on their way to the front . He was then the agent in this City for the New-England States , and his efforts led to the formation of a system which produced the best results . The troops passing through this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent on their way in much better condition and spirits than if they had been forced forward without stop . The entire scheme was originated by Col. Howe . and he received great credit for it . Later he was attached to the staff of Gen. Dix. on duty here . Soon after the war he was appointed Pension Agent in this City and held the office until Jan. 12 , 1878 , when he resigned . He was a member of the NewEngland Society and of the Union League Club . His son , who is residing in this City , started for Washington as soon as the death was made known .                     