@@672095

txt PRINCE RUDOLPH 'S SUICIDE . The recent doings of imperial and royal personages in Europe have not been such as to arrest the progress of democracy . The only pleas that can be rationally made , in this age of the world , for the setting np of a monarchy where it does not exist are that it tends to seoure the nation that possesses it against the disputes regarding the succession to the executive power to which other forms of government are liable , and that the occupant of a throne , being bred in the expectation of occupying it . will be . in external respects at least , in bearing , and in knowledge of official proprieties , fit for his position . There is not much in either of these pleas . To maintain that a republic is both a more reasonable and a more beneficial Government than a monarchy for a modern State by no means implies that existing monarchies should be abolished . That is always a question of time and place and circumstance . In Great Britain it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that it is an extremely expensive institution , since under it the progress of the nation to political democracy has been undisturbed , perhaps less disturbed than it could have been if Queen VICTORIA were not the lineal successor of Queen ELIZABETH , with this difference only , . that Queen ELIZABETH was the actual ruler and Queen VICTORIA is the mere figurehead of the English nation . In the history of our own Republic the question of a disputed succession , that in monarchical countries has given rise to so many bloody wars , has once arisen . The peaceable settlement of it was reached because it was felt by everybody that it was of less importance that it should be settled justly than that it should be settled . Such a settlement would have been impossible in a country where the sentiment of personal loyalty survives and where government is looked upon as something more and other than an arrangement for doing the public business . The peril in which the French Republic has lately been put , and which it seems for the present to have escaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that France is a republic , but manifestly to the fact that the French monarchy has numerous and not scrupulous partisans , who seize upon every pretext to discredit the republic by disturbing the nation . Of the other plea for monarchy , that hereditary sovereigns are not apt to bring disgrace upon their stations , the less that is said the better . The suicide of the Crown Prince of Austria , in the flower of his years , is a natural termination of the kind of life which Princes are under far greater temptation than ordinary men to lead . There is scarcely an heir to a throne in Europe who has not been a subject of scandal . In countries like Russia and Prussia , of which the political development has been arrested and in which the monarchy survives as an actual force , the temptation to a frivolous life is much less strong , because in. these a Prince may , nevertheless , look forward to a career , and may be a useful member of society . Where he is predestined to be merely a figurehead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely a pleasure seeker . According to all accounts Prince RUDOLPH was a man of more than ordinary abilities , and if he had not been cursed with the heirship to a throne he might have been not only a useful but an eminent man . If there were any saving grace in the institution of monarchy the sacrifice of Princes to the Commonwealth might be justifiable . But the fact that a Prince in a modern State is an anomaly , and is ' becoming a somewhat ridiculous anomaly , has reached the consciousness of Princes themselves , and they are very prone to illustrate-the remark of Dr. WArrs upon . the provision of labor for " idle hands . ' ?                     