@@780764

txt A vicious attack was made early this morning upon WallaceA Kennerson , foreman of the galvanizing depart-ment of the Cleveland Rolling Mill , by a body of Polish and Bohemian strikers . Ever since the strike began a strong patrol of strikers have been on watch at the mills day and ; night to prevent any person going to work . Kennerson has been keeping watch of his department at the mill and making some repairs about the machinery . It was determined by the strikers to prevent him from going to work . Kennerson drove out to the works this morn-ing as usual . Just as he crossed the ConnottonValley track he found his way barred by about 100 strikers armed with clubs and extending ' across the street . As his horse came up to theline it was seized by one of the strikers and turned half around . The men then closed in on the vehicle and occupant . A Pole named Roehinsky leaned over and struck Kennerson a blow on the left arm with a club . The arm , dropped useless and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the strikers cried out " 6 We 'll stop you from going to work . " Kennerson pulled a revolver , and , aiming at the man who had struck him , fired , shattering Rochinsky 's arm . He then fired two shots in quick succession . One of them struck another Pole named Dobouri in the thigh , making an ugly wound . The third buried itself in the ground . This cleared a way , and Kennerson started the horse and broke through the line on a run , a shower of stones and clubs following the buggy . The shots called the police to the scene , and Rochinsky was arrested and taken to the Eighth Precinct Station , where the ball in his arm was extracted and the wound bandaged . Dobouri 's wound was of a more serious character . He started for home , but fell exhausted , and had to be carried to bis residence . Kennerson was arrested and locked up on the charge of shooting with intent to kill . The news soon spread throughout the Bohemian and Polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and an angry mob of over 1,000 men soon collected . They were , however , persuaded to return to their homes . The strike is approaching a crisis , and it is feared that serious trouble will soon result . The strikers and their families are in almost a starving condition . Many of them receive aid from the city , and large numbers subsist on the charity of the Knights of Labor and members of the . Amalgamated Association .                     