@@780792

txt Last Wednesday night the Police received information that a lot of Inflammable material had been placed in the basement of the law office of Daniel W. Guernsey . A strict watch was kept up during the night until 2 o'clock Thursday morning , when an infernal machine , found In the basement , was taken to Police Head-quarters . Along Market-street a long cord was found which had been thoroughly rubbed with powder , forming a perfect fuse . This cord led into the basement referred to , where the end was fastened to a box of matches , and the matches were covered with oiled paper and pine wood saturated with oil , and oil had been thrown about the wood-work in the basement . The cord had also been fired , but , by some means , the fire became extinguished before it reached the oily matter . The basement is one of many underneath the long wooden block of buildings leading from the Nelson House to Unionstreet , and the block is filled with lawyers ' offices . Next , south of Mr. Guernsey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German named Ernst Blanck . Some of the newspapers of the city ridiculed the affair . claiming it was a joke on the Police by some waggish lawyers in the block . On Sunday the barber , Ernst Blanck , called upon Henry Prahlow , a German tailor , and an intimate acquaintance , and said he would like to see Police Constable John Burns . Mr. Prahlow went to Officer Burns 's house , and ascertained that the latter had gone to New-York , and afterward told Blanch . Twice afterward Blanes : called upon Prahlow , and told him he was very anxious to see Burns , and he seemed much excited . Burns returned from New-York late last night and this morning , about 10 o'clock , called upon Prahlow at his tailoring establishment , No. 261 Main-street. to sea what he wanted . Prahlow was telling him , when , looking into the street below , they saw Blanek passing . He was called up stairs , when Prahlow withdrew . Reeving Burns and Blauck talking . The latter told Burns people were looking cross at him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burn the block referred to . He volunteered the statement that he had often seen people go into the basement the same as other people might have seen him go in , and that he was also anxious to find out who attempted to burn the block , and would give $100 to know who did it . Burns impressed him with the idea that every effort was being made to find out who did the job . During the conversation Blanck showed much excitement . They parted with the understanding that they would meet again in the afternoon , and Bien &; passed up Main-street . At 3P . M. a farmer 's sleigh , drawn bytwo horses , driven by a farmer named Asa Lyons , halted in front of Police Head-quarters . In the sleigh was an unconscious man , who was immediately recognized as Blanek . It seems that about 1i : 30 A. M. George P. Schryver , another farmer , while driving along on the creek road , near the Stoutenburgh farm , five or six miles from this city , saw a man ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be unable to control his own movements , and finally fell . Mr. Sehryvor , with the assistance of Mr. Stouteuburgh , got the man into Mr. Stoutenburgh 's barn . He Mike only once , and muttered that he was from Poughkeepsie , and when Mr. Asa Lyon came along he took him to Police Head-quarters . Dr. Langdon was at once sent for , and , after examination . Bald Blanek had taken poison of some kind , probably laudanum . Coroner Frost discovered that Blanch had bought that poison in the morning . Vigorous means were taken to preservo his life , and it is thought he will recover .                     