@@745997

txt A dispatch from El Paso , on the Texas border , contains a statement which , if it be true , is of great importance to the people of the United States . Strict quarantine against cholera has been proclaimed at that place , which is the frontier station on the Mexican Central Railroad . " The cholera , " says this dispatch , " has traveled northward in South America until it has reached the isthmus of Panama . " For several weeks scarcely any news about the progress of cholera in South America has reached this country . At last accounts the disease had almost died out in the ports of the Argentine Republic , it was said , but was raging in. the interior provinces of that country , in. one province of Brazil , in . Paraguay , and in the cities of Chili . Peru was maintaining rigid quarantine against Chili , and the appearance of the disease in Peru had not been reported . The Panama Star and Herald of March 5 declared that " cholerine " had found some victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the West India islands established quarantine against the countries further south some time ago , and it has not been announced that the barriers thus set up have been passed . If - the authorities at El Paso have not been misled it seems probable that the disease has been brought to Panama by water from Chili . If it shall appear that cholera has really gained a foothold on the isthmus , it ? will be necessary for the health authorities at ' all our ports of entry  --  and especially at the Pacific ports , the stations on the Mexican frontier , and the ports of the Gulf  --  to exercise the greatest care in order that the disease may be excluded from our territory . The appearance of cholera at Panama or Aspinwall will inevitably cause great mortality in those cities . As we showed two months ago , these places are almost unutterably filthy . Panama is one of the earth 's plague spots . Aspinwall has been fitly called " an inhabited cesspool . " An outbreak of cholera in either city will sweep thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who can get away . Unfortunately , the cities on the western coast of Mexico that are in close communication with the isthmus are also in a lamentable condition . Since 1882 yellow fever has been endemic in several of them , and the coast is now said to be permanently infected with that plague . The California Board of Health has observed with much anxiety the development of conditions favorable to the transmission of infectious diseases , on that coast . In 1852 cholera was carried northward by this path . We hope to hear that this is a false alarm which has excited the authorities of El Paso . If , however , their information be in accord with the facts , the people of our cities should make haste to take those precautions which are the only trustworthy safeguard against this terrible disease . Cordons and . quarantines are frequently of but little service , but cleanliness is cholera 's most powerful enemy . Let every city be made as clean as intelligent administration and generous and . wisely expended appropriations can make it . Let the slums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be placed under vigilant inspection . Especial attention should be paid to the water supply . When cholera invades a country a ' city can have no more effective means of defense than is afforded by a public supply of water free from contamination . Extraordinary efforts to improve the sanitary condition of a city cost something , but the money is always well invested , for even if the dreaded disease does not appear the death rate due to ordinary filth diseases is decreased and hundreds of valuable lives are saved .                     