@@745015

txt A colored clergyman of Virginia vigorously maintained , a few years ago , that the world does not move , and referred his hearers to their own senses for the evidence of that proposition . This colored clergyman has been confuted by a white Congressman . When a son of HENRY A. WISE declares that he will receive in his parlor colored persons who go to see him on political business and will not fight a duel , the evidence that the world is moving is irresistible . Even JASPER , on such a state of facts , will have to subscribe , or make his mark , to the theory of GALTrY , o . The question of the social equality of the negro is a ticklish one for a Virginia member of Congress to handle . Even at West Point the regulations have been settled satisfactorily , and legislation has achieved no more than regulation . In fact the right of a man to choose his own associates is as absolute and complete as any right can be , and a Caucasian will , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own race . If he exercises his unquestionable right of selecting Africans , he must take the consequences of being dropped by his Caucasian acquaintances . These consequences are so much more powerful to deter him than the charms of African society are to allure him that there is no occasion at all for the alarm which sensitive Southerners occasionally manifest lest negro equality before the law should come to mean anything more than equality before the law . The Danville people who turned out and shot a number of negroes in order to repress their " insolence " were acting upon an entirely chimerical notion of what would happen if the insolence were not to be repressed . Nothing dreadful would have happened . A considerable degree of courage is still required in Virginia to decline a duel , or to ignore a provocation intended to bring on a duel . Every exhibition of that courage distinctly tends to advance the cause of civilization in Virginia , and to assimilate that Commonwealth to the modern world . People who secretly feel that Mr. WISE is right will take courage from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arises . " Before the war " it would have been impossible for a man who looked forward to any future in Virginia politics to write such a letter as that of Mr. WISE . It is an unquestionable advance that the writing of such a letter now should not , as we believe it will not , injure him in the estimation of either party . It is unfortunate , however , that Mr. WISE should have vilified his antagonist in the letter in which he declined to fight him . The one excuse for dueling is that given by GOETHE , that it is more important that there should be a safeguard in the community against rudeness than that a man here and there should be secured from the chance of a violent death . Undoubtedly , a man who applies bad language to his neighbor presents a more dignified spectacle when he is willing to be held accountable for his words than when he is unwilling . If a man will not fight , he should be more scrupulously careful to refrain from vituperation than if he were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social penalty , which ought to be inflicted upon persons who are guilty of rudeness , and it is a much more efficient defense than all the bullies and swashbucklers in the editorial rooms or on the stumps of Virginia can provide . 