@@744497

txt The suggestion made by the Secretary of the Navy in his last report that the Revenue Marine , Light-house and Coast Survey , and Life-saving Services should be transferred from the Department of the Treasury to that of the Navy is one which deserves the serious consideration of Congress . Our Navy has now reached what we may fairly hope is its lowest point . We have few vessels that are seaworthy , still fewer that could be efficiently used as cruisers , and none capable of comparison with the modern iron-clad vessels of Europe . We are even in a worse condition so far as guns are concerned , for the guns with which our men-of-war are armed are as much inferior to the guns used by other naval powers as the old musket is inferior to the breechloading rifle . There is no difference of opinion between Republicans and Democrats as to the absolute necessity of a navy . With an enormous coast line and our growing commercial interests we must have war vessels that can protect our harbors and make it a dangerous proceeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We must build a new fleet and arm it for offense and defense in the most efficient way . It will take time and cost money to build such a navy as we need , but all are agreed that a new navy must be built . In the meantime , what are we to do with the naval officers with which the Annapolis Academy is constantly supplying us ? Already the number of officers is so largely in. excess of the requirements of our diminutive fleet that only a small proportion of them can be provided with employment . It was for this reason that the regulation was recently adopted which provides that of the graduates of the Annapolis Academy only those shall be retained in the service for whom vacancies exist in the line of promotion . The result of this regulation is that after having supported and trained scores of young men for six consecutive years the Government dismisses them without exacting any return for the money expended in their education . Nothing except the absolute impossibility of providing all the Annapolis graduates with employment could justify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men whose services it can not utilize . To shut up the Academy would be the height of folly . We can not have a navy without officers , and men . can be fitted to act as naval officers only by long and careful training . It might be possible for us , were we to become involved in war , to buy vessels from some foreign nation and arm them as cruisers , but we could not hire foreign officers to command them , and we have no merchant marine from which to improvise naval officers . We found it difficult during the civil war to find regimental officers , but while it is possible to make a man who has never handled a musket an army Lieutenant or Captain without necessarily imperiling the lives of those who serve under him , it is simply impossible to make a naval officer out of a landsman . We must continue to train young men for the Navy , and until our new fleet is built we must find some means of employing our superfluous officers . This purpose would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Revenue Marine is simply a navy maintained by the Treasury Department . Its object is to aid in the collection of the revenue in circumstances where a show of force is necessary either at sea or in our harbors . It is precisely what our navy is  --  a sea police . Why the Treasury Department should have its private navy is not very clear . With equal propriety the Interior Department might have its private army , consisting of regiments over which the War Department should have no control ; or the Attorney-General might be authorized to fit out a small navy of his own . We are now spending money for building and maintaining war vessels called revenue cutters and for training a corps of Revenue Marine officers . That these vessels should belong to the navy and be officered by naval officers is a proposal that must strike every one as eminently proper . Were the Revenue Marine trans. ferred to the Navy Department its efficiency would certainly not be diminished , and employment would be provided for a large number of naval officers . When we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ folly to have what is really another class of naval officers under the name of Revenue Marine officers ; and while we have so few ships in the nt : . y it is hardly worth while to provide the Treasury Department with a second navy . The Life-saving Service has been admirably managed by the Treasury Department , but it would without doubt be equally well managed by the Navy Department , and at much less cost . At present the officers and crews of the life-saving stations are hired by the Treasury , whereas the Navy Department could supply officers for every lifesaving station on the.coast from among the superfluous or retired naval officers , and could detail for this service the sailors who are now for months together kept idle on board receiving ships . As for the Lighthouse and Coast Survey Service , it is already largely officered by naval officers loaned for the purpose , and its transfer to the Navy Department , where it seems properly to belong , would not greatly change its , personnel . The proposal of Secretary CHA.NDLER . was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but was based upon the evident fact that the Revenue Marine , the Coast Survey , and the Life-saving Services belong naturally to the Navy Department . The necessity of giving employment to naval officers is , however , second only to the necessity of training them , and until we have enough men-of-war to employ all our officers we can not do better than provide them with employment by adopting the proposal of Secretary CHANDLER .                     