@@780748

txt Mr. William M. Evarts , who was received with deafening cheers , said : LADIES AND GENTIMIEN , FELLOW-CITIZENS. : it gave me great Pleasure to take part in the meeting which the committee intrusted with the management of this oimpaign thought was useful at its close . The campaign has , I believe , been conducted by this committee of the State with great intelligence , with great activity , with great integrity . I think the results of that energy and that fidelity will exhibit themselves to the public intern , gence on Wednesday after this election . Applause . I do n't believe that in the last three months , from the time of the nominations until now . one voice of discord or dissatisfaction has been heard in any Quarter of the Republican Party . Applause . I do n't believe there are any resentments or animosities that have been gratified , or are to be gratified , at this next election in our party . And in the Democratic Party . frond the time their nominations were made I have not perceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be . Laughter . I have seen no activity ; no combination , no energies , no enthusiasms , that were aimed at the triumph over the Republican Party . I have neither heard the noise of combat , nor the notes which were to lead to victory . that were not of combats between the seertions and divisions or the Democratic ) Party , and the note of ' victory of one faction over another . Applause . Now , that in itself , if . I have correctly stated the situation . is a matter of the greatest congratulation to us  --  of the greatest misfortune to our opponents . For if we have one voice and one . vote in accord ; if we have no reason for coldness nor for discord , I need not say to YOU that whenever all the people vote in this State . and all vote faithfully for their party , in their duty to it . the State is Republican and always will be .. But not merely on the surface is this situation as prosperous for us . If you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source and the strength of this unity in our ranks comes from the fact that we are not thinking or feeling at all about personal interests or about rivalries , of chieftainships or leaders , or champions , but of one thing , and of one thine only , and that is the principles , the duties . tag glories of the Republican Party .                     