@@781179

txt The removal of Revenue Collector Stivers by the consolidation of this district with the Fourteenth excites very general regret . His long administration of the office has been entirely satisfactory- both to the department and to the public . Owing to the complex character of the revenue laws , the best-meaning persons , unless aided by the Collector , would be found technically guilty of infringing them . Collector Stivers , while being able to boast of an administration entirely honorable , has always taken great pains to prevent these inadvertent violations of the law , and , as a result , has been , and is to-dap , the most popular man in the district . His popularity is not confined to the Republican Party . if the selection of a Republican by Democrats were in order there can be no doubt as to whom they would choose , and in his own party he stands eaually high . There is no outspoken opposition to the action of the President . At the same time there is an undercurrent of feeling that-political favoritism has had more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The formation of the district with which this has been consolidated , with head-quarters at Albany , while the next aistrict has head-quarters within a few miles , and the facts that both are shoestring districts and placed in charge of the pets of prominent Stalwarts intensifies this feeling . The Republican Party in this section has been practically harmonious for the past year and disposed to yield to President Arthur a hearty support , noth withstanding the fact that some minor nominations in this county have been extremely distasteful . This action of the President will very largely revive the feeling that once prevailed , that his policy means rewards to Stalwarts and punishment to half-breeds . It is well known that Mr. Stivers was a member of the Chicago Convention , where he successfully resisted , with others , the enforcement of the unit rule , and voted for Garfield . He occupies the same political ground to-day that he did then ; having never regretted his action nor weakened in any way from the position taken at that time . Mr. Stivers acquiesces in this and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reforms , believing that all the Collectors ' offices could be abolished and the entire business done by the present deputies directly with the department at Washington . He has refused to make any efforts for his retention in office , and has as positively declined the mediation in his behalf of prominent politicians here and elsewhere , some of them of Stalwart proclivities . He is no less a Republican to-day than before his removal , and it is safe to say that his official decapitation has made him a much more popular man than ever .                     