@@744184

txt The last Republican Legislature , with its delays , its mistakes , its bands of lobbyists , and its uncertain position on the temperance question , would have caused the loss of the State to the itepuencans in spite of Gov . Foster 's management and influence had not Garfield 's death come as a miracle to arouse and renew the allegiance of the Republicans everywhere . No such intervention is possible this year , and it is the calculation of some very careful politicians that nothing can save the State to the Republicans unless it be the broken and disorganized condition of the Democratic Party . But no one feels disposed to bank on that account to any great extent , for the Democracy has such command of its forces that very little careful work is needed to rally all the votes and to get the complete machinery at work . As the full vote always comes out on occasions when there seems to bo a chance for party success , and when the ticket is reasonably satisfactory , it is expected that a little good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward bringing Bookwalter and anti-Bookwalter together for the time , and to cause a compromise on some safe and able public man as the candidate for Secretary of State . It is certain that the late internal strife has worn out the courage of both sides , and that all concerned are for peace on any reasonable terms . In short , the full Democratic vote will be polled in October next unless some unlooked-for rebellion or misadventure should occur . The Secretary of State heads the ticket . The present incumbent is the lion . Charles Townsend , of Athens County . As the present is his first term , as he has made a good officer , and as he Is a strong and successful politician , there is little doubt of his renomination . The Republican organization is compact , and will still remain in the hands of Gen. George K. Nash , with Gov . Foster close at hand as counselor and adviser . There is no danger to be apprehended from the convention , none from the control of the party machinery , but a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light vote , and itwould argue great faith and hope for one to claim the State for the Republicans from the present condition of affairs . The moral influence from Washington upon the non-political and non-office holding portion of the Republican Party must not he underrated . The feeling in the back districts , and especially in those that came under Garfleld 's direct influence , is one of discord with the Administration . It is not hostility , for the Republicans of this State are slow to revolt , and only in the most extreme cases can a square bolt be organized even in the small municipal or county contests . But the feeling is one of non-interest , and there is a lack of personal responsibility . A gentleman who has traveled several times across Northern Ohio during the past three weeks says that the nomination of Conkling was received with a contemptuous indifference , not because there was no objection to him , but because voters seemed to have washed their hands of the whole affair and were merely on-lookers at the development of a plot in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you expect 1 " " They have things in their own hands and let them manage them , " and " It 's Conkling against the party " were expressions heard again and again . The worst phase of the whole situation is that so many Republicans have come temporarily to n point at which they do not care whether Ohio remains Republican or goes over to the Democrats this year as a hint to the President that the moral sentiment which was so bitterly aroused against Mr. Conkling can not be quietly ignored and disdained without serious consequences . In short , the feeling all over the State is paralleled only by that which foretold the defeat of West and the rebuke to President Hayes 's Southern peace policy in the memorable Gubernatorial contest of five years ago . The Present Legislature is also doing sad havoc . It went into power with so large a balance of strength that danger was apprehended and predicted in this correspondence from that very source , and thatprediction has been verified . The whole Winter has been practically wasted in adjournments , recesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There never was so large , so bold , and so persistent a lobby as is present this year . They were at work long before the session opened , suggesting officers and working for them , making up committees and laying their schemes . All sorts of measures have been brought up for passage that were fathered further back than the member who introduced them . So large and persistent is this evil that Republican newspapers all over the State are speaking oat against it and sending in daily pleas to the Legislature to close up its few items of business and go home . The people are watching with no attempt at concealment of their disgust . It is a sad commentary on the drift of public affairs to note that in this body there is a larger proportion of out-and-out politicians than has been in any legislative body for yehrs . The chief aim of most of them is so to menage affairs at Columbus as to secure political strength at home for something higher . There never was a time when the advancement of personal and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the legislators seem to lose sight of the fact that in this aid to individuals they are all doing irreparable damage to the reputation and influence of the body to which they belong . Great use of this session will be made by the Democratic newspapers for the next nine months , and Republicans are everywhere fearing that far more ammunition may be furnished the enemy before the Legislature gets through with redistricting and the temperance question and consents to adjourn . Another source of danger lies in the fact that the same body is to have another session next Winter , and that a repetition of this year 's record will secure the election of a Democratic Legislature in 1883 , and consequently a Democratic successor to Senator Pendleton . Other dangers are in its way . Mistakes are possible in the matter of redistricting . The temperance question is by no means settled to the satisfaction of the temperance peuple who were persuaded to remain in the Republican ranks last year . Many labor troubles and frequent strikes are expected this Summer . In short , while no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit that Republican success is not possible , there are a great many who fear the result . The presence of a Congressional ticket also complicates things , and while an active political year is promised , it now looks as though there would be far more activity among the politicians than among the people . 