@@672268

txt MIXING- THEIR ISSUES . There is some sort of an organization in the city , said . to be made up of " workingmen " which calls itself the Legislative Reform Party . Its object seems to be to secure the election to the Legislature of men who will support certain measures of " reform . " There is plenty of room for an organization which should undertake to help the election of members of the Legislature who would support measures of real reform , but it is a mistake for such an organization to call itself a party or to nominate candidates a its own if it can attain its purpose otherwise . Such an organization intelligently directed and holding itself free to give its aid to candidates who would pledge themselves to the support of specific measures for the public good upon which a majority of honest citizens were substantially agreed , might accomplish something , but this so-called Legislative Reform Party only affords another illustration of the incapacity of those who get up workingmen 's movements to direct their political action with any sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties whose candidates will stand a chance of election , it will simply waste its force in support of candidates of its own who can not in any district get more than a small minority of votes . This organization not only proposes to run candidates of its own without the smallest chance of electing any of them , but it presents a mixture of issues which no intelligent and honest man of any party would ever accept . It presents them in the form of questions to be answered by those who are to become its candidates , and , of course , any man who would accept its nomination would give the desired answer to the questions . The effective way of using a movement of the kind would be to address questions to candidates of the regular parties , with the . understanding that only those giving favorable answers would . receive the votes which the organization could command . But no candidate who could receive the nomination of a real political party would ever pledge himself to the support of all the issues presented by the Executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such candidate injure himself in the least by refusing to do so . On the contrary . he would be likely to throw away all chance of election if he gave the required pledges . The workingmen of the city are believed to be generally in favor of a law which would afford absolute protection to the secrecy of the ballot . The first questions put to candidates by the organization mentioned are whether they are in favor of a secret ballot " according to the Australian system , " whether they are in favor of the Saxton bill , and whether they would vote for its passage even over a veto of the Governor . Now , if the workingmen were organized in support of this issue alone and would direct their acknowledged voting power to securing pledges in its behalf from any candidate for the Legislature willing to give them , and would then give their votes only to such candidates , they might accomplish something worth while . They would win the sympathy and aid . of many citizens outside their own ranks . It is only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in support of such demands that the workingmen can secure practical results by political action . But not content with an effort to secure ballot reform , in which it might bring to its support a large voting force , this particular organization narrows its ground to the vanishing point by the other questions which it has framed for candidates . Each candidate is asked whether he is in favor of an eight-hour law , of an amendment of the conspiracy law , of the abolition of contract labor in prisons , of a law for the more thorough inspection of factories , and of the State assuming control of all means of transportation and communication . Whatever may be said in behalf of eight hours as a working day , it is a matter that can not be settled by legislation , except in public employments , and there is no reason why they should . be specially favored . The Legislature can no more interfere with the amount of labor a man may dispose of in a day than with the amount of merchandise that he may sell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get rid of is that which stands in the way of the infamous practice of boycotting , and no man could be in favor of the amendment demanded unless he was willing to remove all legal obstacles to a criminal attack upon the rights of person and property . Contract labor in the prisons of this State is already abolished . Wherever the factory inspection law fails to be sufficiently " thorough " has not been made to appear very clearly yet , but it is not unlikely that it might be improved . Almost any candidate for the Legislature would be willing to pledge himself to support a more thorough law if convinced that it was needed to . effect the legitimate Objects of inspection . Any organization that demands State control of all means of transportation and communication , if by that it means State ownership and management , displays at once its ignorance and its incapacity to deal with public questions . It can neither elect candidates of its own to the Legislature nor greatly affect the chances of candidates nominated by the regular parties . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this series of questions would at once become a factor of utter insignificance in the election . This legislative reform party has the suggestion of a good idea in politics , which it is misapplying.                     