@@781823

txt Chili is obviously master of the situation on the west coast , but the making of a treaty of peace does not depend upon her alone . Peru must have a part in it , and Peru , unfortunately , is without a Government . Unless Chili will modify her terms to such a degree as to make them entirely acceptable to Peru , or unconditionally recognize either CALDERON or MONTERO as President of the republic , no satisfactory and stable peace can be arranged . It is hinted that the negotiations of which Setior NOROA. speaks in the address printed In our Panama dispatches are being carried on with CALDERON . This is not improbable , for it was lately reported that CALDERON , who is a prisoner in Chili , had made known his willingness to accept Chili 's terms , the same which MONTERO , Peru 's acting President , had declared he could not accept . These terms include the cession of Tarapaca and the occupation of . A.rica , and Tacna until the war indemnity of $20,000,000 is paid , to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chilian troops should withdraw from the northern departments permanently , and from all the cities pending the election of a new President and members of Congress . It would be a happy day for Peru , no doubt , if a peace could be immediately concluded on these terms , which are as favorable as she can now expect . But CALDERON can not assent to such conditions any more than MONTERO . Both are the creatures of the Chorillos Congress , and that body , regularly constituted and speaking with authority as the voice of Peru , forbade the conclusion of a peace based on the cession of territory . MONTERO declined to enter into negotiations for this express reason . GARCIA CALDERON is in precisely the same position , as , if he accepts the terms offered by Senor NOROA , Chili 's diplomatic representative in Lima , he will do so on his personal responsibility , and must trust to his influence in the new Congress to secure a ratification of his action . It may be said that the political head of a country in such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional questions stand in the way of peace negotiations , but irregular and unauthorized proceedings on the part of either CALDERON or MONTERO would lead to new and deplorable complications in Peruvian politics . There are plenty of demagogues and political adventurers ready to appeal to the mob against them and to denounce them as the betrayers of their country and the auctioneers of her richest provinces . In the present state of public feeling in Lima , where , as Mr. TRESCOT pointed out , the baneful results of Mr. BLAINE 'S policy are visible in the settled belief of the people that the United States will forcibly interfere to save them from the loss of territory , a revolt against the weak half Government at present nominally in power would lead to new troubles and the indefinite postponement of peace . The announcement that a bill will be at once introduced into the Chili= Congress incorporating the " ex-Peruvian " departments of Tarapaca and Tacna , including the port of Arica , with the territory of Chili is again made with some positiveness . I Coupled with the sentiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be speedily rid of her embarrassments in Peru by some means , regular or irregular . The annexation of the two departments by the mere passage of a bill to that effect would be decidedly irregular . Chili 's title to the new territory would be forever open to dispute and defeasible whenever Peru could muster troops enough to drive her over south of the present boundary . If Chili is wise she will not show such haste and greed as is implied in this announced purpose of hers . She may have some difficulty in persuading Peru to consent to the cession of Tarapaca , but if the peace sought is to be permanent her consent must in some way be gained . Chili is not Acting the part of a generous conqueror . Senor NOROA 'S often-repeated declaration about the duty imposed by ? WIWI " patriotism , " when translated into the language of common sense , means simply that Chili has Peru bound and gagged , and intends to despoil her at her leisure without regard to the struggles of the victim or the protests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an emergency , would send violent and threatening messages , which would only make matters worse . Indeed , had Mr. BLAINE been less unscrupulous about mixing his private ambitions with his public duties , these west coast troubles would have been settled long ago . Mr. TEESCOT , a more experienced and upright man than Mr. BLAXRE , gave Chili plenty of good advice , which she would do well to heed . Gen. MONTERO asked Chili to recognize him as President , which she has never done , and to give him opportunity to consult the national Congress at Arequipa in order that he might obtain the necessary authority to treat with Seiler NOROA . These preliminary conditions are absolutely necessary to the opening of the negotiations , and they are entirely reasonable . But Chili , contrary to the earnest recommendation of Mr. TRESCOT , rejected the propositions . Chili , therefore , carefully bars every path by which Peru might reach a position from which she could conclude a constitutionally binding peace . There might be some hope of a happy issue from the irregular negotiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peruvians a people of greater political wisdom and stability , but so long as they entertain the extravagant expectations aroused by Mr. BLAINE 'S follies there is little reason to expect a permanent settlement of their difficulties .                     