@@781155

txt In the House of Commons last night a motion of Mr. Philip Callan . ( Home Ruler , ) member for Louth , was agreed to , that the House thinks something should be done to improve the dwellings cf laborers in Ireland , Mr. Forster , Chief Secretary for Ireland , stating that if the Government could see any way of proposing anything to effect the object of the motion in the Land bill it would gladly do so . A letter from the Most Rev. Thomas W. Croke , Archbishop of Cashel , is published , in which he says : " I can not approve the action which the Irish party are said to contemplate to exhibit their sense of loyalty to Mr. Dillon and reprehension for his arrest . An overwhelming majority of the Irish people are in favor of giving the Government a fair chance of passing the Land bill . " Messrs . Sexton and Kettle have been appointed League organizers . They will go to Ireland to-day to attend meetings . A man named Levey , a relative of O'Donovan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act . The Times says : " We understand that there is a strong desire at the Vatican for some direct authoritative means of communication with England with a view to gaining more authentic knowledge on social questions , especially those connected with Ireland . " The Conservatives in the House of Commons will resist the first reading of the bill for the amendment of the Parliamentary Oath act , and also take a division against it on its second reading . This evening 's Globe says the statement in this morning 's Standard that the Conservative peers will meet on Monday to ratify the selection of Lord Salisbury for the leadership , which they have already made , is premature and misleading . " That arrangement may possibly be accepted , but as it is the very one the Standard has been supporting through thick and thin , we may be excused for suggesting that the wish is father to the thought . The question of who shall lead the party is not now in issue . The question of who shall lead in the House of Lords will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is authorized to make any announcement on the subject . " It is to be noted that the Globe is , or was , in part Sir Stafford Northcote 's prop- The Cuckoo says : " We hear that the persistent rumors of the resignation , of Lord Selborne , Lord High Chancellor , are likely to prove well founded . "                     