@@780943

txt A memorial mass meeting , in which the entire local colored population was well represented , was held last evening at the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church , in Sullivan-street . The walls and galleries or the church were heavily draped with black and a catafalque rested on the pulpit . It was decorated with a lithograph portrait of Gen. Grant containing the date of his death . Among those who occupied the pulpit and assisted in conducting the services were the Rev. Dr. W. B. Derrick and the Rev. Messrs . W. H. Thomas and F. J. Peek . The memorial address was delivered by Dr. Derrick . He said that the noble character of Gen. Grant would ever be borne In mind by the colored people . " The broken chains , " he added , at the feet of the slaves are hut the mute witnesses of his victory . In defending the tight he turned his face to the foe with the bravery of a Wellington , the resolution of a Brutus . the pertinacity of a Bona-party , the patience and sincerity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last foe swears allegiance to the flag . ' Freedom had no stronger champion . Like Moses , who was permitted to look upon Nebo 's Heights , lie had been allowed to witness the glory of his country subsequent to its trials . " Thirty-eight young colored women dressed in white , with alternating bright red a.id blue sashes . marched up the aisles at the conclusion of the address and decorated the catafalque with wreaths and flowers . They represented the 38 States of the Union . Resolutions were adopted of which the following is a portion : We , the colored people of the city , believe We voice the sentiment at the race throughout the country when we say that in the death of Gen. Grant the negro of America has lost one of his truest friends and stanchest defenders , it man in the fullest sense of the term , whose unswerving integrity and indomitable will made permanent arid secure the freedom of every citizen of this great country . We mingle our tears with those of the world , and consecrate them to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The gratitude of our people will last through time . " A meeting of the foreign Ministers and Consuls who held office during the Administrations of Gen. Grant was held yesterday afternoon at the office or J. Augustus Johnson , formerly Consul at Beyroot , Syria . It was determined to assemble at the Windsor Hotel at 9 o'clock on the morning of the funeral and then take carriages to the rendezvous to he fixed by Gen. Hancock . Appropriate resolutions of condolence and sympathy were adopted and were ordered to be sent to the family of the dead soldier . Among those present were Thomas B. Van Buren , formerly Consul-General in Japan ; ex-Minister George P. Seward , China ; B. D. Bassett , Hayti ; W. A. Pile , Venezuela ; ex-Secretaries of Legation R. C. Shannon , Rio de Janeiro ; J. A. Skelton , Mexico ; D. Maitland Armstrong , Rome ; Henry J. Wieser , Germany ; W. A. Purrington . Chili ; David B. Sickles , Siam ; ex-Consuls Edward Robinson , Hamburg ; Mahlon Chance , Nassau ; James Millward , Ghent ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buckalew , Stettin , and James M. Trimble , Milan . The Tammany Society last night adopted the following minute in regard to the death of Gen. Grant : The Tammany Society , or Columbian Order , of the the city of New-York , in common with the rest of his countrymen , mourn his loss ; therefore . firz , olved , That in the death of Ulysses S. Grant the union has sustained the loss of a sincere and devoted friend , whose life was constant ly exposed for years in his labors to preserve its entirety , and whose magnanimity and kindness to those who opposed him on the battlefield did so much to assuage the bitterness remaining after a sternly contested civil war . From Appomattox dates the end of sectionalism . Thenceforward healing Time has gradually obliterated divisions between North and South . and no one man did so much to bring about this result as U.ysses S. Grunt , the soldier and President . To-day the Unionist and Confederate are united in the universal sorrow which all citizens feel at his death and join hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nrinelpies and the Union to which his life was so earnestly devoted . Resolved , That we sympathize with the sorrowing family in their affliction and tender them our sincere condolence .                     