@@780631

txt Fitz John Porter , found guilty in 1863 of disobedience of orders , and , upon the finding of a court-martial of eminent officers , approved by President Lincoln , deprived of his rank in the United States Army and his citizenship . has succeeded by persistency almost unparalleled , assisted by Army influence , by social influence , and by the recent advocacy by Gen. Grant of his claim for restoration , in inducing the Senate of the United States to undo the work of the courtmartial , to set aside the opinion of Presidents Lincoln and Garfield , and to take one step toward giving him , by legislation , that reputation for courage , obedience , and loyalty , of which , 2J years ago , he was deprived . The fight tor his restoration has . been maintained , in and out of Congress , with unwavering persistence , but not until recently has it even seemed probable that the disobedience which Lincoln once said was such as to warrant the imposition of the extreme penalty would ever be decided by a vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opinion between a commander and his subordinate . The influences that have controlled the New-Jersey Senators , who have at different times forced Porter 's claims upon the attention of the public , have not been regarded as strictly political . Mr. Sewell was for the restoration , and as the introducer of the bill in the Senate , and as a Republican , agreed with Mr. McPherson , on the Democratic side , both of these Senators , like Porter , being identified with large and controlling corporations , whose influence has constantly been used in ' Porter 's behalf . On the Republican side , also , Mr. Cameron , of Pennsylvania , has of late been known as friendly to Porter 's cause . To these two Republicans , named as the apologists of Porter , should be added . Mr. Hoar , who , like his associates who voted for Porter 's restoration , confesses that the opinions of Gen. Grant and the members of the Board of Inquiry over which Gen. Schofield presided have constrained him to believe that Porter , in refusing to obey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discretion which all subordinates in the Army ought to be allowed to use in moments of difficulty or danger in carrying out the commands of their superior officers . As by agreement made a week ago , the Porter bill came up as soon as the morning business was disposed of . It was only 12:30 o'clock , and the galleries that were afterward filled were sparsely occupied . The amendment offered by Mr. Conger providing that restoration should not entitle Porter to pay for the time he has been out of the Arm y was , strangely enough , adopted by a viva voce vote . As the bill appeared about to be put upon its passage , Mr. Conger moved that it be indefinitely postponed . Mr. Sewell murmured at this , ' and intimated that it would be a violation of the rule of the Senate to permit another vote to be taken upon a proposition already disposed of by a prior vote . Mr. Sewell was overruled , and then Mr. Frye , in his strong , direct way , turned the attention of the Senate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Porter was innocent , ho said , he ought to be paid . If he was guilty , the bill ought not to be passed . The evident absurdity of the amendment was apparent to everybody , but it made no difference with the body which appears to have been swayed by social and political influences and not controlled by evidence and reasonable judgment . Mr. Cameron , of Pennsylvania , read a speech , remarkable not so much as a defense of Porter as it was a reflection upon Gen. Thomas . That brave officer , Mr. Cameron maintained , would have zone with the rebellious South if Porter had not won him to the Union side . Mr. Conger then road a letter written by Garfield in 187S to Capt . Leo , in which the Porter Relief bill was characterized as an " astounding proposition , " and one which could never pass without compelling a review of the most disgraceful portion of our military history . No man in the Senate has more thoroughly studied this subject or been more positive in his convictions about it than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the face he once more appealed to the Senators about him to regard simply the law and the facts in deciding how to vote . He referred bitterly to the strange influence that has grown up to help Porter , the turn which the advice of " certain men in military circles " had given to opinion , and the solicitous visits of men sent from far-off cities to talk with Senators and induce them to support Porter 's demands and thus cloud the memory of Lincoln and Garfield and others who tried him . A letter from Gen. Longstreet , which Mr. Logan found published just the day before the bill came up on its passage and which contained an admission by Longstreet that he had been guilty of a disobedience of orders similar to those issued to Porter , was sharply criticised as a lame excuse , and Mr. Logan made a point in showing that Longstreet inadvertently bore testimony that if Porter had obeyed the orders of Pope his obedience would have brought about just the results anticipated by Pope . With fire in his eye , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Logan scornfully deprecated the proposition to restore " this man " as being too much like restoring criminals because they are tired of being in prison and do n't wish to be punished any longer . The roll was called on the question to postpone indefinitely . Twenty-four Senators , all Republicans , except David Davie , voted in the affirmative . Mr. Sherman , who has avoided voting on the bill at all times , sat in his seat but did not respond one way or the other . Mr. Mahone , who voted against indefinite postponement , made a little speech , in which he declared that he should ask to be excused from voting on the bill upon its passage , as the matter seemed to him one to be settled by the men who fought on the Union side in the war . Of the 31 Senators who voted " No , " 3 ? Messrs . Cameron , Sewell , and Hoar  --  were Republicans and 14 of the others were officers in the Confederate Army when Portor 's disobedience contributed to a rebel victory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scarcely half an hour remained for speechmaking-when the bill was announced for passage . Mr. Hoar rose , and with more than his usual deliberation began his speech in Porter 's defense . As he proceeded the color mounted to his face , his features wore a strained and anxious look , and he appeared to be undertaking a task at once unpleasant and difficult . He came to the capital early in the Winter impressed by what Gen. Grant had recently said about Porter , and inclined to adopt the idea that Porter had only " innocently differed " in judgment from Gen. Pope . This Mr. Hoar stated in a speech in the Senate on Jan , 3 , and he further said then that he did not regard the evidence in the case beyond the reach of ordinary understanding : that it did " not require a military expert to deal with that question , " and that from the evidence cited and discussed by Mr. Sewell and Mr. Logan he did " not find Gen. Porter 's conduct justified . " Mr. Hoar at that time asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the meantime , he said , , he had become convinced that Porter had exercised a discretion commonly exorcised bs ' officers in the Army . He could not regard the restoration of Porter as a reflection upon the men who had tried and found him guilty , but he leaned to the opinion that Porter had done wisely in failing to obey . This fired Mr. Logan , who , in the course of a few minutes ' debate with Mr. Hoar , read an order to show how Gen. Grant required orders to be obeyed . In a fight at Corinth , in which Gen. Logan was engaged , Gen. Grant sent an order to Gen. Hurlburt to mova some of his troops in a given direction , telling him to go " clean through to Corinth , " lien . Hurlburl knew that to obey the order would be to expose his whole command to destruction . He telegraphed back to Gen. Grant his understanding of the order and his apprehensions as to the results of obedience . To this dispatch the response was made : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  U , S. Grant . " The order was obeyed . This was Mr. Logan 's last thrust . He had . taken the final moment to show how Grant regarded the right of a subordinate officer . to ercise his discretion , and then he sat down quietly to await the result of the vote . Again Senators Cameron . Hoar , and Sowell fell in with the 14 ex-Confederates , and again Mr. Sherman , who has evaded all votes on the bill , dodged when his name was called . Of the 33 affirmative votes 24 were cast by Senators from the South . The full vote is as follows : deleted 13 lines Senator Logan , after the bill had been passed , said he did not feel at all alarmed at the prospect of Porter 's restoration . " He 's a long way from it yet . This bill will net , pass the House . Even if it should , there are many obstacles in the way of his restoration after that . I do n't expect to see him back in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bofore you see it . " The position taken to-day by Mr. Hoar seemed peculiarly interesting to many persons . During the debate Mr. Logan spoke of a gentleman from whom Mr. Hoar had received information yesterday , and Mr. Hoar replied that he did not care to speak about that . It is understood that Dlr . Logan referred to Gen. Grant , who had a long conversation with Mr. Hoar upon this subject yesterday , in the Senate cloak-room . It is said , also , that Mr. Hoar has been visited by a delegation from Boston , including some of Porter 's old subordinate officers . Several reasons  --  some of them connected with legislation at this session  --  are assigned for Mr. Sherman 's refusal to vote one way or the other , but the real reason does not seem to have been made Public .                     