@@745215

txt With the small blade of a common pocket knife , J. H. Squier , for many years one of the best known private bankers . in Washington , deliberately cut his throat from ear to ear this morning , and a few minutes later died without uttering a word . The suicide was the direct result of serious financial troubles which caused Mr. Squier 's bank to fail on June 7 , coupled with the worry and litigation in which he had since been involved . His friends believe that the banker was not in his right mind when he took his own life . He had been greatly depressed in spirits , and was at times so gloomy that the fears of his family for his safety were excited . A few weeks ago he was confined to his bed with intermittent fever . His physician succeeded in restoring him to bodily health , but the doctor 's skill was unable to raise his spirits . Last night Mr. Squier seemed more than ever depressed , and his wife tried in vain to arouse him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he felt no better . Mrs. Squier replied that she herself was not feeling well and then went to the bathroom . On her return Mrs. Squier found the bedroom empty . Mr. Squier had gone into another room and cut his throat . His wile found him lying in a pool of blood in the centre of the room . He had staggered there from a dressing case , in front of which he had drawn the blade across his throat . The knife was found upon the dressing case . The medical aid which was summoned reached the house too late to be of any service . Mr. Squier 's family consisted of his wife and two daughters , the elder only 15 years of age . Both daughters are now out of town . The dead banker was 54 years of age , and was born in Vermont . He had lived in this city about 20 years . His banking business consisted principally in discounting officers ' pay vouchers and the salaries of Government clerks , before the latter practice was forbidden . Depositors were paid good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . on investments made by Squier . The failure of the concern in June is supposed to have been due to unfortunate speculations by the hanker , who met his losses with the new deposits of his customers , and thus undertook to Pay interest on money which was lost and on that put in its place . Thd failure was toliowed by suits brought by creditors , which are still in the courts . The investigation of the accounts of the bank has not yet been completed , but the liabilities are known to be about $100,000 , with assets amounting to less than $5,000 . At the time of the failure many depositors accused Mr. Squier of having secreted some of his money . It is now believed that every cent he had was swallowed up . 