@@743678

txt Among the replies which the Special Committee of the Chamber of Commerce on Railroad Transportation has elicited to its series of questions in regard to the policy of State supervision and control of railroads is one of more than ordinary value from the Commissioners of the State of Massachusetts . These men not only submit their own opinions in regard to the propriety of preventing discriminations and other abuses , but endeavor to lay down certain settled principles of law and public policy which should be taken as the starting point for legislation . The fact is , that the chief points which in this State continue to be disputed in the interest of railroad corporations , and which a majority of our Senators last Winter treated as if open to question , are already settled beyond all reasonable controversy . The fundamental principles of State supervision and regulation of the business of transporting persons and property are imbedded in the common law of England , and have been repeatedly affirmed by courts wherever this prevails . In England , and many of the States of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of securing a more precise application and more prompt and effective enforcement , but ' nowhere have they received any authoritative contradiction as principles founded in justice and public right . Seldom has any State endeavored by express enactment to curtail or restrict their operation , and where this has not been done they are in full force . It is even questioned whether a State has the power by statute to divest itself of a right in whose exercise the people have so intimate and important a concern . But , however this may be , the Massachusetts Railroad Commissioners show , by abundant citation of statutory recognition and judicial confirmation in several States , fortified by the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States , that these principles are established beyond controversy . They are as old as the common law , and as wide-reaching as Governmental authority and the rights of citizens . The power of the State to exercise control over railroads , and to regulate the manner of conducting their business in the interest of the public , should be accepted as no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry is the expediency and the proper limitation of its action . The Massachusetts Commissioners have no doubt that discriminations against individuals and communities are contrary to justice and public right , and should be prevented by law . In their State . they are prohibited by heavy penalties , and it is a part of the duty of the Railroad Commission to secure the enforcement of the law in this regard . The question of preferences for persons and places was decided in England under the Railroad law in a series of important cases by the late Chief-Justice CocxBURN , and the principle was firmly established that they should be rigidly prevented . That the prevention of this wrong is included in the power of the State is one of the points determined in this country by the decisions of the Supreme Court . Not only that it may be done , but that it should be done In every State , may be taken as another settled principle . While the Massachusetts Commissioners thus maintain the power and duty of the State to prevent discriminations and preferences , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroads by public authority or even a fixing of a maximum limit . They do , however , condemn the rule of charging " what the traffic will bear , " instead of a " reasonable rate " based on the " cost of service . " They not only condemn it as unjust , but as unlawful , even where it is not forbidden by statute . In Massachusetts it is an indictable offense , and it is an " actionable wrong " wherever the common law prevails . These gentlemen declare themselves decidedly in favor of a Railroad Commission as a means of securing the enforcement of the laws and the settlement of disputes between shippers and the railroads . They regard the English system of regulation as excellent in its working and deserving of imitation in every State . Under that all rates must be public and uniform for like service , and must have the approval of the Commissioners , who also exercise a general supervision and act as'a tribunal for the settlement of disputes , from whose decision there is no appeal . The opinion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforced , and yet that there should be no tariff or maximum limit established by law , is to be taken with that in favor of a commission , for that is the agency by which the desired object is to be secured without the trammeling of the business which might result from fixed rates . The advantage of the commission is to be found in the celerity and cheapness with which disputes can be settled and justice secured to both parties , and the members of the Massachusetts board are of opinion that any State in which it could not do its work on account of the extent of the evil to be remedied or the influences opposed to a redress of abuses , is incapable of self-government . Their general conclusions appear to us to be eminently sound and such as should be received and acted upon in this and every State . They are , briefly , that State authority over the subject is ample and well established ; that discriminations and preferences should be prohibited by law , and just and reasonable rates enforced , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of seeing that the provisions of the law are at all times observed , and of securing by their prompt execution justice alike to the business community and the railroads. 