@@743714

txt The nineteenth ballot for United States Senator , to-day , was a repetition of that of Saturday , there being less than 100 Senators and Representatives present . The break in the Oliver faction , so often predicted , and so eagerly and confidently expected , did not take place , and that gentleman 's friends preserve about the same proportion to the supporters of the other candidates that they have maintained throughout the numerous ballots already had . Neither house did any legislative business before the joint convention assembled , for the reason that neither had a quorum . Only 92 votes , 33 less than a quorum , were given for Senator , which were divided as follows : Oliver , 32 ; Wallace , 24 ; Grow , 29 ; Phillips and Macveagh , 2 each , and Shiras , Baird , and Curtin , 1 each . No votes were cast for Lieut. - Gov . Stone , whom some few persons tried to make themselves believe would receive a number of votes from the Philadelphia delegation to-day . There is nothing to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will occur about the middle of the week will be verified . There has been much bold guesswork and wild prophecy indulged in by lookers-on at this struggle , and from present appearances , any prediction as to the final result will be as wild and wide of the mark as any that have already been made . The fact is , there is no change in the situation . The Oliver and Grow factions maintain their attitude of unyielding hostility to each other 's candidate , and the Democrats regard the situation with the same apparent indifference with which they have met all overtures for a combination with either of the factions of the opposition . Mr. Oliver is still a candidate . He became ? one only at the urgent request of his friends , and he feels it his duty to stand out to the last for the principle which is involved in the contest . He feels , as his friends feel , that were he to withdraw from the cAntest now the party " in the State would hereafter be at the mercy of any portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat the will of the majority . Much has been said about the anxiety of the leaders to be rid of Mr. Oliver as a candidate . While it is doubtless true that they regret the unfortunate aspect of affairs , it is not true that they wish to choose a new candidate . They feel that party:organization and discipline depend upon the triumph of the caucus nominee , and however unpromising the situation may be , and however distant an election may seem , it can be taken for granted that no change will be made in the caucus nominee until the gentleman who now occupies that position withdraws of his own volition , and it is not certain that his friends will desert him even then . 