@@780726

txt News comes from Nashville of a combination between Tennessee Republicans and Low-taxers by which the former are to secure the United States senator and the latter the control of State officers . Tho arrangement is that Hawkins , the recently elected Governor , shall be elected Senator , on the assembling of the Legislature , by a combination of the strength of the two parties in the Legislature , and that in return for this the Republicans shall assist in electing a Low-taxer to the head of the Senate and to assist the Low-taxers in carrying out certain measures which they have proposed in relation to State affairs . By some it is said that , in addition to this , the Lieutenant-Governor is to resign and the Lowtaxer elected to the head of the Senate is to assume the Governorship . Gov . Hawkins , Col. Savage , and H. H. Hawson are said to be the originators of the scheme . Republicans are very reticent regarding the matter , but do not deny that there is something of the kind on foot . The Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that both the Republicans and Low-taxers would readily enter into an arrangement of this sort . There is no doubt of the ability of the parties to carry out the scheme and elect Hawkins as proposed , and it is not improbable that loneer heads and steadier hands than those mentioned laid the plans for this action . NASHVILLE , Tenn. , bee . 11 . ? The Banner publishes this afternoon a startling rumor , to the effect that the leaders of the Low-tax wing of the Democratic Party have entered into a compact by which the Low-taxers are to capture the Speakership of the State Senate , and Governor-elect Hawkins is to be made United States Senator , which being accomplished , the Governor 's chair will be declared vacant , and the Low-tax Speaker of the Senate will step in and till it , being next in office . Several Republicans were approached to-day in reference to the rumors , but they all said they knew nothing about any such arrangement , but expressed no surprise at the announcement . Several Democrats were also approached , the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports . One Democrat said : " The Low  --  tax men are crazy to have one of their number made Governor . They would be willing to make any kind of a trade , not inI consistent with nonor , to reach the goal of 1 their ambition . The Republicans are equally anxious to elect one of their number United States Senator , and believing there is little chance to elect Maynard , they set to work to make terms with the Low-taxers , whereby both parties will be satisfied . "                     