@@781811

txt Whatever our faults as a Nation , the truthful foreigner must admit that we improve on the ways of the stale Old World . The dance has been reduced to a single waltz and . the fewest number of performers . In racing , one or two crack mares take all eyes from good nags ; in rowing , large and commodious boathouses are established for six or eight half-professional champions ; in yachting , we give luxurious , smooth-water lives to a picked band of sailing masters . Baseball has become an exhibition of sleight-of-hand by expert thimble-riggers on large salaries , and lawn tennis has lost its attractions for most people , owing to the strain of preparation and training kept up by those who aspire to be masters . The improvement in all these sports lies here : In each case the expert can do the thing so much better than the casual amateur that it is a pleasure to look at him . Ugly and mortifying incidents , like catching crabs , jibing at the wrong moment , muffing balls , and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional works for the herd of appreciative on-lookers . As soon as it was plain that the rude and gory system of pugilism as practiced by the British was distasteful to average Americans it was certain that an improvement would be made . The limitation of prize fighting to exhibitions of sparring with soft gloves looked that way , but , owing to the warm temperaments of its most distinguished professors , the glove fight was only a slower and more bruiseful battle . A great Yankee invention was , however , in the air , and the right idea has sprung , like Minerva , fully armed into being from the brain of Mr. MICHAEL MCCAFFREY , of Pittsburg . A reformer by nature , Mr. MCCAFFREY is also a democrat , and his instinct carries him into the thickest where large bodies of men assemble . The other day he had a double reason for being present at a sparring exhibition in Cincinnati given by Prof. Sul , - LIVAN , of Harvard University  --  double , because one of the Professor 's assistants was his own brother , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit for putting his ideas of reform into practice . Dorimici had agreed , for the sake of glory and what is obscurely alluded to as " gate money , " to stand up and be more or less disintegrated by the skilled blows of the Professor . The Pride of Harvard was about to step forward and raise the facial angle of Mr. DOMINICK MCCAFFREY to a higher level than that of the most intellectual Aryan by one grand . effort , when Mr. MICHAEL MCCAFFREY , fired with the zeal of a good man and a reformer , sprang on the stage with a large pistol and remarked : f ' SurxrvAN , if you slug DOMINICK agin you 're a stiff t " For reasons which will hardly be appreciated without a study of the P. R. the Professor was incensed at this innovation on the old rules , but his grand oldfashioned courtesy did not desert him . Under the pistol point he returned to his corner in a polished and apparently convinced way ; but he nursed wrath , and quite recently , having put several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with terrific effect . He is an intense conservative and inveighs bitterly against this new way of the game . Peaceloving citizens , however , who enjoy exhibitions of skill and strength will be pleased to learn that the P. R. is about to be deprived of its ugly and barbarous features and raised to the level of a science for gentleman amateurs . AR that is needed in the boxing tournament hereafter is a pair of large horse pistols in the hands of two sworn agents of the Society for the Elevation of Pugilism . Sluggers have always proved themselves cowardly in the battlefield ; we have in New-York one instance of a pugilist who enlisted during the rebellion and confessed himself helpless with terror when a battle was in prospect . This was also JULIUS C2ESAR 'S experience , for he found gladiators by profession of no use when it came to actual fighting ; they had been trained for another kind of combat and were outdone by the small , lean and brown men of the Apennines when it came to an exchange of blows with the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interview with a reporter from the Cincinnati Civil Service , Journal , has confessed that the first idea of his reform was got from a study of the political situation , which , being an impassioned Democrat , he has watched with the greatest care . In the political slugging match between CLEVELAND and The Spoils he had noticed that whenever CLEVELAND was about to plant an effective blow on The Spoils certain eminent men of his own party who had helped him to his platform rushed forward and threatened him with a gun . It was a Quaker gun , however , ' and CLEVELAND did not notice it . But the germ of the new idea was there , and we see how the fertile brain of a McCaffrey coaxed that germ into the full-blown reform of the P. R.                     