@@744473

txt Not once since Mr. Pendleton made his speech , early last Bummer , upon the bill to regulate and improve the civil service of the United States , has any effort been made in the Senate to discuss or act upon that measure which is familiarly known as the Pendleton bill . While this resignation serves to indicate wnat Dill is referred to , the bill is not strictly Mr. Pendleton 's , but , as a friend of civil service reform said to-day , " an accretion made up of the recommendations of the Civil Service Reform Association and of the ideas of Mr. Eaton and others . " Mr. Pendleton , when asked to-day when he proposed to call the bill up , said that his time had been very fully occupied for several days in preparation for discussing the bill to regulate proceedings in consular courts , which he expects to get up on Monday at the latest . While he could not say precisely upon what day the civil service bill would be brought uo , he hoped to be able to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he was just as much in earnest as ever . It was his hope that it would not be made a party question in the Senate . As to whether the bill would pass as introduced , he could not tell . Everybody was now for civil service reform , but the difference of opinion as to how that reform should be brought about might interfere with the prompt adoption of a bill . It would not do for the Democrats to hesitate about opposing such a reform under the impression that power is within their grasp , for the coveted power was not yet theirs and they must remember the old proverb about " first catching the hare , " and then providing a way to cook it . No party would win that did not prove itself worthy of confidence . Senator Hawley is impatient about the bill , and says that he hopes Mr. Pendleton will give the Senate an early opportunity to consider and dispose of it . It had seemed to him that there was somewhat less anxiety of late on the Democratic side to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be so long neglected as to justify 301:00 one on the Republican side in urging its consideration upon the gentleman whose name had been conspicuously connected with the measure . Senator Warner Miller says that in reading the bill he thinks he has discovered faults that ought to be remedied . Now that the Democrats are congratulating themselves on their prospects of obtaining control of the Federal Government , their professions of civil service reform aught to be tested by a proposition requiring that all removals from subordinate offices which are now filled by persons who were 3. ualified by competitive examination shall be ; or cause . There is no such restriction in the Pendleton bill , as he understands it , and if no one else has any amendment to offer to correct the defect he will submit one . The subject of civil service reform in the House of Representatives is in charge of a select committee , of which Mr. Godlove S. Orth is Chairman , but which , in the absence of Mr. Orth , is presided over y Mr. John A. Kasson . The committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Herbert , of Alabama , and among those already in the committee was the Penuleton bill . Mr. Kasson says that he finds his time very fully occupied in the Ways and Means Committee , and it is unfortunate , perhaps , that the work of the two committees should be pressed at the same time . The Civil Service Reform Committee had taken the matter up , and all that he could say now was that there would be a bill reported probably embodying the best points of all the bills now in the committee .                     