@@745965

txt While the most of the longshoremen formerly employed by the ocean steamship companies remained firm yesterday in the face of an almost certain failure of their strike , those attached to some of the sailing lines have not proved so stanch . Yesterday work was resumed after two wears ' complete cessation at the piers of the California and Dispatch Packet Companies . All the old men of the former line returned to work yesterday morning , and the Dispatch Company secured men to load the Ambrose D. Snow for California . This action was enough to break the strike as far as the packet lines are concerned . The old hands of the New-York City and Northern ttailroad also applied for restoration to their places yesterday , but were refused . The agent told them they had struck without a grievance or without giving notice . He had promised the new men their places would be permanent and was satisfied with them , The New-Haven Steamboat Company advertised for 25 colored men and got a few . Most of the New-England freight is now sent by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy . Still it has had no difficulty thus far in fulfilling contracts . The Clyde steamer Yemassee was being rapidly unloaded by a large number of young fellows from the country . The agents hope to dispatch this boat to-day and another to-morrow . The Red D Line steamer Valencia , from Venezuelan ports , arrived Thursday noon , and is at Roberts 's Stores , Brooklyn , discharging . Her agents say they have as large ' a force of men as they need , including some of their old hands . The Mallory Line will dispatch to-day the Colorado for Galveston and the Carondelet for Fernandina . The Carondelet should have sailed yesterday , but only arrived then . The North River piers were busy places yesterday . Several steamships arrived that were two or three days overdue , and the confusion of discharging and loading were thereby increased . The new men worked nearly as well as the old ones could have done under the same circumstances . The Sound lines are getting into better shape . The Fall River Line has all its old men buck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old force if it wished . A delegate of the truck drivers was wandering sadly about the piers in the afternoon and said that Monday morning all the truck drivers would be called out . The truck drivers who heard his boast did n't seem much rejoiced thereat , nor did they appear disposed to obey . The steamships Wieland , for Hamburg ; Edam , for Amsterdam . and Alpes , for Kingston , all of which had been delayed by the strike , sailed yesterday . ro-day the Noordland , for Antwerp ; the Bermuda , for the Windward Islands ; the Chattahoochee , for Savannah ; the Colorado , for Galveston ; the Knickerbocker , for New-Orleans ; the Pomona . for Kingston ; and the Saratoga , for Havana , will sail as originally advertised . The Germanic for Liverpool , and the State of Nevada , for Glasgow , which have been delayed , will also get away to-day . Several vessels which were to have sailed to-day will be delayed . La Normandie , for Havre , was unable to get coal , and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glasgow , will also be delayed until the same day . The departure of the Vancouver for Liverpool and the Thingyalla for Copenhagen has been postponed until Tuesday next , while the Helvetia will not be ready to sail for London until Wednesday . The steamship agents seem encouraged . They say that if it were not for the delays caused by bad weather few , if any , of the regular steamers would be unable to leave on schedule time . The officials of the railroad and coal ' companies were agreed yesterday that the strike was about to end . None of them would say whether his company would take the strikers back or not . All said that they would have nothing to do with their employes in the future as Knights of Labor or knights of anything else ; they would deal with them as private individuals only . One more illustration was afforded yesterday of how little truth there is in the assertion of the strikers that the strike is a peaceful one , and that none of the strikers have done , or would do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places . Jacob Neuberger. a longshoreman employed on the National Line pier , was going to work about 7 o'clock in the morning when he was attacked near the foot of West Houstonstreet . He was knocked senseless with a brick and severely injured about the head before help arrived . He was taken to St. Vincent 's Hospital . No arrests were made . A dispatch from South Amboy says that the striking coal handlers there will probably declare the strike off to-day and apply on Monday for their old situations . The disbandment of the local assembly of the Knights of Labor will follow . The strikers of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company at Perth Amboy are deserting the Knights of Labor in small squads daily and returning to work . Thirty went back to their old places yesterday . 