@@671962

txt CONTRACT IMMIGRATION . The Congressional inquiry concerning immigration has brought out facts which prove that the contract labor law is systematically violated or evaded at this port . The testimony taken yesterday was of considerable importance . It was shown ' that even since the beginning of the investigation certain importers of Italian laborers have made a contract for the delivery of a large number of workmen who are still in Italy . Last Tuesday . night GEORGE H .. SramoNs , Special Agent of the Treasury Department , was introduced in this city to an Italian labor broker named LUIGI TROJA. as the representative of a railroad company that desired to employ several hundred newlyarrived immigrants in the construction of a branch road . He would not take Italians who were already in the city , but must have workmen brought over from Italy and delivered at Castle Garden . TROJA. and . his partner agreed in writing last Friday night to . furnish 300 or 400 Italians " at Castle Garden between the 1st of September and the 1st of October next at $1 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to board the men and . furnish them with supplies . Mr. SIMmoms suggested that he ought to make a little money out of the transaction , and . TROJA. agreed to give him " 5 Der cent . on each man 's account for groceries and provisions for each month , to be deducted by the paymaster at each settlement . " As the fictitious company was to pay only $1 20 per day for each man to TROJA , it will be seen that the sum received by the workmen after all the deductions had been made would have been small . This importer of laborers and his partner admitted that they had , been in the business for years . They had secured 700 men for one firm of contractors and 1,500 for a railroad company . The workmen procured by them were heavily taxed in various ways for their benefit while employed . Last year there came to this country more than 43,000 Italians . In the first six mouths of this year the number of those who came was 35,650 . The testimony taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigrants were brought here practically under contract to compete with American laborers at low wages . They are willing to work for low wages , because they require very little to support life . They are content to subsist on the coarsest food , or even on refuse , and to be lodged under conditions which are repulsive to the ordinary American workman . They do not intend to become citizens or to remain here . They propose to send . out of the country the money which they can save in a term of three or four years . They are the Chinese of our Eastern ' States . The American workingman who is assured so earnestly in these days by the supporters of the tarrift " as it is " that this tariff is mainly for his protection , and that it insures high wages , will read . with great interest the testimony taken by the committee . He knows-that the contract labor law was enacted to prevent the importation of cheap foreign labor by some of the most notorious protectionists in ; the country . He knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to import labor of low grade in order that wages might be reduced . He sees that since it was enacted the importation of thousands of cheap foreign workmen has not been prevented . and that certain employers have continued to procure labor in the cheapest market . He must see that while the tariff is a barrier that shuts out foreign goods , - there is no barrier that shuts out such foreign labor as comes in at this port from Italy .                     