@@746063

txt Most of our readers interested in the subject will remember the disclosures made before the Bacon investigation committee last Spring as to the complete perversion of the civil service reform system in Brooklyn . The method adopted in Brooklyn is the one the spoilsmen will avail themselves of at every point when it is possible . They need all their energies to prevent the establishment of the system and . failed . They then did everything they could to render the system ridiculous in the sight of the public , and , thanks to the vigor and skill of the men charged with the work of reform , they failed in that also . Their next move was naturally to seize upon the system itself , to put men in charge of it who would bring it to naught , and who would make it simply a means of carrying out their own ends . In this they unfortunately succeeded in Brooklyn . A somewhat similar game has been carried on in the Surveyor 's office of the Custom House at this port , though there the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Officerin the work of the examinations has made it impossible to carry the game to the same length as in Brooklyn . It is in that city that the new tactics of the spoilsmen have been applied and have been exposed in the most definite form . It will be remembered that the first step of the spoils ring , after they got possession of the City Government by the election of their pliant tool , the Mayor , was to make changes in the Civil Service Board and secure control of it for men who , while not belonging to their own immediate following , could be relied on not to detect or not to resist the schemes of the ring . They next placed in the office of Secretary of the board , who necessarily was to a great extent its executive officer , a man of a little lower type than the members of the board itself  --  a plausible , shrewd , eminently available man , whom they could trust to go a , little further in the direction of their scheme . Then they proceeded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure of their ground , with increasing boldness , to complete and execute their plans . The result was that the eligible lists , from which the appointments were to be made , were soon found to contain , in convenient places , the names of the favorites of the ring . The various appointing officers , or heads of departments and bureaus , were already , by the grace of the Mayor , in league with the ring , and . by the close of the first year of Mayor WmTNEY 's administration the essential principles of the reform were systematically violated , the purpose for which the reform was intended was persistently defeated , and the old spoils methods , with all their evil accompaniments , were in full swing . It was , from the point of view of honest public service , a most disgraceful result , of which every one connected with bringing it about  --  ought to have been heartily ashamed . But the politicians who were engaged in it were not ashamed of it . On the contrary they were proud of it . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pharisaical pretensions of men who assumed to really believe in public office as a public , trust , and . not as private and party plunder . The lesson is a recent one , and it is very plain . It is likely to be followed by others . When Mayor WarrrraY first took office his managers were a little impatient , and in the flush of their victory at the polls they imagined that they could . go straight at their work and get rid openly of some of the restrictions which they afterward. evaded . They directed the Mayor to propose a number of changes in the rules that would have made the establishment of the spoils methods far easier . They were amazed and . angry- - to find that to this plan the Civil Service Commission of the State was an insuperable obstacle . The consent of that commission to these emasculating changes was required by the statute , which in this regard had . imposed upon the commission independent dutice of TM " groat im- portance . ' , The consent - Of the , commission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although two of the three Commissioners - are Democrats. : The refusal was accompanied by a respectful but very plain and vigorous statement of the grounds for it , amounting to an exposure of the real motives for the proposals . The incident brought out very clearly the nature of the functions of the ' State commission of the powers intrusted to it by the Legislature , and the fact that while those powers remained in the hands of the present Commissioners the-subversion of the reform in any city by the modification of the rules would be impracticable . It is quite possible that this chapter in the history of the struggle between the spoilsmen and the reform may explain the purpose attributed to Gov . HELL , and to which we alluded yesterday , to replace Messrs . JOHN JAY and . HENRY A. RICHMOND with meirmore to the liking of the spoilsmen . Yet we should say that the Governor would find himself in any such project face to face with facts that would make him hesitate before carrying it out . The offices of the Commissioners are in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removal , with only such conditions as his sense of duty must impose . But the offices are not only not political , but are expressly created to administer a law intended to take the whole subordinate civil service of the State and of all the cities and counties in-the State out of politics , they can not be vacated . or filled except for solid public reasons , wholly " free from personal or party motives , and . capable of being plainly stated . and . fully justified . to the honest public judgment . The power of the Governor carries with it the closest and . most stringent responsibility , and . to treat these posts in any way by the usual methods of partisan action would . expose him to just condemnation by upright men of all parties . That is a condemnation the Governor can not afford to invite . 