@@780620

txt Mr. Trull mid a lawyer of Boston , both representing Mr. O'Gorman , called upon Attorney - 14eneral Russell today to invoke his interference in the controversy begun by their client against William H. Arnoux , the newly appointed Judge of the Superior Court . They suggested quo warranto proceedings , and the Attorney-General said that he could not feel called upon to move in the matter unless formal application for a quo warranto was made to him . The application , he added , must be accompanied by the testimony and all the facts pertaining to the case , as well as the grounds of the application itself . He was not familiar with tha details of the controversy , and it would be necessary to acquaint himself with them by examination of the contestant 's claims . The lawyers intimated that they would apply for a quo warranto at once . Until they do the Attorney-General will take no official cognizance of tho matter . Mr. William H. Arnoux , who was appointed , on Monday last , by Gov . Cornell , to fill the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resignation of Judge Gilbert M. Speir , presented his commission to the Judges of that court , assembled in conclave yesterday morning . Mr. Richard O'Gorman met him and combated his claim to a seat upon the bench . The latter claimed the seat for himself , basing his claim upon his receipt of Democratic votes at the last election . when he was a candidate upon the theory that Judge Gilbert M. Speir was 70 years of age long before he sent in his resignation . and that it was proper to elect his successor in November last . Mr. O'Gorman was accompanied by Mr. William A. Beach , who acted as his counsel . An informal discussion of the rights of the rival claimants took place in the private chambers of the Superior Court Judges . It lasted about two hours , and no decision was arrived at . An adjournment took place until 2 o'clock P. M. , and from that time until after 4 o'clock the discussion went on . When the disputants finally separated , it was announced that the Judges will on Friday next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the conference declined to state the course of the discussion , shielding themselves behind the general statement that there was no formal presentation of the cases of the rival claimants , but that the whole matter was informally discussed . A gentleman who had an opportunity to learn what took place at the conference said last evening that the decision , which will be published on Friday next . will not recognize either of the claimants , but will leave them to fight the matter out in court . A gentleman associated with Mr. O'Gorman said he understood that the Judges would recognize one of the claimants . The other . he said , would be left to bring a quo warranto suit to test the rightfulness of that recognition . If the present Judges of the Superior Court refuse to recognize either Mr. Arnoux or Mr. O'Gorman , the Attorney-General of the State will have the duty devolved upon him of assuming one of these gentlemen to be entitled to the office of Judge of the Superior Court : and of bringing a quo warranto suit against the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept from the vacant seat upon the bench . LONG BRANCH , N. J. , Jan. 3 . ? The weather here has been extremely cold during the last 48 hours , and-ice nearly six inches thick has formed on all the ponds                     