@@744974

txt The investigation of the Assembly special committee has Brought to notice again the-fact , which has long been notorious , that the offices of Sheriff , Register , and County Clerk in this city are made the agencies for ' raising political funds as well as affording rich rewards to favored politicians through the system of paying the incumbents of those offices by fees . Precisely how much each of these officers can make and how much of his emoluments goes to swell the electioneering funds of the faction to which he belongs has not been ascertained ; but the fact is not denied that the offices are sought for their extravagant income , and secured at great expense for political purposes . That fact alone suggests an enormous evil in the public service . The fees for the service rendered at these offices are kept exorbitantly high , operating as a tax upon the community , in ordethat certain politicians , who are merely figure-heads , may grow rich in a few years , maintain about them a , company of political workers , and contribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are nominated for these positions with no regard for their qualifications for the duties to be performed , they practically buy their- election as well as their nomination , conduct the business by deputies , and devote themselves to political work . The system is extravagant , productive of loose methods , and thoroughly demoralizing . The cure for . the evil is obvious . In the first place , the officers themselves should be deprived of direct personal interest in the fees paid for a public service by being themselves remunerated by fixed salaries . These should be only such'as are adequate for the service required . Then , if - there is an advantage in maintaining the fee system at all , the fees should be reduced and so adjusted as to be only sufficient to , meet the expense of the offices , and should be turned into the public Treasury . A salary of $10,000 a year would be ample to secure the services of men well qualified for these positions , and would be much more likely to secure such men than the inducements that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy bonds for the faithful performance of their duties and the city could well afford to assume all the pecuniary responsibilities , to which they are now held . This would put an end to the abuse of using the offices to raise political funds , discourage the practice of making the force at their command do political work , and promote efficiency and economy in their management . It would do away with the sordid rivalry of politicians for these lucrative places and make it easier to elect honest and faithful men to them . The remedy is so simple and sensible that there should be no opposition to its application . Some of the Democrats in the Legislature are hastening to meet the movement in this direction by an attack on the Health Officer of this port , who is a State official paid in the same way . This attack should be made ineffective for political ends by a ready acquiescence in the application of the same principle to that office . The present Health Officer is a capable and faithful official , and in no Way responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably has no objection to the fees , and has doubtless cheerfully paid his political contributions , to which there is just as much objection as to those of city officials . He , too , ought to be paid a salary , and the fees for quarantine service should be reduced so as no more than pay for the support of the establishment , and should be turned into the State Treasury for ? that purpose only . Quarantine fees are-in the nature of a tax on foreign and coastwise commerce , and can not be maintained for State revenue ; but if ' they can be appropriated by a State officer to pay the expenses of his office , they can be appropriated by the State for the same purpose , including therein the salary of the Health Officer . If not , the service itself should be assumed by the National Government . The whole system of remunerating public officials by means of fees is subject to such evils and abuses that it should be abolished without delay . 