@@744341

txt A writer in one of our scientific journals finds fault with alarm clocks and all other noisy methods of awakening people in the morning . He complains that nobody has yet invented a method of awakening people without noise , and implies that if a man is to be awakened at any particular hour it should be done without disturbing him . He evidently has traveled very little , else he would know that the surest way to sleep undisturbed is for him to leave word with a hotel clerk to call him at , say , 5 o'clock ; in which case no one will knock at his door until at least 10 o'clock A. M. He is particularly exasperated by alarm clocks . It appears that being a scientific person he is accustomed to sit up indulging himself in logarithms and cubic roots until 3 o'clock in the morning , and no sooner does he drop into a doze than some alarm clock in a servant 's bedroom startles him and renders it impossible for him to obtain any more sleep . This he finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific friends to invent noiseless alarm clocks . Being an ingenious person , this unhappy writer makes several suggestions which he thinks may be of assistance to inventors . For example , he proposes that a clock should be so constructed that at a fixed hour a lever attached to it should severely , but silently , pull a sleeper 's hair , and thus arouse him without any noise . It is surprising that he does not perceive the weak point of this suggestion so far as it is intended to'bc of any use to middle-aged or scientific men . As such men rarely have any hair to he pulled , how could they make any use of a clock made to pull hair at a fixed hour ? As to women , it is notorious that their hair is detachable , and that in most cases they remove it before going to bed , so that the proposed clock would really have nothing to work upon , except , perhaps , a " bang " too short to be ordinarily available . Another plan suggested by the same writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be worn by the sleeper , and that at the desired hour this clockwork should gently squeeze the sleeper 's hand . Does he really suppose that this is feasible ? Admitting for the sake of argument that any man would be willing to go to bed with a clock in his hand , we can still fearlessly deny that a gentle pressure of the hand will awaken any ordinary man . Were the writer himself to try his hand-squeezing clock , the chances are that instead of being aroused at the proper hour he would feebly try to return the squeeze , and would murmur to his innocent wife : " Go to sleep again , dear . " An alarm clock the action of which can not be separated in the mind of a partially awak ; cued man from an evidence of affection might be a very delightful thing , but it I would be practically useless as a means of assisting the man to wake up and dress himself . in point of fact , various substitutes for the noisy alarm clock have already been devised , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventor of that useful article now found in every Western newspaper office  --  the " Bogardus Kicker " ? invented an alarm bed so constructed as to throw its occupant over the foot-board and afterward to fall upon him . This promised well , but it never met with popular approval . The action of the bed was too violent , and moreover it was rather noisier than the alarm clock . The inventor lost nearly all the money he had invested in manufacturing his patent bed , and was finally compelled to sell his profitable " Bogardus " patent in order to pay his debts . The most ingenious method yet devised for awakening people without noise was that invented by Mr. Simon T. Oelschlager , of Milwaukee . Mr. Oelschlager was for many years the leading electrician of the West , and when  --  some sixty-five years ago ? Mr. EDISON began to invent his electric light , Mr. Oelschlager turned his attention to the production and utilization of electricity at low pressure . He did not attempt to invent an electric light , knowing that Mr. EDISON would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks , but he devoted himself to applying electricity to churns , sausage-machines , and other domestic articles . Last month he perfected the greatest of his inventions  --  the electric alarm bed . This was an ordinary bed furnished with an ordinary wire-spring mattress , but it was connected with an electrical machine regulated by clock-work . At whatever hour the hands of the clock might be set , a current of electricity would be sent through the mattress at that precise hour , giving the sleeper a mild shock and effectually waking him up without making the slightest noise . The electrical bed was finished on the 3d of July last , and Mr. Oelschlager undertook to personally test it by sleeping in it . He set the clock so that the electric current would awaken him at 3 A. M. and went comfortably to bed . At precisely 3 o'clock the electric current was sent through the mattress , and a committee of twelve leading citizens who were present as invited guests were dazzled by an intense glow of light from the entire form of the motionless Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the inuentor showed no signs of awaking . On investigation it was found that the wires leading to the mattress had been inadvertently connected with the largest dynamo in Mr. Oelschlager 's laboratory instead of the small one which he had intended to use in connection with the electric bed . The result was that a powertul current had instantly killed Mr. Oelschlager and rendered him brilliantly incandescent . He has remained in the same condition ever since without perceptibly wasting . and the city authorities are now proposing to use him for the purpose of lighting the City Hall . Of course , Mr. Oelschlager 's electric bed must be considered a failure , but it is quite possible that bad a milder current been used it would have been brilliantly successful .                     