@@744368

txt The Utah Commission is at work , and the Mormons are evidently bracing themselves to resist the execution of the act passed at the last session of Congress with a view to punish their vices and destroy their political power . The " twin relic " will die hard . JOHN TAYLOR , GEORGE Q. CANNON , and JOSEPH F. SMITH , as the " first presidency of the Church , " have issued a manifesto to the " Saints , " which is in part a blasphemous and disgusting defense of polygamy as a part of the Mormon religion , and for the rest an exhortation to the Church to stand solidly together in resistance to the execution of the United States laws . There is no other construction to be put upon the language used . " Let us , " say these gentlemen of the Mormon presidency , " guard well our franchise , and in one unbroken phalanx maintain and sustain our political status , and as patriots and freemen operate together in defense of what few liberties are left us . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Mormon Tabernacle in June last by GEORGE Q. CANNON , in which he preached open rebellion in these words : " In spite of Congress , in spite of any statute leveled against us , in spite of a fanatical and hostile pulpit , in spite of all the hostile forces that can bo brought against us , we must and will continue to fight for our privileges without flinching or wavering , but with unswerving faithfulness . " There can be no doubt about the nature of the issue in Utah . The purpose of the Edmunds bill was to destroy Mormonism absolutely . It was drawn with great care for two chief ends  --  to punish and prevent polygamy and to deprive the Mormons of their political ; , power . The first five v. sections of the act prescribe the penalties for polygamy ; the eighth declares that no person cohabiting with more than one woman in any of the Territories shall be entitled to vote or be eligible " for election or appointment " to any office , Territorial or Federal ; and the ninth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacates all the offices of registration and election and leaves them to be filled by the commission . The act declares that these Boards of Registration and Election shall be composed of " proper persons . " The Registers of Election for twenty-four counties have just been appointed by the commission , and there is said to be great dissatisfaction among the Gentiles of the Territory because there . are eight Mormons among the Registers so appointed . There has hitherto seemed to he no reason to apprehend any undue laxity on the part of the commission . It has at its head ex-Secretary RAMSEY , and its other members are ex-Senator PADDOCK , of Nebraska , and Messrs . GODFREY , CARLETON , and PETTronEw  --  all Western men of no particular note , but not suspected of any sentimental partiality for Mormons . . The course of the commission in naming eight Mormons as Registers of Election , however , requires explanation . These eight Mormons are , of course , not polygamists , or they could not he so appointed . But it is enough that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and impartial action from a Jesuit in matters affecting his Society or his Church as to expect these eight Mormons to apply with scrupulous fidelity the test of suffrage imposed by the Edmunds bill . We have dallied long enough with this Salt Lake infamy . For years it has been condemned in Presidents ' Messages , legislated against in Congress , and denounced in the pulpit , press , and public meetings , yet its roots are ever striking deeper , and with every passing year it grows more insolently defiant . It has its recruiting agents in every country in Europe , and receives fully three thousand immigrant converts every year . Nearly one thousand , mostly Scandinavians , came over on one vessel , reaching this port July 2 . The Church is growing stronger and the community richer . The Mormons have no " small vices . " They are temperate , industrious , economical , and obedient to their spiritual head . By avoiding all those common foibles of humanity which lead to waste and weakness they are able to husband their resources and their strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it has long been menaced by the moral sense and the law-making power of an outraged nation . And now , when , after innumerable failures , a piece of legislation of exceptional severity has been enacted and the machinery for its enforcement created and set at work , it is certainly disappointing to hear at the outset that the extermination of the enemy has in a large part been intrusted to the enemy itself . Some explanation may be forthcoming of the Commission 's action in naming seven Gentiles , nine apostate Mormons , and eight Mormons to act as Registers , but it is very difficult to see what its nature can be . The act creating the Commission is a stern measure , so stern that the Democrats in Congress opposed its passage by every means in their power . But there can be no doubt of the power of the Government to control or take away the right of suffrage in the Territories , and , considering the formidable character of this Utah conspiracy to break and defy the laws of the land and of decency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In particular , no weak and mistaken tolerance of Mormon viciousness on grounds of freedom of worship and of conscience should sway the Utah Commission one iota . The pretense of TAYLOR and his fellow-adulterers that plural marriage has been revealed to them " by the Almighty , " that they have embraced the doctrine fearing that they should " incur the displeasure of the Heavenly Father " if they did not comply with its requirements , surpasses in infamy the criminal 's perjured plea of not guilty , for it is an attempted justification , as a religious observance , of their odious and unspeakable nastiness . Neither Mormon pleas nor Mormon threats should have any weight with the Commissioners . They have been set to destroy the noxious plant . The instruments for compassing its destruction have been placed in their hands . The country will have no patience to hear that they have failed through faint-heartedness or leniency. 