@@671862

txt " COMBINES " AND THE LAW . The term of the agreement between the anthracite coal companies for the maintenance of prices and the restriction of production expired on the 31st ult . On the 28th ult. the Philadelphia Ledger published a report of a meeting of the anthracite managers said to have been held in Philadelphia on the 27th and to have been attended by representatives of the several railroad companies and other corporations engaged in the business . The Ledger said : " It was decided unanimously to maintain the prices for anthracite during the season of 1888-9 , beginning on April 1 , and to regulate the output of coal so that the market shall not be burdened by an overproduction this year . The methods adopted for the regulation of the anthracite business , after a lengthy interchange of views , we are informed , will not conflict with the law . There will be no agreement , pool , or other papers drawn up for signatures , but each party to the understanding will be expected to adhere faithfully to the spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that a final agreement was not reached - at the meeting referred . to by the Ledger , and that another meeting is to be held this week . Officers of the companies declare that there is no agreement , and that the companies will do nothing in violation of law . The most significant* feature of the various reports concerning the plans of the coal companies is the frequent reference to the law . The officers assert that the law will be respected . One of them even says that the output of coal and the prices will be regulated by the law of supply and demand . In a few days it will be known whether the natural conditions have been displaced by a combination agreement . Some weeks ago we directed attention to some of the decisions of courts - with referonce to combinations whose purpose is to prevent competition , maintain high and uniform prices , and . restrict production . Mr. WILLIAM " W. Coox , in his book about Trusts , speaks of a decision relating to a combination of coal companies as follows ; " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal corporations , which together controlled a certain kind of coal , combined and agreed that sales should be made through a committee and a general agent , and that thereby prices should be fixed , freights made , and sales and deliveries adjusted . If any company sold more than a fixed proportion , it was to pay a certain amount to the others . The combination was made and carried out in New-York . In the course of time one of the companies sued another to recover its proportion of the amount which the latter was to pay for the excess of coal sold by it . The Pennsylvania court held that he could not recover ; that the combination was illegal and void , and that it was a conspiracy under the New-York statute against the commission of any act by two or more persons ' injurious to trade or commerce . ' " Morris Run Coal Company against Barclaf Coal Company , 68 Penn . St 173.1 Probably there were in. that case papers showing that a combination had been made . The Ledger says that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no papers . The decision in the Morris Run case not only declares that combinations to prevent competition and restrict production are illegal , as many other decisions in similar cases have done , but it goes much further and . asserts that the persons combining were guilty of conspiracy under the laws of this State . We desire - to direct the attention of Col. FELLOWS and other prosecuting officers to this . The New-York law in question may be found in the Penal Code , Section ; 168 , which says that if two or more persons conspire to commit any act injurious to trade or commerce each of them is guilty of a misdemeanor . The courts of Pennsylvania decide that persons who combine to prevent competition , fix prices , and restrict production in the coal trade are subject to prosecution and punishment under this statute . It is the duty of the Attorney-General of . the State to proceed in the courts , under the statutes " relating to corporations , against corporations which have become ' parts of a Trust or have otherwise abused the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorneys should . also test in such cases the conspiracy statute .. But we have seen no indications that either Attorney-General TABOR or Col. FELLOWS intends to serve the people in the ways suggested . with respect to the Sugar Trust or any of the other combinations concerning which testimony was taken by the Committee on General Laws .                     