@@781506

txt The Tariff Commission , with as little deJay as could fairly have been expected , has settled down to the work of taking the testimony of persons who are inclined to appear before it , and its invitation in this direction has been made broad enough to cover all the ground of this sort necessary to a practical revision . It is not to be supposed , Lowever , that the Commissioners will regard themselves as confined to such information as shall be submitted to them , but that they will consider facts of public record as well , and will do what they can to master . the whole subject of the effect of the present tariff on the general interests of the country . Were they to limit their work to hearing and weighing testimony , they would , in effect , assume that they were to make only such changes as they were forced to yield by specific presentation of facts and argument . They would acknowledge the justice of the impression , which undoubtedly prevails , that they have been appointed , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save , the tariff . Such a course might block fiscal reform for a short time , but it would only dam the stream , which , when it over:came the temporary obstacle , would flow more strongly , perhaps more destructively , than before . In any attempt to make a practical and judicious revision of the tariff , certain facts 1n regard to the origin of the present system should be borne in mind . The principal duties now imposed were first levied either during the war or immediately after , while the burden of expenditure to be met by the . Government was very heavy . The purpose of Congress at the time was , primarily , 6 secure revenue , aud , secondarily , to so tax Foreign goods as to offset internal taxes ou domestic goods of the same sort , and also to give to American manufactures the incidental protection to be derived from raising the large revenue then required . The duties on wools ann . woolens were almost the only important duties arranged with S definite and nearly exclusive reference to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff was originally framed ion the principle set forth by the Republican iNational Convention in 1880 , that " duties ; levied for the purpose of revenue should so Aiscriminate as to favor American labor . " ! Under these circumstances it would appear that the first duty of the Commissioners in ; their work of revision is to carefully examine how far the general income from the ' tariff can be considered as necessary to the : , i-asent necessities of the Government . That iwill enable them to form a fairly just idea 1 ' , af what they must do as a minimum in the jway - of reduction , bearing in mind that llower taxes yield proportionately larger eventtes than higher taxes . The country is t ntitleth to a tariff which , as a whole , is not A war tariff , but one adapted to our present : needs . , . . In the - next place , as we have previously suggested , those duties originally imposed as compensation , either general or specific , for internal taxes , should be wholly done away with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is so obvious that the protectionists themselves will hardly deny it as a general truth . It will be the work of the Commissioners to apply it as thoroughly as their time will allow . In the third place , all compound duties should be carefully examined to ascertain the grounds on which they were imposed and their actual operation . They are in their nature highly objectionable , because they obscure the real amount of taxation , and because they work considerable confusion . Intended , possibly , to combine the advantages and avoid the defects of both specific and ad valorem duties , they in reality double the defects of each and produce very little of the benefit of either . All specific duties should be investigated to learn the ad valorem rate of which they were originally the equivalent , and the rate which they now yield . It will be found that there are many instances like that of steel rails  --  though this Is , perhaps , the most important  --  in which the decline in prices , while the tax has remained unchanged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commissioners might very properly consider whether they can not fix 50 per cent . as the maximum of tax which any class of goods shall be obliged to pay . It may be said that this is an arbitrary limit , but it is so only in the sense that any maximum must be . It rests on the general proposition that any manufacture which can not win in competition with foreign goods , with 50 per cent , the start , is not worth maintaining . Certainly , very convincing reasons should be given to persuade the Commissioners to the contrary . Finally , a practical and judicious revision of the tariff must provide for the certain emancipation of our industries from taxation on raw materials , machinery , and tools . Such taxation is a violation of the principles of protection itself , and of common sense . It will not be found possible to apply this principle completely or at once , but it will be quite possible to apply it in the more important cases . It involves , for instance , the gradual reduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenue rate . It requires a similar reduction on unmanufactured wool , on thread , on jute , on cotton , linen , and woolen yarns for weaving , on machinery and the materials for machinery , and on tools . And it involves a great number of like changes in minor matters which the commission will have no difficulty in perceiving . These are , in substance , what we believe to be the principles of tariff revision necessary to be observed in order to do justice to the various interests effected and to satisfy the country . They are not extreme , or , radical , or revolutionary . They are " just and judicious , " and we do not believe there is a single industry of any importance in the land that would be injured or would not , in fact , be benefited by their application .                     