@@743929

txt Although there has been a feeling of anxiety at the Executive Mansion all day , no alarm was felt regarding the President 's condition until late this afternoon . The fact that none of the attending surgeons have entered the business apartments of the mansion during the dgy caused an unfavorable suspicion , which the evening bulletin proved was warranted . Since the bulletin was issued there has been a constant arrival of anxious inquirers at the White House . The room of Private Secretary Brown has been crowded all the evening . Among those first to arrive were Postmaster-General James and Attorney-General . Soon after these came Assistant Secretary of State Hitt , Secretary Windom , and Secretaries Kirkwood and Hunt , Second Assistant Postmaster-General Elmer , First Controller Lawrence , ? Gen. Francis A. Walker , Associate Justice Harlan , Gen. Sherman , Gen. Drum , and many more of prominence . Secretary Lincoln is in New-York and Secretary Blaine is in New-Hampshire . Both of these gentlemen have been communicated with by telegraph concerning the serious condition of the President . Private Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington to-morrow . One of the attendants upon the President said at 10:30 o'clock to-night that he did not consider the President 's condition necessarily alarming , although it certainly warranted anxiety ; that he had not womited during the past six hours , and that his sleep had been perfectly natural . In the opinion of this gentleman everything is being done for the patient that professional skill can suggest , and he feels quite sure that the morning will show an improvement . The members of the Cabinet left the Mansion for their respective homes about 11 o'clock , at which hour the patient was still sleeping naturally and quietly . Drs . Bliss and Reyburn remain at the Mansion during the night . Assistant Secretary . Hitt deemed it advisable at a late hour to-night to inform Secretary Blaine of the unfavorable change in the President 's condition , in order that he might return to Washington . The anxiety regarding the condition of the President . which became apparent throughout the city soon after the issuance of the morning bulletin , grew in intensity as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specutalion with a constantly increasing number of persons . The persistent irritability of the stomach noted in the bulletin was a new phase in the condi tion of the patient which perplexed and added to the anxiety of some and lessened the hopes of the most sanguine . The assurances which came later direct from the attending physicians ! to the effect that they did not feel alarmed at the presence of nausea and vomiting , nor , in fact , at the general condition of the President in the morning , did not suffice to allay the feeling of uneasiness which prevailed throughout the city . This anxiety was lessened but little , if any , by the noon bulletin , which , although reporting a cessation of nausea and a decline in temperature , still recorded a more frequent pulse . The decrease of temperature was expected as the result of the usual diurnal fever ebb , and the figures recorded-99 ? were reassuring only to the most sanguine . The more rapid pulse reported in the noon bulletin-118 ? caused a change in the feelings of many from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurances which came from the Executive Mansion that the unfavorable symptoms were only temporary . When the evening bulletin made its appearance , containing the information that irritability of the stomach had returned , that the President had vomited three times since 1 P. M. , together with the admission that his condition on the whole was less satisfactory , the feeling among those who have watched the progress of the case closely from the beginning was apparently that of greater anxiety and alarm than they had evinced since the Sunday following the day the President received his wound . 