@@745927

txt The Excise Commissioners in their report to the Mayor show that since they came into office inlay last they have instituted some important reforms in the administration of the department . It has been well known to the public that they were far more careful . than their predecessors in granting licenses , firmly refusing them to places and persons of bad repute , and heeding the wishes of respectable people in regard to the location of drinking places . It appears also that they have reformed the method of inspection , with a view to making it more effective , paying higher salaries to secure better inspectors and assigning them to general duty instead of leaving each to a special district , where he is subject to temptation and to no check upon his conduct . They have likewise adopted systematic measures for keeping themselves fully informed regarding the holders of licenses and the places they keep . For this purpose they have had maps prepared showing the location of every licensed place , and . in connection with these they keep books of record containing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published information about them . This shows that the Commissioners have been devoting themselves intelligently to their duties . They propose to institute further reforms , some of which will require changes in the law . The distinction which they propose to make between places that sell only malt liquors and wines and those that sell distilled liquors is a very important one . At present ale and : beer licenses are placed at the very low figure of $30 , but they are not much used , as they do not permit the sale of even the lightest wines . The Commissioners propose to issue at a moderate fee licenses for the sale of malt liquors and wines , and to raise the fee for licenses to sell strong liquors . The latter ought indeed to be so increased as to make a very wide discrimination between the two kinds of traffic and to lessen materially the number of grogshops . The Commissioners are unquestionably right in their opinion that the sale of lighter beverages is harmless in comparison with that of strong liquors , and that so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperance is promoted . The German custom of drinking beer and light wines , which has become so firmly established here , is attended by . little drunkenness and few of the evils which restrictive legislation is intended to suppress . The present law , as it has been inter preted by the courts , which prevents the sale of any kind of liquor where any musical ' or theatrical entertainment is going on , ought certainly to be modified . It is not and can not be enforced strictly , and it certainly was not intended to have all the effect that has been given to it by judicial construction . It was intended to suppress disreputable concert saloons and demoralizing exhibitions , but not to prohibit the use of music in reputable beer gardens . It is certain that musical entertainment as such can add . no element of degradation to the sale of beer . The suggestion that the Excise Board be permitted to grant short-time licenses for fairs , balls , and excursions is a good one provided Vie power is carefully guarded and judiciously exercised- No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an encouragement to disorder and such unseemly spectacles as are sometimes presented at bails and . on excursions , even though they are not wholly prevented by withholding licenses . Perhaps the most important suggestion of the Excise Commissioners is that power be conferred upon them to enforce obedience to the law . At present they are wholly dependent upon the police , and can not even compel the surrender of revoked licenses . They are entirely powerless to prevent the sale of liquor at unlicensed places . In fact , they ? have no jurisdiction ' in the premises whatever . It is questionable whether the proposed division ? of authority should be made . If the Police Department were , what it ought to be , under a single efficient head and held . to a strict responsibility for the thorough execution of the laws , the proper place for excise administration would be under its authority . The Excise Board ought logically to be . a bureau of the Police Department , but it is not to be recommended while the control of that ' department is what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the Police Department and its administration what it ought to be rather than to transfer any of its legitimate functions - to the Excise Board . That is always an unsuccessful method of reform .                     