@@671963

txt PROHIBITION LOGIC . We see nothing in Gen. CLINTON B. FraK 's letter accepting the nomination of the National Prohibition Party for the Presidency calculated to strengthen the cause which he represents . The peculiar logic of his letter , however , shows him to be an eminently fit representative of a party which places the means above the end , prefers legal prohibition - to practical temperance , and will accept no improvement if it can not . have an unattainable perfection . " What law creates , " says Gen .. FisK , " law alone can kill . The creature of law , the saloon , the liquor traffic , ' can die only at law 's hand or at the hand of law 's executor . " Now the liquor traffic is no more the creation of law than any other traffic , and the law no more creates the saloon than it creates the dry goods store . The appetite for liquor may be altogether evil and the demand for intoxicating drink may be the result of depravity , but it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sold , just as much as it is the taste for adornment that produces the traffic in silks and jewelry . Because the law recognizes the liquor traffic as of evil effect and endeavors to regulate and restrict it , and , because the Government puts a tax upon liquors , thereby increasing their cost and . diminishing their consumption , to maintain that the law creates the traffic and the Government encourages it is as illogical as - to contend that because the Government regulates foreign trade and taxes imports it creates all traffic in foreign productions . But the exhibition of ' false reasoning or utter lack of reasoning regarding the creation of the liquor traffic by restrictive laws is harmless compared with Gen. FrsK 's claim that the national tax on liquors " discounts the virtue and sobriety of the people and begets impurity in. the home . " The tax on whisky increases its cost to the consumer threefold , and in thirty years it has reduced its consumption per capita in this country by sixty per cent . Such a tax , therefore , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperance and an . enormous help to every effort either to restrict or to destroy the traffic in intoxicating liquors . It is passing strange that reasoning beings whose aim is to kill the saloon and the liquor traffic should wish . to discard . so potent an ally as the Government 's taxing power . Suppose . that trona a shallow notion that taxation , gives countenance to an evil , and from the ridiculous absurdity that a burdensome tax gives it encouragement , they should succeed in getting all national exaction removed . from intoxicating drinks.4 It would immediately increase their production and sale enormously , deal a terrible blow to the cause of temperance in this country , and make all efforts at restrictive or - prohibitive legislation ten times more difficult , if not altogether futile . Men who make this demand may think they are the only faithful friends of the temperance cause , but they are , in fact , its most dangerous enemies . The Prohibition candidate , assuming that the internal revenue from liquors is equivalent to 90 per cent . of the annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consequences of intemperance , and plainly infers that if , it were swept away by the repeal of the tax those consequences would be proportionally reduced . Such reasoning is amazing in a grown man . In answer to the statement that it is better to tax whisky than to tax farms , homesteads , and shops , he says that these have to pay the tax . The consumer : of the whisky pay the tax , and . so far ae they own the farms , homesteads , and shops it may come out of them , but from the temperance point of view , which is better , fox their consumption of whisky to be reduced by making it costly or for it to be enormously increased by making it cheap ? Gen. FisK would have nine-tenths of the surplus swept away by repealing the tax on liquor , thereby making it cheap and easy to get , increasing its consumption and making prohibition a thousandfold more difficult to attain , and in close connection with that demand he recalls the declaration of his party platform that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothing , and . the necessaries of life . This certainly implies that taxation on food , clothing , and the necessaries of life is a burden and makes these more costly and . difficult - to obtain . But in getting rid of the surplus he would only allow one-tenth for the relief of the people upon all that enters into the necessaries of life and nine-tenths upon a pernicious luxury , which he himself regards as destructive of the " virtue and sobriety of the people and- the purity of the home . " Surely a party can not hope to gain strength among thinking people when it is sustained . by such logic , . as this . In one point the candidate is right enough . Prohibition can only be attained through a party devoted to that object , but it can not be attained by throwing away every extraneous aid and multiplying the obstacles in its own way . 