@@745929

txt The resignation of the Rev. Dr. BARBOUR , the college Pastor at Yale seems to have caused the students of the university - to discuss with considerable freedom the subject of compulsory attendance at religious services . Dr. BARBOUR 'S resignation will not take effect until next June . At that time the university authorities will select a new Pastor or provide temporarily for a continuation of the work which he has done . Apparently , there are some who hope that his retirement will be followed by a change of the plan upon which the university 's religious exercises have been conducted . At present all students of the academia department are required to attend prayers in the chapel every week-day morning , and all who have not gained . permission to attend churches of other denominations in the city are required to attend services in the chapel on Sundays . Thus far there has never been at Yale , so far as we know , any appealfrom a body of students for the abolition of " compulsory worship , " although the objections that may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergraduates and graduates . It has generally been assumed that nothing could be accomplished by making such an appeal . The recent removal of restrictions at Harvard , as the result of repeated petitions signed by four-fifths of the undergraduates , has served , however , to direct anew the attention of students in NewHaven to the compulsory system prevailing at Yale and to show them what may be done by continued agitation . Yale students who are professing Christians have recently in the college press opposed " compulsory worship . " One of them says : " From the beginning of my college course , four years ago , I have had little respect for the college chapel and the services therein on account of the ' system as it exists to-day . " He asserts that a majority of even the religious students attend prayers , not voluntarily , but to avoid being charged with the marks which are the penalty for non-attendance , and that at the week-day morning service the chapel is a study room for four-fifths of those present . " I can not be blinded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of respect now evident at chapel services , and the prevailing religious apathy among us , " and he suggests that compulsory attendance is the cause of " our lack of religious interest . " There are sound objections to " compulsory worship " in universities which should . be apparent to the university authorities from their own point of view . Their purpose is to maintain a religious interest in those who are professing Christians or who are inclined to become Christians , and to excite such an interest in those who are inclined to avoid religious influences . What effect does compulsion have upon the several classes of persons to whom it is applied ? Does it not work more harm than good ? So far as members of the church are concerned the effect of compulsion may be disregarded ; although it ? is said that even among these it tends to . ? deaden rather than to stimulate and . enliven an interest in , religion . But there . ' is good ground . for a belief that compulsion tends to repel students who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well known to undergraduates and many graduates of Yale that hundreds of students take no interest in the religious services which they are required to attend on week-day mornings ; that many of these students habitual , Iy.spend the time in surreptitiously preparing for the morning recitation , and that under such ' conditions they lose . whatever . respect they may have had originally for such services .. Professors and . tutors who were members of the college church during their undergraduate course and who then regarded attendance at prayers as a pleasant duty may not know these facts , but they should know them . Moreover , compulsory attendance at church on Sunday has caused in the minds of many an undergraduate so great a distaste for such services that in after-life he has persistently avoided them . Examples could be cited of men who have declared at the end of their course that four years ' compulsory attendance at church on Sunday was enough to last a lifetime , and who shunned the church door afterward . The worthy men who uphold the compulsory system undoubtedly long to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . it , and they believe that by compelling such students to go " to church they may attain their end . But we are satisfied that they are making a great blunder .. They are trying to win those who are out of the fold . Those who are already in it will voluntarily avail themselves of religious privileges and , with rare exceptions , remain steadfast in the faith . These are not the students for whose improvement and conversion the college authorities express anxiety . But if compulsion really does not attract , but does repel , those for ' whose good it is exerted ; if it tends - to confirm in the irreligious their opposition , and to send them out into the world with ? in many cases  --  a deep-seated aversion for such religious services as they have been forced to attend , is it not folly to maintain such a , system , folly from the point of view of the college authorities themselves If college officers who uphold such restrictions could be convinced that thereby they defeat ' their own cherished purpose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made at Harvard . So long as they shall believe that compulsion tends to the ' religious improvement of stir= dents who need it , compulsion will be retained .                     