@@745792

txt The President continues to have much or his time taken up with the consideration of private pension bills , and he is not deterred. by the criticisms of the Senate committee from doing his plain duty and vetoing those which he is convinced are without merit . From the overwhelming mass of these bills thrown into his hands he is not able to sift out all the fraudulent and . unworthy claims , but is compelled . to let many of the bills bekome law by lapse of time without his signature . It is possible that in a very few cases he has rejected some that are worthy through a misapprehension of the facts , but there is not the least doubt that he has used all available means of information , and striven to resolve all doubts in favor of the applicants , so as to do no wrong to those actually deserving of the proposed pension . He has done a - very important service to the country in checking this flood of private pension bills , and sharply calling attention to the reckless manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little criticism outside the ranks of Congressmen and politicians on his course in this respect , and . it is evident that the people appreciate his fidelity in examining these bills carefully and his honesty and courage in vetoing such as are manifestly without merit . The Senate Committee on Pensions in recommending the passage of one of these bills affected . a good deal of indignation at the tone of the President 's messages , and made a ludicrous pretense of the " patient , conscientious , and exhausting labors " of the committee in determining upon the merits of the claims passed upon . All this was a transparent sham , as the character of most of the bills vetoed . plainly shows . The fact is that scores of men who have no valid claim to a pension on any ground , and whose applications are rejected by the Pension Bureau for perfectly good reason , have sought the favor of politicians and Congressmen to get private bills passed in their favor . Of course there are many deserving cases not sufficiently provided for by the general laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not for various reasons be furnished . But with these come many applications utterly destitute of merit . Those who make them pretend . that injuries incurred in drunken brawls are honorable wounds of war . They claim that physical disabilities in great variety which developed . long after the war was over are the effects of sufferings and privations of camp . No form of false pretense that ingenuity and unscrupulousness could devise has been wanting in presenting claims for pensions . These claims are backed by Senators and Representatives whose favor has by hook or crook been secured . and that mutual accommodation which has become so familiar in putting through all kinds of unworthy legislation has been invoked . to get these sham claims allowed . The fact that 600 of these bills have been passed in the last six months is a contradiction of the statement that their merits have been carefully considered in committee . On their passage , generally in the absence of anything like a quorum , they have received practically no consideration at all . Those members directly interested for claimants have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own bills has voted for the rest and the mass has been put through without the least reference to their individual merits . It is no wonder that the President was disposed to use very plain and direct language regarding the character of some of these bills and the manner in which most of them are passed when he found what sort of claims so many of them rested on . He was not capable of following the practice of the majority in Congress or that of his predecessors in office by approving of anything and everything that had the form and semblance of a pension bill . His habit of mind leads him to examine closely into the merits of measures presented to for approval , and . to act upon them as his sense of public duty dictates without reference to the peculiar sensibilities of those who have worked . them through Congress . However annoying it may be to some Senators , his plain speaking will commend itself to the people as just what the occasion demands . Some effort will doubtless be made to pass a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's veto , but it has little prospect of success . It is important that the President should be sustained in his effort to check this reckless voting of gratuities to every one who may pretend to have a claim upon the bounty of the Government .                     