@@744568

txt The petition addressed to the Trustees of Columbia College asking for the extension of certain educational facilities to women was simple and direct . It merely requested that the Trustees should , if possible , provide arrangements to extend to women " the many and great benefits of education in Columbia College by admitting them to lectures and examinations . " This petition was presented , it was expressly said , with the idea that Columbia College was handsomely endowed , and that if any educational institution in the country could stand such a drain upon its resources as this experiment might entail , Columbia was that college . The reply to the resolutions is embodied in an elaborate report to which is attached a series of resolutions , ' all of which may be briefly described ; as a refusal to grant the request of the petitioners .. . It is barely possible , however , that the powers to whom this petition was addressed are not : wholly in accord with each other upon the abstract y , question which the application for the- admission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . a compromise of inharmonious opinions . This is apparent in the concession finally made by the Trustees . c This takes the form of a plan for a course of study ' for women under the ob. , servation of the authorities of Columbia lege and extending over three years , examinations and reviews to be held by the Faculty for these women students , and , diplomas or other testimonials or certificates for those who successfully pass the examinations . - The studies are to be pursued outside of the college , but under the observation and direction of the college Faculty , in consonance with some plan hereafter to be worked out ; the , details of which are to be hereafter announced . It is distinctly and severely announced that this concession must not , in any aspect of the case , be considered as an . entering wedge for a future surrender of so much of the tradition and policy of Columbia as shall permit coeducation of the sexes . And , by way of deprecation of criticism that may be expected from those who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth , the unexpected announcement is made that that institution is burdened with an enormous debt , that the recent extension of its building has added to its burdens , and that until it can do its whole duty by the young men who apply for admission , it would be idle to consider any other increase of its educational facilities . It should be added that the report adopted by the Board of Trustees contains a somewhat cynical suggestion to this effect : If the signers of this petition are sincere in their aims they should organize a fund to provide for women the educational advantages asked for , and which Columbia College is neither able nor willing to extend . Of ** nobody but the Trustees of Columbia College can be authorized to make report concerning the financial ability of that venerable institution , to enlarge its sphere of usefulness . But it will probably surprise our fellow-citizens to be told , as they are told by the Trustees , that the work of the institution " is seriously retarded by the pressure of the enormous debt " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of existing requirements . This , we must say , should be an effectual and conclusive answer to any petition for additional educational provisions which would involve additional costs . But the Trustees , apparently , have not fully got at the meaning of the petition . Nothing in the language of that document warrants the use of the word coeducation as applied to any portion of the plan dimly and tenta ? tively suggested by the petitioners to the Trustees . It was asked that women might attend the lectures and be allowed to appear for examination . What was in the mind of any one of the many hundreds Of signers of the petition we can not surmise . But nothing in that document implies that the petitioners expected or asked for that coeducation which implies the separation of the student from home , the habitual attendance in the same class-rooms , or even of that dual multiplication of classes , tutors , and college machinery which seems to have been presented to the minds of the astonished Trustees as a financial problem impossible of solution . If Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her lecture-rooms or be permitted to appear for examinations under direction of the Faculty , there is an end of the matter . But it is not fair to the petitioners to say that they have asked for coeducation of men and women , or to declare that the small concession wrung from the Trustees shall not be accepted as a promise that coeducation may hereafter be granted . Nevertheless , even this half-loaf from Columbia must be accepted as a partial surrender to the progressive spirit of the age . It is no longer necessary to argue that women will not neglect the duties and obligations that are peculiarly their own , in order to secure educational advantages originally confined to men . It is conceded , however , that there are not a few women whose circumstances favor , and - whose ambitions urge , their pursuit of the higher branches of knowledge . Precisely how these circumstances are to be met is the problem that occupies the attention of many thoughtful persons . It has been forced upon the attention of the Trustees of Columbia College , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a compromise , to use the mildest term , The problem will not be settled in this way , however . It will recur many times , and many more concessions will be made to a demand that can not be silenced by compromises . Meanwhile , the advocates of higher education for women should not look a gift horse in the mouth , but , like honest Sancho Panza , cry " God bless the giver ! " 