@@744313

txt It has been more than once remarked that great results sometimes flow from trifling causes . Attention has also been called to the fact that large oaks grow from very small acorns . A striking illustration of the truth of these profound remarks has lately been furnished by the great mouse excitement of West Hanbury , Vt . Mr. C. B. Wilson , an old and occasionally respected resident of that village , had long been troubled by mice . Poison and traps seemed useless and cats were in vain . Vast quantities of mice were killed by these various agencies , and Mr. Wilson 's two cats were both in ill-health in consequence of a surfeit of mice , but the number that haunted the house seemed undiminished . An apparently innumerable quantity of mice spent every night in gnawing the house down and in destroying food and clothing . In these circumstances Mr. Wilson became desperate and ready to try any remedy against mice that might be suggested to him . One day a young man connected with Peter Hallenbeck 's paint shop advised Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which the young man offered to give to the mouse-afflicted man . This oil was to be poured in small quantities into mouse-holes , and to be rubbed on the edges of all cracks into which a mouse 's head might be thrust . The young man asserted that whenever It came in contact with mouse fur the oil would burn the fur and inflict so much pain as to induce the mouse to emigrate without delay . " It wo n't set no wood-work afire , " added the young man , " and it wo n't pizen no mice and leave ' em to die in the wall , but it will just everlastingly clean out the hull bilin of mice . " Mr. Wilson took the oil and the advice , and , with much gratitude to the young man , re ' turned home and oiled every possible mousehole . He was greatly disappointed to find that no apparent effect was produced by the oil . The mice rioted as gayly as ever , and one of the cats died in strong convulsions , evidently in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the third night after the application of the oil Mr. Wilson awoke about midnight and saw a sight that made his hair stand on end with horror . This was nothing less than a spectral cat 's head . No full-length cat was visible , but there floated through his room at about four or five inches above the floor , a cat 's head illuminated by the light afforded by a pair of fiery jaws and a glowing nose . Mr. Wilson hurriedly awoke his wife , but the fiery cat 's head having disappeared , Mrs. Wilson made an irrelevant remark as to " fiddlesticks , " and furthermore requested her husband to go to sleep and not to make an idiot of himself . The apparition had so disturbed Mr. Wilson that lie did not feel sleepy , and he lay quietly with his eyes open and attempted to persuade himself that his vision was nothing but a dream . He had almost succeeded in arriving at this comforting conclusion when lie was startled by the sight of an illuminated mouse stealing across the room . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteen distinct mice were nibbling the furniture or creeping stealthily over the floor . The room was actually lighted up by these diabolical mice , and each one of them gave almost as much light as one of the town lamps which the Selectmen of West Hanbury had recently provided . Mr. - Wilson 's first impulse was to resolve to sign the temperance pledge the first thing in the morning , but on second thought he resolved to try once more the experiment of awakening Mrs. Wilson . That estimable lady opened her eyes with the full determination ? as she afterward said ? of " letting Mr. Wilson know , " but no sooner did she catch sight of the illuminated mico than she shrieked loudly and fainted away . The mice vanished in their holes , and Mr. Wilson was satisfied that he was not the victim of an optical delusion . Of ; - course , Mr. Wilson told the story of the illuminated mice at Esquire Matthews 's grocery the following morning , and before night it was known all over town that Mr. Wilson 's house was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fiery mice , so hot that they scorched everything that they touched , had been seen by Lim at one time . The citizens were straightway divided into two parties , those who believed in the diabolical mice and those who mocked at the story and said that they had always suspected that Mr. Wilson drank more than was good for him . As for the Congregational minister , lie took a middle course , saying that ho would not do Mr. Wilson the injustice to call him a drunkard , but that he regarded him as a Spiritualist and a man in league with the chief of evil spirits . On the following night a noted Spiritualist , who happened to be in town , obtained permission to hold a seance at Mr. Wilson 's house . No one was to be present except Mr. and Mrs. Wilson and the Spiritualist . Accordingly , the three sat in Mr. Wilson 's bedroom in the dark until 3 o'clock A. M. , and were rewarded with the sight of a dozen illuminated , mice . After daylight came the Spiritualist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mice were the advance guard of a legion of illuminated devils who had determined to compel Mr. Wilson to give a thousand dollars for the building of a Spiritualist church in Boston . Mr. Wilson was greatly overcome by this . announcement , but said that he thought she would wait a few days before paying the money , in the hope that the mice would reconsider their resolution . For the next three nights the illuminated mice thronged Mr. Wilson 's house . Between the partisans of the supernatural and the alcoholic origin of the mice discussion waxed hot , and twenty-three leading citizens quarreled with twenty-three other leading citizens as the result of discussing the mystery . The Congregational minister openly said that either Mr. Wilson was a drunkard or a man possessed of the devil , and took measures to procure his excommunication , and the local small-boys surrounded the house day and night and broke all the windows as a cheap way of defying the devil and all his works . On the fifth day Mr. Wilson was about to draw a thou- sand dollars from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the young man of the paint shop remarked in Matthews 's grocery : " This thing has gone about far enough , and I 'm willin ' to say that it 's my phosphoric ile that 's made them mice of Wilson 's shine like all time . " The great mouse mystery was solved , but it is to be feared that it will be a long time before harmony is fully restored in West Hanbury , or before thef noted Spiritualist recovers from the effect of his final interview with Mr. Wilson 's largest whip . 