@@780903

txt The Tribune will print in to-morrow 's issue , in a double-leaded edi- , tonal , the following extract from a private letter , written to a friend in Iowa , by an Army officer in Gen. Hancock 's department , ) who , for many years past , has been near thei person and in the confidence of Gen. Han-. - 11 , cock . We give the text verbatim , as it evinces the writer 's affection for his commanding General , and bears the marks of truth and sincerity . It says : GOVERNOR 'S ISLAND , NEW-YORK , Sept. 8 . Gen. Hancock , the dear old man , is just now on the verge of desperation , and knows not which way to turn or what to do . The glitter ' of the Presidency has turned his head , and the continued heat and turmoil of the campaign , with the differences between Northern and Southern Democrats ( so strongly marked ) to equalize and adjust , I fear will drive him stark mad . H ? , my dear boy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , withered hemlock . I will he frank with you  --  it is true . He knows nothing of the South except the few polished and crafty leaders that call upon him here , and his brief acquaint , ante with the same class of men in 18677 at New-Orleans . Ho means well enough , God bless him , but he can not comprehend the crookedness of politics and those bred-inthe-bone politicians . And now , while on the subject , I will give the secret of this Hancock move , and it is this : That Indiana disunionist , William H. English , is to be the real President . Hancock is not expected to live out a fraction of his term , and that expectation , I am sorry to say , is founded on facts . Any digression from his regular habits is liable to bring on an , apoplectic stroke , Strong symptoms have twice exhibited themselves since his nomination , and it is the verdict of all around him that his promotion to the Presidency will terminate his earthly career . But this fact has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readily discern . And now , dear boy , you have the inside of this Presidential business . With English as President you can readily comprehend what these shrewd fellows of the South can accomplish . The Tribune adds : " The above reads like a family letter ; indeed , it comes from a member of Gen. Hancock 's military family , and ! one who regards Gen. Hancock with something of the same affection as a son feels for his father . We have the original letter in our possession , with a private note from the receiver of it authorizing its publication , butt withholding the name of the writer for personal reasons . "                     