@@745910

txt Congress has before it a remarkable body of testimony concerning the continued stealing of public lands . The report of Commissioner SPARKS describes the extent of this stealing , the attempts of the Land Office to check it , - and the methods used by the thieves . Twenty pages of Secretary LAMAR 'S report are devoted to this subject . " How the illegal occupation and possession of the public domain could have grown to such enormous proportions , " says the Secretary , " is beyond my comprehension . " The President refers in his message to the reports of these officers and supports their recommendations . But ho is constrained to admit that much of the public land still remains within the lines of the unlawful fences which by proclamation he endeavored to remove more than a year ago . The attitude of Congress thus far toward violations of the land laws and recommendations relating to land reform is by no means encouraging to those who desire that the laws shall be enforced and that the grin , ciples underlying them shall be respected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who have defied the laws . For this reason it is difficult for the Land Commissioner to obtain money for the employment of agents in the work of detecting land frauds . Whenever the Land Office becomes the subject of debate he is roundly denounced by Western legislators who have themselves acquired large tracts of public lands or who have powerful constituents engaged in the land business . Representative DORSEY , of Ne-. braska , recently said to a correspondent in Washington : " It is my honest belief that if Gen. SPARKS should visit Nebraska the people would mob him before he could get out of the State . " This hostility is caused by Commissioner SPARKS 'S pursuit of thieves and attempts to keep the public land out of their clutches . It is true that the House has passed a bill repealing nearly all of the land laws that were intended to cause a distribution of the public lands among actual settlers and that have been used by land thieves as a burglar uses the tools of his trade . But the Senate has added amendments that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characterized by the Land Office as " a nullification of all guards and restrictions , a reversal of the whole policy of legislation in respect to the acquisition of individual titles to public land , and a repudiation of all pledges to preserve the public domain for actual settlement . " It is not probable , therefore , that the remedies which are recommended will be supplied by the legislative branch of the Government , although a more convincing array of evidence was never submitted to a legislative body . Why , then , should not the executive branch use the remedies which are at its command 7 We have a system of land laws devised to insure an honest distribution of the land to those who desire to settle upon it and improve it . These laws provide checks and safeguards intended to prevent the acquisition of laud by speculators and the creation of huge estates . It is notorious that these laws have been contemptuously violated ; that fraudulent acquisition of title is the rule rather than the exception ; that by fraud and the dishonesty of Federal officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held by powerful syndicates of speculators ; that practically all of the lauds west of the one hundredth meridian have been stolen by land pirates . who have fenced them in and captured the watercourses . All this has been done by means of acts that are criminal under the general laws . Why are not these thieves and perjurers and conspirators taken before the courts , punished , and forced to disgorge their plunder 7 It seems to us that this is a question that the people are asking  --  especially those citizens who need the bounty extended by the Government in its land laws and who have come to believe that the public lands can be obtained only by the rich and unscrupulous . It is clearly the duty of the Executive to use the machinery of the Government for the detection and conviction of the land thieves . A proclamation is not sufficient . The Department of Justice should make its power felt in every land district of the ' West . Its agents , its attorneys , its Marshals should pursue the rascals wherever they have operated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their conviction . A vigorous campaign of this kind would soon put an end to this wholesale stealing and give the actual settler a chance . The department has the evidence . Has the department used it ? In a few cases , and sometimes with discouraging results . But before such a campaign can be successfully made it will be necessary for the Government to be represented by District Attorneys who do not sympathize with the thieves and by local land agents who are not in partnership with them . With a force of honest Registers and Receivers and of earnest and trustworthy prosecutors , the Government could break up this great conspiracy in a short time without the assistance of Congress . It can do very little with attorneys who are unwilling to do their whole duty , or with local agents like those who have represented the Land Office in New-Mexico and some of the Northwestern Territories . Appeal after appeal to Congress has been made ; volume after volume of evidence has been laid before that body . Now the President and his . subordinates should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with unsparing hand , and show that there is justice for the scoundrels who rob the settler of his heritage as well as for the poor wretch who counterfeits a silver dollar .                     