@@671987

txt OPEN-AIR CONCERTS . All New-Yorkers have reason to congratulate themselves upon the liberal policy with regard to parks that the Legislature allows the city to . pursue . From every point of view the acquisition of moderate spaces in the heart of the city is an excellent investment of the public money . To a hardworking head of a family on the east side , below Twenty-third-street , at the close of a Summer day 's labor , the Central Park , great benefaction as it is , is of little more use than if it were 1,000 miles away . It ' takes more energy , time , and . money to reach it than a tired and poor man can afford for the purpose of getting a breath of fresh air and the sight of growing things in the brief interval between his work and . his sleep . But if he can reach within a few minutes ' walk of his own door . an open space where the air is not artificially polluted Or tainted , and . where there is something pleasant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . instead of weekly or at longer intervals , the boon to him will be incalculable . But there is another need oft our Summer population which has not yet been taken into official account . The most enjoyable way of spending a Summer evening in the city is to pass it sitting in the open air and listening to music . It is to be feared that this pleasure will be denied to New-Yorkers unless the authorities take measures to preserve it . Some years ago THEODORE THOMAS 'S concerts at the Central Park Garden were the chief solace of a large number of people . They were abandoned because the place in which they were given became too valuable to be devoted . any longer to that purpose . A like fate befell the attempt of another conductor to revive them three or four years since . Now , whoever cares to hear music in the open air must betake himself to Coney Island . The time is coming very rapidly when this island will be completely occupied . with buildings from side to side , and . from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saving only such spaces as are reserved by the public authorities . When they have once been occupied the cost of retrieving them for public use will be very much greater than the cost of reserving them now . Of ? all the conceit gardens that dotted the shores of the island a few seasons since , the only one left is the space formerly known as Jones 's Wood . It is well known that when it was proposed to make a great park for New-York the site on the brink of . the East River was very strongly urged by reason of its natural advantages for park purposes , and it was abandoned in favor of the site actually chosen , which has no natural advantages , simply because the latter was in fact as in name " central . " A considerable strip of this ? space is still left unoccupied and nnorossed by streets . If the city were ; to acquire it it would not only be a most useful and attractive park , but it would also afford . the opportunity for a concert garden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private owners . can not afford permanently to reserve from building a tract of this kind , since the return from it as rental for a concert garden , though considerable , is neither so certain nor ? so profitable as the return from dwellings or commercial buildings . The city can afford to disregard this consideration and not only preserve the ground but reserve a part of it fora concert garden , providing a suitable pavilion and . renting , it , as is now done with the restaurant in the Park to suitable tenants under suitable conditions . It is more than likely that one inch concert garden would be needed on each water front , - but on the North . River the case is simple , since We believe there are pointS upon the Riverside Park where it would be possible , to provide a concert garden without interference with the purposes or the pleasures of that park . The desirableness of acquiring the unoccupied tract of shore upon the East River is , at all events , manifest and urgent . Such an occupation of it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the purpose which it now more or less imperfectly fulfills . Besides concerts the pavilion might be used for balls and- for festivals , as the present structure is used , but the municipal ownership of the place Would be a more solid guarantee against disorderly assemblies or proceedinas than can be exacted without it . Our excellent German fellowcitizens have partly taught . us how crowds of people may amuse themselves innocently . It would be a pity if that instruction were to be suspended for want of suitable places in which it might be administered .                     