@@781567

txt The debate on that part of the Post Office Appropriation bill which relates to the star routes has not been nearly as entertaining as was expected . There are several Congressmen who promised , last Summer , to raise a terrible commotion whenever they should get a chance to expose the hollowness ot the economical reforms proposed by Postmaster-General JAM Es . Several South-western Congressmen were so indignant over what they termed " the dishonest pretense of reform , " which deprived their constituents of mail facilities , that they could not wait for the session to begin . They submitted themselves to interviews , in which they were made to declare that the postal service was being ruined for the sake ot making a false reputation for somebody , and that the very first thing that Congress would do when it came together would be to put back the star service without a single route curtailed or one contractor deprived of his contract . The country , it was said , demanded these increased mail facilities , and the country would not permit a saving of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense of the vast and expansive interests of commerce . Then there was Representative NEAL , of Ohio , who made haste , not only to deride the Postmaster-General , but to glorify and eulogize Assistant Postmaster-General BRADY . Mr. NEAL was amazed that any candid person should question the honesty and sagacity of the excellent BRADY . He even went to the length of writing and publishing a letter ' defending BRADY . He pooh-poohed the whole business - of alleged star route frauds ; asserted that Congress had virtually indorsed BEADY ; that the Washington newspaper correspondents knew all about the notorious star route matters long before the Garfield Administration came into power , but took no note of them ; that a great clamor was made as soon as Mr. JAMES became Postmaster-General , and that the hue and cry since raised about the alleged frauds was due to the active incitement of Mr. JAMES . Of course , at this late day , it is not worth while to remark upon this singularly brazen piece of impudence . As was shown at the time , Congress never did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington correspondents had begun to expose the star route frauds while Mr. HAvEs was yet President , and Postmaster-General JAMES was no more instrumental in the " persecution " , of BRADY than a District Attorney with evidence of a murder before him is guilty of persecuting the person directly charged with the crime . People naturally supposed , however , that when the star route appropriations should come up in Congress ; Mr. NEAL and his talkative associates would have a great deal to say about the fraudulent pretenses of the Postmaster-General and the great wrong done the country by the discontinuance of many of the routes . Why are not these gentlemen heard in debate ? To be sure , Mr. SINGLETtN , of Illinois , demands that the Postmaster-General shall be forbidden to discontinue any mail route on the Mississippi River between St. Louis and St. Paul ; and . Mr. HOOKER , of Mississippi , asks that this prohibition shall be extended to all steamboat mail routes " as long as the boats remain in the river trade . " But this is only a feeble protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very small portion of the great star route scheme ? the river service . Is it possible that the numerous Congressmen who were to have assailed the penuriousness of the PostmasterGeneral have forgotten their promises and their threats ? There was a great amount of " thundering in the index , " but the business of the House has not disclosed any attempt to accomplish the purposes of those who were ready to overturn whatever had been done to lessen the extent and cost of the star route service . It would appear that the Congressional apologists of the star route thieves have seen a great light . They have not been able to stir up any popular indignation against those who are responsible for the reduction of the star routes . They have clamored in vain ; the people have not responded to their rallying cries . Mr. NEAL was busy last Autumn writing letters exonerating and defending BRADY . But BRADY is under indictment now , and Mr. NEAL Can not find it in his heart to say a good word for his old friend . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promising to " make it hot " for Postmaster-General JAMES when Congress should meet . The only attempt in that direction , up to this date , was a petty resolution from the House making inquiries as to the number of clerical appointments made by Mr. JAMES as Postmaster-General . This small explosive made no noise worth notice ; and this appears to be the extent of the work accomplished by the malice of the star route men and their friends in Congress . This is a pitiful ending to so great a campaign as was threatened . It would be interesting to hear Messrs . SINGLETON , NEAL , HOOKER , and other eminent persons , standing up for BRADY , DORSEY , and the rest , while some of these gentry are under indictment for conspiracy , and others for perjury and subornation of perjury . There seems to be a miscalculation somewhere . Either BRADY and his associates are not the pure patriots and honest men they were represented to be , last November , or Mr. NEAL , and his friends have willfully failed to keep their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office Appropriation bill pass without saying at least one good word for BRADY . He is in great distress . Is there nobody to give him a lift ?                     