@@743916

txt Temperance agitation in the South takes a form which presents . some features of marked and favorable contrast to the methods of the prohibition party in Ohio . We have had an opportunity to observe the Southern way of dealing with the liquor evil in the exciting campaign in North Carolina brought to a close during the past week by the defeat of the prohibition party . - The movement in support of the prohibition act was wholly non-partisan , and not mixed up with a political contest for State offices . The campaign was carried on by men of both parties and both races . White men and black , Democrats and Republicans , sat in the Raleigh Temperance Convention , and . in their address to the people of . the State the delegates . congratulated themselves . and those they represented that they . could .. support an important public measure ' of common interest . with out creating ? " party friction " , or " race antagonism . " ? They . expressly ' disclaimed any intention to give the movement a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was evidently genuine zeal for the temperance cause , and not the hope of partisan advantage . The prohibitionists of Mississippi are now carrying on a non-partisan campaign . ? The address to the people , adopted at the State Convention , at Jackson , on July 20 , declared emphatically that " We have nothing to do with party r politics . " ' There were 282 delegates at the convention , ; representing 42 counties . ' Political and race distinctions were ignored . The address adopted was almost identical with that sent out to the people of North Carolina by the Raleigh Convention . " We shall place no candidates in the field , " it declares ; " we shall not grasp for the spoils of office ; ' we deprecate and denounce the attempts of our enemies to drag our righteous cause into the contentions ? of parties , thereby " : prejudicing. : and injuring the " movement . " A State Committee of fifteen : was chosen charged with the duty of preparing and subnaitting to the Legislature at its next session a memorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand that an amendment to the Constitution prohibiting the sale : of intoxicants in the State be passed and submitted to the people . : . The The convention declined to adopt resolutions requiring candidates for office to declare whether they favored prohibition and pledging the delegates not to vote for candidates for the Legislature known to be opposed to it . ? . Pending the action of the Legislature and people on the proposed constitutional amendment , an effort is to be made to secure a more stringent license law by local option . The cause of temperance in Ohio is championed by a distinct party , which has put candidates in the field for ail the State offices to be filled at the Fall election . The managers of the party , moreover , have declared that one of their chief aims is " to chastise the Republican Party . " These Ohio prohibitionists suffer in every way by comparison with the equally zealous and more discreet workers for the same . , cause i in North Carolina and Mississippi . 1 Their convention at Loveland was a disorderly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the Methodist managers of the prohibition machine ' were not permitted expression . Their declaration of hostility to the . Republican Party throws a legitimate doubt over their sincerity'and singleness of purpose , which is confirmed by the reflection that the presence of their candidates in the field tends to the defeat of Gov . FOSTER and to the triumph of a party from whom it is absurd to expect temperance legislation . Nothing is clearer than that temperance people waste their force and work at a fatal disadvantage when they attempt to promote the principles they profess by the use , in a struggle for office , of the machinery and methods of party contests . They lose at once the support and sympathy of a great mass of voters really favorable to the repression of the liquor traffic , but whose political convictions and fealty to party forbid them to waste their votes on candidates who have not the remotest chance of election . To join a prohibition party like that in Ohio implies the abrogation of the broader duties of citizenship for the accomplishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is an open question whether the cure of the dram-shop evil is best sought through legislation , but there can be no doubt that contests for executive offices are wholly outside any legitimate reform movement of this character , and not in the interests of good government . In Mississippi something very like a moral revolution is in progress . The leaders of the prohibition campaign in North Carolina have failed in their object . They ' have been overwhelmingly beaten at the polls . They probably attempted too much , aiming at the annihilation of dram shops when they should have been content with their restriction ; and they were perhaps too early in the field before the people of the State were prepared for so severe a test of their virtue . But their crusade against the liquor interest , their active stirring of the subject , their picturing forth and . denunciation of the evils of the drinking habit , and their many and urgent reformatory appeals have unquestionably had a powerful influence on individuals and in creating a public spirit favorable to the regulation or extinction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper function of the public advocate of temperance . An immense amount of good can be done in any community where drinking prevails without going to the extreme represented by one uncompromising prohibitionist in the Mississippi Convention , who declared himself in favor of a measure that would be like a lawful plantation fence ? " horse high , bull strong , and pig tight . "                     