@@745133

txt The situation which the Democratic Party is called upon to face is unlike anything that has been known in the political history of our country . For the first time the nomination of a man whose reputation is dubious has concentrated the attention of the country upon the character of the candidate and upon the political methods that he represents and will doubtless employ . The platform on which he stands , though absurd , contradictory , and demagogic , receives comparatively httle attention because it merely presents in a verbose fashion the confused and shallow ideas and the insincere and tricky spirit of the candidate himself . Any one who took the trouble to read Mr. BLAINE 'S speech to the committee that notified him of his nomination must have smiled at his remark that he had " studied " the platform . No amount of study that he could give to it would discover in it anything but a medley of empty campaign cries , with one intelligible resolution regarding civil service reform , which is practically nullified by the nomination . The issue being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party must meet it squarely or suffer the consequences . It will be worse than Useless to - try to outbid Mr. BLAINE for the votes of those who are attracted by his demagogism , or are not repelled by his Uncertain personal character , or who merely seek to gratify in the approaching election their own greed for political power . The votes that can successfully resist Mr. BLAINE must be those of the sober , honest , intelligent citizens of the country who are not willing to see the chief executive office of the Nation given to a man of his stamp , and who desire that the administration of the Federal Government and the politics of the Nation shall be raised to a higher level than he represents , and one higher than is now attained . It must be assumed that the majority of the voters of each party will vote with their party . That is inevitable . But the decision will rest with the indi- pendent citizens , whose course will - be guided by their conscience . To gain this class the candidate must be not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known to be firmly devoted to Pure political methods , and to have the energy and stamina needed to be faithful to them against the pressure of his own party . Herein lies the strength of Mr. CLEVELAND as a candidate . He has already done for two years exactly the kind of work  --  hard , trying , vexatious , tedious work  --  that he would have to do if he were chosen President . He has not only done it well , but he has , while faithful to his principle of action , steadily improved in his capacity to apply it . He has not only resisted the pressure of his party in opposition to that principle , but he has conquered the esteem and the confidence of the best men in that party and in ours by his conduct . In his veto of the Five-Cent-Fare bill  --  a veto with the reasons for which we did not agree  --  he showed that he could do an extremely unpopular thing because he thought that it was right . ' , In his administration of the civil service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform in the hands of trustworthy and able men and to sustain them at every point . In his support of the New-York City reform bills , particularly the one which destroyed the trading capital of the Board of Aldermen by abolishing their right of confirmation , he showed not only advanced and sound ideas of municipal administration , but the pluck and steadiness to stand up against those who claimed to hold his political future in their hands . In the veto messages , which form the most valuable record of his qualities for executive office , he has been conspicuously candid , sensible , cool-headed , and conscientious . At every important point in his career he has given proof of precisely the qualities that are lacking in Mr. BLAINE , and of honest adherence to the principles of reform , for which Mr. BLAINE has betrayed only indifference or contempt . It must be remembered that the Democratic . Party , as a party , does not command the confidence of the independents . Had it done so they would not now be independents , but Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past deserved that confidence as much as has the Republican Party . The independents would not for a moment think of supporting it under an ordinary candidate , who simply represented the tendencies of the party as they have heretofore been displayed . They are only willing to support it under a candidate who can be relied on to withstand those tendencies , and who represents the better element of the party . That is the situation . It is unprecedented . It is not without serious difficulties . But we can see nothing in those difficulties now that the nomination of Mr. CLEVELAND would not go far to surmount.                     