@@781640

txt Mr. JOHN WANAMAKER was duly installed in the office of Postmaster-General yesterday . Though he is from the . Quaker City , he is not a member of the Society of Friends , and . it is fair to assume that he waived the constitutional privilege of affirming and took the ordinary oath , involving a. recognition of the Deity and suggesting the authority of His law in human affairs . As Mr. WANAMAKER is a professed , not to say a professional , Christian , he must be familiar with what is accepted as the authentic statement of that law , in which are included the following commandments : " Thou shalt not bear false witness against shy neighbor . " Thou shalt not  --  covet thy neighbor 's house , thou shalt not covet thy neighbor 's wife , nor his manservant , nor his maidservant , nor his ox , nor his ass , nor anything that is thy neighbor 's . " It is in no irreverent spirit that we venture to hope that in the solemn ceremony of yesterday , or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. WANAMAKER certain bearings of these rules of conduct , now somewhat old-fashioned , upon the public affairs of the United States , and upon his own share in them , past and future . That Mr. WANAMAKER is conscious of having violated either of them we do not suppose , for there is no public evidence of any such consciousness . On the contrary it is evident that he is fairly well satisfied with himself , with his career . with the means by which he has attained his present place , and with the view taken of him by those of his fellow-citizens to whom he elects to listen . But it is a matter of common notoriety that Mr. WANAMAKER contributed with a generosity that he at one time may have allowed to be . overestimatedto a campaign fund . of the Republican Party that was expended in a most extensive scheme for ' bearing false witness against the majority of the American people , and in particular against - the representatives and leaders ofthat majority in politics . For these contributions and for his zeal and success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. WANAMAKER , on the personal solicitation of Senator QUAY , who directed this scheme , has been made Postmaster-General of the United States . We can not expect that if he was . led to think upon this fact yesterday it was with anything like mortification or repentance. yet it is due to him to know that deleted 3 lines upon this fact in his record as disgraceful to him and humiliating to them . Then as to the second of the simple commandments that we have cited , it is to be noted that the whole plan of bearing false witness , so ingeniously contrived and so vigorously carried out , was inspired by that form of covetousness known as protection to American industry embodied in the present-tariff and still more perfectly and . greedily matured in the Senate Tariff bill , which is another part of the same bargain that made Mr. WANAMAKER PostmasterGeneral . Men who desire that their neighbors shall be compelled by law to pay to them a higher price for their carpets , their dry goods , and their tinware than they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " coveting things that are their neighbor 's , " but are impudent in their covetousness , and , when they pretend that it is for their neighbor 's good , they are frequently hypocritical , as well as covetous . We fear that a close examination would reveal Mr. WANAMAKER in this class . He can not plead , like some who are engaged exclusively in domestic manufactures , that he thinks these to be necessarily cheaper than any others , because he is personally availing himself of the more favorable conditions of production in Germany , where he is making goods with which he undersells American makers and dealers . Now , it is rumored , and the Republican majority in the Senate have framed a bill and passed it that gives - the strongest probability . to - the rumor , that when Mr. WANAMAKER and his associates were asking for money from their business friends promises were made that if money enough was given to secure a , Republican victory a course of legislation should follow that would satisfy the most covetous of the contributors . That the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding can be doubted only by those who suppose that men like Mr. ALLISON discredit themselves and abandon their avowed principles gratuitously , which is an essentially absurd supposition . We have suggested these considerations in connection with Mr. WANAMAKER 'S oath of office , because we regard the taking of that oath and the induction of the present incumbent to the office as marking the consummation of an intrigue of the most serious significance . It is the first of its kind in the history of American politics . Keeping in view Mr. WANAMAKER 'S peculiar reputation as a professedly religious business man , the well-established reputation of MATTHEW QUAY as a dishonorable and unscrupulous political manager , the developments of the campaign crowned by the exposure of DUDLEY 'S flagrant scheme of , corruption and bribery , the enormous money interests depending en legislative.and official favors from the Republican Party , the consideration shown to QUAY , the general Republican satisfaction in DUDLEY , and the final conspicuous reward of WANAMAKER , it is plain that we are in the presence of a pervading de-moralization such as the Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its limits or foresee its consequences . It is meet that the facts and the evidence of them should be clearly called to mind .                     