@@780663

txt The Mansion House Relief Committee announce that the total amount of subscriptions to date is ? .174,801 . Seventy-one grants have been made since the last meeting , amounting to ? 2,445 . Twentyfive hundred pounds have been received from Sydney . New South Wales ; ? 1,000 from Adelaide , South Australia ; ? 1,000 from Madras , India ; ? 20 from O'Keefe &-; Sons , of Toronto , Ontario , and ? 36 from Newmarket , Ontario . LONDON , Feb. 23 . ? A dispatch from Paris says : " The Irish Relief Committee here , headed by Cardinal Guibert , Archbishop of Paris , is composed exclusively of Royalists and Bonapartists , numbering 40 . In an appeal to the press the committee disclaim any political motive , and . say they will undertake to divide the funds between the two committees and the Irish Bishops . " In the House of Lords to-day Earl Cairns , the Lord High Chancellor , introduced bills simplifying conveyancing , facilitating sales and leases of lands , and generally increasing the powers of owners for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these bills passed its first reading . The Seed Potatoesbill passed in committee . ? In the House of Commons . Sir Stafford Northcote gave notice that on Thursday he would move a resolution that whenever any member was named by the Speaker or Chairman of a committee as disregarding the authority of the Chair , or abusing the rules of the House by persistently obstructing business , the Speaker should put the motion without debate , amendment , or adjournment . that such member be suspended during the remainder of that day 's sitting , and if any member be thrice suspended in one session , the third suspension be for one week , after which a motion may be made for a continuance of the suspension , but the suspended member will have the right to be heard in reply to such motion . Subsequently , Mr. Sullivan , Home Ruler , moved that Earl Cadogan , for speaking at an electoral meeting at Chelsea , be summoned before the bar of the House for breach of privilege , as no peer is allowed to interfere with elections ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bar of the House , as he at the same meeting characterized the Home Rulers as a despicable band of Irish rebels . Sir Stafford Northcote pointed out that the meeting was an ordinary meeting of the Conservative Association . Sir William Harcourt opposed the motion by moving the previous question , but said the Chancellor of the Exchequer had to thank himself for it by his course in tho Plimsoll affair . The previous question was adopted by a vote of 229 to 15 . Mr. O'Donnell , Home Ruler , proceeded to raise another question of breach of privilege . Mr. Sullivan , in his speech on his motion , incidentally expressed his intention of raising a question of breach of privilege by newspapers . Mr. O'Donnell , in raising the question of breach of privilege , brought under notice a number of newspaper articles . which , he complained , contained a series of grossly-scandalous libels upon Irish members . He read from the World , the . Advertiser , the Daily Telegraph , the Pall Mall Gazette , and the Liverpool Courier , and interpreted their denunciations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders the charae of complicity with obstruction . He moved that these articles violated the privileges of the House , and handed in the newspapers mentioned for the passages to which he had made reference to be read by the Clerk . The Speaker said it would be trifling with the House to read the extracts . Sir Stafford Northcote said the articles were inoffensive. and moved , as an amendment , that the House proceed to the order of the day . The Marquis of Hartington seconded the motion , and congratulated the Government on adopting the right course ; but , he said , there could be no doubt that some of the newspaper passages read by the member for Dungarvan were serious breaches of privilege . Mr. Shaw ( Home Ruler ) recommended the withdrawal of Mr. O'Donnell 's motion , and Mr. O'Donnell expressed his willingness to do so . His motion was then negatived without division . The amendment to proceed to the order of the day , moved by Sir Stafford Northeote , was agreed to , and the Irish Relief bill was read a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Standard states that rumors were freely circulated on both sides in the lobby last night that an immediate dissolution of Parliament is contemplated . The Standard adds : " These reports are , at present , premature , but if the business of the House continues to be systematically obstructed , the Government will have . no alternative but to dissolve Parliament at an early day , " The Home Rulers will meet to-day to consider Sir Stafford Northcoto 's motion to check obstruction.                     