@@780636

txt What will the Democrats do ? is now the leading question in political Pennsylvania . Criticism having satisfied itself over the Republican candidates and platform , there is considerable curiosity to know who the Democracy will nominate at their State Convention which meets here the 1st of August , and how they will treat the leading issues . How will they deal with the tariff ? Will they say anything about the trade dollar ? What views will they advance with regard to the Nation 's surplus ? are questions frequently asked and variously answered . Although Pennsylvania is a , protection State , the Democratic newspapers deal in a most discreet manner with the tariff ; in fact , upon this subject they are non-committal , because they ' do not know what position the National Convention will take next year , and they realize " that it would be ; very disagreeble to preach one doctrine in a State canvass and take the con , trary position in a Presidential campaign . This gives thorn caution and will account for the lack of exuberance which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaging public attention in this State . So far as the tariff is concerned , it is probable that the Pennsylvania Convention will echo the voice of the Ohio Democracy . That its Utterances will be guarded , there can be no doubt . The Wharton Barker plank in the Republican platform for a division of the Nation 's surplus will be fiercely denounced as rank Communism of the worst kind , and the Republicans will be blamed for the existence of the trade dollar . The Republican Senate of Pennsylvania will come in for a vehement denunciation , and failure it will be thrown the . blame for the failure of the Legislature to pass apportionment bills at the regular session , which made the extra session that now swelters on " the hill " a necessity . Sufficient bruium fuInmen will be made oven this and other matters to turn away attention from , the tariff and place Republicans on the defensive . It is now very evident that ' there will be no Congressional apportionment at the extra session , and Republican legislators will be blamed for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this connection . Such denunciation will have little effect , however , as the nature of the Congressional appotionment which the Democrats seek to perpetrate is well understood by ' the people , and the action of the Republican Senate is . bacied by Republicans  --  both Stalwart and Independent ? throughout the Commonwealth . The selection of delegates goes on quietly in accordance with the " time-honored " methods of the Democratic machine . The various district and county committees meet and select their representatives as usual , and the people know nothing about it until the work is done . There are no primaries held , as was the case with the Republican selection of delegates , and the apathy existing among the people shows that they care very little about the matter . Indeed , they seem to regard this process of grinding out delegates as if it was all right , and appear to think that the county committees are sovereign in the exercise of such power . Few names have been mentioned thus far for State Treasurer or Auditor-General . Those most frequently spoken of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who has a " and who , it is thought , would make a rattling canvass for State Treasurer , and Representative Walker , of Erie , who derives some prestige from the fact that his father was President of the Constitutional Convention of 1873 , and who is looked upon as " a likely candidate " for Auditor-General . Mr. J. K. Bogert , of Luzerne , an ex-Chairman of the State Committee , is also mentioned for Treasurer , - and Hayes Grier , of Columbia , for Auditor-General , but there is not anything like the preliminary scramble preceding the Republican Convention . An effort will be made to keep the Legislature in session 12 days more , ' so that its " moral effect " may be felt in the convention , but it is not likely that this plan will be successful . It is not easy to see where the " moral effect " will come in , unless it is intended as an object lesson to the delegates " fresh from the people , " much as the Spartans set their slaves drunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Possibly the Democratic members pf the Legislature may be able to say to the convention : " Behold how we swelter for the State for $10 a day , and all because the Republicans wickedly refuse to concur in such a sound Democratic apportionment as we desire . " Many a hungry delegate would be glad to change places with a statesman for such compensation , especially when it can , by a shrewd system of strategy , be extended all the way from January to August , with prospects of another session late in the Fall . If the forthcoming convention can , however , see anything in this to justify the distribution of laurels among the members of the Democratic administration and House of Representatives , it must be an exceedingly sanguine body , and anything else it may have to say is not likely to make a deep or lasting impression upon the public .                     