@@743470

txt There is danger that one or two Captains or pilots of the numerous excursion steamers plying about the Harbor of New-York will have to be punished for manslaughter before the people can feel entirely secure on these gay and reckless craft . It is but a few days since one of these vessels heedlessly ran over a small boat and left two of its occupants to drown . Still more recently two of them dashed together , and the weaker was sent to the bottom a wreck because the pilot of each obstinately insisted on its right of way , and attempted to drive the other from its track . Of course , each attempts to throw the blame on the other , and claims that his signals were unheeded , but whichever was at fault in the matter of giving or regarding signals , there is no excuse for the one who kept on his headway even after an observer on shore saw that collision was inevitable unless he slacked his speed . If the other was in the wrong , he had no business to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to get out of the way . That both steamers had landed their passengers and no one was hurt is a fortunate circumstance , as much so for the officers as for anybody else , but it scarcely mitigates the blame resting upon the pilots for their recklessness . The case of the two Coney Island steamboats which narrowly escaped a collision off Bay Ridge on Sunday is peculiarly ex asperating , as showing the danger to which the lives of passengers are constantly exposed , and the jaunty recklessness with which the men in command of these vessels run risks merely to gratify a boyish vanity in regard to their speed . Nobody cares whether the Thomas Myer or the Sylvester is the faster boat . They go to different points , and each has its schedule time , and it is no part of their business to race each other . There could be no plainer confession of utter recklessness than the statement made by the Captain of the Sylvester himself . He thought he could " gain a point " and beat his rival by steering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He did this for no reason , as he himself admits , but to show that lie could beat her , and he performed this tremendous exploit by getting across her course and steaming ahead , compelling her to drop bactli or incur a smash-up . This admission is of itself a sufficient evidence of the unfitness of Capt . POST for the responsibility with which he is intrusted . He does not call his performance racing , because his vessel was only going at her regular speed . It matters nothing what name he gives it , but it was an exhibition of recklessness that ought to cost him his place . These Captains who are so anxious to show off the superior speed of their boats , and so persistent in maintaining their right of way , would do well to display a little zeal in caring for the safety of their passengers and avoiding the risks with which navigation in a crowded harbor are beset . We hear of no sharp competition in this direction . It is evident that more rigid regulations are needed to secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to these excursion steamers and to other craft of a similar kind plying in one direction or another between the City and points along the adjacent coasts . Racing or willful interference of one vessel with another ought to be prohibited under the severest penalties , which should be exacted whether an actual disaster is incurred or not . Prevention is the most important object , and punishment after all the harm has been done affords little satisfaction . In addition to this , more stringent safeguards should be provided to prevent such collisions as that between the Grand Republic and the Adelaide , and the running down of helpless small craft which ? happen to fall in the way of these dashing excursion steamers . Their duty should not be confined to giving signals and screeching out a warning , which it may be impossible to heed . They should be obliged to take positive and timely measures to avoid danger to themselves or to others , instead of driving recklessly on and trusting , to everything in their way to clear the track for them . Above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every act and every omission calculated to incur peril . At this season the waters about the City are alive with craft of every sort . many of which are constantly loaded with passengers . They go in every direction and cross each other 's track continually . Careful and skillful navigation is required to avoid casualties , which may at any time prove most serious . This can be secured only by a strict supervision and the rigid and prompt enforcement of adequate regulations . So far as the machinery for this already exists , it should be put into vigorous operation at once ; so far as it is lacking , it should be supplied at the earliest opportunity . It is a good time now to make a note of deficiencies , that the subject may not be forgotten when the opportunity for more complete legislation shall arrive .                     