@@672058

txt Happily for the country the fame of Mr. CLEVELAND does not depend . upon the record of the Republican organs . History will do justice in the future , as a majority of his fellow-citizens do to-day , to the manner in which ho has performed a difficult task and borne the responsibilities of his high office . But it would be bettor for the organs themselves if they could control their savage instincts and not force the public to believe that they were saved through corruption and treachery alone from defeat by a foe so insignificant as they represent the President to be . If he be really the ignorant , narrow , obstinate , foolish man they now say that he is ; if he has been unable to command the confidence of his own party or the aid of its leaders , as they declare ; if he is distrusted by those who know him and disregarded by the general public , as they make him out to be . it must be a very weak and bad party that could not prevent him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of searching trial . If he be all that they describe , the narrow margin by which the Republicans carried the State of New-York , where the abuse of the President is most virulent , shows that the Republican Party bad very slim comparative claim to confidence . And these conclusions are the more inovitable if we grant that Mr. HARRISON is all that these same organs claim that he is . Every concession of the ability , the character . andthe popularity of HARRISON makes more evident the weakness of the party that with so good . a candidate and so poor a rival came so desperately near defeat . If the Democratic Party was handicapped , as they assert , with a candidate of the most undesirable sort , and the Republicans had the advantage of a candidate of the highest excellence , nothing can account for the failure of the latter to win an overwhelming victory but deep and . deserved . distrust in the popular mind . This would be the logical and unavoidable inference from the statements of the Republican organs , if they were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitter and brutal revilings of men in whom partisan passion and partisan greed had deadened all sense of decency , to say nothing of justice . The simple truth is that the career and the character of Mr. CLEVELAND are hateful to these men for the same reasons that they are honorable to those who respect honesty , courage , fidelity , and disinterested devotion to public duty . Even the acknowledgment of their own party 's lack of public confidence involved in belittling the candidate who won the voice of the people and who so nearly won the Presidency can not prevent them from venting their anger . Not only in despite of their vulgar abuse , but aided by that . Mr. CLEVELAND 'S reputation will rank high in comparison with that of the men who have held the same office . He has served his country well . His service will be recognized in the future even more clearly than it is now . And in no one regard will it stand higher than with reference to the feature in his Administration for which the Republicans now condemn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courted defeat by his tariff-reform policy , it would also be true that no President ever did an act more unselfish or more courageous . But there is no evidence that the tariff-reform message really weakened Mr. CLEVELAND - with the people . His vote , where that message was supposed to have the most influence , was not diminished . The manufacturing districts of the East , in which the tariff scare . was most strenuously worked , have not been affected by it . It is not easy to tell the consequences of what never happened , but two things are as well established ' as anything of the kind can be  --  one that the . protected monopolists ' money bought the election , and the othe that they would have spent just as mire and just as corruptly if Mr. CLEVELAN had never mentioned the tariff in his met sage . But whatever men may believe as t this , the Republican organs do but contril ute to the permanence of Mr. CLEVELAND ' fame by insisting that he braved personi defeat for a cause that he believed to @ @ @ 