@@781643

txt After the acrimony of the election of Speaker and other officers of the House of Representatives comes the acrimony of the apportionment of " good places " on the standing committees of the House . Every Speaker must go through with a campaign of this sort , and Speaker CARLISLE is having his legitimate share of the trouble and worry incidental to the position . This Congress , however , differs from its immediate predecessors in respect of its change of politics . The ' scramble for place is unusual because Democrats are not only taking the places of Republicans as ' ? " door-pullers , " clerks , and . other subordinates , but also as Chairmen of committees and as committeemen in a majority . The heartburnings of candidates and searchers after places of influence are augmented , too , by the ambitions of new members , : who naturally , fail to see why they should not join the general clamor for " recognition . " The political complexion of the House has been changed so completely that the large Republican majority has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a conspicuous element of newness . The new men resent being called " youngsters , " and they object to the monopoly of the best places by the older hands . But even among the old members , the fight is , if possible , more rancorous than any rivalry can provoke between the new members and those who have seen long service in the House . The old hands , following time-honored precedent , are expecting Chairmanships of the standing committees . As there are not a snfficient number of important Chairmanships to satisfy all who have claims based on long service , the Speaker 's embarrassment is great . The Foreign Affairs Committee Chairmanship , for example , which is one of the most important in the House , is contended for by Mr. S. S. Cox and Mr. PERRY BELMONT , both of New-York . ? As Mr. Cox was ? Chairman of that committee when last the Democrats were in power in the House , his claims seem to be better than those of Mr. BELMONT , whose case rests on the fact that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while Mr. Cox was not . But Messrs . BLOUNT , WILSON , and DEUSTER , all Democrats , were all higher up on the roll of members of the Foreign Affairs Committee during the last Congress . Why are they not named as candidates for the honors which young Mr. BELMONT so ambitiously covets ? As for the contest for the Chairmanship of the Committee on Appropriations , in which Messrs . RANDALL and BLACKBURN are somewhat hotly engaged , the same elements characterizing the struggle of Cox and BELMONT appear . Mr. BLACKBURN was on that committee in the last Congress and Mr. RANDALL was not ; but Mr. RANDALL was Chairman of the committee when the Democrats last held the House . As the position now in dispute between these two gentlemen gives to its tenant quasi importance as leader of the House , it is not surprising that both gentlemen should be eager to secure it . The rule that would give Mr. COX the Chairmanship of the Committee on Foreign Affairs would place Mr. RANDALL at the head of the Appropriations Committee , without reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the committee during the long stay of the Democratic Party in the wilderness . There are 43 standing committees of the House , not to mention the joint and select committees . As there are about 190 Democratic members of the House , many of whom have been in Congress before , it is easy to see that the claims of even a majority , of the older members can not possibly be recognized . But it must be admitted that the clamors of the new men are unreasonable . It is said that these assume loftydeleted 5 lines Is this overwhelming political change in Michigan 's delegation to pass without special recognition ? The six triumphant Democrats from Michigan declare that a failure to celebrate this victory with a Chairmanship of an important committee would be a wicked and criminal slight upon their , noble State . It should be borne in mind that the Chairmanship of a committee gives its holder the tenancy of a committee-room . Michigan wants a committee-room , a rallying point . Even the minority in the House is entitled to this concession . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the smallest of small committees , according to usage . Can the Democratic Michiganders be content with less ? For many years , Southern Democratic power in Congress was fortified by the steady return of the same men , Congress after Congress , to the places which they had filled with zeal and . devotion . New men at the head of public affairs are never to be encouraged when men of experience , all other things being equal , are eligible . The law of precedent will send the " youngsters " to the rear . The Speaker , wrestling with these intricate problems , deserves the sympathy of his fellow-citizens.                     