@@744179

txt A terrible punishment Wad inflicted on Mary Lee , a little colored girl , 12 years of age , by her father , Spencer Lee , at Eikridge Landing , in Howard County , a few mites from Baltimore , on Sunday evening , for a very trivial offense . Mary , according to her father , had been in the habit of taking food from her own home and giving it to anoth-r colored girl named Mamie Page , who lived near by . The father heard of this from some of the other children , and on Sunday afternoon determined to punish his daughter . He took the child , stripped her of all her clothing , and then bound her with a piece of clothes-line around the ankles and strung her up to one of the rafters in the roof of his house , with her head hanging downward . She hung directly over the bed in the room , but was unable to reach the bed with her bands . After placing her in this position her father took a birch rod and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance he left the house and came to Baltimore , where he remained until Monday afternoon . Then ho returned home . The child was kept in her terrible position until about 7 o'clock Monday morning , when she was cut down by her little sister , Mettle Lee , who is only 9 years old . During the night this little one placed herself upon the bed and endeavored to support the weight of her sister , whose body she could just manage to reach . The little one was afraid to cut her sister down for fear the father would return and find it out . The mother of the children was absent at service two miles away . After passing the night of torture , the victim was at length freed by little Mattie , who managed , by placing a box upon the bed and then getting upon the box , to cut the cords with a knife . Mary then fell upon the bed , After several hours of intense suffering the girl recovered sufficiently to drag herself to the place where her mother was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the mother at once caused the arrest of the inhuman father , who is now in Howard County Jail , at Ellicott City , to await his trial . Mary , when seen today , was still suffering from her torture and told a very straightforward and undoubtedly truthful story . She slid ebe had never stolen any food or anything else from her father , and that she had given no cause for punishment . She is small for her age and very black . She said that the agony she suffered while hanging from the rafter was extreme , sharp pains constantly shooting through her head until she thought she would go mad . Her little sister , by holding her up , prevented a great deal of her suffering and made it easier for her to bear her torture . When cut down she was unable to move , and lay almost unconscious for a long time . She is still suffering severely from the effects of her brutal treatment . The father was very nervous and excited when visited in the jail to-day . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had remonstrated with the child several times for stealing , and that as his remonstrances had no effect he determined to punish her . He admitted stripping her naked and stringing her up to the rafter , but ho says her head and shoulders rested upon the bed . He also admits flogging her upon the bare skin with a birch rod . He , however , said that he did not draw blood from her body . He claims to have taken the child down a short time after and allowed her to go to bed . This both she and her sister deny , and no one aelieves his story . He says that his wife has left him four different times and has encouraged his children to misbehave toward him , and that he only tried to do his duty toward his children by correcting them when ho thought it necessary . 