@@744772

txt The City was almost bare of Democratic politicians last evening , as all but the small fry had gone to Saratoga to attend the meeting of the State Committee . teen the rooms of the Amsterdam Club , wilere County Democratic leaders do most congregate , and where it was expected there would have been a sort of jollification meeting , were deserted save by the colored gentlemen in charge . A few of the employes of the Department of Public Works and other followers of Mr. Hubert 0 . Thompson met in their customary haunts in the saloons on the extreme east and west sides of the . City , and , over various glasses of beer , congratulated one another upon the victory their organization had won in being recognized as the " regulars . " Tammany and Irving Hall followers were defiant , and their opinion of the situation of affairs was raised by Major Thomas Bogan , one of the Tammany leaders in the Fifth Assembly District . He said : " The 5tete Committee has exceeded its powers in delegating to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the City and County of New-York . With the power delegated to them the County Democracy would control all the primaries and give certificates of election to the Assembly conventions only to such men as they know they can handle . Give them the Inspectors of Election and they can do as they see fit , for the certificates tney issue would be the only ones recognized as regular . They would see to it that only County Democracy men got certificates , no matter what the vote might be . Take my own election district , for instance . The County Democracy men cast 16 votes at the last election , and Tammany cast 159 . Yet if a primary was held in this district the t ; hairman of the district , who ? by the way , lives in the Second Election District , would give certificates of election only to his own men , and where would the Tammany men , who have the vote , be ? Left ? No , Sir ; the scheme wo n't work . Tammany will hold its own primaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will send full delegations to the State Convention at Buffalo , and as contesting delegations we will be heard , and the convention will treat those delegations as they were treated at Syracuse last year . A delegation representing all factions will be given seats in the convention . It was done then , and a victory was won by the Democrats , and the country Democrats wo n't run the risk of a defeat by shutting out the Tammany delegates . We know that , and the action of the State Committee do n't worry us a bit . " If there had been any people at the Blossom Club  --  Tammanv 's head-quarters  --  last evening , they would doubtless have said the same thing that Major Bogan did . But the Blossom Club was deserted , for all the patent-leathered Tammanyites who resort there were at Saratoga . Major Bogan is. therefore , alone in his glory as voicing the unwashed and unterrified followers of John Kelly . 