@@781579

txt The verdict of the star route jury is one that will give comfort and encouragement to all who think it is no sin to steal from the Treasury of the United States . To the honest people of the Nation it is a result unexpected and undesired , a grievous disap- , pointment , and a fresh revelation of the . power of wealthy and unscrupulous gradu- , , ates - of the school of . : " practical politics , " . when confronted in the courts of Washing-. ton by the proofs of their villainy . Now that the defendants in what has been regarded as the first of a series of prosecutions against the members of a great ring , have been acquitted , although the strength : of the Government 's evidence was generally . admitted from one end of the country to the other , the people will very naturally recall the history of the exposure and prosecution of these men with the purpose of finding some causes which may serve to account for this failure of justice . They will recall the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of proceedings in court , after the evidence had been gathered by Postmaster-General JAMES and his subordinates ; the mysterious ; adjournments of Grand Juries , and there-#r tention in office of men who were believed ; to be the allies of the ring . These delays ? were of great service to all of : the defendants , for the statute of limitations was inexorably encroaching , day by day , upon the ' field in which the Government must work , if it intended to work at all , And ' so it happened , because of these delays , because of an unsuccessful proceeding by information , and because of blunders which vitiated the first indictment , that the Government was at last forced to rely for conviction upon evidence relating to acts done after May 20 , 1879 , although the contract term in which the frauds had been committed began on July 1 , 1878 . The evidence not affected by the statute of limita- - : tions was sufficient , but these . delays so di , - vided the - whole body of proof that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rulings of the court upon this point . Although Postmaster-General JAMES and Attorney-General MACVEAGII wereTigorously trying in the early stages of the work to secure the punishment of the guilty , and had been instructed by their chief to " cut the ulcer to the bone , " there was some doubt in Washington at a later day about the real attitude of the present Administration .. It was notorious that the friends of the ring were still in offices where their influence was strong , and observing men saw many things that led them to suspect that the Government was not in earnest . Sympathy with the de- , fendants , always very strong in Washington , became stronger , and did not disappear with the removal of SPENCER , AINGER , and their companions ... Sympathy was not so , openly expressed f in the . ; departments , but the number of the ring 's supporters was not diminished , and there was a feeling of uncertainty , especially among those who knew the history of the first unsuccessful attempt to indict KELLOGG , and who condemned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The atmosphere that surrounded jurors and possible jurors was laden with corrupt sympathy and annoying uncertainty , while the newspaper organs of the defendants - were prejudicing and poisoning their minds in every conceivable way . It the Government had been a person , guarding his own interests , the prosecution of the ring would probably have been conducted more effectively . It was unwise to select as the first in a series of cases one that required so long a trial . The case against BRADY and PRICE was fully as st7ong , and it could , have been tried in less than a month . In some respects it was a stronger case . The Prescott and Santa Fe case , in the prosecution of which the Government took one step . ' . was more compact . The statute now bars proceedings in that direction . The case against the Dorsey group , having been selected , might have been condensed , so to speak , by using only five , or only three , of the nineteen routes . If ' this course had been pursued the trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weary and befogged . A case of conspiracy is a difficult one to try , and it should be made as simple as possible . ' In the last weeks of ' the trial the most powerful arguments for the defendants were found in the columns of their Washington newspapers ; and in the Post Office Department 's treatment of MINER and VAILE . How could the jury believe that the department was prosecuting these men in earnest when it was asking MINER to take contracts ? It can be truthfully said , without questioning their integrity , that several of the jurors were not sufficiently intelligent to sit in judgment in this important case . A great part of the evidence must have been beyond their comprehension . It was certainly unfortunate that in the greatest conspiracy case ever tried in this country the proof was laid before men who could not understand it because of their stupidity and lack of common ' education , who were fuddled with whisky , or who yielded , unconsciously perhaps , to argu-4 ments not made in court . Some indications of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendants , in the community . where the jurors live , ' are afforded by a description of the uproariously joyful scene in and around the court-room after the verdict had been rendered . Many other indictments are pending against BRADY and against other members . of the ring . These persons will be prose- , cuted , if the . Government really desires to punish those who have plundered the Treasury . They should be prosecuted vigorous : ly and without delay .                     