@@745844

txt Shortly after 2 o'clock this morning there was a recurrence of the earthquake disturbances . The shook was severe enough to be felt by nearly every one and excited some alarm , although it did no damage . At Summerville there were several shocks last night , the shock at 2 o'clock this morning being severe enough to rattle the glasses in the cupboards and to shake down a stove pipe in one of the residences . The people , ? however , are getting used to the sensation , and although they do not like it they are going ahead with rebuilding their homes . In Charleston the work of removing the wreck is already beginning to tell . Yesterday the Government Engineers inspected and passed upon 43 public buildings and private residences , and to-day an equal number of houses were examined and wholly or partly condemned . The Sub-Committee of Inspection have in the past four days carefully examined 301 buildings in Ward Two . Of this number 5 were entirely demolished , 57 were referred to the United States Engineers as probably unsafe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are habitable and safe . The work of pulling down the massive porch of St. Michael 's began today , and Mr. Devereaux with a large force of hands is trying to shore up the Custom House porches until the stones can be taken down one by one . The inspectina engineers have performed their duties without partiality , and are determined that no building shall be allowed to stand which endangers human life . Their thorough investigations have established the correctness of even the largest estimates of losses that have been made . At the meeting of the City Council Mayor Courtenay commented with some severity upon the statements of the Herald 's correspondent and said : " The first paper that I read in New-York after I landed was the Berald and in it I found a dispatch from Charleston representing a condition of things here which I confess surprised me very much . It was to the effect that the City Government was inefficient and the police demoralized . Waal I came home I founct that the publication in the Herald . was the worst slander I ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business men could do had been done at the proper time , and had been done efficiently . I came home to find that the Acting Mayor had been ceaseless night and day in the discharge of his duties , and that so far as the report reflecting on the management of municipal affairs was concerned it was simply a gratuitous and uncalled-for slander . I make this statement because in my absence this great calamity has come unexpectedly and because I fail to find in any single particular that anything has been neglected or passed over that might have been done for the general welfare . As to the different departments of the City Government , I am sure that no City Government in the United States has ever made a record equal to it . " Similar statements were made in other Northern papers , and it is perhaps sufficient to say that Mayor Courtenay was not here and that the correspondents were , and that if Mayor Cour- tenay had been in Charleston at the time of the earthquake there would have been no cause for complaint . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earthquakes it may be well to know that in Abbeville County , eight to twelve miles from Ninety Six , there have been strange and unaccountable noises for the last five months , or perhaps longer . Henry Kinard wrote to Spartanburg some time in May , stating the fact and asking for an explanation . He came here in August and stated that the noises continued and could not be explained . It was suggested that it was either blasting or the . running of trains on the railroads . He said that they bad thought of all these things , but the noises did not proceed from any such causes . Many were heard over an area of eight or ten square miles . No special excitement was caused , and only a passing inquiry was made . They were evidently of subterranean origin , such as they have in earthquake regions .                     