@@743307

txt The Republican leaders in Maine have not shown themselves equal to the occasion which they have been called upon to meet . Whatever may be the result of their latest move ; whether or not they succeed in obtaining from the Supreme Court an opinion that the Legislative bodies which they have organized are entitled to recognition ; whether or not they shall finally choose a Governor who can assume his office without disturbance , the sober judgment of the country can hardly fail to be that they have sought justice in a manner unworthy of the great cause of which circumstances had for the time being made them the most conspicuous guardians . They were called upon to show that , under free institutions , a majority , resting upon its legal rights , and confident of their vindication by the regular operation of those institutions , would patiently and firmly bide their time , taking no doubtful steps , and resorting neither to unauthorized force nor to the devices of mere politicians . Had they done so , there was no possible chance that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not only baffled the immediate purposes of the tricksters who attempted to defeat the will of the people , but have given a new and valuable proof of the essential stability of a purely republican government and its capacity to work a peaceful and fair solution of the complications to which it might be exposed by technical defects in its machinery and the machinations of unscrupulous politicians . The prize which was at stake was not at all the present possession of the Legislature or the choice of Governor , but the demonstration that our form of government could free itself from such obstacles as have arisen in the State and as are liable to arise in any community . Certainly no opportunity ever presented to any party was higher , and no duty could be plainer or more inspiring . It was the more reasonable to hope that the Republicans of Maine , having the attention of the entire country fixed upon them , would appreciate their responsibility , because at their head there was a gentleman of national reputation , aspiring to the highest office in the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of acknowledged ability . Mr. BLAINE had a chance to exhibit , upon a stage which , though contracted in one sense , was raised by the eventEeof the hour within the view of the whole nation , those qualities of statesmanship which are eagerly sought in the highest stations  --  clearness of perception , firmness , dignity , and , above all , a calm confidence in the essential efficacy of re- , publican government to vindicate the principles on which it rests without factitious aid from the schemes , devices , or " management " which characterize the meaner contests of partisan polities . Neither he nor the gentlemen with whom he has associated ' himself have proved themselves capable of dealing with the ease , which was presented in a manner to win the respect which they might easily have commanded . They have , on the contrary , descended dangerously near the level of the cunning tricksters to whom they were opposed . They have seemed so intent on the immediate objects of contention as to lose sight of the far greater one that was involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unnecessary and unfortunate air of mystery . Having only to assert the most undoubted rights , and to contend by lawful and open means against a glaring wrong , they have left the country to conjecture that they were either indifferent to , or uncertain of , these rights , and engaged in a struggle of scheming and plotting . The newspapers have been full of reporters ' guesses at the Republican " plan , " which was most carefully concealed at every stage , and have been unable to give the country any intelligible idea of the methods by which the representatives of the majority intended to declare their claims or to sustain them . Up to a certain point , we felt justified in inferring that it was the purpose of the Republican leaders to leave to the Fusionists all doubtful assumption of authority , simply opposing them by the legitimate ways opened by the law in the Legislature or out of it , and watching their opportunity when this authority should be exercised in some concrete form , as it soon must have been , to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failing this , to the ultimate test of a popular election . Though this conclusion was only an inference , it was one which all sensible men were eager to draw . But , at the last moment , when the desperate men who had attempted to steal the Government found themselves apparently helpless to make any use of their stolen property ; when they could get no effective quorum in the lower house ; when the President of the Senate was unable to perform the functions of acting Governor , to which he claimed to be chosen ; when popular judgment , informed by the opinion of the Supreme Court , was showing itself constantly more decided against the absurd fraud that had been practiced , and the conspirators were beginning to be not only depised but ridiculed , the Republican managers organized a new Legislature . It was a hasty step , which , however it may result , showed a most unfortunate lack of appreciation of the real strength . of their position . It abandoned a policy in which every act was so clearly defensible that not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one in which every step must bear the stamp of disputed authority . The Republicans , either absenting themselves from a Legislature which they claimed to be illegally organized and fraudulently constituted , or entering it to defeat its pretended majority by all the obstructive tactics within parliamentary usage , were in a post-. tion beyond all condemnation " or cavil . The burden of acting and of sustaining action before th e law lay on their opponents ; the right of the Republicans to interpose legal obstacles , or to bring the contest at the earliest moment into the courts , was beyond question . The right of the Fusionists to act at all was constantly open to question . The Republican policy could be pursued until it was successful with dignity and without risk . The Democratic policy was dangerous , and its difficulties became every hour greater . Everything was working to vindicate the former and to embarrass and defeat the latter . But now this is no longer true . The Republicans have put themselves in a position where they can do nothing with undisputed right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against a Legislature radically defective ; but defects there are in each . The Republicans are no longer patiently awaiting justice from the unforced operation of free institutions . They have taken it into their own hands , and imposed on the courts not only the simple and inevitable decision that justice was due them , but that they were legally entitled to snatch it without awaiting the slower but surer process that was open to them . . They have given to the very class that has sought to defraud the State the advantage of a precedent that ought to have been steadily refused  --  the precedent of action without the clear , unmistakable , and regularly-obtained sanction of the essential forms of law .                     