@@745413

txt The Mormons have heretofore held their semi-annual conferences in Salt Lake City . These meetings have been regarded as church festivals and reunions , and have drawn thousands of the saints from all parts of the Territory to the capital . When it was announced a few weeks ago by the leaders of the church that the coming conference  --  which is now in session ? would be held , not in Salt Lake City , but in a little village called Logan , near the northern boundary of the Territory , a great majority of the faithful were sorely puzzled . Logan is far from the centre of population , and almost devoid of hotel accommodations . Held in such a place , the conference could not be a general reunion of the saints , but would of necessity be a cold affair , insignificant in comparison with those which had preceded it . Why had the apostles gone out into the wilderness to hold this meeting ? The most plausible explanation is one that throws much light on the real effect of recent legislation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders were unwilling to hold the meeting in Salt Lake City because if held there their weakness and the fact that they have been badly frightened by the course of the National Government would inevitably be revealed to their people . Many of the most prominent mgn in the organization have either fled from the Territory or concealed themselves in it to avoid Deputy Marshals who would like to arrest them for polygamy . These leaders are not attending the meeting at Logan , and they would not have dared to show their heads in Salt Lake City if the conference had been held there . But their absence would excite less comment in the distant village than it would have excited in the city which is the headquarters of the organization . The selection of Logan , ? therefore , was to those who had followed the history of the war against polygamy a confession of distress . In the epistle to the church , read to the conference yesterday , even President TAYLOR found it necessary to explain why he had run away . If the saints ever hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered by this time that from the new Administration they can expect only a continuation of the pressure to which they were subjected by the old . It is predicted that after the new Administration 's policy shall have been demonstrated to them by its acts the apostles will receive and promulgate a new and timely " revelation " providing for a discontinuance or suspension of the practice of polygamy . Perhaps such a " revelation " may be brought out at the next conference if the Deputy Marshals and the courts do their duty in the coming six months .                     