@@780643

txt A question involving the possession of a little island in the Caribbean Sea was raised in this city to-day by the seizure of a vessel 's cargo . In order to fully understand the case it is necessary to explain the law . In 1852 Congress passed a law intending protection to certain guano islands belonging to citizens of the United States , and among other provisions required that atter a limited period of t me the guano should be sold only to citizens of the United States , and that commerce with these islands should be governed by laws regulating the coasting trade of the United States . Now one of the laws governing the coasting trade is that any cargo carried in a foreign vessel in that trade is subject to forfeiture , and a foreign vessel transporting it is subject to a penal tax of 50 cents per ton . On Saturday last the British brig Natilie , Cam Michael Veal , arrived in Hampton ttoads with a cargo of guano from the islands of Pedro Cayes , lying off Jamaica , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 77 ? 53 ' west . This island is claimed by the Custom House authorities here to be one of the guano islands of the United States , and Collector Bowden seized the cargo and reported the case to the District Attorney . who caused it to be libeled by the United States Marshal and imposed the penal tonnage tax or 50 cents per ton . The owners of the cargo . Messrs . G. De Cordova &; Co. , of New-York. claim that the island belongs to Great Britain and that De Cordova &; Co .. of Kingston . have a lease of the islitnd from the Government of Jamaica . They flied yesterday their protest against the seizure . The island is. they say , a dependency of the island of Jamaica and subject to the igristliction of the Governor of Jamaica , and has been an integral part of the lands subject to his authority and to the British Government since the year 1069 . They became , they say , the owners of the cargo by reason of having advanced the full value of it to Gabriel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British subject , who is lessee of the island in question . Collector Bowden did not proceed until be had consulted by wire with the Treasury Department in Washington and was advised to take action as above indicated . Mr. Barton Myers received yesterday a telegram from the British Minister asking the full particulars . The case will go to the United States court , but will eventually go to Washington for adjustment between the Treasury Department and the British Minister . It may , however . assume the importance of a national disputo between John Bull and Uncle Sam .                     