@@745099

txt Many things have happened since the cable the successful laying of the shore end of which is now announced was projected . All of these things which relate to the prospects of the new enterprise are very much in its favor and promise for it great usefulness as a new means of communication between the two continents , and also a pecuniary success which indeed will be at once the evidence and the measure of its public utility . The cable when it was projected was in the nature of an instrument of self-defense quite as much as of a financial enterprise in the ordinary sense of the term . The unscrupulous gambler who has never yet played without cogged dice , had succeeded in " putting " to the corporation which aimed at a virtual monopoly of the telegraphic business of the country the various concerns which he had organized under the pretext of competition with it . He had not only succeeded in inducing the Western Union to absorb these competitors at a fancy valuation , but he had become the directing spirit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interested , in receiving honest and accurate accounts of what is going on could see without concern the transmission of intelligence throughout this country , and between this country and Europe , coming under the control of a money grabber who was universally believed to be without heart , conscience , or shame . That there was specific cause for the general apprehension thus engendered was shown by the efforts which this speculator made to reduce the whole press to subjection by buying one newspaper and bribing another and muzzling a third . The means by which this result was obtained were not in all cases evident , but the result itself was painfully clear . It was then , as we say , a mere matter of self-defense that the independent journals of the United States should possess a medium for the transmission of news which neither was nor could be brought under the control or the supervision of an unscrupulous stock jobber . The strictly financial aspects of the enterprise for supplying such a medium were matters for altogether secondary consideration . This was the state of things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cable which has now come to be properly called the Bennett-Mackay cable . So fast have things moved that it would now seem , to a person who could judge only from the present condition of things , that the apprehension then entertained must have been fanciful apprehension . The stock jobber who had the power of " tapping " every press wire in New-York was then in the seemingly impregnable position of the Psalmist 's acquaintance . He was in great prosperity , and flourishing like a green bay tree . His schemes were aggressive and audacious , and his ambitions were boundless . His paper balloons shone and expanded in the sun till there seemed to be no limit to their power of expansion . But as the temperature gradually lowered they have all shrunk and grown flaccid . Some of them have gone to utter and ruinous collapse ; all of them have lost their bulbous buoyancy , and the inflator can no longer make the biggest of them an attractive object in anybody 's eyes . Without metaphor , the man from whom two years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his defense , and instead of meditating new mischief would be only too glad to be assured immunity from the results of the mischief he has already done . It is plain how this gradual shrinkage of inflated properties to their just dimensions must affect a new enterprise . In order to retain its monopoly a controlling corporation must buy up all its competitors , and if its competitors have been shrewd and merciless , must buy them at a price far exceeding their value , which for its own purposes may be nothing at all , their cost being represented by additions to the sum on which the earnings of the consolidation must pay interest . The cable lines now leased by the Western Union Company , according to a recent statement , represent $64,000,000 . The cost of the new cable , ready for service , is put by the same auhority at . $8,000,000 , and the capital of ? the company represents this cost . It seems plain that the new company will be able to carry messages , as it proposes to do , at half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have richly earned these profits by the enterprise and courage they showed , at a time when the financial prospects of such an undertaking were far less bright than , they are now , in resolving to furnish a line of telegraphic communication between Europe and America that could not be tapped or tampered with in the interest of a speculator , and that should be managed with a view to competition with the existing companies , and not with a view to keep up ' a show of competition with a view to compelling a new consolidation .                     