@@781807

txt An indiscreet and perhaps malevolent person who once breakfasted with the late RALPH WALDO EMERSON has revealed the fact that Mr. EMERSON was accustomed to eat pie at breakfast . This revelation has naturally caused a very painful sensation , and not a few persons who had hitherto admired what they conceived to be the philosophical ideas expressed in Mr. EMERSON 'S writings have suddenly discovered that Mr. EMERSON was not a philosopher and that his writings are filled with the vagueness that characterizes a mind warped and weakened by pie . The abhorrence which good men feel toward pie is not , at first sight , easy of comprehension . Pie consists of two layers of pie crust inclosing a stratum of stewed fruit or vegetables . The same compound is known in England under the name of tart , and an Englishman can eat ? at a proper time of day , of course  --  raspberry , apple , or other tarts without exciting indignation . Indeed , no one in England dreams of classing tarts among hurtful or immoral articles of diet , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sees Americans in the act of eating pie is at once filled with horror and indignation . Inasmuch as the tart does not differ from pie , except in size and shape , it seems strange that one should be innocuous and honorable and the other deadly and shameful . That pie is injurious to the body , mind , and soul of the consumer can not be denied . It attacks the tissues of the body and causes the victim to waste away until he becomes a mere skeleton covered by a parchment-like skin of the toughness of ordinary pie crust . It weakens the mind to such an extent that , in regions where pie is generally eaten , scarcely a man or woman reaches the age of 25 without having written poetry or having attended the Concord School . of Philosophy . The deleterious effect of pie upon the moral nature is notorious , but it is probably of a secondary character . Where the intellect is weakened and the body attenuated it is to be expected that the sufferer will become irritable and morose , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of discriminating between right and wrong . Why American , and especially New-England , pie crust and fruit should be capable of forming a combination so totally different in its effects from the combination of the same elements known in England under the name of tart has hitherto been inexplicable . Dr. HENN , the eminent Cincinnati microscopist , has at last made a discovery which throws a flood of light upon the action of pie . It has been noticed by more than one observer thafthe baked beans of Boston produce symptoms closely resembling those produced by pie . Dr. HENN has discovered in baked beans a microbe to which he ascribes all the painful symptoms which affect bean-eaters . He inoculated a dog with this microbe , and the animal at once developed a tendency to wander vaguely about the yard , a total want of interest in wholesome and appetizing bones , and a fondness for sitting on end and gazing silently at the moon , with tears trickling from his eyes . After suffering under these philosophical and poetical symptoms for three days the dog died , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the baked bean microbe . Dr. HENN next subjected an apple pie to the microscope , and found the baked bean microbe present in countless myriads in the pie crust . A second dog inoculated with this microbe developed the same symptoms that were produced by inoculation with the baked bean microbe . Long and careful repetition of these experiments has established beyond any possibility of doubt the true cause of the injurious effects which follow the consumption of both pie and baked beans . It is Dr. HENN 'S opinion that by prolonged cultivation the pie microbe can be attenuated to such an extent that a human being can be harmlessly inoculated with it and thereby made proof against all injury from eating pie . Until that is done , however , the doctor recommends that no pie shall be eaten until it has been thoroughly disinfected by prolonged immersion in a bath composed of carbolic. acid , Worcestershire sauce , and permanganate of sulphur . The same rule should apply to baked beans , and we may feel reasonably sure that were these articles of New-England diet to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flood of poetry , philosophy , and general misery which has hitherto devastated so large a part of our country .                     