@@671869

txt THE MUNICIPAL BUILDING . The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund . announce that the drawings for the new municipal buildings will not be exhibited to the public . They have taken the sensible step of asking the American Institute of Architects to name seven architects from whom they themselves are to select three as judges of the designs submitted in competition . It is to be hoped . and presumed that these judges will be left untrammeled and at liberty to reject all the plans if they find none of them suitable for the purpose of the city . It is quite certain that this will be the result of an untrammeled inquiry . The Commissioners are some months too late with their determination to take professional advice with regard to the planning and design of the new buildings . If one of the Commissioners were not a distinguished lawyer we should say they had also erred in omitting to take professional advice as to the legality of their project The fact that the Recorder is a Commissioner of the Sinking Fund . may be accepted as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propose to erect two buildings under the cover of legislative authority to erect one will be sustained by the courts if it is brought before them , though it may be evidence only of the Recorder 's opinion that the question is not likely to be raised . It remains true that the device is a dodge of a very undignified and unworthy kind . Separate bills were introduced into the Legislature authorizing the Commissioners to erect two separate buildings , one for the criminal courts and one for other municipal purposes . The former succeeded and the latter failed . Thereupon the Commissioners adopted a plan for nullifying the action of the Legislature by erecting both the building they had been authorized to build and the building for which the authorization had been refused . This they proposed to do by putting one up on one side of the City Hall and one on the other , and calling the group of buildings thus formed " a building . " The plan for this " building " the Commissioners went on to make out of their own heads . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propose to take now , it might have done them some good . But , in fact , it does not appear that the plan was submitted to the judgment of any expert before being formally adopted . as the basis of an architectural competition . As soon as it was made public it was seen to be an effort of crude amateurism , which threatened . a result practically inconvenient and . inadequate . awkward and difficult almost to the point of impracticability in construction , and architecturally impossible . This was promptly pointed out in technical journals as soon as the plan was published , and the character of the plan , together with the conditions of the competition , deterred architects who had . anything else to do from engaging in it . It is quite certain , on the one band , that the Commissioners have no right to select a design based upon a plan differing in any essentials from that adopted by themselves , and , on the other hand , that no design based upon their plan will be fit to be built . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least to themselves , that they have made a great blunder and go on to rectify it . This can be done by obtaining authority froni the Legislature for what they wish . to do , and then by engaging competent architects to advise them from the beginning how they are to go about to do it .                     