@@744202

txt The Senate has passed the bill to throw into market the lands lately occupied in Colorado by the Ute Indians . This tract , which comprises about ten millions of acres , was once solemnly ceded to the White River and Uncompahgre Utes as a reservation . In course of time , Colorado became so thickly settled mat there were frequent collisions between the Utes and the white people . It was thought to be a great shame , moreover , that a tract of land so extensive , rich , and capable of producing much wealth , should he left to the domination of savages . It ( lid not matter that many of the Indians were:engaged in farming and stock-raising , and were attempting to live " like white people . " There was only one answer to all objections to a forcible removal of the Utes : " We want their land and we are bound to have it . " The hostilities provoked by the white settlers furnished fresh pretexts for the summary expulsion of the Utes , and it was finally agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the removal of the Indians should be begun . There could be but one conclusion to such a proceeding . The Indians very well know that when the Government begins to " negotiate , " it will accomplish the desired end as rapidly as possible . This was the result in the Ute case . With great reluctance , and with many protests , the Indians agreed to surrender their lands . Some of our readers may remember the descriptions given of the scenes witnessed at the reservation when the expelled families left their homes . The women wept and embraced the ground on which they had been born and reared , and the men went away in moody silence . One of the arguments advanced by those who favored the breaking up of the reservation was that the tribal system was the great hindrance to the civilization of the Indians . Induce the red man to settle on his own land , and we shall have started him on the right path toward an enlightened and self-supporting career . It was conveniently forgotten that the attempts of the Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so long as be is never sure from season to season where he will be when the next seeding-time comes . It is the policy of the Government to keep the Indian continually moving . But , as if half-repentant for the heartless expulsion of the Utes , and to soften the cruel blow , it was agreed that those members of the tribe who were willing to take up small lots of land , in severalty , should do so , and should have the first choice of the agricultural land inside of their former reservation , and that the Government should assist them in beginning life on their own responsibility . It will be remembered that the Government owed them several installments on their old annuities , duo and unpaid . The promised help was not in the nature of a gratuity . This agreement was ratified by the last previous Congress , and it was solemnly provided that the lands should not be thrown open to general settlement until the Utes should have had an opportunity to settle themselves . Day before yesterday the Senate passed the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old story . The Indians were beguiled into giving up their reservation on various pretexts , the promise that those of their number who might elect to remain should have a chance to live on their own private property being one of the principal allurements employed . Almost as soon as the Government secures possession of the land it proceeds to violate its agreement with absolute calmness and deliberation . Last February , the Secretary of the Interior reported that the removed Indians were restless and dissatisfied , and that the opening of the reservation to settlement before the allotments in severalty were made would be unadvisable . But the reply of the covetous settlers has been , " We ca n't wait . " That which is unknown is always magnificent , and the most fabulous stories are told of the enormous wealth and productiveness of the secluded territory . Men 's imaginations are inflamed by reports of beds of precious ore , a fertile soil , and a land covered with timber and intersected with plenteous streams . Perfidy to the Indians is a matter of no moment when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of possessing so fair a domain as this is represented to be . , Even where attempts have been made to settle the Indians on farms of their own , near the exterior lines of the former reservation , the " nearest white settlers have objected and have demanded that these undesirable neighbors shall be removed . There are sentimental people who , in the face of facts like these , pretend to think that the-true solution of the Indian problemis to be found in educating the Indian children and giving the mature people an opportunity to support-themselves on their own lands . This is impossible , simply for the reason that there is no cultivable land anywhere within the limits of the United States on which the Indian will be permitted to live in peace . The policy of the Government toward the Indians , ever since we have had a Government , has been to compel the Indians to move on . This policy is compelled by the public opinion that prevails in the regions nearest to the haunts of the red men . That opinion is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resist . It is idle to talk df education and a veneer of civilization for human beings who are doomed to be wanderers on the face of the earth . In theory , the white man desires that the Indian shall lay aside his savage ways and live like a reasonable and reasoning creature . In practice the Indian is denied by the white man the slightest op- portunity to redeem himself and to establish himself in the arts of peace .                     