@@671704

txt The complicity of certain lawyers of this city in the crime of bribery , of which JACOB SHARP has been convicted , and in the crime of grand larceny . of which Judge BARRETT declared that he might have been convicted , should not be allowed to drop out of the public mind . - until something has been done about it . Lawyers , no matter what their standing may previously have been , should not be permitted to aid and abet the commission of crimes with impunity . It is the honorable function of their profession . to assist in the administration of the laws , and it is for that reason that they are regarded as officers of the courts . If they counsel violations of law and assist therein they disgrace their profession , betray the cause of justice , and deserve to suffer the penalties of wrong-doing . If they counsel and assist in the perpetration of crime , they are . as Judge BARRETT plainly declared , in the eye of the law guilty as principals in the criminal offense committed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Directors of the Seventh-Avenue and . Broadway Railroad Company , in issuing more than half a million dollars of bonds for purposes not defined , the proceeds of which were not accounted for , but which were used . to bribe the Board of Aldermen , committed grand larceny in the misappropriation of those funds . It has been proved that the money so raised was in fact used . by SHARP and others in his interest for the purposes of bribery , which constituted a second crime . It is plain on the evidence , including that of the lawyers themselves , that the transactions involving these two crimes were conducted under the advice and with the constant direction and assistance of two members of the firm of ROBINSON , SCRIBNER &; BRIGHT . The forming of the sham corporation through which SHARP betrayed his trust as a Director of the Seventh-Avenue Company and made a profitable contract with himself , the unlawful issue of the bonds of the Seventh-Avenue Company and the misap- propriation of the proceeds , and the actual bribing of the Aldermen were all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these lawyers . Their - Office was the . headquarters for all the ? proceedings , the place where they were conceived , matured , and carried , into effect , and they were the active and ' directing spirits in the whole business . One of them testified that matters connected with these transactions absorbed the greater part of their time for months , which accounted for the enormous fees paid to them . The criminal character of the business Rrobably accounts also in some measure for the extravagant rate at which their services were paid . These , lawyers were active participants , in short the efficient factors , in the commission of ' two distinct ' crimes . and without their assistance or that of others like them the crimes would not have been undertaken and carried through . Now , what is going to be done ' about it ? We deem it of very great importance in the effort to check and uproot this dangerous and demoralizing crime of bribery that the conspicuous part which these lawyers took in the infamous Sharp business should not go . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the judiciary is concerned in it , and the public is concerned in it . What can the legal profession do ? It can purge itself of the disgrace by condemning and discountenancing the conduct of these lawyers and cutting them off from association with members of the Bar , and the appropriate agency for this purpose is the Bar Association of this city . What can the judiciary do ? The Supreme Court can , by proceedings initiated by itself or on motion proceeding from the Bar , expel these men from the further practice in. this State of the profession whose honor they have betrayed , whose good name they have disgraced . And what ? can be done in behalf of the public ? If , these men have committee crimes by counseling , aiding , and abetting grand larceny and bribery , they should be indicted and put on trial for it , and if found guilty they should be punished precisely as if they had not been acting under the ? cloak of the legal profession . It is - the duty of the first Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' crimes committed within this jurisdiction to take up this matter and call for evidence upon which an indictment may be framed , and it is the duty of . the prosecuting officer of this county to facilitate that task . We shall not allow this duty to ? be forgotten , and justice Will not be vindicated for the infamous crimes of 1884 so long as the lawyers who participated in them go free from punishment .                     