@@743749

txt It is hardly fair , perhaps , to judge of Commodore SHIIFELDT 'S theory of naval maintenance from a single article in the series which he proposes to write . But , in the first paper which he has published , we find what may very properly be taken as a complete statement of one branch of his subject . The Commodore argues that a fight for ocean rule brings out the dormant powers of a people . This proposition he is able to establish by citations from our own history . When we recall to mind the feebleness of the Navy of ; the American colonies , called into being by act of : the Continental Congress of 1775 , we may well be amazed at the achievements of that Ibranch of the service of the fighting patriots . The original act authorized the construction of fifteen war ships . But , between that time and the close of the war of the Revolution , the Navy of the young Republic grew to a force of forty ships , manned with the most daring , adventurous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea-board States were not then , as now , so overshadowed by the vast agricultural and manufacturing communities of the interior as to feel that they were fighting the naval battles of their country almost single-handed . The exploits of PAUL JONES , BIDDLE , and NICHOLSON not only enriched the history of maritime adventure and prowess of the world , but signally aided in securing that national independence for which our fathers fought . Without the Continental Navy , the war of the Revolution would have . ended in failure . But , if the achievements of the Continental Navy , viewed from this remoter point in our history , seem marvelous , considering the magnitude of the power against which the colonies contended , the subsequent exploits of DECATUR , BAINBRIDGE , TRUXTON , PREnLE , PORTER , and other brave American naval officers , gave us a place among the nations as a power to be respected . The wild sea rovers , who carried dismay and destruction into the British fleets in earlier years , were credited with a certain savage dash and energy against which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain were ineffectual . This was a species of guerrilla sea-fighting , it was said by unfriendly critics . The American Navy would be helpless when taken away from the coasts of home and compelled to adopt the systems of naval warfare in vogue among highly civilized nations . But the war with the Barbary corsairs , in which the great names above quoted appeared with renewed lustre , taught those who were preying upon our peaceful commerce that we had a Navy as well as a fleet of merchantmen . European powers had paid tribute to the Barbary States . The young Navy of the new Republic broke up forever the system of piracy which had so long been the terror of foreign seas . And this brilliant episode in the history of our country , romantic and fascinating as it is in its details , gave the American Navy a prestige of which we may well be proud . It was an episode which should be studied by every child of the American Republic . From these two notable chapters in the history of the American Navy , Commodore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main proposition  --  the American Navy should be sustained . And , if further illustration were necessary , it may be found in the narrative of the naval conflicts of 1812 , in which the honor and prowess of the Republic were defended and asserted in sea fights which will be forever memorable . It is probable that the boys of this generation do not hang with such delight as did their fathers over the printed pages on which were recounted the exploits of the Constitution , the Wasp , the United States. , the Chesapeake , the Enterprise , and other craft now historic . If not , more 's the pity , for the story of those memorable engagements is not only brimful of exciting interest , but it is also inspiring of patriotism to every true son of the Re- public . Our Navy of that day , as has been forcibly remarked , was the savior of American honor , dignity , and property . It was no longer true that Great Britain had no peer upon the sea , And the history of those times records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English people received the news of astonishing disasters to their hitherto invincible fleets . The naval war of 1812 is among the glories of the American Republic . The Navy retrieved upon the sea the defeats which we suffered on the land . Advancing a step further , Commodore SHUFELDT recalls the wonderful work of the reorganization of the American Navy which was made necessary by the war of the rebellion . Our feeble force was then scattered in every sea . It was recalled , recruited , and expanded until forty ships became four hundred , and four thousand men became forty thousand . As of yore , heroism and patriotism were found in every grade of the service . Thus the Navy which had been suddenly created in 1775 , and was re-created in 1861 , became once more the force which turned the victory in favor of the Republic . Commodore SHUFELDT argues that if we are to have a Navy in time of war we must have one in time of peace . But does anybody seriously propose to abolish the United States Navy ? If not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch of the public service . We all agree that we must have at least the nucleus of a Navy . If a powerful and brilliantly active force was called into existence when the war of the Revolution began ; and if a new Navy was created from the scattered fragments of the naval force of 1861 , why can this not be done again when the need arises ? We required a great Army when the civil war broke out . A million men responded to the call to arms . We may need another Navy like that which is made illustrious by the names of FARRAGUT , RODGERS , CRAVEN , and other heroes . When this time comes , from the naval force now fostered and sustained by considerate legislation , we shall raise whatever we require . For more than this we need not provide .                     