@@744385

txt The long strike of the iron-workers Is over . For the first time in the history of the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers they have been defeated in an effort to secure a scale of wages adjusted by their representatives . That the manufacturers would win this long fight became apparent several weeks ago , and was assured by recent action on the part of different classes of the strikers . Since the first of June , when all the iron mills suspended operations in this district and 10,000 skilled iron-workers went on strike , there have been many exciting days , but on no other occasion was the interest more intense than tc-day . Everybody knew that the representatives of , the striking iron-workers were to consider for the first time as a body whether it was advisable to continue the strike or return to work at last year 's wages , and although the statements of a few persons who were supposed to know inclined many to believe that a determined stand against surrender would be taken , the conservative element predominated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! d scale . Delegate meetings for the purpose indicated above were field in this city , in Wheeling , West Va .. and Youngstown , Ohio . head-quarters of the First . Second , and Sixth Districts . respectively . At the meeting in this city all the lodges in the First District were represented . The streets in the vicinity of the hall were thronged all the afternoon with an anxious crowd in which the sixdollars-or-no-work element seemed to be in a noticeable minority . President Jarrett was called to the chair notwithstanding the fact that many puddler delegates were outspoken in favor of s-sine other officer taking charge of the assemblage . After a full expression of opinion from all present , Mr. Jarrett , in a long speech , informed the men that the time had arrived for ending the lock-out . That the tight had been honorably and fairly conducted by all parties interested , and that a prolongation of the struggle only meant defeat and disorganization. lie advised the men to accept the ultimatum or the manufacturers . Ills remarks were well received and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a telegram from Youngstown stating that the men in the Sixth District had unanimously declared in favor of going in at the old scale . This stiffened the backbone of the conservatives and caused the fighting ones to waver . The vote la favor of accepting the $5 50 scale for boiling iron was Si : in favor of Sti and a continuance of the strike , 27 ; majority in favor of accepting the inevitable , 54 . Shortly after this action the delegates separated . The news was soon spread through the throngs on the streets in the vicinity or the hall and was received without demonstration of any kind . A few mutterings were heard , but the majority appeared satisfied . The vote on the question of resuming under the old scale in the three districts is as follows : Pittsburg , 81 ; Wheeling , 17 ; Youngstown , 48 . Against old scale and in favor of S6 per ton : Pittsburg. 27 ; Youngstown , 8 ; Wheeling . 18 . Total majority in favor of old scale , 93 . Tho Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1 . Tho result of the meetings will be transmitted to the Manufacturers ' Association to-morrow . They are jubilant over their victory in a quiet way . All the mills will be started up with the old forces in a few days , as no hitch is even hinted at by any person now in the Motioning Valley . Several mills will resume to-morrow , and the others as soon as repairs are completed . This day 's work is hailed with delight by all classes of people in Northern Pennsylvania . 