@@744349

txt The dentist 's office holds in the imagination of the present generation the place once held in the imagination of our ancestors by the torture chamber of the Inquisition . Men will endure almost any pain except that-inflicted by a dentist , and so intense is*this horror of the dentist 's office that the mere sight of the " operating chair " will often drive away a toothache that for hours has rendered the patient nearly frantic . There is nothing particularly horrible in the appearance of the operating chair . It lacks the cruel head-clasps of the photographer 's chair , and does not differ greatly from the barber 's chair , into which the American citizen habitually flings himself and goes to bed after having partially undressed himself . The array of dentists ' tools laid on the little table in close proximity to the chair is indeed rather appalling . The patient can not help noticing how well some of these tools are fitted to search out and tear his sensitive nerves , and how others seem intended to drive tunnels through his jaws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skull or downward into the recesses of his boots . He has also good reason to fear the firm and remorseless hand of the dentist , and he knows that within two minutes after placing himself in the chair the dentist will thrust a small steel crowbar into the very seat of his toothache , and will simultaneously remark in an exasperatingly quiet way , " Ah ! ? it seems to be a little sen- .. sitive , does it ? " Granting that the dentist 's chair is not in itself an alarming object , . it is so closely associated with the agent ' and instruments of torture that we need not wonder that it is dreaded with such intensity by all sorts and conditions of men . There are persons of strong nerves and ascetic temperaments who pride themselves upon the fearlessness with which they visit dentists and the calmness with which they ' suffer torture . The majority of men , however , only consult a dentist when reduced. , to desperation by long-continued toothache . In their horror of the dentist they will not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unspeakable pain upon themselves in .. the effort to extract their own teeth . Of ' course nothing could be more unreasonable : than this preference of self-inflicted pain. , to that inflicted by professional forceps . The expert dentist who pulls a tooth in the . twinkling of an eye undoubtedly inflicts intense pain besides frightening the patient into the temporary belief that his entire skeleton , . , having become mysteriously and indissolubly connected with the tooth , has ' veil dragged completely out of his body ; but after all , the man who pulls his own tooth inflicts worse pain upon himself than the dentist could possibly have inflicted . When au unhappy child is undergoing his first great dental trial  --  that of losing his front teeth  --  lie is often promised immunity from the terrible dentist on condition that he will tie a string to the particular tooth that needs to be removed , and will permit some member of the family to slyly twitch the string . This process can not be tried by adults suffering from toothache , since selfrespect forbids a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mouth , and a wholesome fear of sudden death would deter any person from suddenly pulling such a string . Various other methods of selftorture have , however , been invented by men determined to avoid the dentist 's chair at all hazards , which arc the same in principle as the method just mentioned , but are better adapted to adult teeth . For example , the man who wishes to rid himself of an aggressive tooth will sometimes connect it with the knob of a door by a stout string . He will then sit down at a short distance from the door and endeavor to forget the existence of the string until some one suddenly opens the door , thereby jerking the tooth from its socket . This plan has proved successful in many cases , though it has uniformly led to a quarrel between the owner of the tooth and the opener of the door , but occasionally it has failed to do anything except to inflict inconceivable agony upon the tooth owner without dragging the tooth from its socket . Ingenious people have often suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong and flexible wire with a pistol-bullet the discharge of the pistol would draw the tooth with a rapidity far exceeding that over disPlaYed by the most skillful dentist , but sO far as known , the experiment has never been tried but once , when the tooth and bullet , with their connecting wire , formed a sort of chain-shot , which , in its flight through the air , neatly cut the throat of the experimenter 's wife and afterward broke a valuable clock  --  thus casting a gloom over the whole household . Mr. T. H. Wilkinson , residing in the village of Little Falls , Vt. , recently devised a new and brilliantly successful method of self tooth-pulling . Having endured twentyfour hours of pain in one of his largest teeth , he provided himself with a fifty-six-pound weight and a yard of flexible copper wire . One end of the latter he attached to the weight and the other end to his tooth , with the design of dropping the weight suddenly out of the second-story window . This design he accomplished by placing the weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a long stick , he having braced himself strongly against the table to avoid the possibility of being dragged out of the window . The tooth was firmly fixed in its socket , but the momentum of the falling weight was too great to be resisted . Not only the ingenious person 's tooth , but a quarter section of his jaw flew out of the window after the weight , which landed on the head of a leading citizen , whose skull it dangerously fractured . Mr. Wilkinson and the leading citizen , who are at present both in the hospital , are convinced that , on the whole , it is better for a man to employ a dentist than it is to pull his own teeth . They are unquestionably right , but such is the horror with which men regard the dentist that in all probability they will continue to devise methods of pulling their own teeth rather than to seat themselves in the dentist 's chair . 