@@744111

txt Soon after the Senate met this morning Senator Hawley moved to recommit the bill granting the right of way to the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway across the Choctaw Reservation in Indian Territory to the Committee on Railroads . Representatives of both the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations , he said , were in the city and had brought protests against the grant which the Senate was called upon to ratify . Although a member of the Committee on Railroads , he had not been present at the meeting which ordered the favorable report on the bill . The protests had not peen received until after the report had been made , and he regarded it as a fair request to be granted that the representatives of the tribes interested should be heard . Mr. Maxey , who drew the bill , opposed the motion , as he said it had been reported by nine of the eleven members of the committee . The grant asked for was only an easement , and was demanded in the interest of the people of Texas , who desired to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Fort Smith , Houston , Galveston , and New-Orleans . He was satisfied that the grant would be right , and he insisted that the Government could not allow the Indians to build a Chinese wall in the way of commercial interests . The Chickasaws who were protesting were not directly interested , as the railroad did not propose to go within 60 miles of their reservation . The exclusion of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad would be granting a privilege in the nature of a monopoly to another road . The Senate was full of petitions against monopoly , and he declared that his purpose here was to break this monopoly , and to do it fairly and squarely . Mr. Coke sustained his colleague , maintaining that the rights of white men were as sacred as those of Indians . By the right of eminent domain the Government could cut a pathway for commerce through the Indian Territory and it would do it . Mr. Hawley said that the matter was a mixed question of facts and law , and at last Mr. Maxey consented to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the calendar . It is believed that the bill will again be reported favorably . It is announced that the principal chief of the Choctaw Nation has authorized J. S. Stanley and ex-Chief Allen Wright to advocate the bill before Congress on behalf of the Choctaws , and that they will appear before the committees in a few days .                     