@@780915

txt In the Assembly this morning , in consequence of the absence of about one-fourth of the members , and a number of misunderstandings abouttpaired members , Mr. George W. Robertson , Republican , ol Westchester , offered a resolution declaringthat until an organization had been effected no more pairing would be tolerated , and that no member should be permitted to absent himself without the consent of the House . The resolution was ruled out of order on the point of order made by Mr. Alvord that such a resolution was impracticable , inasmuch as the House was acting without rules , and no authority ex. isted for enforcing the one proposed . Three ballots were taken for Speaker , and an ad. journment was taken until Monday night . The first ballot was as follows : Number of votes cast , 85 ; necessary for a choice 43 . Mr. Alvord , ( Republican. ) 40 ; for Mr. Pat . terson , ( Democrat , ) 38 ; for J. J. Costello , ( Tam .. many , ) 6 ; for J. J. Cullen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and third ballots Mr. Alvord 's lead was reduced by the discovery that one ol the members was paired and the member refrained from voting in consequence . The deg tails of the two ballots were as follows : Number of votes cast , 84 ; necessary to elect , 43 , For Mr. Alvord , 39 ; for Mr. Patterson , 38 ; for Mr , Costello , 6 ; for Mr. Cullen . 1 . The Senate held a 10 minutes ' session to-day , and adjourned over to Monday evening . Mr. McCarthy called up his resolution appointing a janitor and one or twa other officers of the Senate to their respective positions to enable them to draw pay . The appointments are only during the pleasure of the Senate , and the resolution was adopted without opposition . The first annual report of the State Board of Health was presented and ordered printedMr . Jacobs 's resolution , previously noticed , calling for an opinion of the Attorney-General as to the right of the State to collect fees for quarantine service was adopted . There appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the party claiming to have a majority than there was on the . first day of the session . Nor is there any indication that the Republicans will assist either faction of the Democracy in effecting an organization . The only practieable way to put the Senate in condition to transact business would appear to be the adoption of Mr. Dalv 's resolution to refer all bills to the Committee of the Whole . It is a noticeable fact that this method of settling the difficulty meets with strenuous opposition from the lobby and from all outside persons whose interest or vocation it is to influence legislation . The three Tammany Senators are specially hostile to it , which would seem to indicate that their anxiety for the control of certain standing committees is based on other motives than the public good . By the adoption of Senator McCarthy 's resolution to day the payment of Assistant Postmaster Farman , Assistant Librarian Lasher , and Janitor Parker is assured for services rendered . The pay of the Clerk , Journal Clerk , Postmaster , Door-keeper , one assistant , 8er @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of the so-called " Skinner " bill , enacted in 1879. sixty-six bills have been introduced in the Senate since the session began . Several members have measures in readiness to present as soon as an organization Is effected .                     