@@745704

txt The drummer is commonly a chartered libertine in the way of conversation . Whether unfolding his samples and loosening his eloquence in the way of business or gracefully relaxing himself in the discussion of general topics in the ladies ' car or reciting interesting anecdotes in the barroom , he is allowed to deliver himself without interruption . When his auditors become fatigued they fold their tents like the Arabs and silently steal away , unless , indeed , they are in their own counting rooms , in which case they sometimes have difficulty in convincing the drummer that his eloquence is futile , and that they have need of nothing that he can supply . The drummer is not , in fact , taken seriously as a rule by those who encounter him . An exception to this rule has been furnished by a drummer who was temporarily sojourning in Gainesville , Ga. , and who undertook to supply the community with sound views as well as with goods of great excellence on extremely low terms and at discounts and on times unequaled by other houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counter to the local opinion of Gainesville in defending the action of the local Prohibitionists in importing from Atlanta a colored Bishop to advocate their cause . If the colored Bishop had come in African humility instead of episcopal state the friends of rum and of the Caucasian race in Gainesville would not have minded so much . But instead of permitting the Bishop to make his way to a quiet boarding house , carrying his own grip sack , the Prohibitionists met him with a carriage and a band , and " attempted " to install him in the leading hotel of Gainesville . These proceedings the hot Southern blood of Gainesville could not brook , and while a meeting of the first citizens in the barroom of the hotel for some reason neglected to take any hostile action toward the Bishop , they were not in the humor to listen to any palliation of the conduct of those white Prohibitionists who had been making as much of him as if he too were of the dominant race . The drummer , however , ventured upon such a palliation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ col- ored Bishops to sit at the tables of the best hotels , and even to marry white wives . Even under this provocation the Gainesville people restrained themselves . They are a peaceful and law-abiding community , and the " personal difficulty " which the drummer 's incendiary observations invited was averted , while he was strongly advised to suppress his opinions upon the civil rights of Bishops . Well meant warnings are thrown away upon such a desperate character as that of this drummer . We find him , even after discovering that there was a point at which the forbearance of Gainesville ceased , defying public opinion not merely by going to hear the lecture of the colored Bishop , but by expressing upon his return his admiration for the orator , and absolutely by declaring that " he would rather have his daughter marry such a negro than an ignorant white man . " The daughter was apparently purely hypothetical , and the drummer did not mean to offer an actual white girl to the colored Bishop . But his avowed preference for an intelligent negro over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his character . The Gainesville people could not stand everything , and when they were thus foully insulted but one course was open to them . They prepared gently but firmly to mob the drummer , but desisted upon his recantation of his frightful heresies , and his promise to leave the town at once , which he accordingly did , the merchants of Gainesville having in the meantime countermanded the orders they had given him while in ignorance of his true character . As the first instance in which the conversation of a drummer is known to have been taken seriously , this incident of life in Georgia is worth a passing notice . It is not often that a drummer combines a mission with his " line . " In this case the combination is explained by the statement that the audacious traveler is " a Massachusetts man who drums for a Baltimore house . " His commercial enterprise he owes to the city of his adoption ; his moral zeal and his willingness to get himself disliked in obedience to its dictates to the State of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must henceforth abandon either his hope of converting the merchants of Georgia to his own views upon the relations of the races or else his efforts to sell them goods . The people of Gainesville in particular , in common with the people of Georgia in general , are no doubt given to wondering why the natural advantages of the Southern States do not attract wealth and enterprise and immigration from the North . If they will reflect upon it , they will see that their practice of bullying and mobbing , and in extreme cases of murdering , strangers whose opinions upon any subject differ from their own , and who do not care to conceal their opinions , may have the effect of deterring intending settlers . The local chronicler of this affecting tale of the drummer gleefully remarks of ' his hero that " he will probably steer clear of Gainesville for the future . " Men who like to live where they can say what they think without fear of being mobbed will be apt to steer clear of Gainesville ; and the South , for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of small communities animated by the spirit of Gainesville , Ga .                     