@@781785

txt Some conscientious writers , casting about in much perplexity for facts to support their freely expressed conviction that M. GAMBETTA was not a great man , have discovered that he lacked culture . It appears that the French Academy found his published speeches " so incorrect in style and so barren in thought " that after much shaking of heads and having due regard to its weighty responsibility as arbiter elegantiarum it was compelled to " scorn " them . This would have been a terrible blow to the Republican leader had he known about it . But while the forty word-milliners of the Academy were mulling over his old speeches he was electrifying the French people with new ones , and we can not suppose that in the midst of far more important matters he ever took the trouble to inquire whether his " style " was pleasing or painful to the musty immortals . His speeches may have been incorrect in style . Of that no foreigner is a competent judge . But it is an unaccountable perversion of the truth to say that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with reference to the expenditure of thinking power in polishing and elaborating them . Everybody who has read them knows that M. GAMBETTA 'S public , speeches were crowded with ideas  --  original and often startling ideas . A score of times he made France tremble with the violence of his emotion , and sent a thrill through half Europe by putting forth a new political or social idea , born in a lightning flash of speech . There are a few such passages that may.fairly be called epoch-making , but they would have been cut out , most likely , had the Academy been allowed to edit his speeches . Only those who are ignorant of the qualities of GAMBETTA 'S titanic and many-sided mind , or those who , like the peevish pigmies of the royalist and imperialist press , willfully and maliciously misrepresent the man , have ever accused him of being deficient in culture . There was a time , in the days of the heated disputations in the Caf ? Procope , when M. GAMBETTA , with all a young man 's fondness for broad generalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the world 's great men have ever been in similar periods of their lives . But long before he entered public life he had become conscious of his defects and had diligently sought to correct them . Re was a prodigious student , and by the time he was called upon to devote the abundant forces of his mind to the building up of the republic it had been so disciplined and stored with the culture of which he stood in greatest need  --  the culture of affairs  --  and the knowledge of human society and its history that he was never for a moment at a disadvantage in his forensic combats with the best trained men of the Chamber . GAMBETTA did not write ' books , like Tams and GIIIZOT . Aside from his public speeches his only known " literary " production is , we believe , the manuscript work spoken of by the cable the other day under the name of : the " Jurisprudence de Rabelais . " But he did something that for his day-. and for one having his great creative work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a newspaper unlike any other France has ever had , a newananer which has been a tremendous educating force among the French democracy . " Compare for a moment two literary monuments of two eminent statesmen , the representatives of two widely differing schools " of culture  --  the " Studies on Homer and the Homeric Age " of Mr. GLADSTONE and the Republique Franti of LEON GAMBETTA . Ninety-nine persons in every hundred think of Mr. GLADSTONE as a man of wonderful erudition . He has written about HOMER and other Greeks , reasons the multitude , so of course he is a prodigy of learning ; besides , between two speeches in the House of Commons he dashes off a review essay on the Achaian League or the decisions of the Areopagus . This is scholarship , this is culture , indeed . The hasty multitude does not take note of the rather important fact that Mr. GLADSTONE 'S commentaries on HOMER are elaborately and persistently wrong and unscientific ; that real scholars who know something about comparative philology and , comparative mythology smile at his wild Homeric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admiration for one of his budget statements . It is on such a basis as this that the English Premier 's title to scholarship rests . M. GAMBETTA has never been called a great " scholar " or a " literary " man , yet it is easy to see that he used the literary faculty to far greater and more lasting effect than Mr. GLADSTONE . The French statesman in founding the Republique Francaise aimed to create an organ for the expression and wide diffusion of his political ideas , a newspaper which should educate and lift up the masses of the French people , give them a knowledge of their rights , a sense of their power , and thus fit them to take and keep the sovereignty he placed in their hands . In this work he showed transcendent genius . From the day of its founding there has never been an issue of the Republique Frangaiee that did not bristle with republican ideas . It has been a . positivist newspaper in that it has always eschewed speculation and devoted its columns to the living realities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audacious , but never dull . As if by magic a horde of provincial journals of like character have sprung up , so that in every town in France the original journalistic genius of M. GAMBETTA bears daily fruit . To him more than to any other man is due the all-important fact that Paris is no longer France , and the exaltation of the provinces to their proper place has been largely brought about by the Republique Francaise . In the presence of these accomplished facts , with this incomparable work living after him and perpetuating his name , is it worth while to inquire whether M. GAMBETTA was a man of " culture ? "                     