@@743468

txt A most important announcement ris made to-night . A messenger from Samuel J. Tilden , has just reached . this city , and he is , by the best informed , believed to be the bearer of a letter from ? that gentleman , which will have an effect upon the Convention and the party , the full force of which can not now be estimated . The candidate of the party in 1876 seems at last to have decided to withdraw his name . The ' Amoassacior who bears the mesI sage withholds it from the public , but does mot deny that he has such a document in his possession . Two delegates from New-York , who claim to have seen it , declare that it is the most emphatic and powerful paper ever prepared for presentation to a deliberative body . In it Mr. Tilden says that a consciousness of his physical infirmities has induced him to be lieve that he ought no longer to be a candidate ; that some younger man should cake his place , and that he gladly gives up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of the party . The existence of a letter of this peculiar character has aroused much shrewd comment and no little discussion as to the proper course to be taken in relation to it . A large meeting of the friends of Mr. Tilden was held to-night , and it was the universal opinion that the party should give to Mr. Tilden a unanimous complimentary vote with the understanding that afterward. his name would be withdrawn by the reading of this letter . There are some of his friends who will favor the complete withdrawal of his name before the Convention meets , unless the complimentary vote is agreed upon . To those who know the subtlety of the man , it does not seem impossible that this letter should really become a means by which he may snatch victory from the jaws of defeat , and that it should have been unheeded by this consummate manager as an appeal which delegates could not resist . The descriptions of it which are given by the favored few who have seen it show that it is no ordinary composition , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may recall to Mr. Tilden those who have strayed from his fold , and . may accomplish for him that which his most influential friends and supporters have failed to secure . It may not be absurd to expect a revulsion of sentiment in the Convention and a return to the old . man whose nomination is the only logical result of the party 's course for over three years , if this most important paper is - handled by men whose heads are half as long ' as that of the man who wrote it . Among the many . opinions which the letter has called . forth is this , that it is the act of a man who sees that he can not secure the nomination in the ordinary way , and who makes a desperate bid for it by this appeal . Men who hold this opinion regard it as strange that Mr. Tilden was unable to discover his physical weakness until the gathering of delegates in this city concentrated and emphasized the opposition to him 1 which had been slowly but surely growing in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be made public before the meeting of the Convention , or after the first ballot has been taken , or whether it will be presented at all , remains to be seen . It is only certain that Mr. Tilden is now regarded as being absolutely out of the contest . His vote is all going to pieces . At a meeting of the Pennsylvania , delegation held to-night , 27 of the delegates who were known to have been for him , have declared themselves in favor of Randall .                     