@@744586

txt A great deal of trouble is taken by statesmen to preserve the balance of Europe . It is held that no one nation should be permitted to become so powerful as to threaten the independence of other States , and thus compel them to remain in constant dread of attack . Very probably it is a judicious thing to preserve the balance of Europe , but why has not some one long ago discovered that the balance of animals needs to be preserved , and is hardly inferior in consequence to any other variety of balance . The human mind is so constructed as to . instinctively dislike whatever is disproportionately large or small . Years ago a vessel sailed from Boston carring five missionaries and eight hundred hogsheads of ruin . Every one felt that there was a glaring disproportion between the missionaries and the rum , and it was univeri.ally agreed that either there should have been.more missionaries or less rum . Where one ' species of animal is vastly in excess of another , the disproportion strikes the thinking ' , man as something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly 240,000,000 people , about 20,000 of them are annually killed by snakes . Now , not more than 10.000 Indians really need to be annually killed by venomous snakes , and hence there is a widespread feeling that there is a disproportionate quantity of snakes in India . Either the population should pe doubled or the number of snakes should be reduced one-half . In either of these ways the proper balance could be established . No regard has ever been paid by mankind to the balance of animals . In fact , whenever man has interfered among the animals it has been for the purpose of exterminating one class for the benefit of another  --  a system wholly incompatible with the balance of animals . For example , there were the worms that infested New-York a few years ago . There were too many of these worms . They had increased to such an extent that the supply vastly exceeded any possible demand . In these circumstances the English sparrows were imported , not to form a counterpoise to the worms , but to exterminate them . The sparrows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extent that they are now the dominant bird and permit no other variety of bird to live within reach of their bills . It is easy enough now to see the mistake we have made . We should have permitted only as many eparrows to live as would have been sufficient to destroy about half the worms . Thus both worms and sparrows would have been kept within reasonable limits , and a just balance between them would have been preserved . The penalty of failing to preserve the balance of animals is a heavy one . Man always suffers when the balance is disturbed , and his favorite remedy of exterminating the dominant race of animals by some other race , which in turn needs to be exterminated , entails endless labor . The English colonists in New-Zealand undertook to disturb the balance of native animals by introducing rabbits . Of course , the rabbits increased so rapidly that the colonists are barely able to maintain the struggle for existence against them . Accordingly , the mongoose is now being imported into New-Zealand in. order that he may exterminate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in his turn the mongoose will acquire a preponderance which will compel the colonists to find some other animal to extirpate him . Thus there is no end to the policy of animal extirpation . It reminds one of the Italians of the Middle Ages who first brought in the French to drive the Germans out of Italy ; then . brought in the Spaniards to drive out the French , and finally fell back upon the Germans and induced them to drive out the Spaniards . The balance of animals was fatally disturbed in Boston some years ago . The worms of Boston Common were exterminated by the sparrows . Squirrels were then introduced , and before long eater ; minated the sparrows by the process of eating their eggs . The excess of squirrels ' was , then sought to be reduced by the introduction . of cats , who did their work so thoroughly that in the course of a , year few squirrels survived , and the Common swarmed with cats to such an extent , that no respectable person cared to enter it . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the introduction of police-1 men , who soon killed the cats . At this point the resources of the authorities were exhausted . No one could think of any animal warranted to exterminate the Police , and as a consequence the latter still infest the Common to the complete exclusion of all other animals . The same unscientific method is now sought to be applied to our own Central Park , where nothing but Mr. BERGU prevents the policemen from exterminating the squirrels that exterminated the birds that exterminated the worms that threatened to exterminate the trees . Once let mankind understand that the balance of animals ought in all circumstances to be preserved , and we shall have no more trouble from animals . Had we computed , in a really scientific way , how many worms , how many sparrows , and how many squirrels we needed , and had we then taken pains to see that neither the sparrows exterminated the worms nor the squirrels the spare rows , all would have been well . There must be a certain amount of worms which would satisfy all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond which the multiplication of sparrows and squirrels , and even policemen , becomes a nuisance . We should first ascertain just how many animals of any one kind are needed in order to prevent an undue preponderance of any other kind of animals , and then with this knowledge at our command we should bend all our energies to the work of preserving the balance of animals .                     