@@780818

txt At St. John 's Catholic Church , in Lock-street , this morning , the Pastor , the Rev. Father Moriarity , announced the decision of Bishop 21IcNierney annulling the marriage of Elmer Rivest and Miss Anna La Fronier , which was performed on Dec. 28 by Mgr . Guay . Father Moriarity said that the sincerest sympathy is felt with the unfortunate young lady and that no blame rests upon her , she being the victim of bad advice . In conversation with a TIMES reporter this afternoon , Father Moriarity said : " This is an extremely sad case , but the laws of the church are rigid . Nothing is stricter than our laws regulating marriage , and the church has never made an exception to them in favor of any person . Henry VIII . pleaded with the Pope in vain to have his marriage with Queen Katherine annulled . Had the Pope granted his request England might have been saved to the church and be a Catholic country today . The church preferred to lose a kingdom rather than alter one iota of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnestly and almost savagely to get the Pope to annul the marriage of his brother Jerome Bonaparte with Miss Patterson . After a person is once married according to ecclesiastical law , such a person can never marry again so long as the partner lives . A subsequent marriage may be legal in civil law , but the contracting parties . in the eyes of the church , are living in fornication . " " Have Mr. Rivest and Miss La Fronier been ordered to separate ? " asked the reporter . " We have so advised them . " " In case they continue to live together will they cease to be members of the church ? " " In that ease they will be living together in sin and can not receive the sacrament . But in view of the extenuating circumstances , as they have been led into the step by a man representing the church , I do not think they will be formally excommunicated , What do you think , Father Riley ? " " I agree with you , " said that gentleman . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " contined Father Moriarity . " I do not know Mr. Rivest , but his course does not recommend him as a gentleman or a Christian . By his maintaining that his first marriage was null , he willingly makes out his taxis son , a lad of 12 years or so , to be illegitimate . The Monsignor says that Rivest told hint that he was married when he was drunk , and married , too , by a Protestant minister . I have learned that he was married by Father Smith , Pastor of the Catholic church at Fulton . Whether the statement that he was drunk be true or not , Mgr . Guay exceeded his authority and defied the Bishop by consenting to marry the couple until the Bishop had investigated the facts . Et has been said we Irish priests did not aalliate with the Monsignor . That is not true . We bad nothing against him on account of his nationality , but when we found he was disobeying the laws of the church we were obliged to call him to account . Either he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When this marriage was performed it created a gv ) at scandal among ? the people . told the Monseigneur he must report it to the Bishop without delay . I gave him every chance to present his cause before any of us interfered . The idea of his assuming to decide so important a case almost passes the bounds of reason . " " When he came here , " said Father Riley , " he told our Irish people that he was higher than any of us priests , and in fact gave them to understand that he was a Bishop . He did this , I suppose , to thaw the people away from us , and collect the fees for marriages , Sc . He had the title of Domestic Prelate , but that gives him no snore power than one of us priests ' . The fact that Rivest got a divorce from his wife establishes the fact that he was married to her . " " I have nothing to say . " said Mr. Rivest to the reporter , " except that Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The bans were published on the two preceding Sundays , and the wedding ceremony was performed in the church with a mass . " " Will you continue to live with your wife ? " " I am married according to law , and why should n't I live with my wife ? I do n't wish to defy the church , but you may say we-will probably continue to live together . " Mr. RiVest declined to say anything regarding his first marriage and his first wife . Rivest was married to his first wife in 1870 . He afterward got a divorce . He then married Miss La Fronier , the ceremony being performed by Mgr . Guay , the Rector of the French church here . Since the decision of the Bishop , Guay has resigned and gone to Rome . The Bishop 's decision will be laid before the Pope , and an appeal will be taken .                     