@@745874

txt Whatever may be the result of the voting to-day , the municipal canvass that.has just closed will be remembered as one of peculiar interest and significance . It was started by the movement of the labor organizations to concentrate their voting power upon a candidate for Mayor of the city and their selection of Mr. HENRY GEORGE for that purpose . His nomination was peculiar in the fact that when he was approached for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not he would accept he made his acceptance ? onditional on the signatures of 30.000 voters to a pledge to support him . The nomination was formally presented to him on the 5th of October , accompanied by this pledge , said to have been signed by more than the required number . This certainly put him in the position of fairly representing a large class of citizens . It is not a bad thing that we are to have a test of the voting strength of the men in this city who are prepared to vote for candidates for office on the grounds presented in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well come now as later . It was not a bad thing either to have Mr. GEORGE 'S theories , which have long been making their way insidiously among the workingmen , brought into the ferment of a popular agitation where they could be more critically examined . It probably would not have been possible for the labor organizations to find another candidate who would have enabled them so fully to exhibit their power in a contest having a political character . Mr. GEORGE was widely known as a man of acute intellect and high character , who was ardently devoted to the cause of bettering the condition of workingmen , and he has inspired a degree of enthusiasm quite unusal for any man willing to stand as the representative of the somewhat incongruous elements which have constituted his support . Even conservative citizens have regarded this movement with less apprehension than would . have been the case but for a very general belief that Mr. GEORGE is a man of brains and of honest instincts . He is of a very different character from those who have generally been regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that impelled the Democratic factions , which a year before were more hostile to each other than either was to the other political party , into a coalition to save themselves from defeat . Through the shrewdness of some of the Tammany leaders the general trepidation and anxiety in the party were turned to account to give the faction of the old wigwam the lead . By the nomination of Mr. HEW= they compelled the County Democracy to submit to that situation , and made inevitable in case of success the predominance of the Tammany power in the old party in the city , with all that it implies . Doubtless Mr. HEWITT was convinced that it was his duty to the party and to the city to accept the nomination and . we do not suppose that he had any conscious purpose of serving any sinister ends . That he believed himself well qualified for the duties Of Mayor we can not conceive , but he was flattered by the idea that he was to effect a union of his divided party , save it from defeat , . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his character and ability , which fitted him for quite other duties than those of Mayor , and the comparative sincerity of his motives , did . not prevent the ? contest from being one in reality for the restoration of politicians to the control of the City Government . That is the one sure thing which his election would mean . As it was the George movement with its menace of depletion to the Democratic ranks that impelled the coalition of Dem ocratic , factions and the nomination of HEwitt , so it was that coalition and the candidacy which gave an air a respectability to its purposes that impelled the Republican organization to rise to the height of making THEODORE ROOSEVELT its candidate for Mayor and . accepting reform in the City Government as the issue of the contest . Whatever may be the result to the candidate at the polls to-day , the effect upon that organization must be lasting . It has been distinctly elevated in aims and in methods . The excellence of its ticket has awakened enthusiasm and activity before unknown . The party has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been aroused to energetic co-operation , and the young voters have been brought forward and taught a valuable lesson , the effect of which will not be lost . In fact , new life has been put into the organization , and it will be left in'far better shape for future contests than it has been in before for years . The city will get the full benefit of this peculiar canvass if ROOSEVELT is elected Mayor , and . that benefit will be felt through all the years to come . If ' he is not elected , the work of municipal reform will be delayed and rendered doubly difficult , but there will be some incidental benefits that will not be without value . 