@@780868

txt The latest returns indicate that John AV , Champlin , Fusion candidate , and Thomas J. O'Brien , Republican , have been elected Judges of the Supreme Court . No trustworthy reports as to the two Regents of the State University on the Fame ticket have been received , interest centring in the Supreme Court election . Various causes conspired to btine about the result stated . The general impression among members of the Bar that Champlin is better fitted for the Supreme bench than ex-Gov . Blair , his opponent . who , though a good lawyer , spent 20 years in public life . ' Then Champlin is a prominent member of the Masonic fraternity , and pesters were Inytriously circulated all over the State , a thing never done before in a indicial election . and which made quite an impression upon the vote of his opponent , who had no pesters whatever . Gov . Blair several years ago went over to the Democratic party on account of bad treatment he believed he had suffered at the hands of the leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During this time he made many bitter speeches against the party of which he had lone been an honored and trusted leader , and that fact was doubtless not altogether forgotten at this election . But undoubtedly more than all the rest the general ill-feeling among Republicans growing out of the recent protracted Senatorial election is accountable . Senator Ferry 's friends are sullen because of what they consider unfair treatment from the adherents of the other unsuccessful candidates . All this conspired to swell the opposition . The Prohibition vote also drew off several thousand votes . Liquor-dealers throughout the State were rallied by secret circulars sent out before the election , and united their vote and influence in favor of the Fusion nominees . But all extraneous causes combiners could not have defeated the Republicans if they had been cordially united . There was the seat of the difficulty  --  the party broken into factions and leaders too generally looking out for their own selfish interests , caring little if anything for the good of the party . The partial defeat on Monday , following that of last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity of instant reform in the methods and principles of action if they would retain the supremacy so long and honorably maintained . The city election yesterday resulted in the success of the entire Democratic ticket . Frederick O'Donnell 's majority for Mayor will be 1,000 . The Democrats hare elected the Mayor , City Treasurer , and all the Aldermen , Supervisors , and Justices of the Peace . At the election today , the Democrats elected 5 members of the upper house of the Municipal Assembly and the Republicans 1 . The Democrats elected 15 members of the lower house and the Republicans 11 . Two Independent Democrats were also elected . The vote was light , and but little interest was taken in the election . The municipal election here to-day resulted in the election of a Democratic Mayor , Police Judge , and Treasurer . In the city election here to-day W. F. Bailly , Anti-Monopoly candidate for Mayor , is elected by a majority of 1.535 in a total vote of 2,379 . The result is a victory for the loggers and workingmen over the Lumber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mississippi Rivers . Incomplete returns indicate that ex-Gov . John L. Routt has been elected Mayor ; with the whole Republican city ticket , with the probable exception of City Attorney . Routt was compelled to accept the nomination as the only man who could unite the Republican factions and beat both oppositions . He received a majority over all . The Republican ticket is elected in this city by 500 majority . The Republicans make a clean sweep of the Councilmen and School Board .                     