@@743849

txt The party led by Gen. MAHONE in Virginia , and generally known as that of the Readjusters , holds a State Convention at Richmond to-day . Candidates are to be nominated for the principal State offices , and a canvass is to be entered upon for the control of the Administration of the Old Dominion in all its branches . The party of Gen. MAHONE is in State politics directly opposed by that of the Funders or Bourbon Democrats . The local financial question out of which the antagonism has ostensibly grown is one which is not very clearly understood and does not excite any intense degree of interest in this part of the country . While the Readjusters are denounced as repudiators , they claim to be more concerned for the honor and credit of the State than their opponents . They maintain that a certain portion of the old debt of Virginia , incurred before the division of the State , should of right be borne by West Virginia , but , without attempting to settle definitely the equities of the case or to assign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept , they propose simply to readjust what they are willing to regard as their own share of the burden on a new basis . They have at least the merit of making a definite proposition to the creditors of the State , and promising to abide by , it . Their claim is that this proposition will free the credit of Virginia from the entanglements of the past and meet all the obligations to which she ought to be held . The Funders , while opposing this proposition and clamoring for a recognition of the entire nominal debt of the State , have never yet given any substantial indication of a disposition to provide for its payment . They make loud claims to honor and regard for the credit of the " proud old Commonwealth , " but they do not insist on paying the taxes necessary to meet the interest and provide for the redemption of the principal of the debt which they affect to regard as a sacred obligation . This question of readjusting or funding the debt was a practical issue in the State when this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still , but it did not furnish ground enough for a new division of parties . It gave the occasion or served as a pretext for a revolt from the rule of the old Bourbon Conservatives of the State . The division which has grown out of this debt controversy is really between the hidebound , sectional , and reactionary Democracy that clings to the past and resists the changes of the last twenty years , and the progressive and liberal element of the native white population . The Mahone party accepts the doctrine of nationality , recognizes the equal rights of citizens , - and promises to the negroes protection in the exercise of the privileges which the Constitution and the laws declare to be theirs . It is this part of its creed and its practice that has won the attention of the Nation to its contests and entitles it to the respect Of the people of the North . It is this which gives more than a local significance and importance to the canvass which is about to open in the Old Dominion . But the Readjusters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator HILL with being a renegade , declared that he was a better Democrat than the gentleman from Georgia . As a politician he is ambitious and decidedly practical . When his single vote constituted the balance of power in the Senate , he ranged himself with the Republicans , because in no other way could he make himself a power and advance his purposes . He was , no doubt , willing to have the favor and assistance of the Administration as against its Democratic opponents . It might be extremely useful to him . But all this did not make him a Republican . He has won to his support not only the more liberal of the Virginia Democrats , but many white Republicans and still more of the colored voters . Aside from the financial controversy , his liberal aims and purposes were calculated to produce that result ; but while he is willing to derive all the help he can get from Republicans , he has never shown any disposition to go over to their standard . The Republicans may join him in detail or in mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It seems to be generally agreed that , notwithstanding Gen. MAHONE 'S alliance with the Republicans in the Senate for purposes of his own , he would lose the bulk of his present support in Virginia if he were to avow himself a Republican . He can not do it without political ruin , and apparently he has no desire to do it at that or any other price . But there is still a Republican Party in Virginia which will refuse to be absorbed by the Readjusters . It will doubtless maintain its organization and its independent existence , but to what extent it will retain its voters remains to be seen . It has no reason for ranging itself with the Mahone party on the State debt question , and while sympathizing with its liberal tendencies and purposes , will not feel called upon to surrender its name , its separate existence ' and its relations with the great national party of freedom and . equal rights . But the present attitude of parties in Virginia suggests a question as to the course of future division in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the native whites of that section , a division that is to separate the liberal and progressive element from the Bourbons and produce an antagonism which will promote the cause of equal rights and of justice to the colored citizen . But there is also a rooted aversion to the Republican Party , due to causes which we will not now stop to analyze , that will probably prevent either faction from coalescing with that organization . That aversion and the persistency of the Republican Party itself will retard the tendency to division , for a three-fold arrangement of political forces is impracticable . It is difficult to see how the new lines are to be definitely drawn until new issues shall evoke a national contest and carry them through both sections of the country alike . 