@@781872

txt There is one thing certain about the candidacy of Mr. BLAINE . So far as the single incident of the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad transaction is concerned , those who support the candidate must make up their minds to carry that load and reconcile it to their consciences as best they may . The facts are so plain and so clearly established that all efforts at defense are utterly futile . Although the facts have been repeatedly stated in the last two months and the proofs presented in a manner that can not fail to be conrincing to any mind open to convic-tion , we are constantly in : , receipt of de-mands for proof of this or that detail in the statements . We have paid no attention to these for the reason that it is useless to attempt to convince men against their will , and anybody who can read the plain statements of the case that have been repeatedly made and still ask for proof is beyond the reach of enlightenment . The more prudent of the Blaine organs utterly refuse to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion of it or any reference to it except in the vaguest of general terms . They are wise in their generation and after their kind , for the only thing a rational Blaine supporter can do with this affair is resolutely to shut his eye 's to it and endeavor to keep it out of his mind and out of the minds of others . Senator HAWLEY and Senator HOAR are the only conspicuous instances of advocates of BLAINE 'S election who have had the imprudence to venture upon a defense of the candidate against what are called the " charges " in relation to the Arkansas Railroad transaction , and they only succeeded in showing how zeal for party had distorted their own mental and moral vision . They did nothing toward clearing Mr. BLAINE from the " charges , " which are merely statements of fact fortified by his own utterances , but they exposed themselves to a strong suspicion of hypocrisy . Mr. CARL Scnianz , whose Brooklyn speech contained the clearest and most cogent statement of the case against Mr. BLAINE , has taken the trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " dear young friend . " In this he is justified by the fact that the Senator 's letter was an attempt to refute some of the statements of his speech . Mr. SCHURZ shows how much easier it is to make a straightforward statement of the truth than it is to explain away facts and find innocent motives for crooked conduct . When Mr. BLAINE tried to get an interestjin Mr. CALDWELL 'S enterprise he gave the assurance- that he would not be a " deadhead , " but could be useful in " various channels . " ' Mr. HOAR says he meant that his acquaintance among moneyed men would enable him to aid in placing the bonds . Mr. BLAINE did not intimate anything of the kind , but did call attention to what he had already done as Speaker of the House . Mr. HOAR says it was simply a natural and pleasant thing to call Mr. CALDWELL 'S attention to a service that he had been able to render him without knowing it . But Mr. BLAINE did not claim to do it as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the share in an enterprise that he thought would be profitable should be given to him . Mr. HOAR says it is not true that BLAINE mixed the Mulligan letters when he read them in a way to make it difficult to understand their drift and connection . In answer it is only necessary to quote the letters and show the order in which he actually read them . Mr. HOAR says that BLAINE did not falsify when he said that the Little Rock Road derived all its value from the State of Arkansas and not from Congress , and yet its value depended on the land grant , and the land grant was given by Congress not to the State in general terms but specifically for the railroad company , and Mr. BLAINE himself said that M saving the land grant for the company he did it a great favor . Mr. HOAR reiterates the statement that BLAINE bought the bonds of the company at the same rate as others . The written contract with WARREN FISHER , of undisputed authenticity , shows that he received $130,000 land bonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for disposing of stock and bonds of other descriptions for the company , a thing which he specifically denied before the contract was made public , but never since . Mr. HOAR defends BLAINE for protesting against having his private affairs pried into when this transaction was under investigation . To any one who justifies such a course when a public man is charged with using his official position for private gain there is no answer . He has no standard of judgment to which we can appeal . Mr. HOAR says that BLAINE was triumphantly acquitted because the Legislature of Maine afterward elected him to the Senate , GARFIELD put him in his Cabinet , and the Republican Convention nominated him for the Presidency . None of these things were the result of a trial of the issue or of any judgment upon it , nor do they change a single fact in the record . It is now for the first time that the trial is made on this question . It is only necessary to restate the points in the plainest way to annihilate any defense that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be wiped out . The real question must be faced , and that is simply whether Mr. BLAINE , being the man this transaction showed him to be , is worthy the confidence and support of the American people , or whether the standard of the American people has sunk so low that they will choose such a man for the position of highest trust in the Republic . Defenses on this particular point are worse than futile  --  they are damaging .                     