@@743680

txt There is enough of specific statement in the Speech from the throne at the opening of Parliament yesterday to indicate with reasonable clearness the policy which the Government will pursue toward Ireland . The legislation to be proposed will be , as was expected , both coercive and remedial . The insufficiency of the ordinary powers of the law having been amply demonstrated , the Queen asks for " the additional powers " necessary not only for " the vindication of order and public law , " but likewise to secure , on behalf of her subjects , " protection for life and property and personal liberty of action . " There is no hint in this of the nature of the powers asked for , nor does the language of Mr. FORSTER , in giving notice of an intention to introduce a bill for the better protection of life and property in Ireland , throw any light on this point . The words of the speech and of the Chief Secretary for Ireland may imply either the suspension of the habeas corpus , which is effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Peace Preservation bill , or both , since Mr. FORSTER gives notice of two bills , one of which , relating to the carrying of arms , contains one of the chief provisions of the Force bill , which the Government declined to renew at the last session . Mr. PARNELL and the Home Rulers will oppose these measures , and on Monday next Mr. GLADSTONE will move that they have precedence every day over all other business until passed . It is evident that the Prime Minister intends to enforce the law before he amends it . Some of the more advanced Liberals will disapprove of this intention , but the wisdom of the Ministerial policy can scarcely be questioned . Coercion now is not the same thing it would have been a month ago . Then it would have aroused a storm of passion which would have put off all attempts at a reform of the laud laws to the Greek kalends ; as now proposed , it is accompanied by a promise to seriously consider and redress the grievances which provoke the disturbances at which it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in widening the scope of the Land act of 1870 . For details of the scheme we must await the presentation of the bills themselves , Two of the " three F 's , " fixity of tenure and free sale , are clearly provided for ; for the third , fair rents , there is no sufficient warrant for any inference , save the general one that it must find a place in any thoroughgoing scheme of reform . The imperfections of the Land act of 1870 are now pretty well understood . Its sanction and extension to other parts of Ireland of the Ulster custom have not prevented arbitrary evictions . A landlord so disposed has only to raise his rent and he may be rid of his tenant without incurring any liability for compensation . It is plainly implied in the speech that the tenant is to be offered fixity of tenure , which will at once remove the chief evil of the present system . The Bright clauses of the act of 1870 have conspicuously failed of their purpose to aid in the creation of occupying proprietors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lauded Estates Court are largely responsible , but it has also been found that the sale of single holdings upon large estates is practically impossible on account of the expensiveness of mortgages and conveyances . It costs as much to search the title for the sale of a single holding of a few acres as for the whole estate , and the charges of conveyancing have frequently amounted to 30 per cent . of the purchase money . This abuse ought to be removed at the same time with " the obstacles arising out of limitations on the ownership of property , " to which the Speech refers . The Board of Works loans to tenants not having proved a practical encouragement to the purchase of holdings , it is probable that the " effective efforts " now to be made will include the creation of a laud commission and the use of funds from the national Treasury in aid of intending purchasers . This scheme of reform is broad enough , if carried out and accepted in good faith , to put the relations of landlord and tenant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance that he can not be disturbed so long as he pays his rent , the Irish farmer will have new inducements to make his little holding as ? productive as possible . Uncertainty of tenure reduces the strong and the weak , the ambitious and the listless , to one dull level of thriftlessness . Under the more just conditions of fixed tenure and . a recognition of the tenant 's interest in the improvements he introduces , there will be a fair field for the exercise of industry , skill , thrift , self-denial , and other qualities which everywhere where justice reigns enable their possessors to push to the front in the race for the social and material blessings of this world . Of scarcely less importance to the Irish peasantry in their immediate relations with the landowners , and of much greater significance and promise as indicating a gradual breaking away from the burdens and trammels of feudalism , are the proposals to remove needless restrictions upon the sale of land and to give " to a larger portion of the people , by purchase , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all things , is the cure for Ireland 's ills . Another measure of great importance is the proposition to establish local self-government in the counties . The dominance of the Irish question throws the announcements and recommendations of the Speech upon the other affairs of the Empire somewhat into the background . The Greek frontier question is still an object of " anxious attention " to the Ministry . So far , then , they appear to see no way open to a peaceful settlement of the long-stauding dispute between Greece and Turkey . The announcement concerning the Transvaal rebellion is most unsatisfactory . The " prompt vindication " by military pleasures of her Majesty 's authority iu that region will be alike dishonorable to the British Empire and cruel to a people struggling to regain their independence . As if in partial atonement for this despotic intention toward the Boers , we are informed that Kandahar is to be given up to its rightful possessors . Flogging in the Army and Navy is to be abolished , the Ballot act is to be renewed , and let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed . With the amount of obstruction which may be expected , this programme of legislation is extensive enough to occupy the entire session .                     