@@744639

txt The death of JESSE JAMES and the disintegration and overthrow of his band of distinguished robbers were very naturally regarded by railway travelers and bankers as events of great importance . The tourist nn longer felt compelled to carry his watch and legal tenders in his boots . Cashiers of oldfashioned integrity , and other Cashiers who were unwilling to see the money of depositors stolen by coarse and unlettered persons ignorant of the refinements of stock gambling and scientific embezzlement , joined in songs of thanksgiving . The beneficial effect of the sudden termination of this eminent bandit 's career was also seen in other directions : That rising dramatic artist , Mr. " Ms " FORD , who is described as a beardless young man of modest and retiring demeanor , clothed in neat garments and a large diamond cluster pin , has assured an inquiring reporter that land in the regions where Mr. JAMES practiced his profession has " gone up 10 per cent . in value " since Mr. FORD used the great robber as a target . Mr. FORD has also been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the traffic receipts upon his line have taken " a big upward jump " since Mr. JAMES 'S funeral . It is plain , therefore , that the removal of . one of the most persuasive persons of modern times is regarded by some persons as a kind of public blessing . It is not true , however , that the branch of human industry in which Mr. JAMES attained such eminence has been made permanently unpopular and uninviting by his fate . For a time it was " under a cloud , " but when the people began to talk and think about other ' things , many ambitious young men were found following In his footsteps and looking forward hopefully to the day when they might depress or raise the value of real estate in Missouri and control . the traffic receipts of trunk railways . The BARLOW brothers have chosen as the field of their labors the line of the Missouri Pacific , and it is reported that they have thrown many towns into " the wildest confusion . " A boy whose name is not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station officers of Texas roads . Many lads in the East are learning the rudiments of highway robbery , with the intention of putting their knowledge and skill to the test beyond the Mississippi River . Officers of the law cruelly interrupted the studies of three young men near Norwich , Conn. , a few days ago . They had been practicing upon the peaceful farmers of New-London County , and their meetings were held in a cave in which they had stored a large quantity of plunder , a formidable outfit of pistols and knives , and a tolerably complete set of bandits ' biographies . Children in other parts of the country are rapidly mastering from convenient text-books the first principles of those arts in which JESSE JAMES and the bold cowboys of the plains have excelled , and are making phenomenal advances in their chosen profession against many obstacles interposed by sober-minded relatives who have oldfashioned notions about property and life and the law . Mr. JAMES is dead , and his companions may-have retired from business , but those who have glorified the crimes of these and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eagerly read by boys all over the land have sown seed from which has sprung a large crop of imitators . The preparation and publication of these stories are crimes which society can not afford to ignore . They obliterate the moral sense and substitute for it in the grooving minds of boys impressions which give to theft and murder the character of heroic deeds . The JAMES boys andsthe YOUNGER boys were genuine outlaws . They were not led into crime by such stories as are now read by thousands of boys in this country . Many an outlaw in the future may , however , be able to trace his degradation to such a source .                     