@@743960

txt There seems strong reason for thinking that the new and more vigorous administrators of China are about to urge on the British Government the absolute necessity of forbidding any importation of opium into Chinese ports . They may even go so far as to prohibit it themselves , without waiting fot any agreement or treaty with Great Britain . It should be remembered that these deluded followers of the pagan philosopher , CONFUCIUS , have read and believed the maxim of the Chinese classics , " What ye would not that men should ' do ' to you , do C ye 1= not to them , " and ; under this doctrine and others similar of the great heathen teacher they have for some generations been struggling against the greatest moral evil among the Chinese people  --  the habit of opium intoxication . It has been seen by these pagan moralists that if this habit spreads and gains ground , as it has done , the Chinese race will go down to absolute physical and moral degeneracy . They have beheld families stripped of all means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; fathers and : . husbands bereft of all character or reason through this fatal habit . They have known of immense and wide-spread misery and destitution and crime caused by this practice ; they have believed that no one good was gained by the habit , but mind and body were weakened and destroyed . The Chinese reformers have written and preached and legislated against the practice of opium-eating , but they have found it a more difficult habit to break up than that of alcoholic intoxication. z It seems more absolute and irresistible . And it has not the excuse of the latter that it accompanies sociality and intellectual pleasures . It is mainly a solitary pleasure , and it surely deadens all life of mind or conscience . It has been a curse and evil to the Chinese race beyond all estimate and calculation . No one habit ever so afflicted a race of men . The Chinese reformers , being filled with the enthusiasm of humanity and the benevolent doctrines of CONFUCIUS , naturally believed that they would be supported in their moral efforts by the Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their race , quoted in the negotiations with the European Governments on this matter , some of the words of JESUS . These had no more effect on the British authorities than if they were uttered by MENCIUS . The simple fact was that the heathen moralist and reformer stumbled on the selfishness of the Christian . It was absolutely necessary to the financial success of the British Government of India that opium should be admitted into China . The tax on that export kept the Indian administration from bankruptcy . The English officials cared nothing in that matter for humanity or right . They were determined to force the opium upon China , and get the tax on it in India . It was as if a South American State , finding that New-England rum was ruining its people , should object to its importation and the United States should force it on its people at the cannon 's mouth . The Chinese , of course , have never forgotten this experience of " Christian " diplomacy . Their reformers have never given up their struggle against the terrible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers , co-operating with them in checking the importation of the drug into China . It is not very greatly to the credit of the United States that their treaty with our Government , embracing this provision , dates back but a short time . Nor is our virtue in the matter a subject of much congratulation . We have but slight pecuniary interest ? in the opium trade to China . The great success which the present Chinese administration has gained in acquiring the Province-of Kuldja , after As dispute with Russia , and its existing treaties with other powers forbidding the importation of opium , will certainly embolden it in de- manding a similar concession from Great Britain . How will the present British administration receive such a demand ? There can not be any question that men like Mr. FORSTER and Mr. GLA.DSTONE- , who are seeking to place administration on a plane nearer approaching the principles of the Christian faith , would never consent to a second " opium - war . " In fact , they would have to yield to a vigorous demand from the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What would become of the income of the Indian administration in this case is another matter . Such an event would throw the finances of . British India into endless disorder . But no nominally " Christian " power can in this age of the world maintain long a position such as has been taken by Great Britain toward China in this question . The opinion of the religious bodies is too strong . Even British mercantile selfishness would eventually be forced to yield to the conscience of the nation . We do not despair of seeing Great Britain follow the United States in opposing the opium trade with China .                     