@@672194

txt Mr. George 0 . Jones , Chairman of the National Greenback Party , has issued an invitation requesting all persons who desire to aid in reorganizing the National Greenback Party to meet in their respective States and Congressional districts on or before Sept. 4 next , and appoint one delegate and one alternate to attend the National Greenback Convention , called to meet at Cincinnati Sept. 12 . The invitation is extended to " those who favor a distinct American policy regarding its finances , who believe that full , legal-tender notes , greenbacks , issued by the Government foi ? value received in promoting the general welfare , constitute the money which marks our advancing civilization , make the best money the world ever saw , and should become the permanent circulating medium of the American people , the life of whose free government they saved , and that a party ' bearing their name should be perpetuated to keep those great truths constantly before the people . Those who believe with the prophet of old that ? money answereth all things , ' and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the great economic wrongs brought about by bad legislation have been corrected and the money question forever settled in the interest or the whole people ; and who are willing to act in accordance with the spirit of the resolution passed by the Continental Congress in 1773 , viz. : Not to eat , drink , wear , nor use anything manufactured in Great Britain ; nor , after one year , trade with any one who deals in goods brought here under the British flag . " The call says that the reorganized party will also advocate the payment of public debts according to the original contract under which they were issued ; the encouragement or the American merchant marine and or home industries ; the limitation of the debts of corporations to the amount of stock actually paid up ; the restriction of dividends of corporations to a fair return on the investment , and the restriction of private ownership of land . o w There Is a story afloat that the necessity of the Government for a building for the use of the Census Bureau is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent a building in the remote northeast , beyond the Pension Office , and far away from the neighborhood of the other Government offices and the usual run of business . The thing is said to have been managed by a resident female lobbyist and a Kansas Representative , and against the wishes of Commissioner Per fer , who would like to have the working offices ' somewhere in the neighborhood of the main office , which is not far from the Interior Department . That there is a " job " in it is inferred from the assertion that the agent who is conducting the negotiations with the Interior Department is said to have been promised a fee of $5,000 if he can induce the Government to sign a lease of the premises offered . The understanding of some of the people interested in the controversy about the taxing of Canadian cars entering the United States is that . Secretary Windom will not make a new decision in the matter unless he is compelled to do so by reasons not yet presented to him . The interests involved in changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not deemed ' wise or necessary to disturb business by directing a new method of treating Canadian cars passing between the . United States and Canada . The probability is , therefore , that things will be allowed to stand as they are , with the imposition of some restrictions to prevent the use of Canadian oars in the local traffic of lines doing an international business . The withdrawal of the application of the Canadian Pacific to be bonded ae a common carrier is understood to have been made for the purpose of avoiding any unnecessary irritation about a matter that had provoked more opposition than had been expected . There is a large Northwestern interest in the Canadian connections that makes the Administration delicate about the treatment of the matter , and that will prevent any sudden and indiscriminate interference with lines in which Americans are as much concerned as the Canadians .                     