@@743297

txt Mr. FERNANDO WooD , we are told , is preparing to press his 312 per cent . refunding bill , in spite of Mr. SHERMAN 'S avowals of disbelief in its feasibility . And Mr. WOOD 'S proposition is supported by journals not usually found on the side of financial quackery . " No harm can be done by a trial , " they say ; " if investors will not buy a 312 per cent . bond , there will still be time enough to fall back on the Treasury preference for 4 per cent . " But the possibility of failure thus lightly treated is too serious a risk to be incurred by a Government to whichrefunding is a necessity . The failure of one loan would put in. jeopardy the success of the other . That 4 per cent . is an abnormally low rate of interest for this country , the achievements in connection with the recent loan in no manner disproved . Its sneeess was made possible , first , by the demands of the national banks , of trust and savings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial conditions in conjunction with lingering distrust . The former of these considerations is relied upon by the advocates of the 312 per cent . bond not wholly without reason . But there are limits to the demand from this source , and beyond these the reliance must be upon the great body of investors . As long as causes of anxiety continue , their caution will manifest itself in the avoidance of what they consider second-class securities . Safety will weigh with them more than the rate of interest . This state of things will not remain always , let - as hope , and whenever it disappears the most the Treasury can expect to accomplish will be the maintenance at par of the 4 per cents . Thebanks and other financial institutions will hold them , of course . Great operators , like Mr. VANDERBILT , will retain that which serves the double purpose of an investment and an available collateral . But the great majority of persons , however cautious , who depend on the income from investments , will not be satisfied with a 4 Per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has not yet reached tile point at which 4 per cent . can be regarded as its normal rate of interest , even on Government bonds . A foreign market will . then be recognized as essential . Large amounts of the Fours must be absorbed abroad , and stay there , or they will probably sink below par among our own people . Mr. SHERMAN shows a general appreciation of these contingencies , though not specifically stating them ; and they should be decisive as against the 310 per cent . project . There are other considerations which Mr. SHERMAN has withheld and which Mr. WOOD has not noticed , but which have an obvious bearing upon the subject of refunding . Nowadays At is the fashion to speak of our national credit as equal to the best in the world , and on . this ground maintain that our Government will henceforth be able to obtain all the money it wants on terms equal to those of the British consols . In. this shape the pretension is not tenable . If credit were measured by resources , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the ' money markets of the world the securities of this country should outrank the securities of all other countries . But perfect credit presupposes more than ability to fulfill obligations : it implies a scrupulous regard for the spirit of the obligations , and the aosence of everything which , as regards the national will , can cast a doubt upon their fulfillment . Within definable limitations , these requisites have been found here . They have been beclouded at times , and compliance with them has more than once entailed a severe struggle . But the American people have put down repudiators and have anticipated their contracts with bondholdinc , creditors . To this fact what has been accomplished in refunding is mainly due . Are we therefore to jump to the conclusion that the public credit is no longer endangered by evil political influences ! May we safely assume that the last enemy has been destroyed , and that the nation 's credit is no longer subject to doubt ? Before our public credit can equal in quality the public credit of Great Britain , everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved from the partisan arena as is the ease in the latter country . There , no party ventures to trifle with the consols or other evidences of national debt . None proposes war against the public credit . None attempts to change the financial system for the furtherance of dishonest ends . Here , on the contrary , these things are looked upon as proper subjects of partisan agitation . One set of politicians propose to pay the bondholder in silver , instead of the gold he was promised ; another set contend for payment in inconvertible paper , to bo printed and issued for the purpose . The financial system is also assailed from different quarters . Resumption is imperiled by a refusal to enforce the only conditions that will insure its permanence . Schemes are pending to force silver into circulation at a rate that would soon drive out gold . Inflation is going on , and all the signs point to a further enlargement of the currency circulation . Higher prices , speculation , and a renewal of extravagance are some of the tokens of another era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the cowardice of the party leaders , who , with rare exceptions , sacrifice the essentials " of financial safety , and add to the difficulties of refunding , rather than run counter to popular feeling . If their estimate of public opinion is right , Mr. WOOD 's ' 312 per cent . scheme is a mere pretense ,  --  and a pretense all the more open to criticism , because emanating from the House leader of the party which in the majority of States is committed to measures destructive of resumption and injurious to the refunding policy . 