@@745126

txt It was shown , in a report made by the Commissioner of the General Land Office , two or three months ago , that millions of acres of the public lands had been stolen by corporations , and that some of these corporations had been organized in England . The Senate then endeavored to find out whether or not any action had been taken with regard to the lands fraudulently held by wealthy aliens . The Commissioner now makes another report , which contains some interesting statements . It appears that in many cases he was unable to regain the property and punish the thieves because at the time when the frauds were discovered he had no money with which to employ special agents , and the Registers and Receivers had no authority to subpoena witnesses and make a thorough investigation . Afterward he was authorized to employ additional agents , and upon the information gathered by them he has withheld patents for hundreds Of thousands of acres which corporations and individuals were trying to secure by fraudulent entry . The rich thieves , whether citizens or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from poor thieves who make the original entries . Notwithstanding the many obstacles against which a poorly equipped Land Office has to contend , some progress has been made in the pursuit of these rascals . Thirteen persons interested in the land operations of an English corporation in Colorado are to be tried in September for subornation of perjury and conspiracy to defraud the United States . Another English corporation fraudulently obtained possession of 14,000 acres of timber land in California , and eight persons engaged in that transaction have been indicted . The report which contains this information refers , in response to the Senate 's inquiry , to frauds committed for the benefit of Englishmen . It has been shown again and again by the Commissioner that while these English corporations are guilty , thousands of our own citizens are equally guilty , having stolen vast ranges in all parts of the far West . The Land Office appears to he striving now , with the means at its command , to protect the Government from the assaults of thieves of both classes . But it has been plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overmatched . The area was so great , the thieves were so numerous and so powerful , the Land Office 's agents were so few and weak , and many of the Registers and Receivers were so corrupt , that the robbers had everything their own way . There is now no remedy , as the Commissioner admits , save in the repeal of the pre-emption and timberculture laws , the timber-land and desertland laws , the commutation feature of the homestead law , and the provision allowing the filing of soldiers ' homestead declarations by attorney . The land robbers have been very industrious in the last two years , and the number of fraudulent entries has rapidly increased . Before the Land Office there are now no less than 600,000 claims pending , covering 75,000,000 acres . How many are fraudulent no one knows , but a thorough and honest investigation would probably lead to the cancellation of half of them . It is not the settler who steals , but the enemy of the settler  --  the man who robs the settler and the corporation that excludes him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the executive departments for the last twenty years could be spread before the people the star route frauds and other frauds which have attracted some attention would stand by the side of the land frauds like pigmies by the side of a giant . As the day draws near when all of the available public lands will have passed from the possession of the Government , those who are striving to take them by fraud are unable to conceal their rascally work from the public as the work of their more fortunate predecessors was concealed in the past . With rare exceptions , however , they have thus far not only escaped punishment , but have not even been annoyed by legal proceedings . 