@@745975

txt There have been introduced into the Legislature up to the present date six different bills providing for the holding of a Constitutional Convention , three by Republicans and three by Democrats , but no one of them conforms to the recommendation made by the Governor in his message . If the Governor has the wish and the power to have a , bill introduced embodying his suggestions the delay would seem to indicate that he is not overanxious to have the convention promptly provided for . The essential feature of the Governor 's plan is representation by Congressional instead of Senate or . Assembly districts , but only one of the bills introduced adopts that basis of representation . It is not clear , therefore , that the Democrats propose to insist upon representation by Congressional districts . The argument used in favor of that plan is that file Congressional apportionment was made in 1883 upon the enumeration of the national census of 1880 , while the Senate and Assembly apportionment was made in 1879 upon the enumeration of the State census of 1875 . The former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present population . It is also to be kept in mind that the Congressional apportionment was made by a Democratic Legislature and the legislative apportionment by a Republican Legislature , and each party claims that the division made by the other was not fair . The advocates of representation by Congressional districts contend that New-York is a Democratic State , notwithstanding the fact that the Legislature is largely Republican in both branches , and that the minority is not entitled to control the Constitutional Convention . But they are not borne out by the result of the Congressional elections since the Democratic apportionment of 1883 , although they elected their Governor in the intermediate year of 188g . In 1884 the Republicans elected 18 of the 34 Congressmen andthe Democrats 16 , and last Fall the Republicans elected 20 and the Dem- ocrats 14 . In one case , that of the Thirteenth District , the Republicans elected . FITCH over VIELE , in spite of the fact that there is normally a Democratic majority in that district . At present it is quite fair to assume that there are 19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as at present represented stand 20 Republican to 12 Democratic , and the Assembly districts 74 Republican to 54 Democratic . The present actual representation in the national House of Representatives and in the Assembly is in almost exactly the same proportion , namely , as 20 to 14 and as 1912 to 1312 . According to the Governor 's plan of choosing 68 delegates by Congressional districts and 42 at large , of whom no more than 15 could be voted for on one ballot  --  assuming the districts to stand 19 Republican and 15 Democratic  --  the convention would be made up of 110 delegates , of whom 53 would be Republicans , 45 Democrats , and 12 representatives of other elements . According to Assemblyman BURKE 'S plan of choosing 27 delegates at large , only 9 to be voted for on one ballot , and three from each Congressional district , only two to be voted for on one ballot , the - convention would consist of 129 delegates , of whom 62 would be Republicans , 58 Democrats , and 9 representatives of other elements , unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district delegates . In either of these cases neither party would have a majority , and the delegates of labor reform , prohibition , woman suffrage , and what not , would hold the balance of power . This does not seem to us to be a desirable situation for a convention called to revise the organic law of the State . A bill introduced by Senator COGGESHALL proposes a convention of 142 members , 64 to be elected by Senate districts , 2 from each , but only 1 to be voted for by each elector , and 78 at large , only 39 to be voted for by each elector . This would give a convention equally divided without reference to the complexion of districts . Assemblyman GRIPPIN , of Saratoga County , has introduced a bill providing for the election of one delegate from each Assembly district and three from each Senate district , only one of the latter to be voted for by each elector . This would produce a convention of 224 delegates , of whom , on the basis assumed above for the political division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 32 would probably belong to other parties . Here again there would be no political majority , and a small minority would wield the balance of power . Besides , the convention would be altogether too large . Assemblyman ARNOLD 'S bill provides for one delegate from each Assembly district and 32 at large , only 16 of the latter being voted for by each elector . This would give a convention of 160 members , 90 Republicans and 70 Democrats . Senator MURPHY 'S bill differs from this only in providing for two delegates from each Assembly district . This would raise the number in the convention to 288 , of whom 164 would be Republicans and 124 Democrats . There remains the original lusted bill , introduced in the Assembly on the first day of the session . It provides for 32 delegates at large , 16 to be voted for by each . elector , 3 from each of the 22 Senate districts outside of the counties of New-York , Richmond , and Kings , 2 to be voted for by each elector , 21 from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 Senate districts , 7 to be voted for by each elector , and 9 from Kings County , which contains three Senate districts , 3 to be voted for by each elector . This would give a convention of 128 members , of whom 66 would be Republicans , 52 Democrats , and 10 probably labor men . Here would be a very small Republican majority , but there is no way of figuring out a Democratic majority on any plan of representation by districts , and it is not desirable to have a balance of power held by a , small minority representing special interests . The plan is the fairest , the least partisan , if we except Senator COGGESHALL 'S plan of equal representation , and on the whole the best of those proposed . 