@@745339

txt The General Assembly organized to-day , Senator Stanton being elected President pro tem. of the Senate , and J. Edgar Simonds . of Canton , Speaker of the House . A committee on canvass of votes reported no choice of Governor and State officers by the people . and the two houses will meet in joint convention at 10 o'clock to-morrow and elect Henry B. Harrison Governor and the State officers who were candidates on the Republican State ticket , and the incoming Governor will deliver his Inaugural message . A great many strangers are here , and a crowd will witness the inauguration exercises . The weather promises to be fair . The only military display will be the escort furnished by the Governor 's foot and horse guard of Hartford and New-Haven . The business of the SCRIM ' does not yet promise to be very lively , but some importaet matters are liable to come to the front . There will be no Republican opposition to the re-election next week of 0 . H. Platt as United States Senator . Some curiosity is excited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the NewHaven papers for the presentation of petitions to the Legislature for the repeal of the general railroad law , under which the Hartford and Harlem Road is attempting to build a parallel line between New-York and New-Haven . It has been charged that the New-York , New-Haven and Hartford Road is back of the movement , but an officer of that road says that there is no truth whatever in the charge , and that the first known of the petitions was the newspaper publication . A Fairfield County representative says that the petitions are started by residents of that county who are indignant that their lands should be constantly overrun by surveyors in the interest of speculators . These trespasses are committed at will , and even if land is taken . damages paid , and the ground broken , there is no certainty that the enterprise is not a blackmailing railroad scheme or a purely speculative affair , as most of the parallel railroad schemes have been . The general law allows an association of 25 individuals to organize . A majority must be residents of Connecticut , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may do the backing , and make a formidable scheme on paper with a comparatively small capital . The complaint made of this law by the practical railroad men of the State is that it must work great evil and annoyance unless corporators of new enterprises are compelled to show to the satisfaction of the Railroad Commissioners that public necessity requires additional railroad facilities . A gentleman who has been km the management of the Hartford and Harlem Corporation says that the meeting of stockholders at New-Haven the other clay , which was said to be private , and was so given out to the press . considered the state of the work and pledged money enough to be expended this year to maintain the existence of the organization under the legal requirements of the general law . About $110,000 will be needed . Nothing will be asked of the Legislature , the gentleman says , but he was particular to say that he did not understand about the petition for a repeal of the railroad law . If that movement takes shape the Hartford and Harlem will vigorously oppose it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submit his annual report to-morrow . He represents that the finances are not in a satisfactory condition , and attributes the deficit to the reduction of the tax on mutual life insurance companies , which , he thinks , should he restored . A matter of important interest to the cities of the State is the petition of the cities of Hartford and New-Haven for consolidation of city and town Government . Much opposition is to be made to an appropriation for the Storrs Agricultural School at Mansfield . A legislative committee of four was appointed last year to act with the School Trustees and report on the prospect of the school . It is said this committee believe the State has gone in deep enough . The farming interests , represented largely in the Legislature , will find something to talk about when this subject is brought up . 