@@744959

txt Delegate OURY , of Arizona , in supporting his bill for the transfer of the Indian Office to the War Department , might draw a strong argument , both for its wisdom and its timeliness , from the success which has thus far crowned the experiment of putting the San Carlos reserve under military control . It must be owned , however , that this test is a single and thus far a brief one . There are sound considerations for the proposed transfer . It would simplify the jurisdiction over the red men and destroy that division of authority which is fatal to proper respect and obedience on the . part of the governed . It would fix the responsibility for neglects and blunders , whereas now the blame for an Indian outbreak is bandied between the civil authorities and the army . The transfer could also be defended on the ground of economy ; for the systems of inspection and of accounts in the military service are proverbially strict , and would probably lead more promptly to the detection of frauds . Above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the salaries of many agents and bureau employes in general could be saved ; and Gen. SFIERM AN has emphatically declared that little frontier campaigning will hereafter be required , as the problem of Indian hostilities is solved . On the other hand , if Gen. SHERmAN 's views are well founded , half the old desirability of transferring the red men to army management is gone , since for their civil careers they require experts in the arts of peace rather than of war . It is true that where army officers have been temporarily assigned to the charge of agencies they have generally performed the duties admirably ; but it may be argued that these men were something more than martinets , and would have succeeded in civil as well as in military life . It would be absurd to dispute that if the Indian has left the war-path he does not need to be transferred to the care of the War Department in order to advance more quickly to citizenship ; but it is not absurd to doubt whether Gen. SHERMAN is not premature in his rosy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fair conclusion that at no time for twenty years has there been as little actual need as now for the removal of the Indian Office , yet at no time has there been so little occasion for jealousy in this matter between executive departments or so good an opportunity for considering it as a practical business question . Not since 1866 has the project ever been regarded with less anxiety in the army itself ; and , in fact , many officers , while acknowledging that there might be some gain in economy and efficiency in the transfer , yet bitterly oppose it as perilous to the professional spirit of the military service , already much occupied with civilian duties .                     