@@744130

txt It has frequently been pointed out by the advocates of tariff reform that one of the greatest faults in the existing tariff is the fact that it imposes heavy burdens upon certain classes of American industry for the benefit of other classes . Of course , it is a logical consequence of any duty levied to check or prevent foreign competition , that it increases the cost of the home-made article to a greater or less degree . If it did not , there would be no occasion for the duty . And if it does so increase the cost , to that extent all consumers suffer , while only the home manufacturer gains . But this is a general statement which a great many intelligent men will not take the trouble to examine . They will accept or reject it as it agrees with their preconceived notions . Quite different is the effect of such specific facts as are brought forward by our correspondent in the letter which we publish this morning , giving an account of the condition of public opinion in Pennsylvania with reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our correspondent finds . that of the very large number of persons in Pennsylvania affected by the tariff , it is especially the makers of Bessemer steel who are thoroughpaced protectionists . These gentlemen , the happy possessors of a patent which in itself , for some years to come , is a monopoly , legitimate , but close , are further favored by a tariff which makes effective competition with them quite impracticable . They can turn out their products at an average profit of $15 a ton , while the manufacturer of iron rails must be content with a profit of $2 a ton at the most . The theoretical protectionist will say to this : " If there is any such enormous profit in making Bessemer steel , capital will flow into that industry , the output will increase , and prices , as well as profits , will be reduced . " But , in the first place , capital does not " flow " readily into any new channel , and one of the most fruitful errors of theoretical economists is the presumption that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate , advantage to start with in this fact , in the inertia of capital even toward very profitable new enterprises . But , in addition , there is the protection of the patent , which is absolutely controlled by a comparatively small number of persons . The result is that while there is an extravagant profit in making Bessemer steel , the output is not equal to the current demand . The steady and marvelous progress of the manufacture within the last ten years , its increase by nearly forty-five-fold , the tremendous accumulation of capital engaged in it chiefly from the profits , are features of which some of the protectionist writers are very proud . But when we consider the cost at which this progress has been obtained , and that that cost has been paid by other American industries quite as deserving , the record is rather shameful than gratifying . If , instead of taking the views of these highly favored and correspondingly satisfied steel-makers , we turn to the humbler but equally . American industries , we find an opinion in regard to the tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , the iron rail making interest , to which the tariff was originally very favorable , and which grew and prospered until its giant rival sprang into existence . This interest has decayed under the influence of forces which Congress has had no power to overthrow or turn aside , and the capital which had been attracted . by the advantages offered under the tariff has been gradually dried up and much of it lost . And when an effort is made by the owners of this capital to rescue it by the employment of their machinery in the manufacture of steel rails from imported blooms , the protectionists in Congress come forward with a proposition to increase the duty on these from 45 per cent . to $50 perlon . This is a curious specimen of protection to American industry . It is a literal and commercial application of the saying , " Whosoever hath , to him shall be given , and whosoever hath not , from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have . " To the unfortunate makers of iron rails , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is a doctrine which will hardly approve itself , however sound and patriotic it may seem to the Bessemer monopolists . Though this case is a striking one , it is by no means an exceptional one . The makers of merchant bar iron and of plate iron are found by our correspondent to be far from enthusiastic on the subject of protection as it now operates under the high tariff . They do not require it as against foreign competition ; they are hampered by it in the cost of their raw materials ; they are inclined to lower rates , greater production , and an increased demand for their goods . They would seem to have arrived at that stag ) of development which protectionists say it is the object of a protective tariff to promote , when the protected industries cease to be " infant " and are ready to enter upon a fair field , with no favor , in competition with the world . It is not necessary to discuss the question whether they would not have reached this stage sooner under a more liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have attained it , and that in their case high duties have no longer any excuse for existence . It would be interesting to know how many other of the so-called protected interests are in the same condition . Undoubtedly that of cotton manufacturing , so long one of the tariff pets , is so ; certain branches of woolen manufactures are likely to be so ; while there are scores of trades in which the net effect of the tariff is not protective but oppressive . These are facts which it requires no tariff commission to discover , and which the Committee of Ways and Means can verify without leaving their comfortable quarters in Washington . If they will not take that trouble , others will , and any attempt at tariff revision in the interest of " protection " will be sure to bring out the truth , with the aid of the committee or in spite of its opposition .                     