@@743794

txt H. L Kimball , Director of the International Cotton Exposition which Is to be held in Atlanta in September , is in the city in the interest of the exposition , and today had a conference with the Mayor of the city , the President and Superintendent of the Chamber of Commerce , the President of the Board of Trade , and other prominent citizens regarding the enterprise . The liveliest interest was manifested in the proposed exposition , and assurances were given Mr. Kimball that Cincinnati could be trusted for a liberal contribution to the fund of $200,000 which will be required to put the enterprise through . By the completion of her Southern railroad , Cincinnati is brought into close commercial relations with Atlanta , and the people here are anxious to bring about friendliness of feeling and community of interests with their Southern neighbor . The present enterprise is in a special degree one that Cincinnati will find it to her advantage to interest herself in . It will increase the shipments of the great Southern staple to this point aud , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a larger market for their wares . Mr. Kimball states that the exposition is already an assured success . Ile believes that in no department of industry could so great opportunities for improvement be found as in that of raising . transporting , and manufacturing cotton . He estimates that in the matter of handling alone , means will be found , in a few years , to save many millions of dollars over the present methods . Heretofore cotton men have been isolated more than almost any other class that could be named , and the result is that very little improvement has been made upon the methods of two generations ago . They will be brought together by a great exposition and will exchange opinions , get new ideas , and go home to Put them into practical shape . Mr. Kimball expects to see a great Impetus given to one of the greatest industries of the country by the proposed exposition , and his expectation seems to be shared by all who have become familiar with the purpose of the enterprise . 