@@780927

txt In the remarkable interview with exEtov . Hendricks , of Indiana , published in THE rIMEs yesterday , and which is a plain bid for the second place again on the Presidential ticket with Samuel J. Tilden in 1854 , the excandidate for the Vice-Presidency is reported as saying in regard to Mr. Tilden : " He has lived down every calumny . Every slander awakened by the prosecution of that fellow Bliss , and dismissed as soon as they ceased to be of any political benefit , would add to his ptrength at this time . The whole country has Watched him closely since he was defrauded of the Presidency , and there has been everything In his life to inspire respect . " CoL George bliss , who is the " fellow " referred to in the above , and who brought suit as United States District Attorney to recover from Mr. Tilden a large amount of money of which , it was claimed , he had defrauded the GovernMeat by making false returns of his income to the Internal Revenue Collectors , was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us one of the Government counsel in the star route cases . The words of Mr. Hendricks were brought to his attention . and he was asked the question direct what truth there was in the Implied accusation that he had sued Mr. Tilden for political effect and had withdrawn the suit as soon as its political end was served . Mr. Bliss said : " This is pure drivel on the part of Gov . Hendricks . It is true that I began the prosecution against Gov . Tilden for failing to properly account for his income . and to pay to the Government the income tax which he justly owed to it , and that I collected a large portion of the evidence upon which the prosecution of the suit was based . I was District Attorney of the United States in this district et the time , and for some time before ' Mr. rilden became the Democratic candidate for the Presidency I had been investigating the matter upon information which had been filed with me , and I became satisfied that Mr. rilden was justly indebted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when my examination of the matter was completed . my term of office expired , and " Stewart L. Woodford was appointed to the eesition of District , Attorney . The papers in the snit had all been prepared , but had not been served , when I was about surrendering my- office to Mr. Woodford , and I left it for him to say whether I should begin the suit , accepting the criticism which I knew would Dome from political opponents , or whether be should begin it . Mr. Woodford decided that it would be better for me to begin the prosecution , and accordingly I did so . I believed then , and I believe now , that the case was a good one , and that Mr. Tilden owed the iovernment a large amount of money due on kis income tax . It was a case involving a vast ' mount of detail , and requiring a great deal of care in its preparation . Of course . I do not tnow- accurately what was done in the case titer I left the office of District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long time fought the snit on technical and dilatory ands , and that he was finally defeated on ese grounds . " " Why was not the case brought to trial after the technical points had been overruled I " asked the reporter . " That I can not answer with any certainty , " was the response , " but , of cofirse , all these preliminary proceedings had . occupied contiderable time . and I can imagine that some of the evidence which I had collected had ceased , it process of time , Wise available . Mr. Woodford , at one time , I. think , recommended my employment as special counsel on behalf of the Sovernment in the conduct of the case : at any rate , Commissioner of Internal Revenue Raum recommended it . I at first objected to being retained on the ground that I did not like to take bold of a case of this nature which had suffered to much by being delayed . The question of my employment , however , was settled by the refusal of the Secretary of the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a willingness to allow anybody else to be retained , and subsequently Mr. Arnoux , a partner of Mr. Woodford 's , and ex-Judge Pierre-pont were employed as special counsel . The case dragged along until something less than a year ago when Mr. Tilden 's counsel made a proposal ele pay the fees of the Government Counsel as a compromise , provided the action tiFas discontinued . Secretary Folger declined to entertain this proposition , on the ground that Mr. Tilden either owed the money and the Government had a good case against him , or the Government had no case . In either event , the Secretary said , the proposition to compromise was improper . Subsequently the ease was discontinued , and , I suppose , without any payment . I have no desire or intention to reflect on the gentleman who succeeded me in the management of the lase . I can only say that , in my opinion , with he evidence available when I ceased to be Connected with it , I believed , and I still do ielieve , that it was a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been Lgpromptly obtained against any man occupy-a less prominent position than thatheld by Tilden . A revenue case always suffers Featly by delay in prosecuting it , and this case was no exception to the rule . In fact , it now occurs to me that one of the reasons astigned for the discontinuance of the case was the fact that an important witness had died . It is also within my knowledge that evidence which was available to me ceased to be available after the case passed into Mr. Woodford 's bands . Let me add in regard to the political view of the matter , upon which Gov . Henpricks foolishly attempts to make capital , hat it is undoubtedly true in one sense that politics helped to make the case stronger : against Mr. Tilden in its larly stages . I had marked instances in which persons were induced by their political earwetness to furnish confidentially important widence , even at the risk of losing the places phich they held if it had been discovered that hey had given the information . Sueordisates in the offices of corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pledge of secrecy as to their action , exhibited to me proofs of large amounts of income received by Mr. Tilden in the form of receipts signed by himself , of which I had no previous knowledge . These persons , after the political excitement was toyer , naturally came to regard their own nosiions as of more importance to them than the raccess of the Government suit against Mr. Filden , and their evidence became unavailable to Mr. Woodford . The statement of Gov. liendricks that the suit was discontinued as loon as it ceased to be of benefit politically fails utterly to the ground in the light of the tact that Mr. Tilden has declared himself out of politics , at least since the Cincinnati ConArention of 1880 , and the snit was still dragging ong wearily as late as last year . " I see , by the way , " continued Col. Bliss , that Gov . Hendricks refers to my connection With the star route prosecutions , and seems rather to suggest that there is no more ground for the prosecution of the Post Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tgainst Mr. Tilden . Now , if Mr. Hendricks is really preparing to fly again as the tail to Til-lien s Jaffe , he ought at least to get himself at snee in formal agreement with Tilden . For will not be denied that Mr. Tilden had for Three years in his employment a secret agent in the Post Office Department , who obtained for him the first knowledge of the star route frauds , and placed it at his disposal before it Acknown to be suspected by either the pub-Ac or the Government . He had procured a bass of information on the subject , and untonbtedly if he had bean nominated at Cincinnati instead of . Gem Hancock , he intended to ceake his campaign on the basis of an attack On the Republican Party founded on these frauds , just as he made his campaign for the Presidency on the frauds of the Canal Ring . When he was defeated as a candidate , however , his regard for the success of the Democratic Party did not , as I remember , lead trim to:turn over to Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Frd his issue , but instead he quietly suppressed local issue of a tariff . If there is any doubt of thatimowledge possessed by Mr. Tilden of Many of the facts of the star route frauds the time of which le Asase spoken . Charles F. MacLean can , if he will , eet that doubt at rest . Now , if Gov . Hendricks proposes to run on a ticket with Tilden on the basis of the innocence of the star route conspirators , he will be likely to find that Tilden is standing on the platform of their guilt . I would suggest to Mr. Hendricks that the Democratic Party is likely to have quite as much as it can do to straddle the tariff issue , without undertaking also to straddle the issue of public corruption . "                     