@@745211

txt Although internationality is a far less prominent trait of the exhibition just opened in Philadelphia than of its forerunners at Paris , Munich , and Vienna , yet this fact is , perhaps , not of prime importance . So quickly do inventions and the applications of science pass from country to country in these modern days that the point where they originate usually becomes a matter of minor consequence . If not under distinctive national guises , it yet becomes evident that none the less practically and truly are the chief electrical devices of foreip countries duplicated or represented at Philadelphia , while the storehouse of wonders probably becomes quite as interesting to Americans , at least , from its being largely taken up by the products of the land of FRANKLIN , MORSE , and EDISON . Coupled with the educational , value of this exhibition , and the entertainment to be derived from novel devices , a suggestive fact is the multiplicity of uses to which , as it shows , electricity has been put . Although its existence was perfectly well known before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men still living the real age of electricity was ushered in by the magnetic telegraph . Indeed , nearly all the appliances in the Philadelphia exhibition are of very recent origin . For , if electricity as messenger dates back to the clay ? of MORSE , electricity as motor and electricity as illuminator are distinct developments of current times . Yet under these two general heads cluster scores of interesting exhibits in the Philadelphia fair , while under two other heads , those of electricity for the transmission of sound , as in the telephone , and for manifold use in the arts under the form of electro-plating , are shown many more . But the whir of the electric wheels , the flash of the electric lights , and the play of the electric fountains in the current exhibition after all impress the observer more with the potentiality of electricity than with its present achievements . The very ease with which it is applied to do a multitude of work hitherto imposed upon other forces indicates that its course is really only beginning . With the enormous strides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prescribe limits upon its possibilities . As easily as it has hitherto girdled the earth with its wires it may take possession of the air for its highways of transportation and of the waters under the earth for conducting submarine warfare . Should Philadelphia . , undertake two years hence , or even five years , to hold another electric exhibition , her present attempt will be , by comparison , primitive and feeble . Electric boats will then ply on the Schuylkill , as in fact they did a year ago on the Danube Canal . Electric railways will probably then take visitors to and from the building , since their success has been demonstrated in Paris and in our country at Cleveland . Indeed , the practical every-day uses of electricity outdo in wonder this exhibition of them , and each year sets far ahead the work of accomplished progress . 