@@745998

txt It is surprising how slow a certain class of public men are to learn the lessons of political experience . One of the plainest of these lessons is that the strength of a public man is in the confidence of the public and the strength of a party is in the convictions of the people . Organization and management and the arts of practical politics can never supply the place of these . It is especially strange that men prominent in the Democratic Party should fail to comprehend the lesson taught by the experience of that party only two or three years ago . After being out of power for a quarter of a century it got back again simply by nominating for President a man who had by his official course gained the confidence of the people . Mr. CLEVELAND was not an adept in the arts of the politician . He had never practiced them . With good abilities , thorough honesty , and unflinching courage he had simply endeavored to do his duty in public office . When he had appointments to make he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his approval he considered whether they were in the interest of the public welfare and acted accordingly . It was by this simple and straightforward course that he so gained the confidence of the people and attracted the attention of the country as to be pointed out as the one man with whom his party could achieve victory in the national contest . Nobody can doubt that the course he pursued was what gave him his political strength , and not only induced his party to nominate him , but enabled it to elect him . If he had taken the ordinary course of the self-seeking politician he would never have been thought of as a candidate for President , and if a politician of the common type had been : the Democratic candidate he would have had no chance of election . These facts are so conspicuous and their significance so obvious that it seems very strange that the successor of Mr. CLEVELAND as Governor of this State should take a course diametrically opposed to his in the apparent belief that it is the path to political success . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party management and to securing the favor of politicians . He seems always to be working for party effect . In making appointments he exhibits no purpose of getting the public service performed . in the best manner , but aims at strengthening the party organization and securing the favor of some person or some class supposed to represent votes . In considering legislation he has the appearance of inquiring not what is best for the public interest and . will most promote the 11 general welfare , but what will be of advantaw ) to his party and tend to strengthen his own position with the party . In. other words he is not seeking to gain the confidence of the people at large and relying for support upon their convictions . but is striving by factitious methods to promote personal and partisan ends . One of these methods of proceeding , while ' it may offend politicians and make enemies of self-seekers , wins confidence and support . It tends to make a man essential to his party , because he can draw strength to it . The other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces either aversion or indifference among the people . The man who pursues it draws no new strength to his party , and is sure to drive away some of its normal support . If he succeeds in controlling the machinery of party it is only to make it useless . We have seen the logical consequence of Mr. CLEVELAND 'S course . We are likely to see that of Mr. HILL'S.                     