@@744446

txt Gen. BUTLER , the Governor-elect of Massachusetts , has given what he wishes to be considered as his views at some length to a reporter of the Sun , of this City . The most notable thing about his utterances is their tone of moderation . The General 's amazing success in attaining the object of his ambition at a moment when none of his friends hoped for it and none of his enemies seriously feared it has evidently sobered him . Possibly the vision of a still higher goal , no more unattainable than the Governorship seemed a year ago , may have something to do in calming his ordinary ardor and converting him from an impetuous assailant to be a critic of philosophic manner and au air of impartiality . He may think that it is fitting his high station , and proof of fitness for one more elevated , to appear above sweeping denunciation and personal vituperation . His new manner does not add to the interest of his remarks , and they do not gain in dignity nearly so much as they lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinions professed by one who undoubtedly believes himself to be the coming man , and who has very strong motives for adhesion to what he believes to be the coming ideas . It is noticeable , for one thing , that in his analysis of the causes of recent political changes and in his forecast of the probable course of the successful party , Gen. BUTLER has not a word to say about the currency . The apostle of the irredeemable legal tender , who went out of the Republican Party by way of Greenbackism , and who took the trouble to invent a special interconvertible bond and note which was to regulate the currency on the principle of a patent cut-off , apparently sees no hope of further interesting the people in that subject . It is not long since that Gen. BUTLER professed to believe that the one thins : the people wanted was paper money , and made the most extravagant bids for popularity in that direction . At present he sees no signs worth noting of any demand of this sort . The fact is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to finance . The main source of the recent revolution , according to Gen. BUTLER , was the discontent of the people with the enormous taxation now enforced , but as to what should be done to satisfy the people on this point he is singularly at sea . He declares that there was " a revolt " because the tariff was not revised , but he suggests no adequate revision by the party that has come into power . He believes that free trade , if it were possible , would be best for all , but he coolly assumes that there is an " immediate necessity for raising about a million of dollars a day from Customs , " and he makes a virtue of saying that if this does not afford sufficient " incidental protection " to American manufactures , then they " ought not to flourish at all . " As this is very nearly twice the amount collected from Customs for the past fiscal year , we should say that manufacturers would be entirely content with the amount allowed them by the General . Obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tariff was not revised , and who contemplates raising 80 per cent . more from Customs than is now raised , can not be said to have mastered his subject . If he expects to profit by what he conceives to be the condition of the popular mind on this question be will have to give it much more serious attention than he has yet given it . Nor is he much clearer in regard to the internal revenue . He thinks that the taxes on whisky and tobacco " will be substantially swept away , or at least be put upon the consumer , instead of , as now , upon the producer , " but he gives no clue as to how this latter arrangement is to be brought about . As a matter of fact , it would be practically impossible . By far the larger part of the whisky made in the country is consumed in small quantities , and all the tobacco is . If Gen. BUTLER seriously proposes to levy $150,000,000 a year upon the retail sales of liquors and tobacco , lie is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If he proposes to raise the tax from the jobbers , he only shifts the burden from one class of dealers to another , increases the cost of collection , and interferes as seriously as ever with business , if not more so . His suggestion that . the ? removal of the tax from the producers would leave the States in which whisky and tobacco are produced more capital available for taxation , and that this would relieve certain Southern States which do not now pay their debts , is more plausible than forcible . With the exception of Delaware , Maryland , Kentucky , and Missouri , none of which has any trouble in meeting its obligations , over 63 per cent . of the manufactured tobacco is produced in Northern States ; and with the exception of Kentucky , Maryland , and Missouri , over 92 per cent . of the rectified spirits is produced in the Northern States . The percentage of beer and ale is , of course , still more striking . It is hardly worth while , therefore , to repeal the taxes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not pay their debts . Virginia apart , no such State has any considerable interest in these taxes . But facts and figures will not have very much influence on those who are making the crusade on the internal revenue taxes . Most of these men are actuated by a desire to prevent the reduction of the tariff . They really care very little for the special class whose cause they pretend to champion . If they imagine that their policy will satisfy the intelligent public opinion of the country in regard to taxation , they are very seriously mistaken .                     