@@743330

txt There is . a degree of frankness in. the manner in which some of the Southern journals occasionally speak of the polities of their peculiar section which renders their columns instructive . An article in the Charleston News , of Feb. 4 , is a case in point . It bears the suggestive caption , " The Negro Vote in South Carolina  --  Kill or Cure , " and the purpose of the writer , though professedly in favor of " cure , " is unmistakably intended to incite the Legislature to " kill . " He starts out with the statement , emphatically made and considerably elaborated , that " the , colored people " " are still the majority , " that " they can elect their candidates in 1SSO , as they elected them from 1868 to 1874 , " and that " it is the settled purpose in South Carolina that the intelligent and responsible citizens shall rule , whether they are nominally the majority or not . " The italics are those of the . News . The writer then proceeds to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rule the confessed majority can be carried out . It can not be accomplished by converting the negroes to Democracy . That can not be done permanently . It might be brought about in the future , as it has been in the past , by " suppressing " the negro vote , but that has its " unpleasantnesses " and " uncertainties . " and the " moral sense of the South revolts against it , " not , apparently , on account of its essential injustice and the violation of the first principles of free government , but " because what has been done , the stalwarts say , in violation of law , can be done , " the News says , " in accordance with law , and in such way as to command the acquiescence and encouragement of Democrats , of honest , upright GOD-fearing men in every part of the Union . " Its proposition , therefore , is to impose an educational test as a condition to voting , and , as that can not be done constitutionally before the next election , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name in his own writing before he can exercise the suffrage . This is in brief , but with entire accuracy , the proposition of the . Zlews ; it is already embodied in a bill presented at the regular session of the Legislature , and its passage is now urged at the extra session , which begins on Tuesday . The News sustains it on the ground that the Democratic Party of South Carolina will suffer in public opinion , in the State and out of it , if it " adhere to irregular processes , when , by a simple act of Assembly , the ignorant voting element can be set aside , and at the same time be offered the strongest inducements to become intelligent , thoughtful , and trustworthy . " With the general principle of an educational test in South Carolina or elsewhere we have no fault to find . It is consistent with the Constitution of the nation , and with the principles of republican government . When fairly and impartially applied , and particularly when applied side by side with the vigorous maintenance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all , it is entirely just . It deprives no man of any right to which he is entitled , and is a simple and natural method by which a community can protect itself against serious abuses and dangers . But every one will concede that it is essential that the application of this principle shall be at once impartial and intelligent , that it shall be made in good faith , without prejudice to any class , and without the shadow . of a purpose to exclude any voter who may be reasonably qualified . Under any other conditions the principle of an educational test becomes merely an instrumentality of wrong ' and fraud , and its inherent excellence only makes the more contemptible the selfishness which perverts it . It can make no essential difference whether the test be provided for by a constitutional provision or by an ingenious statute requiring the writing of a name , though the latter is obviously a much looser and less efficacious method , and is liable to greater abuse . What is important is that the test shall be enforced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Carolina ? Judging the purpose and motive and character of the party in power there by the statements of its leading organ , there is very little chance indeed that such a law would be administered with anything more than a pretense of decency and impartiality . The party whose " settled purpose " it is to " role whether they are nominally the majority or not , " whose journals admit that it is actually in the minority , is asked to " set aside " the negro vote by means of . the proposed law . That is the sole intention suggested . Is it conceivable that if the fair administration of the law was seen to be likely to defeat that intention , and to exclude more white votes than negro votes , it would be fairly administered. ? Could it be fairly administered consistent with the " settled purpose " so clearly . stated and so unblushingly avowed ? Obviously not . The enactment of the law , under the circumstances , would be a mere blind , the erection of a convenient screen , behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " irregular processes " would be accomplished with equal ruthlessness . The position of the writer in the News in the matter appears to be that of a journalist with a sensitiveness to the requirements of decency beyond that of his party associates , who has thought it his duty to point out to them how they can attain their object without so openly shocking the moral sentiment of the country as they have done in the past . But we must be pardoned for saying that if they take his advice , they will add to the vice of arrogant disregard of the rights of others the more contemptible one of hypocrisy .                     