@@745296

txt While the world 's most daring explorers have been tracing the boundaries of the Polar Sea , and navigating the streams and newly found lakes of Central Africa , a remarkable discovery has been made within a thousand miles of this city by the Geographical Society of Quebec . Within 500 or 600 miles of the northern boundary of Maine there has been found , if the reports made by the members of that society are worthy of belief , an inland sea as large as Lake Superior . Midway between the St. Lawrence River and the southern extremity of Hudson 's Bay , stretching in a northeasterly direction from Ontario to Labrador , is a watershed of slight elevation , designated on the maps as " Height of Land . " A few miles to the northward lies a small lake known as Lake Mistassini , from which a stream known as Rupert 's River flows into the southern extremity of Hudson 's Bay . The region beyond the watershed , between Labrador and Hudson 's Bay , is uninhabited except by a few - Indians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hudson 's Bay Company . In this region , not far from the small lake Mistassini , which may be seen on the maps , lies the great lake which has recently been found . At the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science , held in Montreal last August , the presiding officer of the geographical section , Gen. LEFROY , announced the discovery of this great body of water . The first trustworthy information concerning it seems to have been given to M. NAPOLEON COMEAU by hunters , Indians , and others who had visited its shores . An expedition was fitted out and sent northward by the Geographical Society of Quebec , and the officer who left Quebec in June with supplies for the use of the exploring party has recently returned . The supply party , starting from a village on the Saguenay River about 30 miles from Lake St. John , journeyed northward , passing the watershed , and at a distance of about 350 miles from Lake St. John and 450 miles from Quebec the southern extremity of the great lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished the great lake from the small one and to have discovered that they are connected by Rupert 's River . For seven days they voyaged on the great lake , and after 120 miles of navigation the main body of it was not reached . The waters swarmed with fish , the banks were well wooded , and tracts of the adjoining land were arable . Having deposited the provisions at a point on the shore , the supply party returned without having encountered the exploring party . Prof. SELWYN , of the Canadian Geological Survey , is said to have recently stated that the story about the great lake was a hoax , because Lake Mistassini had been surveyed in 1870 and was referred to in the geological reports of that year . But the commander of the supply party asserts that the great lake lies beyond the lake of which Prof. SELWYN speaks , and it seems probable that the Professor has been misled by a belief that the supply party had rediscovered the small lake . The region north of the ' St. Lawrence abounds in small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hudson 's Bay and Labrador has been regarded as of little value for agricultural purposes . It has been controlled by the agents of the Hudson 's Bay Company , who have not been inclined to favor the exploration of it . The newly found lake lies in latitude nearly corresponding to the latitude of London and Berlin , but the climate is severe . Exploration will not be followed by settlement , and the discovery is of little commercial value . Nevertheless , the full reports of the expedition can not fail to be very interesting .                     