@@780776

txt A remarkable and even pathetic incident occurred at Kalamazoo , in this State , the latter part of last week . A very old man , past 80 years , appeared in the office of the Superintendent of the Poor to solicit public assistance . He had no overcoat and was dressed in a thin , threadbare suit of black . The silk hat on his head , like the white hair beneath it , had seen the storms of many Winters . He carried a small parcel , and two canes with which to support his steps . It was with difficulty that the official , after the aged man had told his name , recognized in him the famous Augustus Littlejohn , an orator of such splendid ability in his prime , 40 years ago , that no one who heard him ever forgot the almost irresistible magnetism of his eloquence . Arriving from Niles Mr. Littlejohn had applied to the poor authorities for assistance to enable him to reach Schoolcraft , which place he desired to visit . The assistance was instantly furnished him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitled him to something better than miserable poverty in his old age , and armed with a pauper 's ticket he left for Schoolcraft that afternoon . Augustus Littlejohn was a great man among a generation now passed away . He was the Gough of the forties . Old settlers who have heard him repeatedly say that he surpassed Gough in the vividness of his descriptions and the wonderful and altogether indescribable dramatic force of his utterances . He lectured repeatedly all through Michigan and Indiana on temperance , with enormous crowds attending his lectures everywhere . He was known also throughout the East as well as in the West . Thousands all over the country were reclaimed by him from intemperance . He was of the noted Littlejohn family of Herkimer , N. Y. a family distinguished for its talent . Bishop Littlejohn , of Long Island , and the late Hon. De Witt C. Littlejohn , of Oswego , N. ' Y. , were nephews of his . Now in picturesque , but nevertheless miserable , poverty the old man is obliged to ask for public alms . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in his prime , or those who are only acquainted with his splendid reputation , to hear that the matchless orator of nearly half a century ago is still alive , so long has he been hidden away from public observation and knowledge .                     