@@743918

txt It may take more than our generation to solve the difficult questions that lie about the fine arts . Such is the absolute question whether the encouragement of art by Government is hurtful or beneficial . Such is the question whether , granted that Governments should foster art , the fostering should be applied through a bureau of officials wedded to certain ideas of what is art and what is not . Such is the question ; the Government 's patronage being held dangerous , how private patronage should be extended to artists . There are heavy combatants on both sides of the main point at issue  --  the direct patronage of sculptors , painters , architects on the part of central Governments . Certainly at first glance there would seem to be but one argument in history , and that one in favor of Government patronage . France , England , Germany , Italy are 4o-day engaged in encouraging art by direct orders from crowned heads or through the legitimate governmental channels . Moreover , most of these countries can point to former periods when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if not equally , honored . Among them France takes the lead now , as it , did at various periods during the last four centuries . The annual volume published under the title " L'Annde Artistique " is extraordinary reading . They have systematized the encouragement of art to such an extent that the poorest parish in France , if it have a building in any way worthy of repair , can hope for a place in the budget . The gentlemen decorated and undecorated who have positions of more or less responsibility under the wgis of the Ministry of Public Instruction and the Fine Arts are legion . They appear to include residents in every corner of the land . Even Algiers has a traveling Inspector of Fine Arts . The total budget:voted this year for the expenses of fine arts was well on toward a round two millions of dollars . M. TURQUET , the Minister for this department , is called an Under Secretary of State , and has a large staff under him . Hardly an important town of France but has its museum of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precious pieces of ancient and modern art . A plan has been matured to bring all or them into correspondence with each other , thus carrying out more fully a system which has been working for some time by which the Louvre and Luxembourg lend objects of art to the provincial museums for certain periods . Among the officers appointed in these minor towns one comes now and then upon some name known very honorably outside of France for works on art or archaeology . On paper the system looks as near perfect as any that has yet been devised . Still , there are persons who-do not believe in governmental patronage . You may point out to grumblers of this kind that without strong pecuniary prizes for the artist , and honors like the Cross of the Legion for organizers , private patrons and persons who give time or money to the general cause , the best men will not enter the profession or give their aid . The strong probability that genius will sooner or later win fame , if not lucre , under parental care of the sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To this the answer is that just because the system is so complete it really encourages mediocrity , and keeps the true artist just so much the longer from his rightful audience . The drilling process of parentally supervised schools and finishing art academies , the unhealthy stimulus of competitions , the necessary injustice of artists and others who are confined to the narrow dogmas of their own artistic education , combine to depress original talent and bolster the inferior scholar - who flatters by imitation . The grumblers point to the record of to-day . ? Where , they ask , are our great French ' sculptors and painters ? You name one or two men of high talent , but there 's an end . And this is the outcome of all the red tape and bureaucracy which distributes the nine millions of francs of the budget . The grumblers are in a fractional minority and their voices are hardly heard . Nevertheless , it is well to consider what they say . On looking closer at the epochs which confessedly produced the greatest number of illustrious ' architects , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Certainly not . Nor are the nearer epochs like ours in the establishment of very large nations with Governments wielding the finances and the Army from a centre . Scattered , squabbling , diversified Greece comes to mind at once . Then the Renaissance period . What was Italy then ? Imagine M. TURQUET and his nine millions in Florence or Rome during the Cinque Cento ! And the great art period of the Netherlands was certainly poor enough financially and disorganized enough politically . We must look twice before we concede that Government protection of artists on the modern French plan is all that its generous spirit might easily argue it .                     