@@744556

txt There was much excitement in the House of Commons at the opening of the session this afternoon , as it was expected that Mr. Parnell would speak in answer to the charges made against him by Mr. Forster yesterday . A large number of persons were in the lobbies , being unable to find room in the House . The stranger 's gallery and the peer 's gallery were filled . The seats of all the members were reserved . Mr. Parnell said the utmost he desired to do was to make his position clear to the Irish people at home and abroad . Mr. Forster , he said , ought to be ashamed for traducing him . He declined to reply to Mr. Forster 's questions , and charged that gentleman with having asked him ( Mr. Parnell ) to inform against his associates . Mr. Parnell said he did not care to impress his opinion on the House , or on England . If Mr. Forster bad believed that articles published in the Irish World were likely to incite crime , why had he not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility of Mr. Forster , who had read the articles and believed what the result would be , to that of himself , who had never read them , though they were now brought against him . Mr. Forster had unfairly singled out the name of Sheridan as mentioned in the " Kilmamnam treaty " negotiations . Why did he suppress the names of Davitt , Egan , and Boyton , who were also mentioned as likely to endeavor to prevent outrages in Ireland ? Mr. Forster exclaimed : They were not mentioned to me . " Mr. O'Shea , member for Clare , asserted that they were mentioned to Mr. Forster . Mr. Parnell continued . He had been challenged to defend himself , but he had nothing to defend himself from . He occupied a better position in the eyes of the Irish than Mr. Forster did in Vngland . Mr. Forster was also guilty of suppressio yeti , because the heading in the United Ireland , " Incidents of the Campaign , " over the column recording outrages , ceased the moment Mr. O'Brien , editor of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s unfairness was shocking . Mr. Parnell also analyzed the evidence of Carey at the hearing of the Irish prisoners in Dublin , which he said was not a statement of fact , but of belief or hearsay . It had been already disproved as regards Mrs. Byrne . The evidence in reference to the source of the " murder fund , " he said , rested upon the fact that some men while in prison bad received checks from the sustentation fund of the Land League . Such aid had been given to thousands of prisoners . As proof that the prisoners charged with the Phoenix Park murders were not members of the Land League , Mr. Parnell pointed ' out that one of them had returned a check which had been sent to him from the sustentation fund , saying that he had nothing to do with the League . Mr. Forster ; s animus was due to the fact that he had attempted to obtain a promise from him , ( Mr. Parnell , ) but had failed to do so and had lost his office . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials in Ireland were manifestly unfit to administer the Crimes act . Mr. Forster ought to return to his congenial work . Mr. Parnell said he was hopeful that Ireland would weather this , as she had weathered other formidable oppressions . He spoke for 35 minutes , The Prince of Wales was present in the gallery the whole time Mr. Parnell was delivering his speech . Mr. Trovelyan , Chief Secretary for Ireland , in reply to Mr. Parnell , proceeded to - vindicate the policy of the Government in Ireland . Since the present Government there had been commissioned to suppress crime the number of murders bad been reduced from three monthly to one in the last four and a half months . The only policy for Ireland was to say exactly what the Government meant to do and then do it . He regretted that Mr. Parnell had not made his position clearer . Mr. Gorst 's amendment to the address in reply to the Speech from the Throne was distasteful to Earl Spencer , Lcrd-Lieutenant of Ireland , and to himself , and would , if carried , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cabinet . He thought that nothing would be more fatal to Ireland than to hand the responsibility of its government to local bodies . It the Government were convinced that the life of any official or private person had been pointed at by inciting language of the press . they would act again . The Government would not press the present proceeding against John O'Brien , whose sentence to imprisonment for using intimidating language against landlords was confirmed recently , and who was arrested to undergo his punishment . In the House of Commons to-night Sir Stafford Northcote said he would be sorry to weaken or harass the Government , but even if the result be to cause them to resign it would be better that that should happen than that the country , relying on a false security , should be led back to the Ministerial policy of the past . Mr. Chamberlain declared that as long as Mr. Forster remained in the Cabinet he was loyally supported by his colleagues , and there was no unworthy intrigue against him . Mr. Gorst 's amendment was rejected-2.59 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCoan and Blake , Irish Home Rulers , voted with the majority . Mr. Justin McCarthy , member for Longford , has written to Mr. Forster informing him that he will personally attack him during a speech which Mr. McCarthy intends to make in the House of Commons . Sir Stafford Northcote has given notice that he will move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the matter of the release of Messrs . Parnell , Dillon . and O'Kelly from Kilmainham Jail . Mr. Parnell has telegraphed to Mr. Sexton , requesting him to come to London to participate in the debate in the House of Commons . The Times says the marked rejection by Mr. Parnell in the House of Commons yesterday of the opportunity offered him for clearing himself from the discredir , of holding relations with the Irish assassins might be justified if his political conduct had been from the beginning above suspicion . The country , the Times says , can not be expected to view with favor conduct which seems wanting in courage or candor . The Daily News says it understands that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an amendment to the address in reply to the Speech from the throne arraigning the Executive of Ireland for the administration of the Crimes act . DUBLIN , Feb. ** prisoners charged with the Pho:nix Park murders are furnished with meals from the public house at which James Carey stopped to drink on his way from the scene of the murders on the evening of the 6th of May . A stranger calls at the house once a week and pays the bill . The authorities have resolved to discontinue the search of Rings-end Basin for the knives used by the assassins . The friends of Brennan , who was mentioned by Carey at the bearing of the conspirators , deny that he has fled to America . They say the Police know his whereabouts , but they have made no attempt to connect him with the Phenix Park murders . A meeting of bricklayers , masons , and representatives of other trades was hold here to-day . The meeting disavowed any connection with Carey , repudiated his claizuto be a representative of working men , and expelled him from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dispatch in which Gen. Macadarras denied that he was the person known as " - Plumber One " was sent to London by Coudert Brothers , Gen. Macadarras visited Air . Morton , the American Minister , and laid his case before him . Mr. Morton introduced C-en . Macadarras to an American lawyer , named Kelly , connected with the firm of Coudert Brothers . Thesr3 three gentlemen framed the telegram mentioned , which was forwarded to Mr. Trevel van , Chief Secretary for Ireland , Lord Lyons , the British Embasseder , having first approved it . LONDON , Feb. 2-1 . ? A dispatch from Dublin states on the very best authority that startling revelations regarding the murder conspiracy will be published in a few days . Ten men will soon ha arrested in the Dublin district and Provinces , When these arrests at ! , made the whole organization will have been crushed . There is every reason to believe that the Police are getting at the bottom of most of the agrarian murders . It will be proved that all the murders were arranged by one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resumed today . Owing to the many witnesses coming forward , six of the prisoners who have just been committed for trial are willing to become informers . Messrs . James O'Kelley and T. P. O'Connor , Home Rulers , will leave here for Ireland today to participate in the election contests there . The Daily News says : " As a personal vindication Mr. Parnell 's spoeeh failed , if a man can be said to fail in that which he seemed almost to disdain undertaking . " A Dublin dispatch says that Carey , the informer , in an interview said he wished to modify statements which he had made at the witness-table in regard to the Land League . He denied that he wrote a letter of sympathy to Miss Burke after the murder of her brother , Under Secretary Burke . 