@@672236

txt STREET CARS AND STREETS . The Commissioner of Public Works is doing a public service in attempting to hold the private corporations that use the pub-. lic streets to their obligations toward th e city . It is not at all creditable to the administration of his department in the past that Mr. GILROY should be compelled to Lake up the question as a , new one . The obligations of the corporations ought to be perfectly well understood by this time , and to be enforced by the departments as a matter of course . The recent attempt to ? make the gas companies relay the pavements they disturb in as good order as they were in before was really a novelty . The companies had been in the habit of relaying the pavements to suit their own convenience merely , and had not been annoyed by official interference on behalf of the city . In that case there was no question about the obligation of the company . It had simply been encouraged , by official inefficiency , to neglect its plain duty . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line to pay its share of the cost of repaving upper Madison-avenue there seems to be some question about the obligation of the company . The company itself seems to hold that it has no obligation or responsibility toward the city at the expense of which it maintains its franchise . This is the ground that all the corporations from the depredations of which the streets suffer habitually take in practice , but they do not so often avow it . The obligations of these corporations are to some extent expressed in their charters , and vary according to the wording of those instruments . As a rule , they are not laid down very explicitly . The charters , of course , are drawn and submitted by the persons who expect to derive profit from operating corporations under them , and the tendency of these persons is to lay great stress upon the rights of corporations and to pass very lightly over their duties . Sometimes representatives of the city insist that its rights shall be protected ; but as the public interests are not so sharply looked out for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form desired by the corporators . For the same reason all the operations under it are conducted in contempt ? of the notion that the city has any rights at all . ? hi the case of the Fourth-Avenue Road it seems that its original charter bound it to pave - the area included between its tracks . The natural conclusion would be that every extension of the charter was an . extension equally of this obligation , whether or not it was expressed . But even if nothing had been said about the matter in the charter , the grant of the right to lay tracks in a public street must involve the obligation of interfering as little as possible with the use of the street for ordinary traffic . Mayor Hewitt 's account of the manner in which the rail in common use was devised and introduced showed the purpose of the railroads to render the part of the street occupied by their tracks unavailable for any other use , and this purpose would have been defeated if the city had been properly represented . It is evident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . costly than it would be in their absence . The managers of the Fourth-avenue line seem to hold that their charter empowersthem to put the city to this additional trouble and expense for the benefit of the road . This position is clearly untenable . Now that the work is to be done by the city , in consequence of the company disclaimer of responsibility , it is almost to be hoped that the company will resist the demand for its payment . Such a resistance could scarcely fail to bring out a judicial decision fixing the responsibility of the company , which would be of use to the city in dealing with other corporations in the like case .                     