@@671956

txt Any resolution introduced into the Board of Aldermen is naturally regarded as a " strike , " that is to say , an attempt to extract money from somebody . This is not always just . An Alderman may be- as much alive as a statesman who follows the higher walks of legislation to the desirableness of political capital . There is no reason to doubt that the object of the Aldermen in adopting the ordinance requiring the Twenty-third-street road to provide conductors for its cars was simply to conciliate public opinion , which has been so strongly and unanimously expressed in favor of such a measure . The Twentythird-street road will be unwise if it contests this action , as it threatens to do . Its position is much the same as that of the boycotting workmen who induced Gov . HILL to commend their wishes to the attention of the Legislature . They found it necessary to their business to hound any man who had incurred their dislike out of employment , and . desired a change of the criminal law that would permit them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can make more money if it subjects its passengers to inconvenience continually and kills somebody occasionally than if it protects passengers and public by employing conductors . If it maintains this attitude the question will be whether it is not possible to secure the forfeiture of a charter which is employed with so impudent a disregard of the rights and interests of the public . If it yields at once , now that its failure to provide conductors has resulted in homicide , there will be no occasion for raising that question . Even if the power of the Aldermen were as complete over all the surface roads as it seems to be over the Twenty-third-street , it would not be judicious to make the prohibition of bobtail cars general , as was proposed in the board . In a district where traffic is light a conductor may be safely dispensed with , and it might be a real hardship to require that a conductor shall be provided , As the traffic increases it is both easier to pay conductors and more dangerous to run cars without them .. There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and others where it is doubtful whether or not they ought to de discontinued . ' But in regard to the Twentythird-street line there is no doubt whatever . ?                     