@@671846

txt Senator Ingalls of Kansas , the most brilliant Republican in the upper branch of Congress , who was until yesterday enumerated with Sherman , Allison , Hiss ' cock , Hawley , Cullom , and others as a possible ' candidate of ? his party for the Presidency , will have to be dropped from all calculations hereafter . No Republican in either branch or Congress will talk about him as a possible candi-. date to-day . His speech of yesterday , in which he leveled his bitterest invective against the President , Gen. McClellan , and Gen. Hancock , and practically accused the whole Southern people of continued disloyalty , is regarded as an indication from Mr. Ingalls of his indifference to a Presidential nomination . The speech has been openly commented upon in that way , and the first cordial indorsement of the Senator 's utterances is yet to be heard here . So strong a Republican and partisan as Mr. , Reed of Maine , who can occasionally make speeches that do not exactly fit the Great . Re- , publican Party as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was correctly understood when he spoke of McClellan and Hancock together as " allies of the Confederacy , " and he maintained that no such expression would be found in Mr. Ingalls 's speech in the Congressional Record . Mr. Ingalls evidently belongs to the class of Republicans who believe that the Republican Party must be kept snail by keeping out all pe who might come into a party of progress . The Democrats are generally delighted with the speech . Some of the more dignified of them are disposed to hope that more speeches of the same sort may be made by the Republicans of the Senate and the House , for the reason that such . speeches , in their estimation , will not only render it impossible for the Republicans to make gains in the South , but will disgust conservative and decent men everywhere in the country . Those Republicans who suppose that Mr. Ingalls was inspired simply by patriotism and . love of the soldier in making his attack upon the President ought to know that a meaner motive may have controlled him . Not long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kan. , the home of Senator Ingalls . A Democrat was to be named , of course , but Mr. Ingalls did not think it beneath his dignity or at all improper for him , as a Republican Senator , to become interested in the cause of one of the rival Democratic aspirants for the place . He not only went personally to the President to give his advice , but he enlisted other members of his family , who had been made at home in the White House . in the same cause . The President . after considering the qualitleations of all the candidates , decided in favor of a man who was not the man preferred . by Mr. Ingalls . It was for this . then , that Mr. Ingalls in his speech . yesterday spoke thus of the President : " The nomination and election of Grover . Cleveland have made the pretensions of any American citizen to the Presidency respectable . There is no man in this country whose ignorance is so profound , whose obscurity is so impenetrable , and whose antecedents are so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination by the Democratic Party . " The manner in which this was delivered was as significant as the matter . The rhetorical pauses at each comma were so prolonged as to give persons in the galleries opportunity for laughing or applauding before the second phrase was completed , and it was evident that his hearers expected him to make a comparison even more pointed and personal than the one he gave . His reference to McClellan and Hancock will undoubtedly create indignation in the breast or every soldier in the North , ' who has regarded Hancock as OM ) of the most loyal heroes of the Union , and one against whom no one but Mr. Ingalls can be remembered here as having ever suggested a doubt of his loyalty . In referring to the Democratic vote for Hancock forPresident he said : " Why , ' Mr. President , we understand why they voted for Hancock . We xnow why Hancock was nominated . We know why that other ally of the Confederacy . George B. McClellan , was nominated , who had just declared that the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years to make it so . " If all the Republicans in Kansas and all the Democrats believe that Hancock and McClellan were " allies of the Confederacy , " Mr. Ingalls will find that all the Republicans of New-York and New-Jersey and Pennsylvania do not agree with him . He did not make a mistake , it seems , in his charge against Hancock , for later on , when Senator Blackburn protested against Mr. Ingalls 's aspersion of dead . men and asked whether it would no ; have been in better taste , and more creditable to the courage of the Senator . if he had made the charge before both Hancock and McClellan were dead , Mr. Ingalls responded that " he did , often . " Some of the Democrats who have been discussing Mr. Ingalls 's great speech to-day are inclined to think it will make a very good campaign document for Democratic purposes , both North and South . The recent action of the internal revenue officers looking to collecting 10 per : cent . tax on circulating notes issued by foreign institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country for information as to the law on the subject and the construction of it by the Government . In order to reply authoritatively the Coutroller of the Currency has obtained from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue the following statement on the subject : Every bank located in the United States , - whether State or national . is liable to a tax of 10 per cent . on the amount of Canadian bank notes used for circulation and paid out by it in this country , and a true and complete return of the monthly amount of such notes so paid out by it for the previous six months must be made and rendered in duplicate by each and every such bank on the 1st day of June and the 1st day of December . One copy of this return must be transmitted to the Collector of the district in which the bank is located. , and the other to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue . This tax is imposed by section 3,412 , Revised Statutes , and section 20 of the act of Feb. 3 , 1875 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are required by section 3,414 Revised Statutes , and section 21 of said act of Feb. 8 . No internal revenue tax is closed for paying out the notes of the DominioisUf Canadaa ? if . as is understood , they are obligations of the Dominion itself and not of any bank or banker , and consequently no returns of the amount of them paid out by the banks have been required . A bank is not regarded as paying out Canadian bank notes within the meaning of the statute when it simply sends them to Canada for redemption . If the bank ; when it sends such notes to a correspondent bank in the United States , sends them , not to be placed to its credit on the books of that bank in settlement of balances , or to be appropriated to the payment of debts , &c.,; but simply to be forwarded to Canada for redemption , and the correspondent bank , as its agent , thus forwards them , they need not be treated as paid out in this country by either of the banks . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is making himself personally disagreeable to the public building " combine " in the House , ' CO oppose the indiscriminate passage of bills to erect public buildings everywhere . He even opposed to-day the bill for a building at Sedalia , in his own State . He has quite supplemented Mr .. Holmau in his now abandoned Mile of  - -  Wa.teltaog of the Treasury . " Mr. Chace 's InternatiOnal Copyright bill will be taken up by the Senate Committee on Patents on Friday morning , when a hearing will be given to such interested persons as desire to speak for or against the measure . It is expected . that numerous authors , publishers , and representatives of the Copyright League will bef present . 