@@672005

txt THE CHINESE EXCLUSION ACT . In giving his approval to the Chinese Exclusion bill President CLEVELAND has taken . the somewhat unusual course of sending a message to Congress explaining the reasons which in his opinion justify that measure . This was a proper course to take considering the insufficient knowledge of the facts which prevails , and the occasion presented for suggesting supplementary legislation . The President might perhaps consider himself sufficiently justified . in approving the bill by the substan-. tial unanimity with which it was passed by both branches of Congress , the emphatic and unanimous demand for some such legislation by the people of the States chiefly affected , and the general support given to the policy of exclusion throughout the country . But as the Executive Department is especially charged with the task of dealing with our relations with foreign countries , and as this matter has heretofore been the subject of international negotiation and treaty stipulations , the President was bound to have due regard for such obligations as had been incurred and such just claims to consideration as the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore altogether pertinent and proper . Aside from the undoubted right which our Government has to regulate the admission of foreign immigrants to our shores , or to exclude those of any particular class or race , if the well-being of our own people and institutions demands it . the President justifies the passage and approval of the bill on the ground that the Chinese Government had virtually pledged itself to co-operate with us in carrying out the object in view and had . then practically declined to fulfill the pledge . The desirability of putting a stop to the immigration of Chinese laborers to this country may be regarded as having passed beyond dispute , and it was fully conceded on both sides . China had of her own free will proposed . to establish a system of strict prohibition of the departure of her laborers for the United States , including such as had once been here and returned home . But the control of her Government over their movements was not complete , and it was recognized that the only effective exclusion must operate upon this side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based upon offers voluntarily made by the Chinese Government and framed in full accord with propositions freely assented to in advance by its authority . The two amendments embodied in the treaty by the Senate when it was ratified . in May received the approval of the Chinese Plenipotentiary , who had represented his Government with full powers in the negotiation , " as they did not alter the terms of the treaty . " We had , therefore , every reason confidently to expect the prompt ratification of the agreement , and . in anticipation of that event Congress had . already passed . an act for carrying it into effect , the operation of which was made contingent on'the proclamation of the treaty . On the report that the Chinese Government would not carry out its part of the understanding , Congress showed unseemly haste in passing the new bill ; but when it came to the hands of the President official information had been received that China refused to exchange ratifications - unless the subject were reopened for further discussion with a view to modifying the agreement . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our Government , and a reopening of negotiations was regarded as useless . Moreover , the President regarded the action of China as an indefinite postponement and practical abandonment of the objects we had in view , and therefore as justifying us in. dealing with the question by legislation with sole reference to ? our own interests . Ordinarily this might be considered a somewhat hasty assumption on the scanty official information that has ? been received , ha , considering the state of public sentiment in this country and the unanimity of Congressional action , the President chose the wiser of the alternatives presented . to him . Furthermore , there is every reason to believe that China will not object to having the matter taken out of the field of diplomatic negotiation . She has fully assented. to the purpose in view , even to the radical extent contemplated in the act of Congress , and her hesitation in regard to ratifying the treaty is supposed to have been due to a fear of complications in dealing with other countries . She may even feel relieved at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own hands , as it will leave her free to deal with the subject with reference to other countries without being embarrassed by what she has assented to in our case .                     