@@745980

txt The Bar Association of this city is engaged just now in trying to determine whether it should . recommend . to the Legislature the lot or the block system of indexing as the basis upon which to build a reform in the methods of transferring title to land . Last year the association took a very languid interest in the matter , and by a majority of three votes , at a very slimly attended meeting , ' recommended the lot system . This year the attention of lawyers has been called to the subject a little more thoroughly , and the result has been to change the current of opinion most decidedly . The Bar Association took up the subject ' again , appointed a committee to examine the bills before the Legislature , and proposes to take some action that shall fairly represent the opinion of the profession and of the intelligent public . Two reports have been made to the association by the committee . The majority report recommends the lot system as preferable . The minority report favors the block system . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be held . next Tuesday evening . It is believed that if a. full attendance is had the minority plan in. favor of the block system will be adopted . Meanwhile , and apparently with a view to precipitating matters , the Judiciary Committee of the Assembly , which has charge of the pending bills on the subject , is reported to have arranged for hearing arguments in advance of the Bar Association meeting . There is no occasion for undue haste in this matter . No plan which proposes to change the system of transferring titles to real estate should be adopted except after the most thorough and careful inquiry . It is not a time or an occasion for the haphazard enactment of doubtful or impracticable schemes or hobbies . A mistake in legislation on the subject may result not only in endless litigation , expense , and annoyance , but it may seriously threaten the value of realty in this city . It is everywhere conceded that the adoption of the block system will be an immense improvement on the one now in operation . Taken in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land transfers it will result in. saving more than one-half of the time and money now consumed in selling or otherwise transferring real estate . If the adoption of the lot system were practicable it might prove a , further aid . in the same direction . The difficulty , however , lies in its avowed impracticability in existing circumstances . A parallel is found in the discussions concerning high license and prohibition . On the one hand . is a method . which will mitigate if it will not wholly remove most of the existing evils . On the other is a scheme which , if it could be carried into operation , might prove even a greater success , but which in the nature of things can not be put to the test . Is it not wise to take half a loaf if no more can be had ? The advocates of the lot system have , since last year , been obliged to modify their scheme in many particulars . Even they have found that the plan as originally introduced into the Legislature will not work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of using the notoriously untrustworthy and . changeable tax maps to designate the boundaries of property . Under such a system instruments affecting realty would have to be recorded against all the adjacent property , and persons having a perfect title would be liable at any time to be haled before the Tax Commissioners to defend such title . The door would be opened to all manner of frauds , and even the greatest of care would . not suffice to prevent the making of serious errors . In point of fact even those members of the Bar Association 's committee who favor the lot system do not favor the adoption of the bill before the Legislature which is designed to carry this system into effect . To put the lot system in operation it will be necessary furthermore to make some material changes as to the effect of registration of instruments , and these changes are in the direction of complexity . The minority report of the Bar Association 's committee is valuable especially because of its conservatism . It declares only in favor of adopting the city block as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each block , and the area of search for instruments affecting property on that block is to be restricted to that volume . The adoption of such a measure would be a good beginning . If in the future the system of indexing by lots is made practicable the change to that may be easily and inexpensively made . But there is no use in trying to put it into operation when its effect will be to increase litigation and to . cast clouds upon the titles to real estate . It would be better to cling to the present antiquated method than to resort to one which is likely to prove more troublesome and expensive . 