@@780796

txt Ex-Senator Roscoe Conkling arrived in this City from Washington yesterday morning , and , contrary to the expectation of some of the Stalwart machinists , went to the Fifth-Avenue Hotel , instead of going at once to his conflict against the people in progress in Albany . Mr. Conkling bustled around the hotel for an hour or more without any apparent object in view . Occasionally he darted in and out of the Fifth-avenue entrance , much to the amazement of the bell-boys and porter , who seemingly w wondered what it all meant . He made Hying visits to his rooms , gciing up the staircases three steps at a time . He spoke to no one , and no persons who watched his movements were evidently anxious to talk with him . When he passed through the corridor with his round , stiff black hat pulled down over his forehead , and his beard pointing almost on a line with his hat-brim , he looked as though caught in a gale and attempting to escape from it . He Hew like a gust of wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and taking a coupe , was driven to ex-Senator Thomas C. Platt 's office in lower Broadway . Mr. Platt solemnly received the senior ex-Senator from New-York , and they locked themselves in for a few minutes ' consultation . When the door was opened , Mr. Platt solemnly bowed Mr. Conkling out , and the latter , with a rush , gained the street and sprang into the- coupe . The coupe was soon mixed up with the stages and trucks in Broadway and was on its way to the Fifth-Avenue Hotel . Mr. Platt informed a reporter that the situation remained unchanged , and that he and Mr. Conkling would go to Albany in the evening . When Mr. Conkling again reached the hotel , he resumed his bustling about , but this time was anxiously inquiring after letters . While plunging through the corridors he was checked by a reporter . The ex-Senator , thinking perhaps that ho had met one of his machinists , extended his hand . When the reporter asked whether he intended to go to Albany in the evening , Mr. Conkling felt instinctively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freeing himself he shouted , " I do n't know , Sir ; " and scowling savagely , turned on his heel and narrowly escaped dashing into the umbrella stand . After repeated visits to the hotel counter he was at length handed a letter . This he shoved into a pocket in his trousers and tried to beat the best time on record going up the marble stairway . When he again showed himself in the hotel corridor there was fire in his eye . but the book-keeper was as calm and serene as a May morning . The heavy tramping of the senior ex-Senator on the tesselated flooring did not disturb the book-keeper . He turned his head neither to the right nor to . the left , and when the pointed beard of the ex-Senator protruded through the window over the book-keeper 's desk that officer was yet calm . Without any reference to the weather or the ex-Senator 's health , the book-keeper filled out a blank bill form and poked it through the window . A greenback was handed in , and some silver passed back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stairway , to the astonishment of the elevator conductor , was made by Mr. Conkling , and a few minutes later , with gripsack in hand , he was on his way to the Grand Central Depot . Both he and Mr. Platt took the 6 o'clock train for Albany . A politician , last evening , who had nestled close to " Johnny O'Brien . " said that the Stalwarts were worn out , and would call a halt this week , throwing the election over to a new Legislature or to a special meeting of the present one .                     