@@745730

txt Our correspondent at Washington gave in his dispatches yesterday morning a review of several features of the course of the Democrats in Congress with regard to civil , service reform . Unlike the action of the President himself , it is not encouraging . Up to the present time not a man in the Senate on the Democratic side has been found to sustain in debate the course of the Administration , though ample occasion has been afforded by the attacks made upon it both in the speeches of Democratic Senators like VOORHEES and VANCE and Republican Senators like INGALLS , and in the criticisms of a portion of the Democratic ? press . The most that can be said for the Democrats in either house is that they will not vote to repeal the civil service law , though there is plenty of evidence that they would gladly do so , and not a little that they would gladly see it evaded by the powers that be . This certainly is a very feeble attitude for the representatives of the party to adopt when it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place one of their own party in the President 's office was the belief that he and the hope that they would be true to the reform principle . Not only do the Democrats who have seen fit to take any active part whateverowith reference to the reform law oppose it with obstinacy and venom , , but they do not even understand it , or if they do they totally misrepresent it . Mr. VANCE 'S speech , as we showed at the time , was so full of . errors that it was plain he either ' had never read the law or he deliberately misstated its requirements and its operation . A minority report favoring the ? repeal of the law from Mr. CLEMENTS , of , Georgia , and Mr. STONE , of ISlissouri , both Democrats , involves the absurdity that the law " tends toward a permanent office-holding community , " whereas it does not lay a straw in the way ) fTemovals , even arbitrary and ill-judged removals . It is not surprising under these circumstances  --  that the President should find his Dwn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has observed its requirements with entire fidelity in letter and in spirit we have the evidence of the public records and the unanimous testimony of the Civil Service Commissioners , which is an authority that can not be gainsaid . But he has found himself opposed and embarrassed at every turn . the partisan press of his own party has included many snarling and dishonest zitics , who have lied about him and lied in his name-day after day , in one issue representing him as a traitor to his party ' ay his fidelity to the law , and in the next , n ? even in the same , assuring their madam that he was not observing the law and would soon cast it aside altogether . the party leaders in Congress have given lai.m only negative support where they have given him any , while the most conspicuous of them have ridiculed or lenounced his course . In the meanwhile he has been surrounded and besieged by hordes of politicians who have tried alternately to cajole or bully him into betrayal of his trust and violation of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amid all these adverse and persistent influences he has held firm to the principles of the reform law within even the narrow field . to which they extend is something for which he is to be credited and the country congratulated . He can not be blamed for not doing more . Yet we are convinced that his is a situation in which aggressive action would in the long run be safer , easier , and more effective than mere patient firmness . He gains nothing from the partisans of either side by his moderation , and he has tried it long enough to prove that he can gain nothing in the future . They will fight him as hard for the lamb he has taken as if he should take a sheep , and as this is not a case of stealing but of restoring.to rightful ownership , he would do well to take a bolder course . The proposition of Mr. Cox , of North Carolina , Chairman of the House Committee on Civil Service Reform , suggests that active measures would receive support . It is for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties and salaries of the incumbents should be more equitably , efficiently , and economically distributed , and for the formation of a class of reserved clerks , who could be assigned wherever needed , and further , for the regulation of promotions by some definite and fixed plan that would exclude favoritism and political influence . This is in the right direction . We have no doubt that a plan of this sort could be made to include an extension of the civil service rules to include the important offices , such as chiefs of division , now omitted , and the application of the system to promotions in such a way as to give full value to actual service and still to provide for impartial competition . And it is highly probable that there could be added a provision which Mr. Cox , if we are not mistaken , has already suggested , for a rigid examination of all clerks now holding office under the system to test their fitness for retention . This was one of the features of the original plan , and was omitted , partly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should have been fairly got in working order , and also because it would have awakened a great deal of political opposition . Neither of these reasons now has force . On the con trary , the methods of the Civil Service Commission have been so far perfected by experience and study that they could with no serious difficulty be made to include this new task , and all political considerations are in favor of trying it . Such a test examination , properly applied , with due care , would tend very greatly to the . improvement of the service , and it would remove entirely the objection that the . system tends to keep in office Republican incumbents whether they are fit or not . For such work as this the commission would have to be strengthened and some legislation would have to be procured . We believe that it could be , and in any case we are convinced that the interests of the public , the efficiency of the service , and the strength and comfort of the President 's position would be decidedly advanced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 