@@743413

txt Everybody who had any share in the responsibility for - the proper construction of that part of the Madison-Square Garden which tumbled into ruins on Wednesday night , crushing several persons to death and injuring many more , puts in a plea of not guilty , as was to be expected . All parties concerned are. - eager to shift responsibility from their own shoulders , and they leave no resting place for it . But the public will not be satisfied with their explanations . After every reasonable plea in extenuation has been allowed , there remains the terrible fact of the calamity , and it is certainly one that ought not to have occurred . It was no inevitable result of circumstances that could not be foreseen or discovered by a proper scrutiny of the work . Whatever may be urged to the contrary , the building was not subjected to any extraordinary strain . It gave way in consequence of defective construction , and for that somebody is to blame , and the guilty person should not be allowed to escape the penalty of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the New-York Central Railroad Company , claims that every proper precaution was taken , when the new part of the walls and of the supports of the roof was constructed last Winter , to have the work thoroughly and securely done . The plans received the approval of the Department of Buildings , the mason ' work was intrusted to a firm of high standing , and the final result received official sanction , upon which public confidence is expected to rest . The contractors vehemently vouch for the solidity and security of the walls , and ' Superintendent DUDLEY insists that so far as faithful inspection could discover , it was a good job . Nevertheless , an examination , after the mischief which inspection is intended to prevent has happened , reveals a defect in one of the supporting timbers of the roof , ' which caused it to give way , and bring such a pressure upon the walls as to topple them over . Whether this was the sole defect in the construction of that part of the building may well be doubted . All the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " It was the dancing that did it . " The room used for that diversion was never intended for any such purpose , and should not have been so used . But the fact is not denied that the building was intended for public exhibitions and amusement of a great variety of kinds . It was rented for the Hahnemann Hospital Fair without any restriction or warning as to the security of this or any other part of the structure for any of the adjuncts of such an entertainment . The managers had not the slightest reason to suppose that this particular room . was unsafe for the purpose . Nor ought it to have been . Any floor in a building of that kind should be secure for any use to which it is liable to be put , and if the walls or the supports of the roof were likely to be shaken down by the dancing of such a moderatesized and orderly company as ' occupied that part of the building on Wednesday evening , they were not fit to stand . But the transparent thinness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fault , appears in the light of the fact that the cracking of the ceiling and the apparant yielding of the wall was observed early in the day , and even then caused apprehension . The attention of Mr. " VAN ARSDALE , from whom the premises had been rented , was invited to these symptoms of collapse , and he cast his eye over them in a cursory way and gave assurance that there was nothing to be alarmed at . The walls were safe , the roof was safe , everything was safe , in fact , and nothing was said about the peril of dancing . One of the firm of contractors directed his glance at the premises , and saw nothing the matter . The crack was nothing , the Wall remained plumb , and there was no sort of danger . Mr. DUDLEY complains that inspection was not invited from his department as well as from the interested parties . It is a pity that it was not , for then we should probably know what we can now only suspect , that the examination would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the work was new , and there would have been yet another assurance that it was all right . Yet it was not all right , and those who from first to last treated the matter with so much indifference are sharers in the awful crime of manslaughter . The wood-work was certainly defective , and the masonry was probably so , and the attempt to throw the blame on the light , fantastic toe " is ridiculous . It is not for us , at the present moment , to endeavor to fix the responsibility , but we are sure that . somebody is responsible and criminally to blame , and investigation should be set on foot , which shall result in a severe penalty . Nothing else will induce that care in the construction of such buildings , and give to official inspection that value which the public has a right to exact . 