@@780853

txt There was a decided improvement in the condition of the President at 8 o'clock to-night , compared with the corresponding hour of last night . The increase in pulse and temperature marked by last night 's bulletin abated before midnight , and with the subsidence of the fever the temperature ran down to the normal state , and the pulse to 90 . The fever did not make its appearance to-day until late in the afternoon , and was less intense than upon any previous day since the injury . At 7 o'clock the temperature was only 99.8 ? , or about 1 ? above normal . The President did not sleep over one hour during the day , his sound and hontinuous slumber of last night giving ? him all needful rest and preparing him for the struggle of to-day . He exhibited no weariness whatever to-day , but passed the hours comfortably and cheerfully , the monotony being relieved by listening to Mrs. Garfield read - from the morning newspapers and by brief conversations with various members of his family and the attending physicians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as indicated in slightly increased fever following over-indulgence on Sunday , was kept in view by his physicians and attendants , and the quantity and quality of food given him was carefully scrutinized . A small quantity of animal food was allowed in the morning , but liquid nourishment constituted his diet for the remainder of the day , and at no time was he permitted to eat as much as he desired . The wound continues to suppurate in a satisfactory manner , the discharge of pus being copious and healthy . An examination of the discharged pus indicates that most of the debris formed by sloughing of lacerated tissue has passed from.the wound , and that it is now rapidly approaching the healing period . The physicians say that the decided decline in pulse and temperature showed by to-night 's bulletin is evidence that the rise in the fever yesterday was caused by merely local causes and that the patient is as far advanced to-night on the roan to recovery as though last night 's bulletin had exhibited the usual abatement . The President no longer experiences any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The soreness , however , natural to the wound still continues , but this causes no inconvenience , and is daily becoming less . While the physicians look for occasional fluctuations in pulse and temperature , they do not apprehend that anything will happen to interfere with a steady progress toward convalescence . Guiteau has been placed in solitary confinement in the jail by order of District Attorney Corkhill . He is to receive neither visitors nor communications , and the guards are not to talk with him . He will be thus held to await the result of the President 's injuries . There is no expectation that he will press for an early trial . In fact he is perfectly contented to have nothing done in his case which will make it necessary for hint to leave the jail . He stands in constant fear of violence and seems to have an abiding conviction that he could not now ap-pear in public except at the risk of his life . lie is very cool in his demands for comfort and liberty within the prison He asked today to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to apply to the Acting Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the District for a modification of the rules . He says he thinks he has done nothing which should call for a rigorous enforcement of the rules . He asked to-day to be allowed to exercise about the jail at his own convenience , to have three daily papers , which he ' named , to be sent him , to be allowed to receive all visitors freely , to have his letters mailed , and all addressed to him delivered . and to be allowed to receive his meals from outside . He still insists that in shooting the President he was actuated by a proper motive  --  that is , the safety and deliverance of the Republican Party .                     