@@744466

txt The efforts made by certain : citizens . of Lenox to free their town from malaria by removing one of the dams which obstruct the Housatonic River , have not been wholly unsuccessful .. It is true that the dam still stands , and will probably continue to stand for an indefinite time , but the example of the Lenox reformers has had its effect upon the people of Concord , who are about to make an attempt to free their town from philosophy . If this last attempt succeed , the public-spirited citizens of Lenox may congratulate themselves . upon having done some good to Concord. : although they have not been able to do anything for Lenox . : As to whether , the recent Summer epidemics of philosophy which have prevailed in Concord are wholly the result of defective drainage ' opinions differ . " There are medical men who assert that drainage has nothing : to do with philosophy , while others maintain that philosophy is ; never found in towns where the drainage ? is perfect and where marsh and sewer gases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , appear to be susceptible ; of . proof , while there is a very large amount of evidence in sup-port of the latter . Philosophy exists in Concord at all seasons of the year , but it is during the Summer months that it becomes so frequent as to be justly regarded as epidemic .... In Summer Concord is full : of strangers , gathered from the : east and ? from ' ' .. the west , and it is precisely when the number of these Summer visitors is largest that the ' cases of philosophy are most numerous and violent . Like other epidemics produced by overcrowding , the Summer epidemics of philosophy at Concord appear to be due to the crowding together of people ? in a locality where the drainage is defective . - The outbreaks of cholera at Mecca , of the plague in Cairo , of the yellow fever in ? New-Orleans , and of philosophy at Concord are apparently one and all the result of a criminal disregard of sanitary laws , and might be prevented were proper measures to be adopted . Philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the frost which kills the germs of yellow- fever being ' powerless to injure the more hardy germs of philosophy . Doubtless the dams which of late years have been built across the river in the neighborhood of Concord are partly responsible for this evil . .. They have forced the water back upon the meadows , where it lies almost stagnant and filled with decaying organic matter . Such a condition is almost sure to give rise either to chills and fever or to ? philosophy . ' ' Were Concord a mountain village , planted ? on the granite hills where are unknown , and where artificial drainage is unnecessary , it is probable that not a single case of philosophy would occur within its limits . Take , for example , the mining towns in the mountainous districts of the extreme West , such as Leadville or Red Dog . In these towns philosophy is as unknown as the Asiatic plague , whereas in low-lying and ill-drained towns like Concord and St. Louis no man can sleep on the first floor of his house or venture out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by philosophy in its most malignant form . It is believed by the sanitary reformers of Concord that if the clams are removed , so that the river can flow with a rapid and unobstructed current , and if the sewage of the town is removed in accordance with the best modern system , philosophy will disappear and Concord will become as safe a residence as any of the White Mountain villages . No doubt great good can be done by the measures proposed , but it is not certain that they will entirely remove philosophy from the Concord atmosphere . There are many eminent authorities who , while they believe that philosophy is primarily the result of bad drainage , also insist that it is contagious , and can be easily transported from one place to another . In support of this view it may be urged that several Summers since a Mr. HARRIS , of St. Louis , who was suffering under a peculiar form of philosophy known as the Platonic fever , came to Concord . There is no room for doubt that the disease was communicated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came in contact , and that it has since prevailed to a very wide extent among the Summer visitors to Concord . So too , one Prof. JoNss , of Chicago , came to Concord and introduced another form of philosophy , which had up to that time been confined strictly to Chicago , but which is now very commonly met in Concord . Cases of philosophy are also on record as to which there can be no doubt that the disease was conveyed from one patient to another by means of a book or other object ; and there is one New-England village where a volume of HERBERT SPENCER 'S works communicated philosophy to a dozen or more previously healthy and valuable citizens . Let Concord go on and reform her drainage system . She will certainly do no harm and may do much good . What she also needs , however , is to establish a strict quarantine system by - which persons or books infected with philosophy can be kept out of the town ... In no other way can she free herself from the philosophic scourge and become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 