@@744013

txt The election to-morrow will afford the citizens of the State of New-York an excellent opportunity to study in detail the work of the methods of nomination which are now used generally by all parties , and we are much mistaken if intelligent and careful observers are not confirmed in the conviction that these methods are in several essential regards radically defective . It is assumed by those who are most interested in the present party machinery , that the primary meetings leading up to conventions by districts or to State Conventions fairly express the wish of the majority of the voters of the party ; that to this result , thus obtained , a loyal minority , agreeing with the majority in the purposes sought , but differing in the first instance as to the choice of men through whom to carry them out , will give a cordial recognition , and thus the average strength of the party will be brought out . So far is this from being actually the case that the nominees of both parties in many districts are this year but feebly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly from the nominating methods . In several instances in the Republican Party , with which we are more directly concerned , the regular nominations are opposed because they have not the approval of the majority of Republican voters , who were , in fact , excluded from any share in their selection . In other instances regular candidates fail to command the support of ; aJ , minority who have for a long time controlled the machinery , and who are now angry because it has passed from their hands . It will not be difficult in each section of the State for impartial Republicans , who have no selfish ends to serve , but who wish simply that their party should be the best possible instrument for the choice of fit public officers , to determine how far this is being accomplished and what are the causes of failure where it is not being accomplished . Whatever may be the result of the election , a candid study of the facts relating to this matter will not be unprofitable if it lead to the creation of a healthy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very obvious evils from which the party suffers . The first fact which must be plain to every one is , that where trouble and differences exist they are caused directly or indirectly by a set of men who make a living from politics , who , in the main , have no other means of support , and who manage , in one way or another , to draw a considerable allowance , more or less honestly , from the public Treasury . The existence of this class is entirely inconsistent with the theory of our institutions . In accordance with this , our officers , executive or legislative , are chosen by the free action of their fellow-citizens , usually for brief terms , after which they return to their ordinary occupations and are replaced by others . But the fact is quite the reverse . Not only do we find a certain number  --  generally quite limited  --  of men elected by the popular suffrage to one office after another ; but we find a much larger number who hold appointments , or have employment or contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all their time to the management of their party We may add that they are not very often men whose character , sagacity , or standing in the community entitle them to the confidence of their fellow-citizens , and that their energies are devoted not to the advancement of the principles of their party , but to their own interests . They do very little to strengthen the party , and often do much to discredit , divide , and weaken it . Yet they are unquestonably powerful , because they are men of natural shrewdness : persistent , selfcOnfident , and , in their way , industrious , Their success comes from the fact that they have more time and meansto give to politics ' and a stronger motive for exertion than the average citizen , , whose interest is indefinite , contingent , and occasional . They are not always successful , however , and are less so this year than usual in this State , because , though an " off year , " the party has been very generally aroused by the events at Albany , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an active discussion of the question of administrative reform . But where they have lost control , they are , as a rule , openly or covertly seeking the defeat of the candidates , partly from natural resentment at their discomfiture , and partly because it is to their interest to prove that defeat for the party follows any campaign in which they do not lead . It is the action of this class which either vitiates the nominating methods , or , where these are fairly controlled by the majority , defeats the nominees , and it is to this class that can be traced the defects in the working of the party of which there is so much evidence . It will be easy in a day or two to calculate definitely the net outcome of this state of things ; but , whatever that may be , it must be clear that the liberation of the Republican Party from the domination of this class is a condition precedent to its further success or usefulness , and that this can not be accomplished by any spasmodic movement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time being , when it dies out through the natural weariness of ordinary voters with the amount of work which it costs , the professionals will be ready to resume their operations . The only effectual remedy must be a radical one . It must lie in cutting off the tap root from which the sustenance of professional politics is drawn . This can be promoted in a variety of ways . Among them are the reduction in number of elective offices , the concentration of power and responsibility , less frequent elections , and , above all , the abolition of patronage in all subordinate public employment . These changes would give voters more intelligible issues at the polls , greater control over public affairs , stronger motives for exertion , and less conflict with a greedy class of practiced political workers . Necessarily such reforms are a matter of time and can not be rapidly achieved . In the meantime there is much that can be accomplished within the present conditions of party action , as has been shown by the many instances of revolt against machine dictation this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sincere Republican to watch the results of these efforts and to make a distinct mental note of the men and means by which they may , in some cases , be defeated . 