@@780613

txt AFFAIRS IN FOREIGN LANDS ligence from Tunis states that the Bey has decided to refuse to co-operate with the French troops , and is determined to act independently on his own side of the frontier . The Bey has sent a protest to the foreign Consuls at Tunis , accusing France of violating his rights , as well as those of the Porte and the friendly powers . The Italian Government has declined to accede to the request forwarded through its Consul at Tunis for the dispatch of a squadron to Tunisian waters . It is reported that the Turkish General , Hussein , who is residing in Italy , and who is the declared enemy of France , has been invited to go to Tunis . The strength of the-marauding tribes is estimated at from 15,000 to 20,000 . " A Paris dispatch says : " Gen. Cialdini , the Italian Ambassador , having asked in conversation whether France would send a fleet to Tunis , received a negative reply . " A Paris correspondent declares that Lord Salisbury sent to Lord Lyons , British Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1878 , summarizing conversations . regarding Tunis at Berlin . As understood by Lord Salisbury , the effect of these conversations is to disclaim any special British interests in Tunis antagonistic to those of France . Even the overthrow of the regency , were it to come about , would in nowise change England 's attitude or disturb the harmony existing between England and France . CONSTANTINOPLE , April 11 . ? The Russian Consul at Tunis has informed M. de Novikoff , the Russian Ambassador here , that the Bey of Tunis has requested him to communicate a protest against the French violation of Tunisian territory and ask the co-operation of Russia in protecting the rights of the Bey and the Sublime Porte . PARIS , April 11 . ? In the Chamber of Dep.t.t ties to-day Premier Ferry , replying to an interpellation , said the state of affairs on the Tunisian frontier was intolerable . The Government , he declared , intended to chastise the marauders , and take steps to prevent a recurrence of their aggressions . Continuing , he said : " France does not desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We shall go as far as necessary to secure that future , and when the Chamber reassembles we will render an account of our conduct . " An order of the day , expressing confidence in the Government , was then adopted by a vote of 339 to 131 . The Senate has adjourned until May 12. - A. dispatch from Tunis reports that 5,000 Tunisian troops will start for the frontier soon . LONDON , April 12 . ? A Rome correspondent says : " Signor Depretis is negotiatinc , for the formation of a Cabinet , but the ling refrains from entrusting the task formally to anybody until he can receive reasonable assurances that a Ministry able to command a majority can be obtained . The report that the Count de Robilant has arrived here is untrue . "                     