@@743867

txt Extensive preparations were made last evening at the residence of Mr. Norman Hubbard , at Blue Hills , near this city , for the marriage of his daughter Effie to a young man named Lee Faulkner , an employe in a dress goods house in New-York . A largo company assembled , including many well-known society people , but the groom did not appear , and the ceremony , after a painful delay , was postponed . The young lady , who Is 23 years of age , and an accomplished , beautiful girl , made the acquaintance of Faulkner about four years ago , and about two years ago formed an engagement of marriage with him . Ile has been very attentive , and , to all appearances , was a devoted lover . Mr. Hubbard , In speaking of him today , said that he was a most exemplary young man , so far as ho could judge , and the family was greatly pleased with him . Of the sincerity of his suit there was , of course , not the slightest doubt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would be hero . Even to-day . brokenhearted as she is , she still feels that there will be some satisfactory explanation of the strange affair . Faulkner was hero on Friday last , and made himself many of the arrangements for the wedding . among which was the engagement of carriages . He was expected to spend Sunday in Hertford , but he did not come , nor was anything heard from him until he telegraphed Monday that he was unavoidably detained . It was then expected that he would arrive by the fast express out of New-York yesterday noon , and Mr. Ilubbard 's carriage was at the depot , as it was on the arrival of the 4 o'clock express last evening , which is due here at 7:08 o'clock . The wedding was appointed for 7:30 o'clock . Mr. C. B , Canfield , of the New-England Granite Works , a friend of the fatally , went to Now-York by the midnight train to make an investigation , and a dispatch has been received that Faulkner left his boarding-house at 9 o'clock yesterday morning , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he no explanation of the strange affair , and it puzzles everybody who is familiar with the circumstances . ' l'hero was a strong desire last night not to have any publicity given to the ease , but the whole city was full of it to-day , owing to the fact that very many of the milkmen who supply Hartford people with milk live at Blue Hills and devoted themselves this morning more to peddling this story than to sales in their regular business , and , consequently , the papers to-night briefly allude to it .                     