@@743563

txt The excited rejoicing which the result in Maine has caused throughout the Democratic Party is one of the most significant incidents of the current canvass . The victory of the Fusion is frankly appropriated by the Democrats , though they ought to be at once afraid and ashamed of it . They have seen their own party in that State reduced within a few years from a respectable minority , with defined principles and an appreciable influence , to the position of a nameless faction in a combination made up of men whose principles their party profess to abhor . In 1876 , the Maine Democrats cast , in round numbers , 50,000 votes for Mr. TILDEN , and made up nearly 43 per cent . of the vote . In 1878 , they were reduced to less than 28,000 , or about 22 per cent . of the vote . In 1879 , they fell under 22,000 , or less than 16 per cent . This year they disappeared altogether , merged themselves with the Greenbackers , and now are shouting themselves hoarse because they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Republican , and then an inflationist , but never a Democrat . This candidate they have elected on a platform which the Democrats could not adopt in any single other Northern State without condemning themselves to certain defeat , and which Gen. HANcocx could not stand upon for an instant without the certainty of losing all hope of election . Under these circumstances , the booming of the guns which the Democrats fired in this City last evening to celebrate the Maine victory must have fallen heavily on the ears of those New-York Democrats , if there be any , who fondly cling to the illusion that their party can safely be intrusted with the financial affairs of the Nation . The extraordinary strength shown by the Greenbackers , and the completeness with which the Democrats surrendered to them , are the really significant facts in the election of Monday . It can not be denied that Republican hopes of a substantial success appeared , from a distance , not unreasonable . What had been the principal source of Greenback influence elsewhere  --  the business depression for which they offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country , and it was not rash to suppose that Republicans who , in hard times , had gone to the Greenbackers would now return . The canvass was conducted with apparent vigor by very capable speakers , and with considerable attention to the financial question . But at the last and decisive moment it is found that the hold of the Greenback idea is not loosened , that even after the state of things has ceased which gave it some excuse for existence , it is retained as a sound financial principle , and is accepted in practice not only by all those who were originally attracted to it , but by all the Maine Democrats as well . It is idle to speculate as to the local causes for this effect . It may be , as Gov . JEWELL says , that hard times still exist in parts of Maine , and that the people there are discontented with the operation of the Resumption act . But whether this be true or not , it would seem that the experience of the whole country , the absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and secured the prosperity of the people , ought to have counted for something with the former Greenback voters of Maine . But it has not . They still cling to their theory that the currency should be controlled by Congress , and should be issued in indefinite quantities . They are still in favor of the unlimited coinage of silver , and of the general use of that ' metal in the circulation , even , according to some of their orators. to the Payment of the interest and twincipal of the bonds in silver . They still continue to abhor the national bank notes , and long for irredeemable Government paper in their stead . And for these ideas they have voted . It is these ideas which Messrs . MURCII and LADD are returned to the House to advocate , as they have already advocated them there . There is no dodging , no cloaking the issue . It was the Republican policy of honest finance against the wild-cat finance of the Greenbackers . On this issue the Greenbackers have won . And on this issue , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic votes , given directly to them . For the sake of a share in the spoils , such as they are , and still more for the sake of the influence which it was supposed would be exerted in Indiana and Ohio bya Republican defeat in Maine , the Democrats in that State made common cause with the Greenbackers on a sharply drawn issue . In doing so they received the active aid and direction of the Democratic National Committee , which thus identified the party at large with the Fusion movement . The fact reinforces the view which we have long held , and which we have lost no opportunity to press upon the attention of the country , that whenever any political advantage was to be gained by it the Democratic Party would be found in alliance with the Greenbackers , backing their men , supporting their measures . They would be so found in Congress should occasion arise , and their candidate for President , were he in the White House , would offer no opposition . We do not mean to say that all Democrats would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their best to prevent any occasion for adopting it . There are a few of them in public life , and more in the ranks , men like BAYARD and HEWITT , for example , who would regret any such policy . But they would be powerless to resist ' it , and most of them would finally succumb when it came to a choice between sound finance and the success of their party . This is the one thing which the result in Maine brings out . Whatever may be the minor or local influences which have contributed to it , it shows that the Greenback idea is still full of vitality , and that the Democrats are prepared to accept it whenever any apparent gain can be got from doing so . When we remember that there are large sections of the country , notably the South and South-west and considerable portions of the West , where the majority of the Democratic Party is in active sympathy with the Greenback doctrine , and that in the South particularly the party would to-day , were the ballot free and elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we can understand that the triumph of Greenbackism as a result of a Democratic triumph in November is by no means a chimera . A Democratic victory means a possible , and even , within a short term , a probable , revolution in the financial policy of the Government . If the American people desire the latter , it is their right to try the experiment , but , after Maine , they can not say that they are not making their choice with their eyes open . 