@@780720

txt Gen. Harrison 's only callers to-day were M. J. Pickering of Philadelphia , President or the Commercial Travelers ' National Protective Association ; J. O. Llmering of Baltimore , one of its Directors ; D. W. Collin of Indianapolis , Secretary and Treasurer of the Indiana Commercial Travelers ' Association , and Bruce Carr , the Auditor of the State , who is a member or the National LegislatiVe Committee of the drummers . They asked Gen. Harrison to recommend to Congress an amendment of the inter-State commerce law excepting " drummers " from its operation , and permitMug railroad companies to grant them special privileges in the way of low fares , extra baggage , &c.; They told Gen. Harrison that a majority of the Congressional delegation-elect from Indiana had promised them their support , but as 10 out of the 13 are Democrats it is doubtful if this remark had much effect . Nevertheless Gen. Harrison treated them nicely , showed them all his presents , and promised that he would give their desires his careful consideration . They came away delighted with him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no wealth remains idle . He dictates all his correspondence to a stenographer , and when he had got through with that to-day he dictated almost all his Inaugural . When that is finished be will begin his MG message to the Fifty  --  first Congress . This looks as though he proposes to be ready for an extra session , whether he shall decide to call one or not . The Indianapolis Ministerial Association , which is composed of the clergymen of all the evangelical denominations to the . city , at its Meeting to-day tried to take the sting from the aspersions which some of the members had east upon the inauguration ball by appointing a committee " to prepare an address expressing our cordial Christian regard for the Presidentelect , said committee to report at the regular meeting in February and to make arrangements for the presentation of the address to Gen. Harrison . " Having made their peace offering to Gem Harrison , ' the clergymen then gave the Legislature a little kick by way of offset . It seems . that tuo last Legislature had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let them pray turn and turn about . They are not going to pray this time unless they get $5 a prayer apiece , although it was unanimously agreed that the Legislature would need praying for very much . The Rev. Dr. MeLeotasaut that he had otileluted several times as the Chaplain of the last Legislature , and on several occasions he thollgnt he never saw a body of men so deserving of prayers . The Legislature was a regular beer garden . They were trying to throw out the Speaker , and to pray for such men was well worth $5 . There were fightiugs without and fears within . Democratic politicians are in the majority tonight owing to the meeting of the Legislature on Thursday , both branches of which are under the control of the Democrats . Col. R. S. Robertson , the Republican claimant of the LieuteuantGovernorsuip last year , whom the Democrats throw out of the Senate Chamber bodily , threatens to attempt to call the Senate to order , mil if he does there Will Oct another uisgraceful row . As be can only preside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sworn in , Robertson 's Republican friends are not sustaining him with great ardor , and he may conclude to refrain and let the Democrats organize the Legislature without any trouble . Geo . Harrison attended to-night the meeting of the Gentlemen 's Literary Club , which is the swell social organization of the city . A paper on the " Kuight8 of the Golden Circle " was read by William Dudley Pouike , unit Gen. Harrison , ex-Gov . Porter , and W. P. Fishback gave their Own retninlagemees of the threswhen the Knights nourished . The real- business of the meeting was begun in the shape of special honors to Gen. Harrison , who is one of the oldest members apt the club . Capt . W. H. ltexford , its President , in a complimentary speech , presented to Gen. Harrison an address , handsomely engraved on parchment , expressing the esteem and affection which the members of the club felt for him end their gratification at the high honors to which he had been called . It was slatted by all the members of the elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holman , Democrats ; ex-Seuator Blanche X. Bruce , John H. Holliday , editor of the Indianapolis Jews ; Judge W. A. Woods fat the United States District Court , Judge Gresham , C. W. Fairbanks . ex-Congresemau W. H. Calkins , and ex-Gov . A. Ca Porter . Gen. Harrison received the address with a good deal of emotion . He said that ho lacked suitable words with which to express his feelings , for he was unaccustomed to speaking much lately . He had been listening and others had done the speaking , and a great deal of political WiSIIOM he had heard . Things had been shaping themselves so , however , that he would soon be able to speak , and he trusted that the country would be satisfied with his utterances . A collation brought the festivities to a close .                     