@@672258

txt Mutterings against GoV . Hill are already heard in different parts of the State . His course in exiling Cleveland men who were members of the old State Committee excites comment that is very unfavorable to the Governor . Evidently a storm is brewing which will break before many months have rolled by . The more sagacious Democrats realize that in two years ' time the Governor 's strength as the Executive of this State and as a politician will be broken . To-day there is barely a handful of members of the State Committee who can not be controlled by the Governor 's influence or by the patronage of his office . The rest are simply men of straw , who would be only too willing to desert the Governor or any other leader providing a suitable inducement were held out to them . That is the way of politics . The politician has no use for the man whose course is run ; he is always looking for the rising sun . One of the most prominent Democrats of the State , in conversation with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You will see , by 1891 , the greatest shake-up in the Democratic Party that has ever been seen in this State . GOY . Hill is now at the climax of his fame . He has reached the end . of his tether . He will begin to find sooner or later that the Democratic Party has no use for him , as he has attempted to show the Cleveland leaders that he has no use for them . People who imagine that , because Gov . Hill controls the party machinery now , he will be the leader two years from now , will find their judgment much at fault . From this time on Gov . Hill will grow weaker . " " How will that happen I " " What he has gained in the last year has been due , not to any ability or sagacity or energy of his own , but to accident . Nobody can claim that the Governor has achieved his present position by carefully-laid plans or by deliberate action . He is not a loader . He is not the kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued success . He is to-day turning the party , as far as it Is in his power to do so , over to the liquor element . This statement is irrefutable . He is sinking the identity of the party to the debasing level of rum . It will take the rank and file , the hide-bound Democrats , the blind followers of the party , about two years to discover what the Governor has been up to . When that time comes his fall will be as great as that of Belial . " " Who will succeed him " " At the present time there are but two Democrats in the State on whom the party can absolutely rely for State purposes  --  William C. Whitney and Col. Daniel S. Lamont The younger progressive and independent element of the party is disposed to force Mr. Whitney to the front as Governor Hill 's successor , and they will rely upon Col. Lamont to help the scheme through . Col. Lamont 's knowledge of New-York State politics and New-York State politicians is more thorough than that of any politician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martin Van Buren , Samuel J. Tilden , and Thurlow Weed . I know that Col. Lamont could go into a room with nothing but a pad and pencil and select four of the most active Democratic politicians in every school district in the State without referring to a single book or without asking a single question . Mr. Whitney 's powers as an organizer are appreciated by every Democrat in the State . His record as Secretary of the Navy will be of incalculable benefit , and the independent , manly , and dignified position he has assumed since his retirement from public office will be duly appreciated . " In the event of Mr. Whitney 's refusal to come forward as a candidate I am convinced that a very strong effort will be made to persuade Col. Lamont to do so . By that time the party will be in need of a strong hand and arm to lift it from the slough where the Governor 's selfishness , avariciousness , and incompetency. have plunged it . The Governor is only powernu now because he is the only man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affect the Legislature , and who can really be of service to his friends and interfere with the plans of his enemies . In 1891 his power will be stripped , from him . He will ' be taught then , no doubt , that the Democratic Party is greater than any one man . The ' arty needs to-day some such man as Mr. Whitney or Col. Lamont to infuse new life and animation into it , and to divest it of the contaminating influence with which Gov . Hill during the past few years has surrounded it . My advices from different parts of the State are that the ticket has been received only in a half-hearted way , and that particularly in New-York County it will be neglected and possibly used for trading on county and local offices . "                     