@@672146

txt A PROTECTIONIST QUARREL . We pointed out the other day some of the complaints that were finding expression among the more ardent protectionists as to the conduct of the present Administration . The most serious of these was based on the failure of the President to call an extra session of Congress and secure the passage of the Senate . Tariff bill . which embodied the most carefully-matured plans of the beneficiaries of the tariff . The evidence that this-omission may be fatal to the bill is accumulating . In our Washington dispatches yesterday morning there was given a report of the views of Mr. H. C. WAnm o ? rn of Louisiana . He is one of the most promiL neat and influential Republicans in the South . He is , moreover , a man of large wealth and , a very extensive sugar planter . Probably few men are more competent to express the opinions of the class to which he belongs and whiCh is sure to be listened to In Congress . Mr. WA MOTH predicts that if the Senate bill is allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be passed in. the shape in which the Senate passed it . The sugar-bounty provision will be stricken out , and he does not think that any considerable reduction of sugar duties will be permitted , or will be necessary . The sugar planters do ? not want a bounty . They know that it will be unpopdlar ; that it will be regarded as *special legislation ; that it will be liable to withdrawal , and will pat them outside of the charmed circle of regular domestic industries entitled to protection . What they want , and will insist upon , , is that the duties shall be regularly maintained , or only reduced as others of the same ' sort are reduced . If ? it were merely a question of cutting . down the revenue , Mr. WARMOTH98 prediction might be verified without risk to the rest of the Senate bill , because it is quite possible that the surplus may be expended , or nearly enough expended , to relieve the Administration filom any great etnbarassment . But this in not the only ' petition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and coupled with the sugar bounties , for the express purpose of securing the votes of the Kansas and Nebraska Senators , and these could not have been got without both theses provisions . On the one hand , the mass of Western farmers want cheaper sugar . They regard the protective duty on that ' article as a tax on food and ? utterly without warrant . They are enabled to take this perfectly intelligent view of the matter the more readily because the cane-sugar raisers are not , strictly speaking , of the real protectionist family , but are Democrats and Southern men at that , who " have no rights that Northern Republicans are bound to respect . " On the other hand , there is a nascent sugar industry in the West ; where sugar has been made in appreciable quantities and may be made in considerable quantities from sorghum and possibly from beet roots , though the latter is not so promising . For these a bounty would . be a direct encouragement , while not enhancing the price of sugar generally . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they may be with the small Republican majority , to strike out the reduction of the sugar duties , they will take away all excuse for the sugar bounties and will thus offend the Western sentiment in two directions . That is a blow that may easily prove fatal to the bill , and the finely-laid schemes of the capitalists and monopolists during the late session may tumble to pieces . This is a striking illustration of the real nature of the whole fabric of proposed tariff legislation . It will be seen that it is not founded on any principle of public policy , that it has no basis in the general welfare and is not concerned with it , that.it is nothing , in fact , but an unscrupulous money-making scheme such as lobbyists rejoice in .. The backers of such a scheme may well be dismayed and angry when the result of so much labor and.intrigue is imperiled.                     