@@745895

txt The only resource of the defense in the case was an attempt to break down the evidence of FULLGRAFF and . DUFFY , on the ground that the former admitted that he perjured himself in his testimony before the Senate committee , and that an informer is a peculiarly . contemptible person . Little weight could attach to the denials of O'NEIL and REILLY , because they were virtually testifying in advance in their own behalf .. If MCQUADE was to be convicted their chance of escape would be seriously lessened . Denials from them had precisely the same significance that they would have had coming from MCQUADE himself and no more , and it was not to be expected that these men would make admissions to send themselves to State prison . The inconsistency of FULLGRAFF 'S testimony in court with that which he gave before an investigating committee may have cast a very unfavorable light upon his character , but it was to be judged by the conditions surrounding him on two widely different occasions and the probability of his telling the truth on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation there was hope that the facts could be suppressed and that the guilty might escape . If FULLGRAFF had accepted a bribe he had already committed perjury by violating his oath of office , and with the double crime upon his head he was under the strongest inducement to add to it so long as there was any hope of escaping the penalty thereby . It is hardly conceivable on the supposition that they were innocent that FULLGRAFF and DUFFY could be induced to give perjured evidence for the conviction of their former associates . It could save them from prison only if they were guilty . They must have been conscious of guilt , and fearful that it could be proved in their own cases before they would consent to give testimony which would place upon themselves the stain of crime and forever destroy their reputation among honorable men . The probability of falsehood is strong when such men are striving to save themselves from the consequences of their acts in testifying in their own behalf , but not when they are bringing all the ignominy of guilt upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resource . To do this when they are innocent and in no danger of the penalty of guilt would be folly and madness . The counsel for the defense seemed to be acting on the monstrous theory that the public prosecuting officers were engaged in a conspiracy to secure the conviction of innocent men by perjured testimony , and had convinced two such men that they would be convicted in spite of their innocence if they did not swear that they were guilty and help to send other innocent men to prison . The theory is not only monstrous but ridiculous , and yet on no other theory can the efforts of the defense be explained . The abuse of witnesses for the State as " informers " and traitors to their accomplices was hardly logical . It implied that they had shared in the profits of crime and then turned around and exposed their fellows to escape punishment . But that could only be if their disclosures were true and all were guilty together . If that were not the supposition they would not be informers at all , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprisonment of innocent persons by accusing themselves of crimes which they had not committed . Nothing could be more preposterous than the course to which the defense was driven by the conclusive evidence of two of the implicated Aldermen .                     