@@744174

txt The Italian carnival , which , for the last twenty-four years , has been the dullest of all possible amusements , is now rapidly becoming a nuisance . There undoubtedly was a time when the carnival had an excuse for being . It gave a sense of license , if not of liberty , to the subjects of the old despotic Governments , and it afforded admirable opportunities for the pursuit of the intrigues and adventures which ? if we may believe contemporary writers like the veracious M. CASANOVA ? constituted the sole occupation of Italian gentlemen . But in the nineteenth century the carnival is as utter an anachronism as is the procession in honor of DIONYSUS , which still survives among the descendants of the Greek colonists in certain Calabrian towns . Of late years , the carnival in Rome  --  the only city where it maintained any real semblance of vigorous life  --  was chiefly the work of foreign visitors . Englishmen , Americans , Germans , and Russians hired balconies on the Corso , or drove up and down that venerable avenue in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colored lime or bundles of withered flowers at one another they were taking part in a characteristic Italian festival . It is true that the Italians of the lower order assembled in the Corso to see the spectacle , but the higher classes kept away from the carnival and combined , patriotism with pleasure by convincing themselves that their abstinence from carnival follies was meant to be an evidence of their discontent with the Papal Government . When Rome passed into the hands of the Italians an attempt was made to revive the carnival not only in Rome but throughout Italy . It was a painful failure . The patriotic American who should try to revive his boyish enjoyment in firing Fourth of July crackers could alone comprehend the feelings of the free Italians when they tried to enjoy the carnival . They found that they had outgrown it . A generation which had passed through two wars of independence and a dozen insurrections and had made itself a nation could not find any wild enjoyment in wearing ridiculous masks or in throwing lime pellets . The Romans who had , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the rule of Pius IX. , found that they could not resume it with any heartiness , and so it was once more abandoned to the foreigners . The recent carnival shows that under the rule of civil and religious liberty the " rough " has made his appearance in Italian cities , and that he closely resembles the " rough " of England and America . The native fondness for " horse-play " and brutality finds an outlet at the carnival season . In Florence the " roughs " fairly took possession of one of the principal streets and so severely hustled every one who passed through it that the state of affairs was hardly distinguishable from a riot . In Naples the " roughs " threw potatoes , carrots , and other weighty and objectionable vegetables at innocent people , and attempted to justify themselves by the plea that vegetables were , in the eye of the law , indistinguishable from flowers . In Rome the same disorderly practices were adopted , and the party of young Americans who dressed themselves in the Stars and Stripes like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confetti at other foreigners , must have fancied when their noses were contused by cabbages and their eyes damaged by potatoes that the gentleness and courtesy of the Italians when engaged in their national sports had been overrated . It so happened that the riderless horses who race down the Corso at the end of the carnival knocked down and seriously injured a number of people , and this fact gave the Italian press a welcome opportunity to suggest that the time has come for abolishing the carnival altogether . A few years ago an enterprising person attempted to introduce the carnival in this City . His conception of a carnival was a procession of tradesmen 's wagons covered with advertisements , and a masked ball for which the public should buy tickets . The procession took place , but there was some little difficulty about the masked ball . The enterprising person thereupon disappeared , and from that day to this New-Yorkers have been waiting for some man to propose another carnival in order to take him to some convenient lamp-post and explain to him , with the aid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed by him . Dreary as the New-York carnival was , it was not so entirely idiotic as the Italian carnival , and the Italians might substitute something of the sort for the amusement and instruction of their foreign visitors . A Roman procession , made up of Roman shop-keepers displaying their wares , would be at least as interesting as a procession of Englishmen in wire masks and Americans dressed in striped and star-spangled garments . Advertisements , neatly rolled together , could be thrown at people with much less disagreeable consequences than those which sometimes attend the throwing of lime pellets , and the " rough " would find in such a carnival no room for the exercise of his crude conceptions of humor . Of course , such a carnival would have nothing of romance about it , but the Italians are rapidly discovering that their age of romance is over , and that life in the latter part of the nineteenth century and under a free government must be prosaic if it is to be profitable . Either they must banish the carnival altogether or they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative will be to the young Americans who want to dress themselves in the Stars and Stripes and enjoy themselves " after the Italian manner . "                     