@@745785

txt One of the ceremonies connected with the Gettysburg reunion , which begins today on the historic battlefield , is the dedication of a monument ordered by the State of Pennsylvania to mark the place where Gen. REYNOLDS fell . The brave and skillful commander of the First Corps , who there perished ? in the opening brunt of the three days ' struggle , was not only one of the most distinguished and promising soldiers in the Army of the Potomac , but performed on that field a service of high value . The soldierly intuition which led him , when moving under general orders for the occupation of the line of Pipe Creek , to hasten to the relief of BUFORD 'S cavalry , attacked in front of the town of Gettysburg , became of great importance . The defensive value , indeed , of Cemetery Ridge , terminated by Culp 's Hill on one flank and by Round Top and Little Round Top on the other , was at that time unknown . It can well be imagined , however , that the military eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he hurried past the town with the First and Eleventh Corps to the relief of BUFORD in the fields beyond . Still , it was doubtless the forward instinct of the soldier in the immediate duty before him , rather than any premonition of the mightyissues that were to be joined on this field that moved him . ' " It was a matter of momentary consultation between Gen. REYNOLDS and myself , " says Gen. WADSWORTH , the commander of his leading division , " whether we would go into the town or take a position in front of the town . He decided that if we went into , the town the enemy would shell it and destroy it , and that we had better take a position in front . " REYNOLDS himself superintended the disposition to dispute the possession of the woods striking Willoughby Run ; and it was just as he had sent his troops forward at this point in a successful charge that he was shot through the head and died almost instantly . The monument to REYNOLDS , however ; is only one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be placed on the field of Gettysburg during this twenty-third anniversary of the great conflict . On former anniversaries many other memorial stones have been set up to mark the positions occupied by regiments and batteries at different times during the battle . Possibly corps , pride may lead to some topographical inaccuracies and conflicts of claims , and possibly , too , in the profusion of oratory which is now heard where once cannon thundered some things not wholly true or befiting may be said . But the general and abiding result must be to cause Gettysburg to be studied with a minuteness of detail known to no other great battlefield on this continent at least . It is clear also that this will be the one great battle of the war to find annual commemoration on the spot of its occurrence , and that several circumstances combine to make it so . The South had its victorious fields and many of them , but there can never be an impulse to celebrate them , since the general outcome of the war was defeat . The Union has many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern soil , and among populations to whom their local commemoration would bring back the sadness without the compensating exultation . Gettysburg , however , was not only one of the mightiest battles of the war , unsurpassed in its momentous consequences , but the one fought furthest north , amid the loyal farmers of Pennsylvania . The setting apart , too , of the field for patriotic uses has tended to othe same end ; and the eloquent dedication of the cemetery by ABRAHAM LINCOLN seems to have lent it an additional consecration . Gettysburg is now plainly seen , not only to have delivered the Union from a great peril , but to have been the climax for the aggressive force of secession , after which it still battled fiercely , but with a strength that began to wane .                     