@@781898

txt Lady FLORENCE DIXIE has written a letter denouncing as atrocious calumnies the recent stories impugning her veracity , and refuting them in a way entirely satisfactory to herself . Henceforth no one will have the least doubt that Lady FLORENCE was attacked by two men who wore themselves out in efforts to stab her , and therefore early fell victims to the avenging dog , who , in order to avoid scandal , devoured not only the men but even their knives . The only omission which Lady FLORENCE has made in her eloquent and exhaustive letter is her failure to mention where she procures her corsets and of , what material they are made . Had she frankly furnished this information she would have conferred an immense favor , not only upon the Czar of Russia , but upon the entire civilized and fighting world . As it is , the British Government is alone in the possession of the secret , and will of course monopolize it for the use of the Cabinet and the army . What every Government desires is a cuirass for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest degree their movements and so strong as to be absolutely impenetrable . Lady . FLORENCE Dixres corset , which could not be pierced by the daggers of two exceptionally strong men , evidently meets this want . The War Department , the Duke of CAMBRIDGE ; and Lord WOLSELEY have all examined the Dixie pattern of corset and have recommended its adoption . Mr. GLADSTONE , Mr. FORSTER , and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland are now constantly protected against assassination by impenetrable corsets , a tact which fully explains the rumor that these statesmen have grown slighterin the region of the waist and broader across the chest than they were a month ago . The household cavalry are all to be furnished with corsets of a dark gray color , and already one company of each regiment is wearing the new cuirass while ' in the seclusion of barracks . When first ordered to put on corsets , these men seemed much dissatisfied , but they have found them to be so comfortable , and are so much pleased with the facilities for carrying pipes , tobacco , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they now declare that they will never willingly surrender them . The too impetuous patriots of Ireland have evidently overreached themselves . By assaulting Lady FLORENCE they have called attention to the existence of the impenetrable corset ; and its adoption by the British Government will render it impossible for the patriots to agitate with the knife with any hope of success . Thus one by one the hopes of Ireland fade , and she has now but one means  --  dynamite  --  with which to prove her fitness for self-government .                     