@@781516

txt To account for the feeble prosecution of the Flynn-Squire conspiracy case and its ridiculous failure it is not at all necessary to assume that the District Attorney was bribed or that he was dominated by a desire to let-the defendants escape the penalty of their crime . But if a man known to be an able , acute , and . diligent prosecuting officer had so mismanaged and lost an important suit for the people there would have been no other explanation . It would have been assumed that he did . not- desire to punish-these-rascals and ? administer the rebuke to public corruption which was the main purpose of such a prosecution and that he had . deliberately-thrown away the people 's case through , some personal or political inducement . But in the case of Col. Famows this assumption is quite unnecessary . What the result does prove is the utter-incompetency and worthlessness of the present District Attorney as a public prosecutor . Such proof was sure to come sooner or later . His defects were known when he wasnominated for the office and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it . He has not that comprehensive grasp upon the requirements of his position , that knowledge of the details of a prosecutor 's duties , that ability and fidelity in laying out the course of a prosecution and preparing ' for its effective management that are necessary to successful work . But he lacks most conspicuously the moral fibre and . the sense of public duty which are most important to his position . The betrayal.of public interests- does not excite in him that indignation and deiermination to see wrongdoing punished which is the sharpest spur for a man charged . with the prosecution of crime , and he is indifferent even to his own . reputation in the community . This sufficiently explains the negligence and incompetency which he has displayed in this case . It is ridiculous for a District Attorney to plead in open court that he had no faith in the sufficiency of the indictment under which a case has been brou'ght to trial . It was his duty either to see that it was sufficient or not put the public to the expense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is not bound . to use a defective indictment prepared under his predecessor . The . counsel for the defense declared yesterday that ' the former District Attorney admitted months ago that he had . no confidence in this indictment , and . for - that very reason did not move for a trial of the case . Col. FELLOWS was then his-first assistant and must have known of his opinion . In regard to a new indictment he now professes to have discovered - that that would have been barred by the Statute of Limitations because more than two ' years had . elapsed . since the offense was committed . That depends on whether the agreement of SQUIRE to give FLYNN the control of the Department of Public Works and to resign on demand was not a continuing one so long as SQUIRE held the office which he obtained . by means of the original ? compact . That question was at least worth testing , and . a competent , vigorous , and . conscientious District Attorney would have done his utmost to prevent the guilty parties from escaping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing , because he lacked capacity , vigor , and fidelity to any high sense of duty . Col. FELLOWS can talk and all will remember the promises and pledges under which he entered office . He declared himself to be independent and untrammeled , and determined to prosecute With vigor all offenders against the law . He was going to make a record . which would give the lie to all disparaging criticisms ' upon his character and . competency . The Mayor of the city , in the face of the exposures of his character when hewas a can.didate , vouched for his ability , his integrity , and his " simple Christian life . " His first great test came with the Squire-Flynn case , and what did . he do ? He neglected . to make any attempt to strengthen the case , and  --  eft it with an indictment which he knew to be defective in the /Ands of an inexperienced assistant to do what he could with it , apparently indifferent to the consequences . It was a characteristic performanCc . The people svere:enfficiently warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected by a corrupt political " boss " for his present . place , and they have only themselves to blame for ratifying swab a choice . It is strange to see such a man as ex-Judge Noah Davis , because he has seen fit to become . the defender of criminals , coming to the rescue of a discredited prosecuting - officer , and . claiming that he should lie held above criticism . Confidence in the District Attorney is very important , but it must rest upon his character and conduct , or it is worse than worthless . Glossing over his failures , excusing his negligence , condoning ? his indifference to the great interests of public justice would only be an encouragement to an administration which would scandalize the city , and it would make it easier hereafter for base politicians to foist into offices of great responsibility men who are unfit for them .                     