@@745454

txt The most significant incident thus far in the inquiry of the Senate Committee on Inter-State Commerce is the admission by such prominent representatives of the railroad interest as ALBERT FINK and G. R. BLANCHARD that national regulation is desirable . Mr. FINK practically admitted before the-committee that the pool system is a failure , and declared that some way should be-devised of framing schedules of rates  --  which should be approved by a Federal tribunal and thereafter have the force of law . These schedules should be published ? and-conformity to them enforced . Mr. BLANCHARD yesterday declared his firm belief in the necessity of a national . commission with power to settle questions of rates . If conservative ' railroad men become convinced that regulation of inter-State commerce by national authority is a necessity of their business for the protection of railroad investments as well as of the rights of the public , and will co-operate in its establishment on an equitable basis , it ought to be comparatively easy to devise a workable system . There is no question that it could be made a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would interfere - only - with a branch of the business which is an injury to the country , that of speculative building and exploiting . The vast business of transportation is intimately connected with all our industries and trade . It of necessity contributes to their general prosperity and is inextricably involved with it . Whatever tends to make it stable and secure is of general benefit . The securities which represent capital employed in this business ought to . be among the safest of investments , Whereas they are now subject to chances and speculative influences which place them among the most uncertain . But a system of regulation which would serve the highest purpose would absolutely prevent the schemes which have been used for huge speculative profits . It would compel all new projects to rest upon the basis of capital actually expended and fairly and fully represented in the securities put out . So long as unscrupulous stock jobbers are permitted to project railroad lines with no regard to their necessity or the prospect of a paying traffic , and for the sole purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be induced to take them , the business will be subject to most disastrous chances . Projectors who can make millions by manipulating these socalled securities will care little for the permanent value of the property that floats upon them until their diluted volume gives way and involves the property ina wreck out of which these men will proceed to make more profit . Regulation should put an end to this kind of stock jobbing and railroad wrecking . Assuming that railroads are to be built - and operated on legitimate principles for purposes of a fair profit on an investment of capital in the business of transportation , regulation will be a benefit to the roads themselves . The policy of free competition and the survival of the fittest is advocated by few who have made a thorough study of the problem . It means a spasmodic war of rates , the constant disturbance of business , and the destruction of investments , not only in railroad property , but in many other forms , and.it would promote , rather than check , speculative ventures . But voluntary combinations are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are - formed in the interest of the railroads alone , and are likely to sacrifice the rights of the public wherever these conflict with the purposes of the corporations . In the second place , they can not have the sanction and support of law and . are liable at any time to go to pieces under the constant tendency of competition to assert itself . But by some means systems of rates must be established and maintained to prevent damage to the interests of shippers as well as to those of transportation lines . It is now generally admitted that it is impossible to fix rates by law . There are a thousand incidents and exigencies in railroad management which can not be provided against and must be dealt with as they arise . Nobody denies that there should be no unjust discriminations , and yet there are discriminations which are inevitable . Sometimes the charging of less for a long than for a short haul on the same line is necessary for the development of business and the successful operation of a road . All depends on whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to work no injustice . What is needed in behalf of the . public is a constant supervision , systems of rates which shall recognize the principles of fair dealing , and a tribunal which can determine questions of necessity and of right where causes for complaint.arise , . whether-these be real or imaginary .                     