@@672125

txt THE VACANT JUDGESHIP . The filling of the vacancy upon the bench 3f the Supreme Court caused by the death of Justice Merriztnws is just now of much more interest than the manner in which the late incumbent discharged the duties of the place or the nature of the service 's by which he obtained it . The President is himself a lawyer of standing and experience , and does not need to take any advice about the professional qualifications of the man whose name he shall send to the Senate . ? His responsibility for the choice will be undivided , and he ought to regard his discretion as complete . He will naturally choose a Republican , but that is the only real restriction upon his liberty of choice . It would be a great mistake for him to fetter himself by any geographical considerations . The condition that the new Justice shall be'a Republican is. in effect , a condition that he shall be a Northern man . Though Mr. HAYES in the course of his curious proceedings of reconciliation found it desirable to name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiment was not so marked as to encourage his successor to repeat it . Moreover , neither the professional qualifications of the latest ex-Confederate appointed to the Supreo3e Court nor the circumstances under which his confirmation was procured from a Senate politically hostile to him wore of such a character that anybody concerned in the transaction brwhich he became a Judge of the Supreme Court is entitled to look back upon his share in it with any particular pride . The Republican Party and the Northern States offer a field quite wide enough for the President 's choice . He should not be satisfied with anybody except the best and soundest and most judicial-minded Republican lawyer who can be induced to accept the place . We are inclined to think that the doubt upon this latter point is exaggerated in common talk . There are , no doubt , many lawyers in the great cities of the country to whom the salary of a Justice of the Supreme Court does not seem a respectable professional income . There is no doubt that the salaries ought to be raised ; but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , as they are in England , the pecuniary prizes of the profession . There is great danger that if that were done they would be sought by politicians whose professional claims ' were very slender , but whose power of exerting pressure upon the Executive was very great . Moreover , it is only in a few cities that the great professional incomes are made in comparison with which the salary of a Judge of the Supreme Court seems a pittance . Outside of these cities , as ' most lawyers , city and country , will agree , there are as good lawyer as there are in them , and in respect of the experience needed for a Judge of the Supreme Court lawyers , better equipped , since their practice is less specialized . These lawyers by no means despise the salary of a Supreme Court Judge , and . in any case it is safe to say that a man who regards the Judgeship exclusively from a pecuniary point of view , and is unwilling to sacrifice for the honor of holding it any share of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proper person to receive the appointment . If the President , in filling the seat of Justice MATTHEWS on the bench of the Supreme Court , has regard simply to professions , / qualifications , there is no reason why his choice should not reflect honor upon the court and upon his Administration . If he allows any other than professional qualifications to come into the question this result is , of course , hopeless . If political services are to count at all , then obviously the man for the place is Judge WILLIAM A. WOODS , at present a Judge of the District Court of the United States for Indiana . Very few Judges have ever undergone the moral wear and tear in their efforts to meet the views of the appointing power that Judge WOODS underwent in order to protect DUDLEY from an indictment for bribing voters . He had indiscreetly put upon record his judicial opinion in the case , and . in preparing his political opinion he found it necessary to overrule and reverse this opinion without the slightest attempt to maintain either consistency or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President in his inaugural message declared that he would not deem " honorable party service " a disqualification for office , and he proceeded to furnish a practical commentary upon his adjective by appointing Mr. WANAMAKER , one of the collectors of QUAY 'S campaign fund , to be PostmasterGeneral , and . Mr. CLARKSON , the receiver of goods stolen from a Prohibitionist newspaper , to be his first assistant . If he applies the same principle to the vacant Judgeship , Judge WOODS is his man , but it is scarcely credible that he will venture to insult the Supreme Court , the legal profession , and the country with that method of paying a political debt .                     