@@781896

txt deleted paragraph The Bank of France is probably the most 3onspicuous example of a monopoly derivhag enormous profits from its chartered privileges , - while contributing nothing directly to the public exchequer . It has the exclusive right to issue currency . The Government , of course , limits the amount of the legal issue and sees to it that the proper reserves are maintained to secure the bills put out . There is thus the public advantage of a flexible and convertible paper currency . But in no other way does the bank share the public burdens . Its profits , however , are immense . During the thirty years ending in 1887 , the dividends paid on each share of the bank stock ( the shares are 1,000f. each ) have averaged 170 per cent . yearly . The Bank of Algiers enjoys similar privileges , and returns corresponding profits , in the field of colonial banking . The Vichy Water Company is an instance of a French monopoly which makes some acknowledgment to the State for its profitable charter . Its stock is composed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real selling price of the shares is , however , 4,400f. , which is not to be wondered at when it is considered that a dividend of 260f. is paid on each share yearly . This company pays the State 50,000f. a year , while distributing above 2,000,000f. among its shareholders . The telephone company of Paris furnishes an example of a torpors Lion compelled to pay the State a still larger share of its profits in return for thefranchises conceded it . In 1887 it turned over to the public Treasury 21 per cent . of its receipts , amounting to 717.804f . This heavy tax is , in part accounted for by the fact that the company has the free use of the subways in the city . The price of a telephone in the city of Paris is $120 a year . The company has 7,590 subscribers in the city and environs . It is plain that the paymtlats of the company to the city are only a disguised taxation of the subscribers : from the figures given for 1887 it is clear that , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury . It is a question , therefore , how much the consumer gains in the case of companies like this . The lighting company and the omnibus company have charters very similar to that of the telephone company , and turn over large amounts to the city ; but it has been estimated that , with charges based upon the actual cost of production , the price of gas and the faros of the omnibuses could alike be reduced one-half . Probably most people would prefer such a reduction and the payment of their city taxes in a more unconcealed form . This whole class of questions will undoubtedly receive a great deal of attention in France in the near future , for the reason that many of the charters of these monopolies are soon to expire . The policy of renewing them and the terms under which renewal shall be made , if determined upon , are sure to be debated . The charter of the telephone company expires in 1889 , that of the lighting company on the let of January , 1890 , provided that notification is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the option of the company to extend it for five years . Later on will come the question of renewing the charters of the Bank of France and the Bank of Algiers ; both terminate in 1897 . The monopoly of the Vichy company will come to an end in 1904 , and that of the omnibus company in 1910 . The railroad monopolies have many years yet to run , the charters of the principal companies expiring between 1954 and 1960 . The last-mentioned organizations have provided large revenues to the State . whatever else may be said of them ; in the year 1884 , for example , they brought into the national Treasury 272,000,000f.                     