@@744532

txt The Democratic politicians whose headquarters at present are at Albany are beginning to be exercised over the question of the division of this State into Congressional districts . It is in reality a simple question which ought to be settled by the " book of arithmetic , " but it becomes a trifle complex and difficult when an effort is made to divide up the counties of the State into thirty-four districts in such a manner as to leave as many as possible.with Democratic majorities . This is the purpose generally kept in view when an apportionment is to be made by a Democratic Legislature . The people of this State have been through a somewhat peculiar political experience since the last census was taken and the National Apportionment act was passed . This has in some measure had a sobering effect upon calculating politicians , and it has developed in Democrats a strong tendency to " profess " reform . But , more than that , it has left the relative strength of the party vote in the various counties of the State in the condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will be hard for ' any committee , even with the help of astute politicians outside the Legislature , to figure out the Democratic vote as it may be counted ' upon in future Congressional elections . If the returns of the last State election are taken as a basis there is liable to be a good deal of miscalculation . The experience of last Fall shows us that the vote of a county or of a Congressional district is an exceedingly variable quantity , and it is not safe to count upon its stability unless in a few exceptional localities . Moreover , the variations are likely to be affected by the selfish plottings of politicians in precisely the way to defeat their purposes . It is just possible that the safest way , even from the narrow and selfish point of view of the politician , would be to divide the State as fairly as possible into districts containing approximately equal populations and having as compact and symmetrical a form as the lines of the counties will conveniently permit . Nothing is given out as yet regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to be a disposition to treat this City as an area by itself and leave its division to its own representatives . Senator NELSON , of Westchester , especially objects to having it lap over into his domain . But there are certain practical difficulties in the way of carrying out this suggestion , owing to the perversity of the figures . It would not be a bad idea to have this corner of the State disposed of by itself , but it so happens that in order to accomplish this in good shape Westchester will have to be taken in . There are to be 34 districts composed of " contiguous territory , " and containing as nearly as practicable an equal number of inhabitants according to the census of 1880 . This much is required by the apportionment act of Congress . Thirty-four Representatives for 5,082,871 people give a ratio of 149,202 for each district . At present the First District comprises Queens , Suffolk , and Richmond Counties , the Second , Third , and Fourth are included in Kings , the next seven are within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes the Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth Wards of the City and the County of Westchester . It so happens that this City would now divide into eight districts , with a surplus of only 12,683 inhabitants , or less than onetenth of the ratio . This would be a near enough approximation to an accurate representation . Kings County could be divided into four districts and leave an overplus of only 2,687 . But Queens , Suffolk , and Richmond together now contain 183,453 inhabitants , or 34,251 more than the ratio . Setting off Richmond and making a district of Queens and Suffolk alone , we should have one containing 144,462 inhabitants , a sufficiently near approximation again to the ratio . But what is to be done with Richmond ? It has a population of 38,991 , while , Westchester , to the north of the City , has 108,988 . The latter is too small to form a district by itself , and the two are not contiguous territory . To link Staten Island to Westchester County by an imaginary line 20 miles long mostly under water would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political purpose . But the problem is made quite simple and easy , so far as this part of the State is concerned , if we make one district of Queens and Suffolk , and four of Kings , join the rural population of Richmond with the people of the lower end of Manhattan Island , whose representative character would be none the worse for the association , and take in Westchester on the north . Richmond , New-York , and Westchester Counties would furnish 9 representatives with an overplus of only 11,460 inhabitants in a total of 1,354,278 . This would give 14 districts in the area now covered by 12 , but they would contain more than the quota of population entitled to that number . So much at least is easy work , and if the other counties were treated with the same regard for contiguity and compactness of area and equality of representation by population , there would probably be no difficulty in arranging the districts throughout the State . But the moment party calculations are introduced the problem will become complicated and puzzling , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any manifest effort to make party capital at the expense of fairness will add to the accumulating influences calculated to reverse the character of the vote within any prescribed area . The uncertainty of the actual condition of party strength in this State might well furnish the occasion for a really fair and sensible apportionment . The party is control of the Legislature would probably lose nothing by it . 