@@781825

txt Nothing is more noticeable in the desperate campaign which the " machine " is making against the renomination of Gov . CORNELL than the bad faith , not to say the duplicity , with which it is waged . From beginning to end in its motives and its methods there is nothing fair and above board in the whole blsiness . The Governor is persecuted for three reasons : because he refused to indorse exSenator CONKLING 'S selfish folly in resigning and seeking a re-election ; because he can not be counted on to blindly advance the purposes of the " machine " as to the next Presidential election , and because he rejected the bribe offered him from JAY GouLn to consent to the plunder of the public Treasury by that arch-swindler . These are the real motives why the edict has gone forth that the Governor must not be renominated . And the machine managers scarcely trouble themselves to assign any others . They allege that the Governor can not be re-elected if renominated , but , as has been abundantly shown , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him of having been " ungrateful " to Mr. CONKLING , but no one knows better than the ex-Senator that what debt of gratitude there may be is due from him to the Governor , for besides the signal service which Mr. CORNELL for years rendered to Mr. CONKLING , he placed the latter under special obligations last year when he dared to point out plainly the weakness and danger and disgrace of the Senator 's course . The machine movement against the Governor is peculiarly dishonest in its methods . No distinctly chosen candidate is put forward to contest the nomination . No frank appeal is made to the judgment of the majority of the party . The strength of the machine is devoted to dividing its opponents . A half-dozen more or less local candates are used for that purpose . The distinguished Secretary of the Treasury has been fooled into allowing himself to be so employed . Ile is advocated where the Administration feels most confident . In the districts where a member of Mr. ARTHUR 'S Cabinet is considered rather strong meat for the popular digestion Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine only brings out more clearly the animus of their opposition to the Governor . If that advocacy could be supposed to be sincere , its only significance would be that the discipline of the machine requires that a former associate , such as the Governor is , must be crushed at all hazards . Such an evidence of political , tyranny is not calculated to win the respect of men of independent character . It rather confirms their detestation of the arbitrary clique which is ready to sacrifice anything and everything to its own domination . But the machine does not want Mr. WADSWORTH any more than it wants Gen. ROBINSON or Congressman WOOD or Attorney-General RUSSELL or the other men whose names it is using to distract those who tend to support the Governor . In every case , it will be remarked , the machine managers and agents , while " , talking up " this or that candidate other than the Governor , work for uninstructed delegates , hoping that when these are got together at Saratoga it will be possible to unite them on some as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machine and not to interfere with the schemes of JAY GOULD . And all this chicanery and intrigue and duplicity arc characteristic of a body of men who claim to be the organized and authoritative leaders of the Republican Party in the State , enjoying the sanction and direction of the national Administration and wielding as their instrument of office the distribution of the Federal appointments . This is what " practical politics " and patronage have brought us to . The party , instead of being allowed to choose its own candidate for the highest office in the State by the free exercise of its rightful and instructed discretion , is harassed , confused , divided , and diverted by the efforts of a body of plaeemen , paid largely from the national Treasury and working in the interest partly of ambitious politicians , partly of a band of corrupt stock jobbers . The facts of the situation are so obvious and the schemes of the **29;27;TOOLONG combination are so transparent that it otwill , to be possible for the party to assert its rights and put these tricksters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will place in nomination for Governor the man who is proved to be fitted for the post not only by the excellent way in which he has performed its duties , but by the wellearned hatred of the office-holders ' machine and Mr. JAY GOULD .                     