@@743726

txt The work of the Anti-Monopoly League is taken up none too soon . It is quite time that organized action on the part of the people against the tremendous organization of corporate power was begun . The League sets out with definite purposes . It proposes to arouse public attention and to inform the popular mind with a view to securing State and national legislation which shall bring the vast interests of transportation under the control of law and into subservience to the rights and interests of the people . The period for discussing the necessity of action and the authority to act has passed . The necessity has been amply demonstrated , the authority of the Government in the premises rests on an impregnable basis . Questions which legislators have to consider relate to methods and limitations in the exercise of unquestionable power which are to be determined by considerations of expediency and a regard for practical results . But legislators will take effective action only in response to an unmistakable demand from public opinion . The corporations have long been alert and active . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to secure provisions of law favorable to their objects , and to prevent enactments that would stand in their way . They have retained under liberal pay the best legal talent ; they have not only carried potent influences into the halls and lobbies of legislative assemblies , but they have lost no opportunity to work through public elections to gain seats therein for representatives of their own who would labor on every occasion in their interest . They have even tried to lay their hands upon the courts which interpret and apply the law , and are reaching out for control over public sentiment through the press . While the corporations have thus been strengthening and consolidating their power , the people have been almost unconscious of what has been going on or have regarded it with a sort of helpless apathy . Bodies of commercial men have been cognizant of the facts and have endeavored to awaken public interest and to promote legislative action . But the mass of the people are affected by the abuses and extortions of which complaint has been made in such an indirect way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . Enormous taxation upon commerce and industry , whether levied by a Government to support great armaments or by corporations for the enrichment of the few at the expense of the many , is in reality a burden upon all classes , depressing the returns for every kind of labor and increasing the cost of living , What is most of all needed is a means of enlightening the public mind , awakening it to a full conception of its own interests , and directing it to practical action which shall bring legislators to a sense of their responsibility to those whom they are chosen to represent . The proper laws will be passed and faithfully administered only when the people require it and give their countenance and support to none but those who will heed the requirement . Hence the work of the Anti-Monopoly League is not only practical , but necessary , in order to secure results whose importance grows more pressing with every month of delay . If too long neglected , the question may become one of dominion . In this country government is only an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promotion of their general interests . It is supposed to ' rest upon their consent and to be within their control . Its taxation is virtually the self-taxation of the citizens for their common purposes . But the corporate power that has been fostered to gigantic proportions until it overspreads the face of the land and lays its clutch upon the very nerves and sinews of commerce and industry , claims the right to ? ay tribute without restriction and regardless of the consent of the ? people . It has enjoyed virtual immunity from control , and now claims it as a vested right . It can tax communities at will . It can build up here and keep down there ; it can paralyze competition and strangle enterprise ; it can make rich and it can impoverish , guided only by the " golden . rule " of its own treasuries , and ruthlessly pursuing the policy which , according to its best calculations , will secure the largest aggregate income . It not only resists ? Government control , which is control by the will of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government its own instrument : It contends with the people in the election of those who make and administer laws , and becomes a rival of the body politic in the dominion of the country so far as its own privileges and interests are involved . If it becomes a question of mastery , there can be little doubt as to where the final victory will be . The corporations have vast wealth and a powerful organization , but the people tare many and their resources great . It is to ? be . hoped , that there is no need of contemplating a struggle for the possession and control of the agencies of government . The railroads of the country are Y an instrumentality of great value to ' its growth and prosperity . They should be in no way crippled or unjustly dealt with .. Their owners and managers are entitled to the exercise of discretion and judgment in their business , and to the enjoyment of fair profits justly acquired . But they should be rendered subject to laws which will effectually protect the rights of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The citizens are called upon at present to make no other fight than that necessary to induce legislators to tare up the subject earnestly and treat it with a due regard for all the equities involved . 