@@744032

txt Exactly how the word " crank " came into our modern nomenclature it would be difficult to tell . For various reasons it is an expressive epithet , and has about it a certain picturesqueness which takes it out of the vocabulary of common slang . The word is of American origin , one might well suppose , and it is certainly more thoroughly American than foreign in its application . But the most conspicuous use of the word , in recent years , was the application of it to describe a man who assaulted an Irish landlord , or committed other offensive acts , disowned by the leaders of the Land League or the Home Rulers . When a lawless deed was committed among the Irish tenantry without the sanction of the higher councils , all responsibility for the affair was disclaimed in behalf of " the cause " by declariqg that this was merely the performance of " a crank . " It was no part of the regular programme ; it was . a sporadic affair , so to speak  --  the act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly irresponsible person be called a crank ? In nautical parlance , a vessel is crank when she is liable to be overset or capsized . As crankiness is sometimes due to a lack of ballast , it may be that that trait in man which we give a similar name is so called because its possession betrays a lack of mental ballast . But an old English authority defines a crank to be a cheat or impostor , and BURTON , in his " Anatomy of Melancholy , " says that " such counterfeit cranks " may be found in many English villages . In New-England , however , a person given to eccentricities and whimsies , and who is difficult to manage , is said to be cranky . Any unusual course of conduct denotes crankiness . A cranky man is perpetually at odds with his neighbors . When he has reached one step further in this objectionable direction , he is said to be " a little luny . " How far a crank is legally and morally responsible for his acts is a grave question . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GUITEAU , as it has been claimed for him that he was " only a crank . " The dreadful crime of this man , indeed , gave new meaning to the old epithet . By this time the well-known adjective has been crystallized into a substantive , and a crank is a familiar object in one 's daily reading . The man who was looking for Secretary BLAINE very soon after the assassination , armed with a pistol , was undeniably a crank . So was that other person who went to the White House to take possession of the Presidency on the strength of what purported to be a divine commission . When the man who is said to have shot at GUITEAU in the prison van was arrested , it was at once claimed for him that he was " only a crank , " and therefore irresponsible . It has been suspected that plans were laid to take the life of GIIITRAII before the trial should be concluded . To the disgrace of the Police authorities of the District of Columbia it should be said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not move anybody to special vigilance in the matter of guarding against an , attack on the prisoner . It is a shame that it should be possible for a mounted man to ride close beside a prison van long enough to take aim , . and should then be allowed to fire into the vehicle with the intention of shooting the occupant , and ride off in safety . It is no excuse to BAY that the Police force of the Dis- trict is too small to allow a suitable guard for the prisoner . The alleged smallness of the fcrce is quite as disgraceful as the apparent consequence of this inadequacy . Washington , one would suppose , must be a very paradise of cranks . Whether " BILL " JONES did or did not fire into the prison van , enough is known of him to show that he was not a fit man to be at large . It was his cheerful custom , it appears , to ride furiously about the neighborhood exhibiting his noble horsemanship and cutting up all sorts of queer pranks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arrested inoffensive people , and threatened others , all by way of amusement ; and yet he was left unharmed for the reason that he was only a crank . It has not been said yet that the soldier who shot at GUITEAU was a crank . But it is now in order that this should be pleaded for him . They are all cranks when there is less justification than usual for their offenses , and when it is expected that a good-natured public opinion will he invoked for the offender . On this theory the assailant of the Italian Premier is also a crank . The would-be assassin of GUITEAU might be suspected of having acted in behalf of one of the secret organizations to which allusion has been made , if it were not for the fact that his previous reputation has been that of a crank . And whether JONES be the assailant of the prisoner or not , it is manifest that he is not fit to be at large . How many such men are now wandering about among civilized and law-abiding people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous as cranks , nobody can tell . And if some check is not put upon the too common irregularity of crankiness , we shall have established a new line of defense in capital cases . There are harmless cranks , to be sure . They do not attempt life or threaten the personal safety of any one . There are certain cranks in politics ; their names will occur to the reader . But the crank at large with a revolver or other deadly weapon is a dangerous character . He must be suppressed by measures harsh enough to deter all imitation of his conduct . It will never , do to establish a precedent which shall justify any violent man in pleading that he is " only a crank . "                     