@@780812

txt The following has just been received from the salt mines at Petit Anse Island , in Iberia Parish : " About a month ago the company operating the salt mines at Avery 's , or Petit Anse , received a large quantity of dynamite for blasting purposes . The same was stored in a magazine situated about 400 yards from the works . Large trees were in close proximity . On Saturday , July 21 , a few min-utes past 12 o'clock . a terrific storm burst on the island . Torrents of rain fell , and peal after peal of lightning rended the skies . The work-men bad barely left and reached the boarding-house , situated at some distance from the 4orks , when the electricity struck the magazine and immediately there followed an awful explosion . Nor a few minutes all seemed entirely paralyzed . Recovering , some rushed out to ascertain the cause . It was then discovered that the whole building in which was stored the explosive compound bad disappeared , and in its place was left a yawning chasm 15 or 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounding were prostrated and shattered . One 2366 feet in diameter , was carried by the immense power in the blast 200 yards from where it previously stood . Every building on the island contiguous to the mines was shaken in a terrible manner , causing every glass door and window to part with their glass . The buildings containing the mills and machinery were much damaged , preventing access to the shaft for the time being . Eight box cars , ready to be loaded , were entirely crushed in their upper part , the running gear remaining intact . Two persons only  --  Mrs. Crooks and her daughter ? were slightly injured by the falling pieces of glass , but bad the explosion taken place a little sooner , no doubt the loss of life would have been great . Superintendent Crooks is now bard at work clearing up the d6bris. and in a very few days will have everything in readiness to resume work . There were 28 boxes of dynamite , each containing about 60 pounds . or 1.400 pounds in H11 . Later inspection shows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 yards away from the root of the gallery . The machinery is all right , although the building was thoroughly stripped of outside weather boarding . Work will be resumed this week . The supply of salt is large , hence there is no interruption in shipments .                     