@@780797

txt The United States Signal Service is taking great interest in the selentifio observations to be made during the balloon voyage of the Great North-west , and has furnished for tho occasion the best apparatus at its command . Mr. Upton , who is from tho scientific division of the orrice at Washington . has made preparations for an exhaustive series of observations , devoted especially to the determination of the temperature and moisture at different elevations and the deternalue , t ! on of the direction and velocity of air currents . He will inform the Chief Signal Officer , several hours before the time of the ascension . at what time the balloon is expected to begin the voyage , and the signal stations east of Dakota and as far south as Virginia will be instructed to make hourly observations for it at hours corresponding with those made in the balloon . By this means it is hoped results of special interest to the science of meteorology will be ob , tained . To aid the travelers in their voyage , a special weather bulletin will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Continuous rain for three days has had a bad effect upon the Minneapolis fair races and the balloon ascension , and all the grounds are a sea of mud . The balloon works are surrounded by water . So far nothing has been done . It is out of the question to make the ascension to-day as was planned . It is now hoped to get ready for Friday , but all depends upon the weather . It is still raining tonight . The journalists who are to accompany Prof. King are here and eagerly awaiting the opportunity to explore the skies . They include B. R. Johnstone , of Trim NEW-Y0 BR TIMES ; James Creelman. of the Now-York herald ; W. G. Nicholas , of the Chicago Times ; L. L. Holden , of the I3ostoh Journal , who has already made a score of ascensions with Prof. King . and a representative of the Pioneer-Yres6 and Minneapolis .7 ribune . Mr. Winslow , of the United States Signal Service , will accompany the expedition to make scientific observations . Gas-works have been erected on the grounds , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the rain ceases . Prof. King is hopeful of accomplishing great results . He says the storm is not a misfortune . If he can only get the balloon in the air , be asks nothing better than to follow in its track . Ho thinks it will afford a Peculiarly good opportunity to observe meteor , ological phenomena . His plan is to follow the storm southward until clear of Lake Michigan , then rise until he gets into an eastern current and start due east . He will make two or three stops to lighten the balloon by discharging passengers . All the newspaper men have been compelled , unwillingly , to sign an agreement to get out whenever directed to do so by the Professor . All the preparations have been made for a long voyage . Two hundred rations will be taken along .                     