@@781897

txt An occasional revolution seems to be as clear a necessity to the comfort of Hayti as the annual visit of a circus to the well-being of the city of Paterson . Unfortunately , a method of making Hayti 's traditional recreation entirely harmless has never yet been invented ; and while ' the revolts in the island usually have the merit of being short , they are sometimes very sharp and sanguinary until decided . A motto of TOUSSAINT , according to some of his biographers , was " No Retaliation ; " but it is obvious that since his day neither end of the island has adopted this magnanimous principle , perhaps regarding his own fate as an illustration of the error of such a Policy . The conflict that terminates a Haytian revolution may be in itself a slight affair , but the subsequent shootings of the beaten leaders and their followers sometimes have a marked winnowing effect on the population . The present or , as it may already he , the late revolt broke out about a fortnight since under BOYER-BAZELArS , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Presidency , and BOILEAU LAFOREST , who figured Prominently in the overthrow of Salnave and the subsequent events . The inception of a revolution in Hayti seems to proceed according to a well-defined and traditional method , which is rarely varied from . Whenever anybody becomes President , either by election or by seizing the reins of government , his chief opponents either are banished or else voluntarily retire to one of the neighboring islands , where they immediately begin to consider the ways and means of overthrowing the ' successful ruler . Restlessness and dissatisfaction of one sort or another always bring them a gradual accession of adherents , and in due time they make a descent on Hayti . If successful , they in their turn banish such of their enemies as are not killed , whereupon the whole Performance is repeated . LAFOREST and BOYER-BAZELAIS established themselves in Jamaica and there formed their conspiracy . They gathered their forces secretly on one of the smaller Bahama islands , and , procuring arms and ammunition , . as well as a small steamer from the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in the , harbor of Miragoane , and , landing before ' dawn , surprised the Government garrison and captured the town . According to custom , the . inhabitants joined the successful ' party ; and knowing , of course , that the Government would send troops to quell the demonstration , they at once set to work fortifying the city . It would be useless to attempt yet to ascer. tain either the exact degree of discontent on which the uprising . is based or its practical chances of sucpss . Old President SALOMON came into power three years ago , under very favorable circumstances , his ability being conceded , and his promises of a fair and just administration generally credited . And this , after all , is only the third attempt made to overthrow him , so keeping up merely the average of one a year , which is not an extravagant amount of revolution in that latitude . The insurrectionists claim that SALOMON has made a specialty of proscribing , banishing , imprisoning , shooting , and confiscating the property of the mulattoes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and SALOMON IS accused by BAZELAIS , who is himself a mulatto of much intelligence and energy , of fostering the ill-feeling subsisting between them and the blacks . It is claimed that he has not only refused them any share in the Government , but has had them imprisoned in large numbers on frivolous charges , and sometimes shot by squads and scores . The army is also spoken of as an instrument of terror to the people . At all these accusations the partisans of SALOMON scoff . They claim that the only persons executed have been those proved to be engaged in the previous attempts at revolt already mentioned ; that the existing President has now mulattoes in his own Cabinet , and has decreased rather than excited the color prejudices ; in short , that the new effort at insurrection is simply an attempt to gain power made by a pair of plotters for their selfish purposes . It must be admitted that thus far the reports of the insurrection do not show it to be specially formidable . The capture . of Miragoane was effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred uniformed and wellequipped men . They brought with them , however , many boxes of the best American rifles and several field pieces , so that if the popular sentiment should really be against SALOMON , it would be comparatively easy to arm a large force . The interest of the United States in these performances is wholly of a commercial sort . A serious revolution usually brings trade in Hayti to a stand-still for a time and always interferes with procuring cargoes . Even the seizure of Miragoane affected in this way the American vessels in port there , and there is a rumor of a subsequent defeat of SALOMON 'S reinforcements , which would tend to prolong the contest . But the best usage prescribes brevity for Hayti 's revolutions .                     