@@672229

txt The opinions of the Judges of the English Court of Appeal in the case of the Mogul Steamship Company against a combination of the other steamship companies engaged in the China tea trade contain an interesting discussion as to the illegality of contracts or agreements in restraint of trade . The Master of the Rolls . Lord ESHER , held not only that an agreement to suppress competition in trade was illegal , in the sense that it would not be recognized and enforced by the courts , but also that the making of such an agreement might be ? and really was in the pending case  --  an indictable offense . On the other hand , Lord Justice BOWEN and Lord Justice FRY held that contracts in restraint of trade wore illegal only in the sense that courts would not enforce them . " The law , " said . Lord Justice BowEN , " does not prohibit the making of such contracts  --  it merely declines after they have been made to recognize their validity . The law considers the disadvantage so imposed upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in most cases the public is aided in no respect by the " disadvantage so imposed . " The contracts of the mining companies - with the Copper Syndicate may have been " illegal , " but no relief was afforded to consumers , during the life of the syndicate by this fact . Eor several years the copper rolling mills have been working under a ring agreement or contract that the courts would not enforce , and by means of it have subjected the people to extortion . In what way has the " illegality " of this Sheet Copper Ring 's agreement been " a sufficient shelter to the public " or of any use whatever to robbed consumers ? To those who feel that the people ought to be able to procure from the courts something more than a refusal to enforce a ring contract for the suppression of competition and for the unjust taxing of the public , when by chance such a contract is brought into court , the reasoning of Lord ESHER may be more satisfactory than that of his two associates . It is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal " on the ground , that they are in restraint of trade , but not because any wrong is done by means of them to the several persons who unite in making them , for they all agree as to what is done , Indeed , all these Usually derive pecuniary benefit from the maintenance of the agreements . The contracts have been held . to be " illegal , " on . the ground that they are in restraint of trade and against public policy because the people suffer by reason of them . " But , " said Lord ESHER , " if such an agreement is ' illegal ' because it is a wrong to the public , it seems to me impossible to say that it is not indictable . An ' illegal ' act which is a wrong against the public welfare seems to have the necessary elements of a crime . " And he contended that the act of agreement in the pending case was an indictable conspiracy . But his opinion was overruled by those of the two Judges who sat with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand , and if combinations for the suppression of competition are not obnoxious to the common law in England , there will soon be a demand there for new legislation on this subject . There have ? been Many decisions in this country concerning the illegality of agreements designed to suppress competition . A notable case is that of the Central Ohio Salt Company vs . GirrHerE , in which the courts of Ohio refused to enforce a combination agreement designed to prevent competition in the sale of salt . " Public policy , " said the court , " unquestionably favors . combination in trade , to the-end that . its-commodities may be afforded to the consumer as cheaply as possible . The clear tendency of such an agreement is to - establish a monopoly and . to destroy competition in trade , and for that reason . on grounds of public policy , courts will not aid in its enforcement . It is no ' answer to say that competition in the salt trade was not in fact destroyed , or that the price of the commodity was not unreasonably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of injury indicted upon the public ; it is enough to know that the inevitable tendency of such contracts is injurious to the public . " And in a similar case in this State , that of CLANCY vs . Onondaga Fine Salt Company , the court said : " This court has held repeatedly that the purposes which were attempted to be accomplished through the corporation which had been set up to sell the entire product of the combined salt makers were illegal The end to be attained being illegal , the contracts and agreements entered into  --  to secure the end must be equally so . " In a case relating to a combination of five coal mining companies ( Morris Run Coal Company vs . Barclay Coal Company ) the highest court of Pennsylvania held not only that the combination agreement was illegal and void , but also that the parties to it were guilty of conspiracy under the statutes of New-York , the combination having been made in this State . The court does not appear to have found outside of the statute any ground for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offense . It should be noted that the Legislatures of several States have recently undertaken to provide statutes for the punishment of those who enter into these ring agreements that are " illegal " under the common law . The arguments and opinions advanced by the three English Judges relate to questions of great importance and interest in this country at the present time . They are of greater importance here than in England . " The Mogul Steamship Company 's case , " says the London Times , " will have given birth to the most authoritative exposition of the law of combination that has ever been attempted in a court of justice ; and it apparently forces us to realize that we are left with no defense against the monopoly or ' Trust ' except such as the Legislature chooses to give us . " But if the decision is favorable to combinations , it is also primarily and positively favorable to competition and opposed to the restriction of it . The court refused to grant to the plaintiff any relief from the effect of that " cutthroat " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Trusts in this country so loudly complain . It is possible that if the case of the people against some combination that has suppressed competition , limited production , and raised prices or prevented a natural decline of prices should be brought before the same court , the judgment would not be unsatisfactory to the friends of competition . 