@@744926

txt The Board'of Estimate and Apportionment will begin to pass upon the estimates furnished by the different departments of the City on , Wednesday next , and tomorrow the last public hearing will be given . Up to this time the board has given patient attention to the arguments of others , who are bent on grasping as much as they can of the thirty-odd million dollars which the board will dispense , and which the tax-payers must provide . On Wednesday the members will begin to give their own reasons for the method in which they handle this great fund of which they are virtually Trustees . The reasons which they may give and the action which they may take will be scanned very critically by the public which furnishes the money , and the board will do wisely to scan just as critically the estimates . upon which they are - to pass finally . That the figures furnished by many of the departments are largely in excess of the real needs of those departments nobody who has examined them from a business point of view will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut down the estimates to such an extent as will place the departmental expenses on a healthy business basis . But one example is necessary to show how recklessly over-estimated , to use no more expressive word , are some of the expenses which the departments insist with specious arguments that they are obliged to incur . The Police Department calls for 50 cords , or 150 loads , of wood , at $8 per cord , and 1,850 tons of coal at $5 50 per ton , a total of $10,575 , to pay for fuel for station-houses . An analysis of this estimate will show at a glance how monstrously exorbitant is the demand . A ton of coal to the poor man will , without doubt , cost him $5 50 , but 100 tons can be purchased of any dealer at $4 a ton , and on an order for 1,850 tons a much larger reduction can be obtained , as any man of business knows . Precisely why the City should be called on to pay the highest retail price for such a large lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to explain to the satisfaction of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment , but their explanation will not be likely to satisfy the tax-payers who are to foot the bills . There are 36 station-houses , and the estimate calls for over 51 tons of coal for each of these . As the fuel is not used at the most liberal estimate for a longer period than nine months during the year , this allows nearly six tons of coal per month to each station-house , an amount which is certainly far in excess of the needs of any of them in the coldest month of the year . This is but a single instance , but it shows how the estimates are made up , and indicates how closely and carefully the single items must be scanned if the board is to do justice to the tax-payers and prevent them from being systematically robbed . The estimates bristle all over with just such outrageous calls for money ; it will be interesting to.note in what manner the board will treat them . 