@@780945

txt Gen. Edward F. Jones , the suceessful Democratic candidate for Lieutenant-Cioyernors does not do any better by the patrons of his scale establishment than ho has done by the Democratic State Committee , his advertisements , about " Paying tho freight " are a delusion and a snare . It is recognized that every candidate for an elective office has to pay the freight upon himself to those who carry him there , and the aspirant for political honors generally pays the bill , whether successful or not . Jones of Binghamton is a different sort of man , however , for after seeking the party nomination for Lieutenant-Governor , and eagerly accepting it when it was put within his reach . he has calmly refused to pay the usual assessment levied by the State Committee . As is well known , the Democratic State Conn mittee found itself in a great quandary when Roswell P. Flower declined the nomination for Lieutenant-Governor . Mr. Flower had been nominated for his money more than anything else , and Gov . Hill 's friends were at a loss to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place . William E. Smith was regarded as ineligible , While the committee was considering these names the Governor 's attention was called . to the great Jones of Binghamton , and thej sealemaker was himself brought on here to show himself . The situation was explained to him , and while his assessment was put down as something like 510,000 , it was fully expected that he would put up two or three times that amount , The Governor put his money up " like a little man , " as one Democratic statesman said , but Jones contented himself with promises . Ile nodded assent to everything that was said to him ; his friends made many suggestive references to the General 's bank account , and he was duly declared the nominee of the party for Lieutenant-Governor . The State Committee began with a cash calk. tal of about 58,000 collected from its own members and a cheek of the Governor 's for his campaign assessment . The Governor 's subscription and the other money was nlaced to the credit of the committee in charge at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required . As other subscriptions were received from prominent Democrats they were put in D. down-town bank . The committee , therefore , had two separate accounts , and the members alt thought that when Jones of Binghamton came to " pay the freight " it would be necessary to keep still another account , as the amount would undoubtedly be very large , But nothing was heard from the great Jones . Directly atter he had been nominated he went about the State making speeches and twirline ; his mustache as only he can twirl it . The committee telegraphed him two or three times , hut no heed was paid to the dispatches . Chairmao O'Brien , of the State Committee ; Chairman William L. Muller , of the Executive Committee , and others ' held consultations and obtained advances of money on the security of , loner 's big eontribus tion , which , they explained to tuose who mace the advances , would come to hand in a day or two . But not one dollar was received Irons the great Gen. Jones ; nor did he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the committee at last became very angry , and to very peremptory order was sent to Gen. Jones requiring hint to pay up forthwith . As no satisfactory reply was made to this demand , the managers at Gov . Hill 's canvass were forced to ask for " voluntary " contributions from office holders ' and others to carry on the canvass . Notwithstanding the unusual course pursued by Jones , there wore very few members of the State Committee who doubted that he would pity UP the end . They thought that all they would have to do at the end of the campaign was to send some of the bills to the General and that he would pay them at once . They continued to press him for money , however , but none was torthconiing , and , to make the matter worse , even after he knew that he had been electerj declined to settle the freight ; charges . The corns mittee would very gladly have taken half the original assessment and called it square , but so far no satisfactory arrangement has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to put the State Committee " in a hole . " It could nob pay its bills without again nassing round the hat . All the members are quietly calling the scalemaker uncomplimentary names , and some of them say that he took the nomination for Lieutenant-Governor merely as an advertising ! scheme to help his business . All the facts le the ease have been laid before Gov . Hill , and if the latter does n't make Jones nay a p. t he boys say , it wo n't be for want of trying . One thing is eerily taro , however , and that is that if the members of the present State Committee have anything to say about future nominations by the party they will sit down on the pretensions oe any one who ostentatiously proclaims that " his . pays the freight . "                     