@@745154

txt There is as little evidence that the workingmen of this State are opposed to Gov . CLEVELAND as there is ground for such opposition . It will be observed that most representations to the effect that his course as Governor has been unfriendly to the interests of laboring men , and that as a consequence they are unfriendly to him , emanate from those who have no right or authority to speak for workingmen , but who have some grievance of their own against the fearless Governor or some object to be promoted by stirring up discontent . The first and most persistent in declaring that workingmen are not friendly to CLEVELAND have been the Tammany leaders . Their purpose was clear to the simplest understanding . They had their own reasons for opposing the Governor , which have been sufficiently shown up in the last few weeks . To give any show of strength to their opposition they were forced to claim that he would lose votes in this State which some other Democratic candidate might get . What votes would he lose ? Tammany would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be withheld from the nominee because the Governor had made an enemy of GRADY and refused to be subservient to the wishes of KELLY . Such an admission would be too honest and straightforward to come from such a source . In casting about for a class of voters which could with more or less plausibility be represented as against the Governor , Tammany seized upon the laboring men as a class for which a grievance might be manufactured . What was the grievance to be ? The workingmen had asked for the establishment of a Bureau of Labor Statistics . It had been created , with the prompt approval of the Governor , and he had appointed a Commissioner entirely acceptable to the labor organizations of the State . The demand . for the prohibition of cigarmaking in tenement houses came from the workingmen . The Governor signed the bill for that purpose last year . The act was declared invalid by the Court of Appeals , and another was passed which was intended to obviate the fatal objections raised , and this was signed without hesitation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor in the prisons , and one which we have been forced to regard as mistaken ; but that proposition was favored by the Governor in his message and in his signature of the Comstock bill , and his criticism upon the measure for an investigating commission . In his general course Gov . CLEVELAND has shown no special regard for this or that separate interest , but has kept in view the general well-being in which all have a share ; but if there is any class to whose demands he has exhibited a friendly leaning , it is the working class . Out of what , then , was the pretended grievance to be made ? Tammany hit upon just three of the Governor 's vetoes or failures to sign bills in his two years of service , and boldly ventured to base its pretense on those . In 1882 there was a loud demand for five-cent fares on the elevated railroads of this city , at all hours , based on a belief that the receipts of the companies would permit it . The failure of the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indignation and had no small effect upon the fortunes of legislators , and last year a similar bill was passed . The Governor heard . arguments for and against it , and gave the subject careful consideration . He concluded that , in view of previous legislatien and the contract of the Rapid Transit Commission with the Elevated Railroad Companies , the fares could not justly or constitutionally be reduced unless the net receipts of the companies were shown to exceed 10 per cent . on the capital actually expended . His reasoning convinced such an earnest and fair-minded advocate of the reduction as THEODORE ROOSEVELT . and his conclusions were subsequently acquiesced in by the anti-monopoly member of the Railroad Commission , Mr. O'DoNNELL . Moreover , the demand for reduced fares through all hours of the day did not come from the workingmen , was not for their benefit , and its failure has never been regarded as a grievance by them . The other two trumped-up grievances were the Governor 's failure to sign the Mechanics ' Lien bill and the bill regulating the hours of car drivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been clearly shown that the former was passed in a shape that would have wrought injury and not benefit to mechanics , and it was precisely on that ground that the Governor refused to sign it . His act was a favor to workingmen . There was never any evidence of a demand for the conductors and car drivers bill . It was introduced by a cheap demagogue as a bid for their favor , but from them nothing was heard on the subject . The bill simply required that twelve hours should be a day 's work for this particular class of workers , without providing against a corresponding reduction of wages or preventing contracts for overtime . In refusing to sign it the Governor said : " I can not think this bill is in the interest of the workingmen . " This , then , is the case made up , not by the workingmen , but for them , and they are quite promptly repudiating it as none of theirs . It was made by Tammany in the hope of scaring off support from CLEVELAND at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demagogues who wish to gain notoriety or consequence as agitators and by supporters of Gen. BUTLER in his Greenback-Anti-Monopoly " racket . " It is based on false pretense and misrepresentation , and the workingmen are sensible enough not to be fooled with it . 