@@745078

txt It is painful to remark that fears have been expressed in the Methodist Conference now sitting at ' Philadelphia that elections to the Episcdpate may be managed in the manner familiar to us all in secular politics . One delegate on Monday proposed that the election of Bishops should be had to-day " without much talking and without planning or suggestions . " Another delegate observed that the vote should be taken without any " conversation , caucusing , log-rolling , or wire-pulling , " and added that " the delegates hardly get their feet on Pennsylvania soil before they are button holed . " These two delegates may be assumed to belong to the class secularly known as " Young.Scratchers . " One of the " regulars " declared that such statements as theirs should not have been made without a motion for the appointment of an investigating committee to ascertain " whether there were any rings in this Conference or not . " A motion to refer the resolution for an immediate election to the Committee on Episcopacy was carried , and we suppose this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " victory for the machine . " It is hard for any organization of American citizens to avoid infection from the methods of American politics . We trust that there is no foundation for the fears expressed by the Methodist divines . It is , however , a fact that an election to the Episcopate of another communion ' a few years ago was attended by " charges " and " claims " of the most approved secular description , and that the successful candidate gained his election under fire ; and it has for generations been a grave scandal in the Church of England that the judgment of the electoral body , after its members had prayed for enlightenment , always coincided with the recommendation of the sovereign . Working up a " boom " for a Bishopric is not a dignified proceeding , . and if any candidate at Philadelphia has been or may be detected in trying to " fix " the delegates ? of which there is no evidence  --  it would be a human gratification to learn that he was beaten for that reason . Nolo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time it used to be considered that the Presidency of the United States was an office of considerable dignity which should not go to any person who offered himself as a candidate for it . Now a Methodist Conference is justly indignant at the bare suspicion that the methods may be applied in choosing a Bishop which are openly and unblushingly practiced all over the country to secure a nomination to the Presidency .                     