@@746042

txt The Republican members of the Legislature held a conference this evening to consider the question of electing a United States Senator for the full term beginning March 4 , 1889 ; but they ended just where they began and the Question is still open . There were able arguments on both sides , but it was plain that the one-term men , and presumably the Chandler forces , were in the majority . Mr. Mason , of Dover , led the movement for two elections , and Senator Rollins , took the ground that it was the constitutional duty of the Legislature to to elect for both terms . He contended that preceding Legislatures had failed in their duty in leaving a vacancy for the Governor to fill whenever the emergency arose . Mr. Moore , of Nashua , was the principal spokesman for one term and Chandler . He said that a bill would come before the Legislature providing for a meeting in January , 1889 , instead of June , and , if passed , the Senatorship should be left for that Legislature to fill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength for his cause by ringing the changes on the name of James G. Blaine . The opposition made little effort to carry their point after this , but were content with letting the matter rest undecided . The situation has changed somewhat since last week , and it is practically certain that Chandler will receive the nomination on Thursday night , when the caucus is held , but his chance of election has grown very much less during the past few days , and the greatest bolt ever known in NewHampshire polities will undoubtedly follow . Many Democrats say to-night that they can name the next Senator from this State . The prospect of a combination by the antiChandler Republicans and Democrats is certainly vastly greater than It was 24 hours ago . Sulloway , of Manchester , a Marston man , believes that a solution of the difficulty will be found in the election of Gen. Marston for the short term and Mr. Chandler for the full term , but as the Chandler men are not in favor of electing two Senators this plan seems hardly feasible consistent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican politicians in the State your correspondent was assured that the contest would shortly assume a new , and to most persons an unexpected , phase . He asserted that a movement was on foot in which , however , he had no part , which would reduce Mr. Chandler 's chances of election to a minimum . The Hon. C. Cheney , who was appointed by Gov . Currier to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Senator Pike , would , he said , be the man upon whom the Democrats and anti-Chandler men would unite . Cheney , he said , was in every way acceptable to the Democrats , and had , before his departure for Europe , left word that he would not be a candidate for the long term . That was accepted as a tacit admission that he would not refuse to serve for a short term . Congressman J. H. Gallinger is one of the most promising candidates for the lone term , and a combination between the Cheney and Gallinger men might be made a very strong alliance . It can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the outcome of the contest is at present veiled in uncertainty . It is generally conceded now that there will be but one Senator elected , and the supporters of Mr. Chandler claim that this insures his election beyond a doubt . The conference practically settled the former point .                     