@@745622

txt The death of Mr. FRANCIS N. BANGS summons the public attention to the character of a lawyer whose eminence was purely professional . Mr. BANGS has for thirty years and more been known to the members of his own profession as a skillful and industrious lawyer , and for the last few years has been well known to the public in that capacity . Scarcely any lawyer has made more frequent appearances in important and conspicuous cases . His professional eminence was recognized not only by retainers in such cases , but by professional honors , such as the Presidency of the Bar Association . In court it was said of Mr. BANGS , as it has been said of other lawyers , that he " saw nothing but his retainer . " Out of court he was scarcely ever seen at all in any public sphere . He neither held nor sought public office , either within the line of his profession or outside of it , and he took little part in municipal or social agitation . His political opinions , though . strongly held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , so far as his public appearances were concerned , only a lawyer . COKE 'S saying that the law is " a jealous mistress " used to be approvingly quoted in law offices by hardened seniors to versatile juniors . In point of fact , it never had much application to this country , and it has less with each succeeding generation . A lawyer finds , after he has reached a certain standing in his profession that his professional ambitions and whatever other ambitions he may cherish go hand in hand , and that his successes in all fields react on each other . To have held public office or to aspire to it , to " stump the State " with vigor and success , even to make a glib and entertaining after-dinner speech , are accomplishments which a lawyer finds useful to him in his profession , while professional eminence is almost essential to success in public life . Almost every member of the United States Senate who is not believed to have bought his seat directly or indirectly has won it by his eminence at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the two qualifications commonly go together . The people of the United States at large can scarcely understand the fervor with which the people of Indiana yesterday paid their tribute to the memory of the late Vice-President . The peculiar hold of Mr. HENDRICKS upon his neighbors was due , of course , to the personal qualities by which it is given to very few men to be intimately known to the whole Nation . These qualities , it is safe to say , had been much oftener and more conspicuously exhibited by Mr. HENDRICKS in his character of leader of the Bar of Indiana than in any official way . And yet Mr. HENDRICKS 'S position , that which made him at the time of his death the first citizen of Indiana , could not have been won by a mere lawyer , whose interests and ambitions were bounded by the lines of his own occupation . CHOATE , who was saved from being a mere lawyer by the fact that he was a man of genius , said of the law in his eulogy on WEBSTER : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was not large enough for the whole of WEBSTER . " The reputation of an advocate is proverbially transitory . While it is true that the law , in this country at least , offers a far wider career than any other profession , it seems to be also true that it is only by transcending the tasks and rewards that strictly belong to the profession that such a career can be run .                     