@@780701

txt Mrs. Mary Senora , living in Goldstein 's Court , was so severely beaten on the head with a black jack this morning , by Policeman George Fulton , that she had to be carried to the Fifth District Police Station on a stretcher . Last night Mrs. Henora and her husband had a quarrel with the officer , which resulted in Relight souffle . This morning Fulton returned to the neighorhood to get their names , so as to have a warrant issued for their arrest . He saw Mr. I lenora near his residence , and seizing hint by the at in said : " You are the very man I want ; come along . " Honors jerked loose from the officer and asked him why he wanted to arrest him . " Never mind what for , but come on , " said he , and seizing the man attempted to drag him away . Henora resisted . alibi during the struggle Mrs. Henora came out and attempted to drag her husband into the alley . Releasing the husband , Fulton seized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is a large woman , tried to release herself , and was thrown upon the pavement by the officer and beaten ou the heed with his biting jack . Blood followed the Mows , and , pouring over hey dress , gave her a ghastly appearance . Finding that he could not compel her to walk with him , the officer placed handcuffs on the woman 's wrists and dragged her the distance of three or tour houses . Becoming frightened at the amount of blood the woman was losing , the efficer placed her on a cellar door and called for water and bandages . These were brought by a woman in the neighborhood . and the sufferer 's head was bandaged . Owing to the loss of blood which rendered her weak , she was unable to walk and the t ) liCe hand ambulance Wai sent for , and on it Mrs. Henora was carried to the station house , where a doctor dressed the cuts on her bead , and she was locked . A neighbor w ho saw the officer boat the woman said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done nothing to help her . It would have been bad enough if the woman had been a man  --  but a woman 1 It was hOrriblo . Mrs. Henora is a clever , pleasant woman , who was never known to take a drop , and who has always a kind word for her neighbors . She bas three small children . which are now being cared for by the women who live in the same house . We are all poor around here , but we will try to get justice in this case . "                     