@@744144

txt For the past year Jamestown has been without a local license for the sale of malt or spirituous liquors . As it is one of the largest villages in the State , having nearly 11,000 population , the success or failure of the no license rule would naturally receive considerable attention , and the result in either case would serve as a criterion for the advocates or enemies of the temperance cause in other places . It is generally believed that the result of the election , which Is to be held Feb. 21 , will demonstrate whether or not the majority of the citizens of the village believe that the no license regime is efficacious and for the best interests of the place . The history of the contesc between the liquor men and the total abstinence men since the passage of the Local Option law , in 1874 , shows that both sides have been aggressive , and that their alternate successes and defeats have been brought about by different causes ? sometimes by the character of the nominee and again by the condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two parties have been very evenly matched from the outset . In the Spring of 1875 , at the first election for Excise Commissioners , three men favoring license were elected by majorities of about 225 each in a total vote of 1,199 . In the following year there was a majority of 44 for the no license candidate in a vote of 1,10s . Twenty-six majority for the license Party 's representative in a vote of 1,640 was the result in 1877 . The following year , with the total vote 200 greater , the no license candidate was elected by a majority of 117 . In 1879 , the license majority was 12 , but it was afterward conclusively proved that this result was obtained ' by fraud . The election of 1880 was carried by the temperance party by a decisive majority of more than 350 in a total vote of nearly 1,700 . Last year the most strenuous exertions were made on each side , as the fate of their respective causes for ' the following two years was to be decided at the election of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a total vote of 2,126 , the largest number of votes over polled at a single local election . W. C. J. Hall , the man who was then made Commissioner , is one of the most extensive manufacturers in the place , a citizen of great public spirit , and an uncompromising foe of the liquor traffic . The Excise Board now stood two against license and one in tavor of it . A new order of things was at once established . The hotels closed their bars , several of the restaurants were abandoned , and the drug stores refused to dispense liquor under any consideration . The proprietor of the Sherman House , which had just been completed at a cost of 890,000 , declared his intention of closing his house , stating in explanation that it could not be operated without the aid of a bar . The liquor men all predicted dire results from the temperance rule . For a few weeks after the election the consumption of intoxicating beverages was very small , but in a short time the saloon-keepers began to sell clandestinely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies incorporated themselves under the laws of the State , and subsequently increased their lists of members , whose express purpose in joining the organizations was to obtain beer and other liquors . The clubrooms were conducted by associations who hired persons to attend to the wants of the members in the capacity of bartenders . They claimed to conform to the law by issuing certificates of stock which individual members purchased in quantities and exchanged for anything kept in the rooms to the extent of the value of the certificates . Various other means were employed in attempts to evade the law , and within six weeks from the date of the election the sales of Honors were as large , and there was scarcely more difficulty in obtaining them than before the temperance element gable I the ascendency . The bottling companies who received beer from other places in barrels Prepared it for sale in Jamestown by bottling it ana placing the number of bottles required for two and one-half gallons in " cases , " which were then disposed of , two at a time , in compliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time it appeared as if the amount of intoxication increased , for a company of boys or laborers would buy five gallons of beer , and taking it to some convenient place would indulge their appetites until the entire amount was disposed of , at which stage they were generally in a beastly condition . But the temperance element was alive to the condition of affairs , and set about correcting the evils in a determined manner . Finding it impossible to obtain witnesses among the villagers to testify against the club-room bartenders and other violators of the Excise laws , they secured detectives from abroad and accomplished their objects in that manner . The violators were then legally prosecuted . A few escaped at first through legal technicalities , others capitulated when they found that the temperance people were determined to enforce the law , and several of the boldest stood trial , but in every case they were defeated and made to pay heavy fines , and in one instance imprisonment was included in the punishment . The fight bas been a fierce one , and for the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large amount of money has been expended on both sides  --  by the liquor men in hopes to defeat the objects of justice , and by the temperance men to carry out the provisions of the law . As the case now stands , on the eve of another election , the temperance people appear to have the advantage . The best element of the community is with them . Their endeavors , long delayed by the manceuvrings of their opponents , assisted by experienced lawyers , have been rewarded with success at a fortunate time  --  just as they are about to submit the case to the citizens of the town . There is one cause of discouragement to the temperance workers , however . It is an undeniable fact that the consumption of liquors , mostly malt , has increased considerably within the year . The receipts of beer from abroad have been nearly one-third larger , and the production from the local brewery has increased about orie-fifth , within 12 months . The receipts of the Revenue Department from Government licenses show a gain of nearly 8250 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to be faced that private families are more liberal patrons of the beer-bottlers , and that the class who formerly obtained their supplies at the saloons now satisfy their cravings at the rooms of the German societies before mentioned . There are three of these , and they are all well conducted . Their plan is to admit members by ballot , and to charge them a stated sum for dues . The " refreshments " are furnished at cost , the dues serving to pay the expenses of maintaining the rooms . The prediction of the liquor men that the business interests of the place would suffer seriously during the no license rule has hardly been fulfilled . There are 150 manufactories in Jamestown . Not one of them has failed nor closed a day from lack of patronage . The business men report the most prosperous year since the panic of 1873 . The Sherman House , which was to have been closed , has remained open and has enjoyed a large patronage , though its proprietor claims that there is a deficit of 82,000 in the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Ross , one of the . mortgagees of the hotel property , has signed a petition urging a prominent citizen to be the nominee on the no license ticket . The Summer hotels on Chautauqua Lake had no licenses , but , with the exception of 1880 , their profits were greater than in any previous season . The result of Tuesday 's election is anxiously awaited . The candidate on the license ticket , Mr. John T. Wilson , is a man of considerable wealth and of great personal popularity . In politics he is a Democrat ' and has several times been elected over a Republican in this town , which is strongly of the latter 's faith . Opposed to him is Mr. Josenhus H. Clerk , a wealthy manufacturer . The latter is a Republican . He is a conservative man and one of the substantial citizens of Jamestown , one in whom every person has confidence . The indications at present point to Mr. Clark 's election . No one who would vote the temperance ticket at all will refrain from doing so now on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many to vote no license who were before irresolute . On the other hand , Mr. Wilson 's acceptance of the nomination for License Commissioner has alienated a number of his warmest political followers , including such men of prominence in the Democratic Party as Judge J. J. Kinney , W. J. Weeks , F.A . Fuller , Jr. , A. A. Burlin , and M. M. Skeff . In case of the success of the liquor party no local licenses can be granted for another year , as the terms of the present anti-license Commissioners extend over that period . The same interest in the temperance question is manifested in every other town in Chautauqua County , with the exception of Dunkirk , where the predominance of the Irish element in the population always precludes temperance success . There are only three towns in the county where licenses are granted , and there are assurances that in two of those towns temperance victories will be recorded this year . The persecutions to which the temperance Excise Commissioners in every town have been subjected have brought out their best mettle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight against the liquor men without cessation , but with entire fairness , has been threatened with personal violence , with the destruction of his property , and on one occasion the kuklux resort of tacking a paper , on which had been depicted a death 's head and cross-bones. a coffin , and a monument misappropriately inscribed , to the door of his residence was adopted . by his enemies in the liquor men 's ranks . Notwithstanding all this , Mr. Hall has persevered in his duty , and if the ? election is favorable to the temperance interests next Tuesday the result will be largely due to his efforts , 