@@780822

txt The entire city press have strong editorials denouncing the disgraceful scenes witnessed in this city yesterday , and . the utter disregard of the day by the 2,000 excursionists that came pouring into the city to witness the game of ball between the Louisville and Columbus nines . The State Jiyurnal. after referring to the recklessness shown by drunken men and fast women in racing on the principal streets of the city as . unparalleled the history of Columbus , even during ' the racing season , adds : " If these scenes are to be reenacted the time will come when the recent experience of Cincinnati may be visited on the capital city . The day was turned into a carnival of debauchery , to which the authorities gave lit-tle or no attention . " The Dispatch to-night severely condemns the authorities for their non-interference , and says : " The more orderly and . respectable portion of the visitors went directly to the ball ground , but the rowdies and the bummer element remained down town . They visited the saloons and gambling-houses , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women rode up and down the streets in oven backs reeling , cursing , and making exhibitions of themselves which would almost bring the blush of shame to a cheek of stone . Horses wore driven with a reckless disregard of life and limb which should have filled the city prison with the offenders had the police done what the community has the right to expect then ' to do . " The limes says : " There must never be another Sunday in Coltimbus such as was yesterday . We are not Puritans , but we hold that a decent respect must be paid to the Sabbath day , and whatis more , pub . lie opinion of this city demands and will have IL What do the officials of this city menu by stand . ing motionless while such scenes are enacted to were witnessed in Columbus yeiterday ? " Mayor Walcutt was called upon to-day by prominent citizens , but he says , so far as baseball is concerned , he can not interfere , as the ordinance is not in force . The indignation Is great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ games . INDIANAPOLIS , Ind. , May 19 . ? The Cincin-nati and Indianapolis Base-ball Clubs played a gaMe of base-ball here on Sunday . To-day the members of the Cincinnati Club were arrested , charged with violating the State law prohibiting persons from following their usual vocations on Sunday . The players were released on their personal recognizance , and the cases will be heard to-morrow . The moinhers of the Indianapolis Club will be arrested to-morrow on a similar charge .                     