@@780672

txt At the First Assembly District Convention of Ulster County , held at Kingston to-day , Gen. George H. Sharpe , the Speaker of the Assembly , was renominated by the unanimous voice of the convention . Gen. Sharpe responded in a brief speech , referring to the glorious record of Ulster County as a Republican county for the past two years . Gen. Sharpe will undoubtedly be elected by a larger majority than he has received in either of the previous years , as his nomination gives perfect satisfaction to both Democrats and Republicans . Many Democrats attended the convention , and greeted the nomination with cheers . The Republican Convention of the Second District of Ulster County met to-day at Highland , when Marius Turck , a prominent lawyer , of Kingston , received the unanimous voice of the convention , and was nominated with great enthusiasm . Mr. Turck is a man of the strictest integrity , and will be elected beyond the shadow of a doubt . He is a popular man with the opposite party , and , inasmuch as there is dissension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Turck will undoubtedly take many Democratic votes in the lower part of his district , in the towns of Lloyd and Marlborough . The Republican candidates for members of Assembly in Ulster County , now are : First District , Gen. George H. Sharpe , of Kingston ; Second District , Marius Turck , of Kingston ; Third District , George D. Chichester , of Shandaken . YONKERS , N. Y. , Oct. 19 . ? The Democrats of the First Assembly District of Westchester County this afternoon nominated the Hon. William F. Moller , of Yonkers , for Member of Assembly . BUFFALO , Oct. 10 . ? The First Assembly District Republican Convention was held this afternoon , and nominated the Hon. Julius O'Brien . Though a young man , and never known in political matters until he was first a candidate for member of Assembly , Mr. O'Brien made a splendid run , and was elected by a large majority . He identified himself in the Assembly with the bills which disbanded the volunteer Fire Department and legislated the old Police force out of existence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was created against these measures . Personally he is a popular man . SARATOGA , N. Y. , Oct. 19 . ? Alexander B. Barnes , of Nortnumherland , has been nominated far the Assembly by the Democrats of the Second District of Saratoga County .                     