@@781201

txt Express train No. 52 on the Virginia Midland Railroad left Oisinge Court House , south bound , on time at 1:50 this morning , Conductor C. P. Taylor , Engineer Watkins , and Fireman Kelly . About two mites south of Orange is a trestle 48 feet high , which was known to be weak , and the railroad company was engaged in tilling it in . The train was moving at a speed of six miles an hour crossing the trestle , under regular orders . The engine had passed safely over most of the trestle , when the smoker , mail , baggage , and express ears went down with a groat crash , dragging down the engine and tender and two passenger coaches. - The sleepers remained on the trestle . The engine went down , pilot end foremost , thus communicating no fire to the wreck . Aillights were extinguished in the fall . As soon us the accident occurred the engineer , who was but slightly injured , walked back to Orange and telegraphed for assistance . Dr. W. C. H. Randolph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the wreck . The dead and some of the wounded were taken to Orange , while the more seriously hurt were brought to Charlottesville and placed in the cottage hospital , hotels , and homes of friends . As far as can now be ascertained five were killed . C. Cox of Alexandria of the engineering department of the Piedmont Air Line was instantly killed . H. T. Whittington of Greensborough , N. C. , postal clerk , lived 10 minutes . and Ii . C. Bright-well , . postal clerk , of Prospect , Prince Edward County , Va. , lived until he reached the hospital ; W. D. Parrott of Albemarle County , postal clerk , was badly . injured . as were also J. 0 . West and J. L. Waithall of Washington , D. C .. postal clerks , and Louis Jenkins of Lynchburg. postal clerk , slightly injured ; Mr. Pottertield , express agent , was seriously injured ; Z. Jennings of Lynchburg , a passenger , received internal injuries ; Conductor C. P. Tay . Jar of Alexandria , who was in the car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the head and one leg was injured . The number of injured is estimated at gamut 25 . General Manager Randolph has received further details of the aueident . In addition to the list of killed three more persons were found dead in clearing away the debris . They were passengers . Two of them were men and one was a woman , but at the latest accounts they had not been recognized . It was one of the passenger coaches in the middle of the train that ran off the track , causing the accident , . It broke down the trestle , dragging back the mail and baggage cur and engine , which had passed beyond the point where the trestle broke , and pulling them to ruin with it . This train is always well loaded because of the through connection it makes between Boston and New-Orleans , Augusta , and Atlanta . Ott an average it carries between 150 and 200 passengers . One of the sleepers was destined for White tiulphur Springs , to be dropped at Charlottesville . This car , however , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. C. A. Nicholson of Baltimore , one of the survivora of the accident , has arrived here , and relates his experience as follows : " It was a horrible Meg , " lie said , " and it is a miracle how any one who went down in that terrible tall escaped . It was in the dead of night and we had got nearly across the bridge , witen it suddenly gave way . The engine had reached the other side , but was pulled back by the falling baggage car and fell on top of it . The mail car was knocked out of recognition and the smoker was totally demolished . I was in the sleeper that went down . I do n't knoci how I escaped . When I was awakened I loalced out and found the . car hoisted high in the air , resting on the remains . of the cars below . The couplings connecting us with the other sleepers had given away and they remained on the track . We went to work as soon as possible , though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the injured . The scene that folloWed was of , indescribable horror . They shrieks and moans of the injured , the shouts of the wildly excited passengers , and the hissing of the steam were terrible to hear . " The passenger ears were crushed out of all shape , while the Sleeper was held high-in the air by the ruins of the broken coaches . A little stream rues under the trestle , and the recent rules have swollen it to far beyond its wentea. proportions . It IS reared BOMB were pinioned below its surface and perished in its waters .                     