@@744357

txt The public can not fail to have been impressed with the one-sidedness of the testimony so far submitted to the Tariff Commission , and there is a very strong feeling that this is not only unfortunate for the country , but that in some way it is discreditable to the commission itself . Such a feeling is not without reasonable foundation . The commission was not made up in a manner to create confidence in its impartiality . It was originally proposed by Senator EATON as a fair instrumentality for getting a just and comprehensive view of the facts relating to the tariff , but this purpose , if not abandoned , was thrown into comparative obscurity during the debates which resulted in the passage of the Commission bill . That bill was sustained almost exclusively by protectionists who assumed from the outset that , while the commission might correct ambiguities and contradictions in the tariff , it would not weaken in any degree the protectionist principle . It was even assumed , with characteristic impudence , that it might strengthen and extend that principle . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way to confirm the suspicions naturally aroused by the arguments used to support the bill . It was assumed that it was a protectionist commission , and that it would be quite idle to offer before it any testimony not sustaining the favored industries . This feeling was strengthened by the curiously maladroit device of placing on the commission " representatives " of the most outrageously favored industries , such as wool and woolens , iron and steel , and sugar . But quite natural as may be this feeling , we are convinced that it would be a great mistake on the part of those who are in earnest in desiring tariff reform to permit it to govern their actions . Whatever may be the personal predilections of the members of the commission , its course , as a body , has , so far , been impartial and fair . It has issued a general invitation to all having special information or even well-defined convictions on the subject of the operation of the tariff to appear before it and give such testimony or present such arguments as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the commission will not act up to the spirit of this invitation . Up to the present time very little attention has been paid to the invitation by the professed and prominent advocates of tariff reform . Mr. EVERETT P. WHEELER , the President of the Free Trade Club of New-York  --  really a national organization -- has been down to Long Branch and made a very lucid and practical argument for the application of lib- eral principles ' to various specific branches of the tariff . Mr. GUSTAV ISOITWAB , Mr. J. B. SARGENT , and Mr. JAMES M. CONSTABLE have presented similar arguments . Other papers in the same sense in response to the circulars of the commission have been received , and several manufacturers who are injured by the high duties on their raw material have submitted statements to the commission by writing or in person . But by far the greater part of the testimony before the commission has been in favor of protection , and has come from persons interested in the discriminations of the tariff . The result of this must necessarily be that the testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will show a great preponderance of facts and arguments in favor of protection . This would be unfortunate , and it would be , extremely difficult to counteract the effect produced . Whatever may be the impression of the commission 's character and purposes , its report will be , in substance , with the testimony , the official and authoritative statement of the facts as to the tariff . If the revenue reformers hold aloof from the commission , the report , protectionist as it will undoubtedly be , will be sustained by the testimony , and will have great influence . It is true that it will be in order to say that the testimony is defective , but the answer of the protectionists will be : It ' is the testimony elicited by a general and impartial invitation to all who knew , or who thought they knew . anything on the subject . It is prima facie a complete body of evidence , and the conclusions based upon it must be accepted unless overthrown by proof that the evidence is not complete . When the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any practical and efficient means of introducing proof to that effect . On the other hand , if the revenue reformers have the courage , the patience , and the sound sense to place before tho commission the facts as they exist , they will reap an immense advantage . Either . , the commission must refuse to hear them , which is not likely , and which would be very dangerous to protection and very advantageous to reform , or the commission , after hearing them , must ignore their facts , or it must give due weight to them . Probably the second alternative would be adopted . The majority report would ignore , or would evade , the facts against protection . But in that case it would still be open to the revenue reformers in Congress , who , if not numerous , are quick , able , and determined to show the errors of the report from the testimony . Obviously this would be far easier than to prove the same errors from evidence outside the testimony . It is said by some of the reformers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present in a minority report the fair inferences from anti-protectionist evidence . We are not sure of that . But , supposing it to be the fact , it would then be proper for the advocates of reform in Congress , for such men as Mr. Cox , Mr. BECK , Mr. BAYARD , and possibly some Republicans , to make the use of the testimony which the commission failed to make . In any view of the case , it seems to us the plain duty of the reformers to offer to get the facts before the commission fully and fairly , and to throw on the commission the responsibility of refusing to hear them , or of neglecting them if heard . 