@@672251

txt THE ADMINISTRATION 'S PLEDGES . It is now nine years since the National Civil Service League was organized . At its annual meeting in Philadelphia yesterday the President , Mr. CURTIS , reviewed , as has been his custom , the course of the reform . During the term of President CLEVELAND , and particularly at the two last annual meetings of the association , Mr. CURTIS was regarded by many of Mr. CLEVELAND 'S friends as much too severe in his comments on the course of the then Administration , and that opinion was probably shared by the members of the Administration themselves . Yet Mr. Crams did . only his duty as a sincere reformer in pointing out wherein Mr. CLEVELAND had done less than his professions led reformers to expect that he would do , much less than , with the powers of his office , he might have done , and less than his constitutional obligation required him to ao . In his- address last evening Mr. CURTIS showed toward Mr. HARRISON the same severe impartiality , judged him and his party by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same candor as in the case of Mr. CLEVELAND . For the League is not a partisan body and civil service reform is not a partisan cause . It is the cause of honest and sensible government , and its advocates call to the bar of public opinion all parties and all party leaders in their turn as the responsibility for public action falls upon them . Mr. CURTIS 'S review of events for the first seven months since the return of the Republican Party to power will be found in full in THE TIMES this morning . We earnestly urge all who believe in the purity of the Government  --  and who think that honesty and decency should obtain in public life as much as in private life to read it . He defines with perfect accuracy and very succinctly the pledges made by the Republican Party in its National Convention and by its President . These pledges were as distinct and as binding on the honor of the party and on every man intrusted with office by  --  the votes of the party as were the declarations regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to neglect , ignore , or violate them , was a clear act of party or personal perfidy , or both . It Mr. HARRISON in his inaugural address had announced that he should urge on Congress the repeal of customs ' duties or the reduction of pensions to veterans of the Union army or navy , he would have been recognized as a traitor to his party . If he had gone further and placed in his Cabinet and in all posts to which the appointing power extends men whom he knew to be.in favor of these revolutionary measures and opposed . to the d'eclared policy of his party , he would have justly been execrated as TYLER and Johnson were . In effect ; he has committed an offense against party loyalty of the same character and . of , quite as much importance in his violation of the platform in the treatment of the civil service . But he is not execrated . By a , large portion of his party he is admired and praised for this very thing . By a few ' he is blamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party pledges . By a considerable number , which number is increasing , he is regarded - with silent disapproval or distrust or con-I tempt . Our readers are already familiar with the facts that Mr. CURTIS groupswith his usual clearness and force and the meaning of which he exposes'with his usual vigor and eloquence . They have been recounted and commented on from time to time in our columns . For the immediate future they do not certainly give much promise . They may well seem discouraging to those who look only to the immediate future . But we are confident that Mr. CURTIS is justified in. his faith that the reform is really progressing . The situation is more obviously unfavorable than it was under Mr. CLEVELAND , because then . the entire Republican Party had a partisan motive for supporting the reform and for professing attachment to it . Now , that motive is not only wanting bat replaced . by its opposite . To defend . the reform , to hold an exacting standard with regard to it , is necessarily to condemn the Administration and the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally taken the position formerly held by the Republicans . As a party they have scant respect for the principle of the reform , and they are too pleased to see it maltreated by the Republican Administration , to take advantage of the fault of the latter . But while this is discouraging there is another side to the shield . The dangers of the spoils system were never so clearly shown . The system in operation is sowing the seeds of its.own ruin . We are being taught , as we never were before , how demoralizing and corrupting it is , how deep a hold it has taken on all parties , and what havoc it will work if it be not resisted in time . Mr. HARRISON is making reformers of men who were indifferent before , and a public sentiment is being steadily and silently established . that will be found in the long run too strong for the spoils system and for the spoilsmen.                     