@@743707

txt The Democratic caucus resolutions reported yesterday by Senator MORGAN , from the Special Committee on the Electoral Count , will probably be passed by both houses of Congress without serious delay . They differ in form and in detail from the Ingalls resolutions , but they do not materially differ in the result attained . They provide for a meeting in the Hall of the House of Representatives , with the President of the Senate as presiding officer ; for tellers on the part of each house to make a list of the votes ; for the delivery of the result to the President of the Senate and its announcement by him . It is also provided that the vote of Georgia , which was cast on a day other than that fixed by law , shall be announced , with the result in case they were , and the result in case they were not , counted , it being added that " in either event  --  is elected President of the United States . " With the exception of this addition , and of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are practically the same as those offered by Mr. INGALLS . In other words , the Democrats , so far as the action of the Senate is concerned , have resolved to do precisely what the Republicans asked them to do and what it was their plain duty to do . If these resolutions are to take the place of the clumsy and mischievous propositions originally passed by the Senate and now pending in the House , the Democratic Party , as well as the country , may be congratulated . They are a surrender in effect of an entirely untenable position . They put an end to the vague talk , too much indulged in by the rasher Democratic organs and orators in regard to the conditions which the Democrats in Congress would impose before they would allow Gen. GARFIELD to be declared the President-elect . They show that the Democratic leaders have at last come to a realizing sense of their responsibility before the country , and that the reckless spirit which prompted them to think of using a purely technical advantage to secure a precedent for their peculiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most unfortunate matter for the country if the majority in Congress had refused to provide for the presence of the two houses of Congress required by the Constitution at the counting of the votes unless the counting could be done under the absurd original Morgan resolutions . But it would have been far more unfortunate for the Democratic Party than for the country , for it would have crowned a long record of desperate schemes for using the form of law to pervert its substance with an act of scandalous violence to the Constitution . Probably a perception of the disastrous influence of such a course upon public opinion is what has decided the soberer heads among the Democratic Senators to change their tactics and to abandon a policy which threatened ruin to their party and disgrace to themselves . It is a pity , however , that this wholesome change could not have been made frankly , and not coupled with a demonstration of useless obstinacy such as is threatened by the resolutions of the Democratic Senatorial caucus . That body determined that , in connection with the new resolutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been submitted to the consideration of the committee from which they are ostensibly reported  --  Mr. MoRoArt 's resolutions denying the authority of the President of the Senate to count any votes should be brought up and passed to a vote , if necessary , by an all-night session . As there is no possible chance that the President of the Senate will be called on to assert any such authority as is denied to him by the resolution , this de- nial can be nothing but a declaration a individual opinion by the Senators who may vote for it . Since it has no connection with , and no bearing on , any facts which will arise in the approaching count , it can not have any force as a precedent . It has precisely the value of an expression of opinion by a Judge upon a question not involved in a case submitted to him . It is an obiter dictum of the Senate , and binds no one . Doubtless , the Republican Senators may be divided upon this purely abstract proposition , as unquestionably the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record made by prominent leaders of their party . in the past . But the views of gentlemen on either side in connection with it , expressed in debate or by vote , can have no more weight in the future action of Congress upon an actual case , properly before it , than the same views of the same gentlemen would have if expressed in a letter to the newspapers or in private conversation . As time presses , and other matters of far greater importance are claiming the attention of the Senate , the Republican Senators could , with great propriety , leave the discussion of this entirely irrelevant resolution to the Democratic Senators who feel the necessity of relieving their minds with reference to it . In any case , such discussion , while it may consume a good deal of valuable time , can have no more substantial value than if it were carried on by a college debating club . On the other hand , it may be that the Democrats have not made up their minds , in introducing the latest Morgan resolutions , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former are being discussed or acted on in the Senate the latter may be pressed in the House . In that case , the duty of the Republicans would be plain . It would be to ? continue to resist , as they have hitherto done , ' the adoption of the Morgan-Bicknell propositions . There can be no excuse for trying to force these upon Congress as the basis of the next count . They ought to be given up completely , and without reserve , by the majority . Such a course would , of course , be humiliating , but that should have been thought of before . The Democrats have got themselves in a wholly false position , and they can only get out of it by retreat . It is not the business of the Republicans to open for them any other way .                     