@@781219

txt The issuance of the injunctions on application of the United States and the Brush Companies put lines of these compatlies , using the old Underwriters ' wires , that the attention of the Department of Public Works was first to bb directed , with a certainty of finding the bulk of them In a condition to warrant destruction under the Mayor 's edict . They had been granted by Judge Andrews in the Superior Court Chambers . The papers on which tbit injunctions were obtained set forth that the Board of Electrical Control had . at its meeting on Wednesday , directed the companies to stop the use of such wires as Were unsafe until the experts had testified that they were in a proper condition for use . The companies objected to . this resolution because they were not told what wires were unsafe , but only that defects existed and to discontinue the tise of the wires where the defects were . The writs are returnable to-morrow at 11 o'clock A. M. Still Mr. Gilroy and Expert Wheeler deter-mined to do their best , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his schedule of work for the day , so as to leave out the two injunctions protected companies . Hardly had he set out to do so before he was intormed that the Manhattad Electric Light Company and the Harlem Company had been granted Injunctions by Judge Andrews on the alma ground as the others . This practically put a stop to the proposed crusade , so far as yesterday was concerned . Commissioner Gilroy was mad and Expert Wheeler was worried . The former bad instructed the Superintendent of the Bureau or Inetimnrances to get together a large force of workmen . Expert Wheeler had secured the services of a corps of expert linemen from the Western Union Telegraph and the Metropolitan Telephone Companies . Hess &; Corrigan. the contractors of the Board of Electrical Control , had been summoned , as had been the inspectors of the board . All those were down in the street awaiting orders . Despite the injunctions Commissioner Gilroy wanted to get to work on something . Before be had received word of other injunctions than those of the Brush and United states Companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two , by special messengers , with orders for personal delivery to authorized officials , the following letter : " You are hereby notified that in , accordance with directions received from his Honor , the Mayor , this department will proceed at once , beginning this day , to remove all electric light wires in tels city which are at this date improperly insulated , and are in position in violation of the rules and regulations of the Board of Electrical Control . " Yon are further notified to immediately shirt off the electric current from all electric light wires under your control , and that you will be held reopens bla for any accident or injury to person or property which may be caused by the existence and operation or such wires . " To the Brush and United States Companies he Sent the following special letter : " I have to inform you that I have this day notiZed all other electric light companies in this city that , in accordance with the directions received from his Honor the mayor , this department will at once proceed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light wires in this city which are atthis date improperly insulated and are in position in violatiou of the rules and regulations of the Board of Electrical Control . The companies have also been notified to shutoff all electric currents from all such wires . " In the case of your cotnpaneis the injunction granted you by the court prevents interference - with your wires by this department . I nail your attention to the companies responsibility for any accident or injury to person or property which may be caused by the existence and operation of such wires . " ' Having thus cleared the way for a grand onslaught Commissioner Gilroy wanted to begin and evinced a little temper , which was excusable because prompted by enthusiasm in a good cause , when Expert Wheeler told him that the injunctions had knocked all his'oltins in the head . Tureine : to Mr. Wheeler he said : " Well , this department is ready to obey the Mayor 's orders . The men are here awaiting Tour instructions . " " Yes , " was the reply , " but these inienetIons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can 1 do ' ? " " not my duty to advise you . " said the Commissioner , " but to execute your orders . have you anything to del " Mr. Wheeler had , and be set right about doing it . If he could not out wires he could inspect them , now that he had a suffictentnuMber of expert men under him . There was no use for the small army or wen who had bceu engaged for the work as orleinally planned , so they were aischarged for the day . Then 31 . Wheeler picked two Inspectors and told them to go out and huut for badly insulated wires on Chatham-street and the Bowery as far up as Fourteenth-street . Two more be sent to inspect Fulton-street from river to river . One inspector was delegated to Canal-street , another to Grand , and a third to Bleecker-street . Finally , an inspector of the Electrical Board was ordered to go to toe office of the Commisetoners and search the records of 3,000 cornValuta made by the board to the companies during the past two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies in making repairs according to the orders of the Comtutsstoners . These inspectors received strict orders to improve every hour of daylight from the time they were sent out until 11 o'clock this morning . when tney are to report at the ? Moe of the Board or Electrical Control . The districts over which they are traveling are thick with old underwriter wires strung by the Brush and Uulted States Companies years age . The insulation can be seen hanging from them in strips . If the men do their duty the clay 's outright wariare lost by thelinjunctions will have been well spent . for they will be able to turn in to Expert Wheeler an almost interminable list of dangerous wires . The facts brought to light by them will be prima facie evidence to present to the court on Monday morning , when the injunctions are argued , anal , furthermore , the information will be invaluable when the wire cutting begins in earnest , as it will greatly expedite work over the territory inspected . The shrewdness of the companies was well illustrated yesterday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wire-condemning trips the companies ' linemen were everywhere scurrying up poles , and winding insulatiiig tape over conspicuous bare spots on the wires . Such a subterfuge , however , wilt not work . If the insulation of a wire looks old , played out , or water soaked , said wire will be condemned in spite of the fact that a nice strip of clean tape is covering conspicuous breaks . Two wires were lound yesterday and cut down that were not protected by injunction . On a tali line of poles running up tue right baud side of Centre-street are about fifty wires , including four East River Company 's electric lighting wires , and two wires or the Electric Power Company . The former had to be left alone , but inspection showed them to be very bad , and in due time they will go . Tile Electric Power Company 's wires were cut down from Cnambers to Worth street . Examination of the fallen wire showed the Insulation co be so rot-ton that it could be pealed of with the lingere like bark from a birch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad condition as was Oda , the only wonder is that casualties have been so few . As the first wire to fall it was a strong warning against faint hearteduess in condemning wires In the crusade to come .                     