@@743635

txt On Sunday last the Rev. STEPHEN H. TYNG , JR. , preached a sermon in which he is said to have distinctly asserted that miraculous cures have been performed at Lourdes and at Knock . He said of Lourdes : " No one dares attempt to deny that multitudes of cures took place there . The lame leaped , the deaf heard , the blind saw . It will never do in this generation to deny those wellauthenticated facts . " He said that the faith of believers had " been honored of God " by these cures , and he expressed his gratitude therefor . It is , of course , possible that Mr. TYNG 'S sermon has been incorrectly reported , but unless several newspapers have united to perpetrate a serious blunder , the reality of the so-called miracles of Lourdes and Knock has been fully admitted by one who has hitherto been the leader of the extreme Protestant Party iu the Episcopal Church . Lourdes has been of late years a growing stumbling-block in the path not only of rationalists , but of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim to have been suddenly and miraculously cured by visiting Lourdes and praying at the grotto where the girl BERNADETTE saw her alleged vision . These cures were not merely those of imaginary diseases . Men who had been notoriously blind for years recovered their sight ; cripples whose legs or arms were withered were completely restored , and deaf people recovered their hearing . It will not do to say that these cures were the work of the imagination . Congenital blindness has never been cured by the imagination , nor has that vague influence ever suddenly rounded the muscles and restored the strength of a withered leg . So long as only a few of these so-called miracles had been wrought it was quite Dos ? sible to claim that the evidence in support of them was insufficient . At the present day , however , the proof that sudden and wonderful cures have been wrought at Lourdes is precisely the same in character and quantity as the proof that Lourdes exists . To say that it is impossible that a child born blind should recover its sight by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of miracles ; a denial that no believer in Christianity can consistently make . Neither will it do to say that no amount of human testimony would be sufficient to prove that a withered leg was miraculously cured at a Roman Catholic shrine ; for this would simply be to use against one set of miracles the sophism with which Himra attacked all miracles . Whether extraordinary cures have or have not taken place at Lourdes and Knock is merely a question of evidence . If the evidence is of the same nature as the evidence that Lourdes exists , and if it is sufficient in quantity to satisfy every reasonable demand , the conclusion that the alleged cures have taken place can not be resisted . Mr. TYNG has been to Lourdes , and he is fully convinced that miracles have been wrought there in answer to the prayer of ' faith . Of . course , the evidence which satisfies Mr. TYNG of the miraculous nature of these cures may not satisfy other people , but that cures alleged ' to be miraculous , and which are certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Lourdes seems to be fully established . The significance of Mr. TYNG 'S sermon , coming oming as it does from one who has so vigorously opposed the Catholic party in his church , is remarkable . If the cures wrought at Lourdes are really miraculous , as well as inexplicable , the other Protestant theory that the Roman Catholic Church is antiChrist falls to the ground , for GOD does not work miracles for the benefit of antiChrist . Moreover , if miracles are wrought at a Roman Catholic shrine , the fact is the clearest possible evidence that a degree of Divine favor is extended to the Church of Rome which is not shown to any Protestant Church or sect . What , then , becomes of Mr. TYNG 'S energetic Protestantism if the Lourdes cures are true miracles ? How can he any longer regard the Roman Catholic Church as an enemy ? Against all his former theories of the apostate character of that Church he must now set what he believes to be the . fact , that she still has ' the witness of miracles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his associates left the Episcopal Church because they conscientiously believed that her garments yet bore the taint of Roman error , Mr. TYNG attended a meeting of the seceders and wished them godspeed . How is it possible for him to-day to feel any sympathy with a body of men who left the Episcopal communion because of their horror of a Church in which , according to Mr. TYNG , is found a faith " honored of God " with miracles ? Probably Mr. TYNG is right in assuming that it will not do to deny the fact that the lame , the blind , and the deaf arc cured at Lourdes . Whether , however , his Protestant admirers will assume , as he has done , that because these cures are inexplicable , therefore they are miraculous , remains to be seen . Such an assumption involves far more than any Protestant can concede . It logically involves , among other things , the conversion of Mr. TYNG into a friend and supporter of the Roman Catholic Church . No higher witness to the truth of the claims made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miracles . How can Mr. TYNG remain hostile to a Church which can show this incontestable proof of divine favor ? If the Lourdes cures arc miraculous , the Roman Catholic Church has , in legal phrase , made out its case . If they are merely inexplicable , Mr. TYNG has made a grave mistake , and his indiscretion has injured the Protestant cause , of which he has heretofore been so eminent a defender .                     