@@671755

txt The Republicans of New-York should not fail to comprehend fully the impressive harmony of their politicians . It will be remembered with what beautiful agreement they got through the convention at Saratoga. , succeeding even in smothering the liquor issue in ambiguous words . And yesterday the new State Committee was organized and started on its way without a jar , for its programme was all made out for it in advance and accepted without the semblance of discussion of any kind . As why should it not be ? It was PLATT 'S committee and had only to do his bidding , as the Saratoga Convention was PLATT 'S convention , and had nothing to do but fulfill his wishes . With one man accepted as a " boss " and his will received as law there could be nothing but harmony . Mr. PLATT has two designs in hand . One isle retain his control of the quarantine service of this port and the political and pecuniary advantage it gives him , and the other is to control the New-York delegation in the next National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positiveness in his demands and fear of consequences if they are not obeyed . Harmony was above all things desired , and he had . it plainly understood that it could only be had under his leadership . His resources for undermining and exploding the plans of others were distinctly recognized and his resentment was feared . So when he entered upon his work , at an early date there was among the politicians a wholesome dread of antagonizing him . To hold his ground as Quarantine Commissioner he must have in his interest a majority of the Republican members of the next Legislature . and to gain control of the State Committee and work his plans for next year he must have a State Convention subservient to his wishes . Ho worked simultaneously for these ends throughout the State , and he terrorized the politicians , great and small , to carry them out through fear of his resentment . The convention was his . His refusal last Winter to permit Col. GRANT to be confirmed for his place on the Quarantine Commission threatened him with embarrassment , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State ticket , and so get rid of that difficulty . The ticket was made up to suit him , though some of the hopes which he had raised in securing delegates and getting Senatorial candidates out of the way were disappointed . The State Committee , which it was one of his chief aims to control , was turned out quite to his satisfaction . Senator HiscocK , whose election he secured last Winter , was with him from the start . consenting to give up the reputation for independent action which he had acquired . Ex-Senator MILLER , whom he had defeated , was silenced with the compliment of the Chairmanship of the convention . There was one conspicuous politician who was not accustomed to be altogether subservient to the will of smaller and meaner men in the person of ex-Gov . Conximi ? and he , who had guided State Committees before now , found himself quietly ignored and left out of the party councils altogether . There was no place for men with minds of their own and possible ideas that might conflict with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Convention wholly obedient to PLATT . It is plain that this is to be a Platt canvass , and that party success this year means a Platt Legislature and prestige for PLATT as a leader which will give him control of the delegation in the National Convention whose preference will be deemed of the hiahest importance . It is possible that this is what the Republicans of the State want , but whether it is or not it should be distinctly understood that it is what is presented for their acceptance . It is possible that the harmony which prevails among the politicians does not pervade the rank and tile of the party . It is pretty certain that it will not excite enthusiasm . There is no pretense that the Republican Party , with PLATT at its head , and with its organization subject to his will , can command the support of a majority of the people of the State . Its only hope is in the Labor Party , and the meinhers of the latter should realize that the only result that can be looked for from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PLATT and Plattism . Meantime , self-respecting Republicans can derive little comfort from the part they are expected to play in this campaign . 