@@780654

txt Dr. McCosh , President of Princeton College , and Dr. Eliot , President of Harvard . University , were very warm friends until quite recently . Last Winter Dr. Eliot paid a visit to Dr. McCosh and was handsomely entertained . There is little indication at present that such a visit will be repeatea , and the urea= createa oy Dr. noimes tween the two Presidents seems to be daily growing broader and deeper . Dr. McCosh is laboring under the evident miss apprehension of supposing that a double attack was made upon his religion and his college . This attack , in the opinion of his friends , was made under peculiarly aggravating circumstances . He attended Harvard 's celebration as an invited guest . He probably expected to de-rive some benefit for his college and much pleas-ure for himself from his visit . He naturally noticed that the stock of honorary degrees conrerred by Harvard was exhausted before , Princeton was reached . He was not in need or in search of a degree for himself , as he . had already received one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Faculty of Princeton College were men worthy of the highest die-tinction it was in Harvard 's power to grant , and it was not pleasant to think they had been overlooked while degrees were simply scattered among the Faculties of other colleges . Dr. Mc-Cosh might have overlooked this apparent forgetfulness on the part of Harvard had not Dr. Holmes , as he imagined , furnished him freshfood for unpleasant thought in the following lines : " As once of old from Ida 's lofty height The flaming signal flashed across the night , So Harvard 's beacon sheds its unspent rays Till every watch tower shows its kindling blaze . Caught from a spark and fanned by every gale , A brighter radiance gilds the roofs of Yale ; Amherst and Williams bid their flambeaus shine , And Bowdoin answers through her groves of pine ; O'er Princeton 's sands the far reflections steal , Where mighty Edwards stamped his iron heel ; Nay , on the hill where old beliefs were bound Fast as if Styx had girt them nine times round , Bursts such a light that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on lire ! Well may they ask , for what so brightly burns As a dry creed that nothing ever learns ? Thus link by link is knit the flaming chain Lit by the torch of Harvard 's hallowed plain . " When Dr. Holmes had given his muse fall play and the muse had refused to say anything . more , Dr. McCosh quietly took his departure and boarded the next train for Princeton . He was as indignant as a Scotchman who thinks he has cause to be generally is , and when his friends and fellow-workers at the college heard the version of all that had happened at Harvard 's celebration they were indignant , too , and extremely glad that Dr. MoCosh had absented himself from the banquet that was designed to ant as a sort of capstone to the celebration . After giving the matter some thought , but not until he was thoroughly convinced that an intentional slight was put upon Princeton College , . Dr. MbCosh wrote to the Secretary of the coin-. mittee which had had charge of the arrange . ' ments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this letter he wrote that he had at tended the celebration on the invitation of Harvard College and had " met treatment that could not possibly by any chance have happened to a Harvard representative at Princeton. " lie would have thought less of the remarks made by Dr. Holmes if in looking over the list of honorary degrees he had not noted that none was given to Princeton . He could not think this was on account of a lack of merit , as Princeton had among her Faculty a number worthy of thehonor . Among these he mentioned Prof. Young , the celebrated Professor of astronomy . Therefore , Dr. McCosh continued in his letter , in view of the circumstances to which he had alluded , he believed his presence would not leave been welcome at the banquet and that his Most dignified course was to take his leave . He concluded with the statement that , as he had received the letter of invitation from the Secrete . ' ry having charge of the celebration , he thought It due to him to give a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the placidity that generally reigns at Harvard in the heat of Summer or cold of Winter , and it was at ( ) nee decided that the matter was far too serious to be settled by a secretary of arrangements . President Eliot took it in hand , and he wrote to Dr. Mc-Cosh in a dual capacity as President of Harvard University and as an intimate friend . He carefully traversed the events of the celebration , and when he had finished ho had tilled five pages of note paper . He strongly disclaimed any intention of inflietthg injury upon the feelings of Dr. MeCosh . He assured the latter that " every one " condemned Dr. Holmes for his remarks . Dr , Hohnee did not represent Harvard sentiments , Dr. McCosh was begged to believe . On the face of the letter it was apparent that Dr. Eliot was most auxiout to convince Dr. MeCosh that it - ware all a mistake and that the proper thing to do was to shake hands and let bygones be bygones . The last line in Dr. Eliot 's letter was as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Dr. Eliot 's explanation did not satisfy De McCosh , and there will probably be farthei correspondence between them . Dr. McCosi , will not say that he is not satisfied ; in fact he does not care to talk about the matter at this stage , but friends With whom he has discussed the matter say so . He returned to-day from Philadelphia , where he preached twice yesterday . He looked as bright and full of life as if he had not already done a day 's work in traveling from Philadelphia and in delivering two lectures within two hours of his arrival at home . It had been claimed that he was also dissatisfied with remarks of James Russell Lowell . There is nothing in the claim , for when it was mentioned to Dr. McCosh he said : I approve of Mr. Loweli 's remarks , out and out , especially all that he said about elective studies and Greek . " During the not long conversation that ensued , for Dr. Hodge 's funeral was to take place at 2 o'clock , Dr. McCosh reiterated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I simply came home , " he said . " after listening to Mr. Holmes . He spoke so contemptuously of a dry theology  --  and his remarks were applied to this college , for lie mentioned Princieton  --  that I took the earliest train 1 could get for home . When 1 went to Harvard 1 did not wish a degree for myself , but I was disappointed when Princeton was left nut and all the neighboring colleges got honors . " Dr. McCosh admitted , though with some reluctance , that the fashion in which Princeton was treated shortened his stay at Harvard . Herefused to discuss the contents of the letter which had brought a prompt reply from Dr. Eliot , nor would lie divulge the nature of that reply . lie maintained that the letters were not his property , and that he could not surrender them for publication without obtaining Dr .. Eliot 's consent . He will doubtless be surprised to read his own letter and the gist of Dr. Elitt 's communication in THE Tames , and it is but right to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance from Dr. McCosh . He had no time to share . He was compelled to lecture the moment he arrived , and was compelled to eat a hurried lunch that he might attend Dr. Hodge 's funeral . When that was over ho was too tried to talk , so that what he did say was in a manner caugat on the fly . Dr. McCosh received plenty of encouragement to-day . The college town was crowded with Alumni and other friends of the institution , who wished to attend the funeral of Dr. Hodge . Without exception they supported Dr. McCosh in the position he has taken , and if the ears of the Autocrat did not burn to-day there 's no dependence to be placed in the old superstition .                     