@@745592

txt Mr. ALBERT DAGGETT believes in nonpartisan government for Brooklyn , to be bestowed by a Republican Mayor only . His idea of the impartiality and discrimination of the Republican machine managers in Brooklyn is so flattering that he believes a candidate of their choice can be implicitly trusted more safely than a man like Gen. WOODWARD . The Republicans , by whatever test selected , are not a majority of the voters of Brooklyn , and selected as Mr. DAGGETT would select them they are a hopeless minority , for he would have nothing to do with any Republicans who " scratched " in 1879 , or bolted in 1882 , or did not support " as brilliant a man as ever lived on the face of the earth " last year . With all these deductions made and the " sentimentalists " also excluded , the remaining Republicans , according to the gentleman who ran the City Convention in Brooklyn , are not only capable , but are the only ones capable , of giving the city " home rule . " Mr. DAGGETT believes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chosen leader , prophet , and mouthpiece of the saints . As an advocate of pure and economical and businesslike city administration Mr. DAGGETT cuts a ridiculous figure . His professed devotion to the principles of Mayor Low 's policy is an impudent pretense . The thin cloak of respect for nonpartisan municipal management which he throws over his personal plans only makes his selfishness and his ' duplicity more obvious . Under any ordinary circumstances his views or his action regarding the question of the Mayoralty under the Brooklyn system would not deserve a moment 's notice . He is ? notoriously a spoils politician of the most unscrupulous type , and is , moreover , at present a conspicuously discredited spoils politician . At the very moment he was appealing to the partisan prejudices of the City Convention to defeat the only wise and honorable course that body could pursue , he was being rejected as a candidate for re-election to the Senate by the representatives of his party in his district , being able to command but ' 7 of the 45 votes , and not one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater degree than any other man . responsible for the nomination of Gen. CATMINT as Mayor . Unfit as he is from even a narrow partisan point of view to act the part of a leader , unsafe , untrustworthy , selfish , and tricky as he has shown himself to be and as every politician in Brooklyn knows him to be , he is the leader in this important matter . By following his lead the City Convention has managed to put the Republican Party in Brooklyn in the most untenable and weak position . The party convention might easily have named the next Mayor of Brooklyn . It might have won ithe confidence of all independent and sensible citizens in the sincere attachment of the party to the principle of home rule and responsible business administration in Brooklyn , and in its ability to promote such administration . In a moment of weakness it gave itself into the hands of Mr. DAGGETT , and by its action struck a heavy blow at the influence and usefulness of the party it probably really wished to defend . If it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have acted more in his interest . The situation is very unfortunate , not only for the citizens and taxpayers of Brooklyn , but for the party , and as much for the latter as for the former . The nomination by the Republicans of an independent Democrat for Mayor would have greatly helped the Republican state ticket . It would have called into active service in the city canvass thousands of Democrats who are disgusted by the domination of Tammany in their State organization and by the candidacy of HILL . It would also have greatly strengthened the best legislative nominations . This is so clear , and the impolicy of running a partisan Republican for Mayor is so plain , that the motives of the man who forced that course on the Republican Party are open to the gravest suspicion . We trust that there may yet be found means to remedy the blunder that has been committed . It will be a shameful thing for Brooklyn Republicans to disregard the earnest counsel of such leaders as Mr. SCHROEDER , Gen. TRACY , Gen. WOODFORD , Mr. WILLIAMS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent Democrat , and to follow the treacherous lead of an exposed and repudiated political adventurer like DAGGETT.                     