@@745151

txt The delegates who will meet in convention at Chicago to-morrow do not constitute a very homogeneous body . Under the general name of Democrats there are now gathered in that city men who neither in their own opinions nor in the aims of those they represent have much in common with THOMAS JEFFERSON . Gen. BUTLER poses as the champion and chosen favorite of the masses , and JEFFERSON , in his time , was the representative in public affairs of the impulses of the plain people as opposed to the less thoroughly republican ideas of the Federalist dudes and Pharisees . But JEFFERSON chose the popular side because he had a profound faith that the masses are the surest and wisest builders of good government . BUTLER inclines that way because of an inextinguishable hope that the masses may give him an office . JEFFERSON chose the plain people as his political guides , but often sought to shape their action to fit his own theories and convictions . BUTLER will adopt anybody 's theories and convictions to win support . JOHN KELLY represents absolutely nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the fullness thereof are or should be Tammany 's . Nobody ever charged KELLY or Tammany with holding any theories as to National Government which could be classed as Democratic or as anything . Between the Butler and the Tammany elements and those delegates who are merely Democrats with all and nothing more than that implies , there are such differences as exist between a regular army , under properly appointed Generals , engaged in legitimate warfare , and bands of guerrillas each fighting " on its own hook . " The convention 's unity of character and purpose is further impaired by marked differences of opinion regarding the tariff , differences which involve not only the question of whether it would be good policy to invite a discussion of that subject this year , but the wisdom and justice of protection itself . And finally , there is the natural and inevitable division of the convention into groups around the standards of favored candidates . This heterogeneous body is to put in nomination for the Presidency a man who will receive about half the votes cast next November . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than half of the Electoral votes will depend upon the wisdom or folly shown in his nomination . We believe that there are half a dozen men with any one of whom the Democrats might win . There are certainly half a hundred with whom they would surely lose . To confidently expect the convention to stick to the half dozen and avoid the half a hundred makes a heavy demand upon one 's faith in the sagacity of political conventions  --  particularly of Democratic conventions . We have recently said that the Democratic Party does not possess the confidence of those independent Republicans who refuse to vote for Mr. BLAINE . The Democrats can take a candidate , however , who does possess the entire confidence of the independents , and by so doing ally with themselves a very numerous and influential body of voters . To put aside such a candidate , and so repel the alliance of the independents , because he happens to have excited the hostility of Tammany Hall , would be an act of folly almost unequaled save in the recent precedent of the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate has no stronger recommendation than the fact that he is a " good Democrat " he will fail to secure the independent vote . " Good Democracy , " as it has been understood in the past , is something of which the most enlightened Democrats in these days are getting to be heartily ashamed . The convention . will miss its opportunity if it does not show something of this spirit . Between a mere " good Democrat " and Mr. Blaine there would be very little to choose . so far as the administration of the office of President is concerned . If the " good Democrat " happened to have an honorable name and a clean record the independents would , some of them , vote the Democratic ticket for that reason . alone . The full demands of the situation will be met only by a candidate who both in his past and the promise of his future is preferable to Mr. BLAINE . Whether such a candidate will be named by a body of so many incongruous elements as the convention which meets to-morrow is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought .                     