@@744374

txt Mr. EDWARD ATKINSON , in an address at the opening of an industrial fair in Boston , presents some rather suggestive reflections on the causes of a generally high rate of wages in this country . It is commonly assumed that low wages are a necessary clement in a low cost of production , and that in order to compete with other nations in certain lines of production we must lower the standard of wages . As a corollary to this it is maintained that if we are to sustain a high rate of wages we must restrict competition with foreign producers in these lines . Mr. AT . EINSON appears to take labor out of the position of an element in the cost of production and place it with capital as a sharer in the results of their combined effort , assigning to both an increasing share , as the cost of production is lessened by a more effective application of skill . In other words , the wages of labor as well as the profits of capital increase as the cost of , producing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery and the appliances and processes of industry become , the greater will he production in proportion to the labor and capital engaged upon them , and the two will have more to divide as the result of their co-operation . Hence , high wages and large profits are the consequence of a low cost of production . But it is not merely in the ? application of greater skill  --  intelligence in management and training in labor  --  that he finds the advantage which this country enjoys or may enjoy in the race for prosperity and wealth . He maintains that the standard of the people 's earnings depends on the conditions and resources of the country , its freedom from restrictions upon individual , liberty , and its immunity from what he calls " destructive : taxation , " That the conditions ? and resources . of . ' this : country ' are favorable , to a large production at a relatively low cost hardly admits of . question . It is not altogether free from legislative interference with the freedom of industrial and commercial movements , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon this point before his audience ? of New-England. manufacturers . He did , however , expatiate at some length on our freedom from destructive . taxation of a certain kind . He showed that to maintain a standing Army f corresponding in strength with that of France or Germany we should ' have to take one . in twenty from the . force i of able-bodied male producers and ' devote , them to the work of destruction , while the labor of one , in nineteen of the remainder would be needed to pay the cost ? of maintaining them in that service . This force would exceed in number that of all the adult males now employed ' in building , railroads , developing mines , operating iron-works , and running textile factories in the United States , and the cost of maintenance would exceed the amount of wages paid to all these workers . ' With conditions and . resources unequaled by other countries , with immunity from this great waste of energy in the work of destruction or preparation for it , and with intelligence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages should be high in this country at the same time that we are able to compete with the world in cheapness of production . As Mr. ATKINSON says . " our high wares are but the sign and proof of low cost , and we may command the commerce of the world if we so elect . " There can be no doubt of the general soundness of this position . While our high wages are to some extent fictitious and delusive on account of a high cost of living artificially produced , the normal standard is above that of countries less favorably situated . It is so from causes inherent in the condition of the country , the general character of the Government and its policy , and the quality and industrial training of the population . It is not so and can not be made so by virtue of any restriction upon the interchange of commodities with other countries . On the contrary , such restriction only tends to counteract the advantages which we possess for cheap production and consequent high wages , and to diminish the purchasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting that command of the commerce of the world to which our advantages entitle us . Mr. ATKINSON would have done well to impress this somewhat more pointedly upon the minds of the manufacturers of Massachusetts who still think they need to be protected by a restriction upon trade with the rest of the world . He did give some attention to the injurious effects of unnecessary taxation , which is only less malign in its influence than that which ho calls " destructive . " In a general way , Mr. ATKINSON computes the amount of annual production in this country at $10 , - 000,000,000 , which allows only about fifty cents a day as the average for each living . person . Nine-tenths of this amount is used . up in consumption , leaving only $1,000,000 , - 000 as the saving for all purposes . According to the most trustworthy estimates the total of all taxation , national , State , and , municipal , is not less than $700,000,000 annually-7 per cent . of the entire production and 70 per cent . of the surplus in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unnecessary taxation is the appropriation needlessly of 1 per cent . of the entire pro- , duction of labor and capital , or 10 per cent , . of their net earnings . When we consider : the importance of small fractions and nar- : row margins in the industrial operations of , a country , and the very low average amount that accrues from production to each indi- ? vidual , we can easily conceive how great a burden this may be upon the lives and energies of the people . As Mr. ATKINSON says , the question is no longer whether excessive taxation shall be removed , but " in what way shall the relief be given . " 