@@780934

txt The debate in the Chalmers-Manning contested election case was resumed in the House to-day , and continued at great length . The dreary monotony of the discussion was not interrupted by any noteworthy incident until 3:30 P. M. , when the previous question was ordered . Then Mr. Curtin , of Pennsylvania , took the floor for the nurnose of withdrawing his resolution for recommittal , and he wound up his recital of the reasons which led to this action with the words : " With Gen. Manning 's full consent and approbation I bring him to the Speaker 's desk and ask that the oath be administered to him , on the certificate of the Governor of Mississippi . " Suiting his action to his words , he took Mr. Manning by the arm and together they stood at the bar of the House , where Mr. Curtin presented him , and demanded that he be sworn in as a Representative under the certificate of a Governor of a loyal and great State . Immodiately the House woke up and Mr. Calkins , of Indiana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had referred the case to a committee : that the committee had reported to the House , and that the report was now under consideration . The Speaker said that he did not think there was any necessity to decide a question of order , because the question , whether or not Mr. Manning was entitled to take the oath . was the very question which the House was now considering , and on which the House was about to take a vote . The Chair would not undertake to administer the oath to a person claiming to be a member-elect. when the House itself was considering his right to a seat . Mr. Manning and Mr. Curtin thereupon retied amid the derisive laughter of the Republicans . which was increased by the remark of Mr. Belford , of Colorado , " Ring down the curtain ; the play is over . " The question recurred on substituting the minority resolutions for those of the majority , and , a division of the resolutions being demanded , the vote was taken on the first , declaring that Mr. Manning holds perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nays , 140 . The second resolution , declaring Manning entitled to the seat , was defeated  --  yeas , 92 ; nays , 157 . The majority resolutions were then adopted-130 to 50 . These discharge the Committee on Elections from the prima facie case and leave the seat vacant until the case is decided on its merits .                     