@@745902

txt It is a curious fact that the art of recording the wishes of voters has been carried to the ugliest degree of perfection by the young ; st communities practicing it , and that the most recent reforms in England in this di7ection were based on the invention and experience of the Australian colonies half generation before . The United States , in which the ballot has been in use on a large scale longer than anywhere else , and where the principle of manhood suffrage has the deepest root , still employ methods of the most primitive order , and , in many parts of the country , such as are fruitful in miscarriage , corruption , expense , and uncertainty . Even in our large cities , where we have resorted to registration , to elaborate official machinery , to glass ballot boxes , and to close scrutiny by the agents of candidates , our system is still open to many objections . Hr . HENRY GEORGE referred to these during his canvass , and now Mr. A. T. RICE , who has also had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely contested election for an important office , publishes in the North American , Review an article disclosing the defects of our system and urging in a general way the British-Australian plan . ME TIMES has heretofore commented on the defects of our system , or want of system , and pointed out the principles on which it ought to be reformed . They are sufficiently simple . Every voter , no matter how ignorant or how unaccustomed to the act , should have it in his power to - wits for the candidate of his choice , secretly if he prefer , and without danger of making any mistake , or of having his vote miscounted , suppressed , diverted , or substituted . In a small community where each person is well known to all others all these conditions except that of secrecy are easily met . In a largercommunity it is very difficult to meet them unless proper precautions are taken in advance . This is what has been done in England , and what was first done some thirty years ago in that remarkably intelligent and prosperous Australian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : The names of qualified voters are registered and . numbered previous to each election much as is now done in the city of New York . Previous to election the names of all the candidates for each office are recorded . On the day of election ballots are furnished for the offices to be filled , containing the names of all the candidates for each office . One of these is given to each voter by a qualified officer as he comes up to vote ; the ballot is stamped with an official mark furnished only that morning , and with the register number of the voter ; the voter on receiving it goes into a room by himself and there places opposite the name of the candidate he wishes to vote for a cross ; he then folds the ballot in such a way as to conceal the names but to disclose the official mark , and deposits it in the box , - which is locked . In other forms of the same plan the names of all candidates save the one chosen are erased . An illiterate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secrecy in preparing his ballot . It will be seen that this secures-secrecy , independence , and . practical certainty in the voting . As the vote can not be identified when cast , there is little temptation for bribery . Men will not spend much money for goods they can not see delivered . The ballots are readily counted and not readily tampered with , since agents of opposing candidates have a right to watch the count . The Victorian system of numbering the ballots has the advantage of permitting an in vestigation , should charges of irregularity or fraud be made . It has the disadvantage of making possible the identification of the voter which might lead to intimidation . As a matter of fact , it does not , because identification for wrongful purposes must have the complicity of the election officers , who in turn are watched by the candidate 's agents . On the other hand , if personation. of a voter is suspected , it can be detected by the numbered ballot , and is made very risky . It is the general testimony that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this system . A natural complement of this plan is that all necessary expenses of an election are borne by the public , as they should be , while what are now known as " legitimate " expenses for candidates are very much lessened . To these , in England , a strict limit is placed . It would not be out'of the way if candidates for all offices were forbidden by law to spend any money directly or indirectly in connection with elections , and we : e required to take an oath that they had not done so before assuming office , and if such an act were punished with dismissal from office and ineligibility at least for a term . But short of this ideal regulation very much could be done to render elections certain , inexpensive , and regular . Mr. GEORGE and Mr. RICE have done well in calling attention anew to the subject .                     