@@780735

txt The Professors of the several departments of Yale College presented ex-President Woolsey this afternoon with a massive gold medal , in commemoration of the semi-centennary of his connection with the college . The presentation was a complete sur-prise to the ex-President . The Professors began taking steps for the presentation six months ago , intending to have the affair occur about the middle of September , but they were delayed by the non-arrival of the medal , which was struck in France . It is over six inches in circumference . One side bears the inscription : " Sao Prceceptori rcecep-tares Collegii Yalensis , 1831-1881 . " The border represents a laurel wreath . On the reverse side is a medallion portrait of ex-President Woolsey in profile , with the name " Theodorus Dwight Woolsey " in the border . Bronze copies of the medal were also struck off to be retained by the Professors as mementos . The venerable Prof. Thatcher , who has had a longer term of service with Yale than any other member of the Faculty , made the presentation address . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and regard felt by the givers of the medal for the recipient . President Woolsey responded informally , but at length . In relating some of his earlier experiences at the college , to which he came from Princeton in 1851. he said the students were more disorderly than they had ever been before or since . Among the college officers this time was commonly spoken of as a reign of terror . Thirteen hundred panes of glass were broken in a brief period , and there were other disturbances which caused the Faculty to try 30 or 40 students in a body on the green . The speaker said that ; lust after the trial he met the body of convicted students as he was coming from President Day 's room . lie had a strong temptation to sneak behind one of the college buildings , fearing violence , but he conquered the impulse and was not harmed . His experiences during this turbulent time in college did much to strengthen his character . President Woolsey said he looked back with less pleasure upon his experience in actual teaching than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the class-room  --  the counsel he had given them and the good results which in many instances came from it . He spoke of one instance in which a young man who showed no aptitude for a rrofessional career acted upon his advice to quit college , and years afterward sent him his thanks for the advice . Since his early connection with the college there had been a marked improvement in all its departments . The general conduct of the students as to good order had also changed for the better . He was confident tliu , t the college would continue to improve and grow . Yale had now more Professors than any German university . But he would like to see the number of the Faculty increased ten-fold , and Yale 's influence and usefulness proportionately increased . lie was in hopes that the college would once again be supplied with funds as it had been in the past .                     