@@781791

txt FACING THE FIRES OF DEFEAT . New York Times ( 1857-Current file ) ; Jun 7 , 1884 ; ProQuest Historical Newspapers The New York Times ( 1851 - 2004 ) pg . 4 patiende and with unfailing tow- Tag Tmnis will cheerf  --  lly and with - sincerity labor to set the ' party right , again , and when it shall have had its .. new birth to draw to it ' all that is soundest , , best , and worthiest in the manhood of this Republic . FACING THE FIRES OF DEFEAT . It is best , after all , that JAMES G. BLAINE should be the candidate of the Republican Party . - His nomination has been urged with earnestness and sincerity by a majority of that party , and the majority must rule in this country , even when it is in the wrong . The party now appeals to the country with a candidate who stands for something . He represents the average of Republican principles and purposes , of Republican honor and conscience , as they now are . We shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. BLAINE resent with heat this , allegation that a man who as Speaker of the House of Representatives bartered his official influence for private gain , who as Secretary of State made the enforcement of a swindling claim against a distressed and perishing sister republic the most conspicuous feature of his foreign policy , a man who has had no part or interest in the work done in the last five years toward the purification of the public service , is a fair type and representative of the party that saved the Union , freed the slave , and restored the national credit . But in soberness and truth , . good friends , is this not so ? Is not the name of BLAINE the only name that really stirs the hearts of the Republican masses ? Did not his devoted band of adherents , without the aid of the officeholders , who in most States were enlisted under another flag , not only without favor from any department of the Government , but against the influence of all , so far as that influence was exerted , lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other candidate ? Did not BLAINE 'S name lead on the first ballot , and increase its lead by jumps to the last , when nearly two-thirds of the convention was registered in the Blaine column ? If Mr. BLAINE is not a fair representative of Republican principles and purposes , of Republican honor and conscience , as they now are , then the Republicans of Maine , New-York , New-Jersey , Pennsylvania , Ohio , Michigan , Minnesota , Wisconsin ; Iowa , and Kansas were willfully betrayed in their primaries , in their District and , State Conventions , and at Chicago ; and we have nowhere read nor heard that Republican sentiment in these States , or in any State , was stifled or perverted in order to secure Blaine delegates . Nor was Mr. BLAn nominated in ignorance of who and what he was . The party had its eyes open . It has taken this step not in the dark but in broad daylight . It is much better , therefore , that Mr. BLAINE should be the candidate than that Mr. Aurftuu 's friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him on the party against its will . We have clearly seen and plainly said that the great majority of Republicans did not want Mr. ARTHUR for their candidate . Had he been nominated , his defeat would have signified nothing as regards the heart and virtue of the party , nothing as to the favor its principles and present practices find in the . eyes of the American people . There will be nothing ambiguous about the defeat of Mr. BLAINE . He who runs may clearly read the verdict in advance : " A candidate unworthy of confidence , and a party too careless of its own honor to be longer trusted with ' the nation 's . " That . defeat will be the salvation of the Republican Party : : It will arouse its torpid conscience , it will , stir it to self-purification , it will depose the false leaders who have fastenedthemSelves upon it , it will send the rogues to the background , and will make the party once more . : worthy of honor and of power in the lie it has so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through . the fires of defeat and is Well rid of its peccant humors it .. will come . back to . the impregnable. ground of right it stood on when it beat down treason and disunion , to a position , in which it shall : embody the highest and best impulses : of Atnerican life , to a state of heart and mind which shall fit it to be s again : the ? ? cUstedien- of that matchless trust , ? " government of ' the - people , by the people , andfor. the people . " One word as to the position of THE TnrEs . It ' . will . not support Mr .. BLAINE for the Presidency : - It will advise no man to vote ' for him , and its reasons for this course are perfectly . well understood by everybody that has ever read it. , ' Without the mention of names the course of THE TIMES was foreshadowed in its issue of May 29 , when it replied to the question . of a ' correspondent in these words : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man worthy to be President of the United States THE NEW-YORK TIMES ' will give him a hearty and vigorJus support . If he shall be a man unworthy to holdthat great office , a man who , personally and politically , in office or out , represents prinoiples'and practices which . THE TIMES abhors mid has counseled its party to shun , we shall watch with. great interest the . efforts of those responsible for such a nomination to elect their candidate , but we can give them no help . " The interest THE TDIES will take in this canvass is that of a friend and physician . ? It is not with Cy.ynical indifference , but with unspeakable sadness , that it sees . the Republican Party perversely set its face tOward error and its feet , in vicious ' paths ; - : : for : it ' has done some service to the party . ' But with                     