@@745992

txt At the meeting of the Commonwealth Club on Monday evening the discussion was resumed of the evils of the use of money in elections and the remedy for them . The facts brought out by Mr. Ivngs at the last previous meeting were reinforced by Mr. J. B. BISHOP , who gave a telling description of the kind of men whom the machine system produced , analyzing the legislative representation of this city for several years back , and that of the BOard of Aldermen as well , and pointedly characterizing the district leaders of each of the principal machines . It is plain that the discussion has awakened a strong interest throughout the State , and for that matter the whole country . Mr. Ivncs announced incidentally that more than 200 papers had taken part in the discussion within the past few weeks . They had almost uniformly admitted . and condemned the badfeatures of our system as pointed out and had agreed in general with the suggestions as to remedies . No one acquainted with the common opinion of this city has failed to notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-day than to any similar matter , in the absence of a definite political canvass , in years . On some accounts it is to be regretted that the bills embodying provisions for reform were not got into the Legislature at this session , but it is a subject that will bear study , and public opinion may be and ought to be stronger next Winter than it now is . It will also be better informed . There has been a steady growth of intelligence on the general question of reform for the past six or seven years , and . much more has been accomplished than appears on the surface . The assassination of President GARFIELD threw a strong light on the wretched spirit to which ' our politics had given rise , and the feeling thus awakened made possible the passage of the civil service law of 1883 . That event carried with it to a great extent the passage of a like law for this State and for Massachusetts . These laws were essentially election laws in purpose and . effect , though their action was indirect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the bad service the spoils system produced  --  though that was quite serious enough to justify the laws  --  but the demoralization of politics that had become universal and so deep seated that it was accepted as a matter of course , by some as an inevitable evil , by others as natural and good in itself . The field occupied by these laws is a comparatively modest one . They embrace only about one in seven of the posts under the Federal Government , and , in practice , only a small part of the employments under the City Governments in this State . But they have this great merit . They fix a sound principle . They dotake certain offices " out of politics , " and out of the hands of the politicians , and give them to the people to whom they belong . They prove by their success , beyond all dispute or cavil ; that there is a practical way of getting the best men for public work , without regard to the partisan relations of these men . That is a long step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If it had not been taken the impudent declaration of the Public Works Commissioner . CONNER , in Brooklyn , that it was nobody 's business how he conducted the affairs of his office so long as the results were not complained of would not be regarded as it now is . We have succeeded in discrediting mercenary politics . We have brought the people to understand that the public service is their own ; , that they have a right to an honest and capable performance of it , and that the pretension that it belongs to party workers or party managers is both unfounded and disgraceful . This feeling is extending . It goes to the root of political corruption . It challenges all the methods and purposes of the " machines . " It takes away the excuse that partisan leaders have for a monopoly of political management and activity . Once get the idea thoroughly into the public mind that party success must be the means to an end , not the end in itself ; that it carries with it no claim for those who secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the ground is largely cleared for the abolition of the dishonest use of money in elections . We are not so sanguine as to suppose that any one set of measures will complete the reform . We understand that final triumph will depend upon the slow and sure growth of an enlightened public sentiment . But the growth of this sentiment is advanced by the persistent demonstration of the force and efficiency of the merit system in actual operation . It would be very greatly advanced by a law making the corrupt UBO of money in this city if not impossible very difficult . The Americans as a people do not like to be cheated and robbed when they can see the way to prevent it . They are not very prompt in resenting such wrongs unless they can be convinced that a sound remedy exists . When they do see that , however , they are sure , sooner or later , to apply it . The discussion now going on tends practically to bring them to this conviction . 