@@744167

txt It was expected several days ago that the bill to create a Tariff Commission would be taken up in the House so-day without much difficulty , in accordance with the notice given by Mr. Kasson in behalf of the Committee of Ways and Means , and members were making predictions about the length and nature of the debate . The Attempt to take up the bill was made today , and its supporters failed to get it before the Committee of the Whole . The bill is now in such a situation that no one can accurately predict how long it will lie on the calendar . There had been an arrangement between the Committee of Ways and Means and the Committee on Appropriations by which it was agreed that the Consular and Diplomatic and the Indian Appropriation bills should be allowed to pass before an attempt should be made to take up the Commission bilL but when Mr. Kasson moved this afternoon to go into Committee of the Whole for the purpose of taking up his bill , he was opposed by Mr. Valentine , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for consideration the Agricultural Appropriation bill , and raised the point of order that the Commission bill was not a bill for raising revenue , and therefore could not by right precede appropriation bills in the committee . The rules provide that in the Committee of the Whole bills shall be entitled to consideration in the following order : Bills for raising revenue , general appropriation bills , bills for the improvement of rivers and harbors . Bills on these subjects are entitled to precede other bills on the calendar . This point of order was debated for about an hour and a half . Mr. Rasson admitted that the bill did not impose taxation , but held that it provided means for raising revenue . Mr. Carlisle , a member of the Ways and Means Committee , supported the point of order and said that the decision of the question would be very important for two reasons . A similar bill , the Morrill Commission bill , was under consideration in the f3enate , where it had originated . He held that if this bill was a bill for raising- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House . and the House would insist upon its right to originate any such bill if it should come to it from the Senate . Again Mr. Carlisle declared that if the House should decide that the bill was a bill for raising revenue he and his friends would insist upon offering amendments for revising the tariff . Mr. Haskell favored a broad interpretation of the rule , so that any bill proposing a scheme for dealing with the tariff might be allowed to precede general legislation . Mr. ' Burrows declared that if it vas a revenue bill it would be open to amendments affecting the tariff . Mr. said that if it was a revenue bill the right to offer amendments could not be questioned . Mr. Robeson endeavored to make a distinction between bills raising revenue and bills for raising revenue . Other members appealed to the Dictionary for the meaning of the preposition " for , " and asserted that there was an ellipsis in the phrase of the rules , which if supplied would allow the Commission bill to be included . The Chairman was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for he is regarded as a very clear-headed and just presiding officer . He cleared away the sophistical arguments by which the question had been obscured , and showed that it was only necessary to decide whether the bill was one " for raising revenue . " Taking up the provision of the bill , he asserted that it could not be classed under that head . The rules did not provide that the privilege should be accorded to bills relating to the revenue or upon subjects relating to the revenue . Whether this bill could be loaded down with tariff amendments or net was a question to be decided when it was reached . He sustained the point of order , and decided that the bill was not entitled to precede the Agricultural Appropriation bill . Mr. Kasson did not appeal from the decision . He remarked that he would not to-day ask for any further action , but , unless otherwise instructed . he should deem it his duty to ask the House ezain to go into the Committee of the Whole at some convenient time , and should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill on the calendar in order that it might be taken up . The committee then proceeded with the Agricultural bill , which was under consideration at the time of adjournment . The decision of the Chair will have a serious effect upon the fortunes of the commission bill , which is now on the same plane with many other important and unimportant bills on the calendar of the Committee of the Whole . It is now preceded on that calendar by more than 50 bills , among which are those for the reclamation of the Potomac flats , for a naval construction fund , and for the construction of a building for the Congressional Library , with many for the construction of public buildings . Each one of these must be laid aside before the commission bill can be reached . It is believed that the opponents of the commission bill will demand the yeas and nays on each motion to lay aside , and the influence of members who will work hard to save the bills in which they are directly interested must also be taken into account . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission bill is not a bill for raising revenue is not unsatisfactory to its friends , for they hope that by means of it their opponents may be prevented from offering all sorts of tariff bills as amendments when the bill comes up . The prospect that action upon the bill will be delayed until late in the session may repel some who would support it if it could be acted upon within two or three weeks . There are some who predict that the result of the debate to-day will force the Ways and Means Committee to pay attention to the tariff , even if such attention should cause them to neglect the revision of internal taxes , a subject which seems to be more attractive to the majority of that body . The commission bill is , to say the least , at the mercy of its enemies , and it is believed that they will allow it to be taken up only with the understanding that certain concessions shall be made . It is said that they will demand an opportunity to vote upon several propositions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall exceed 50 per cent . ad valorem and the original Morrill tariff bill . It is predicted that if the Ways and Means Committee can be shown by a vote of any kind that the commission bill is doomed to defeat , they will at once begin to prepare a tariff bill . Mr. Belford , of Colorado , intends to offer in the House at the earliest opportunity a resolution declaring that the Ways and Means Committee has confessed its inability to deal with the tariff question , and directing the electien of a new committee of nine members  --  five Republicans and tour Democrats  --  which shall report within 90 days a bill for the revision of the tariff and a reduction of duties .                     