@@780697

txt The joint convention to-day was one of intense interest to all and of bitter disappointment to the supporters of Morrison . It was given out during the morning that all the " kickers " had been whipped into line , and that Morrison would be elected through the aid of two Republicans who would vote for Logan , and thus make a quorum . Morrison had agreed that the " short-hair " crowd should be consulted in distributing the Federal offices in preference to Goudy and Oberly . On the roll call two Republicans answered , and this made a quorum of 103 . This answering had no signifleance , though the Democrats pretended to believe it foreshadowed startling developments . There were 101 Democrats present . Under these circumstances the two Republican votes which Morrison has claimed to have in reserve would ' have made a quorum and elected , but they were not forthcoming , though a better opportunity will never be offered to any Republican who wants to aid in the election of a Democrat . Before the balloting began Speaker Haines directed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any member of the joist convention from leaving . There was no need , however , as the Republicans remained in their seats throughout , serenely confident that there would be no election . On the ballot for Senator , Streeter , as usual , voted for Black . Two of the Democratic " kickers " voted for Morrison , but Speaker Haines did not vote , and one Representative voted for Ward . The result was announced as follows : Morrison , 98 ; Black , 1 : Ward , 1 ; making a total of 100 . On the next ballot Haines , after ascertaining that Morrison could not be elected , turned a back somersault and voted for the frde trader . The result this time was : Morrison , 110 ; Black , 1 : Ward , 1 ; the total being 101 . The third Pallet gave the same result . The Morrison leaders reluctantly acknowledged that they could gain nothing by further balloting , and the joint convention adjourned till noon to-morrow . As a matter of fact , if the Morrison men had had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House Representative Mulhearne 's vote for Ward would have been equally as effective as if cast for Morrison . 13ut they only succeeded in showing that their claims to Republican support were pretenses . Morrison 's vote was 1 more than he has heretofore received , and if Bridges ; who is on his death-bed , had been present it would have been an even 100 , which is 3 less than the number demanded by his followers before they will consent to calling another caucus and putting a new man in the field .                     