@@745118

txt The Republicans who hope for the election of Mr. Blaine and the adoption of a " brilliant foreign policy " found a spokesman yesterday in Mr. McCoid , of Iowa , who , in the course of a speech on the River and Harbor bill , pitched into the members who have presumed to critiOise appropriations for river and harbor subsidies and other schemes for spending the public money . He advocated yesterday a broad and liberal policy . Today , he said , if we had the right spirit , we would put a canal through Florida and make the terminus of the Mississippi practically on the east coast of Florida . We would construct the Hennepin Canal from the lake , system of water to the Mississippi , the keystone of the water system of the country . By the Cheseapeake and Ohio Canal we would give communication from the rivers to the Atlantic In another way , and then we would put a canal through the isthmus , under the American flag , and send our exports by water to the Pacific and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much zeal as if he were a paid advertiser for Mr. Blaine 's book , ho quoted several pages of his recent work as furnishing cogent arguments for the position taken by Mr. McCoid . He quoted the Pall Mall Gazette as saying that " Blaine 's nomination is the most notable event for England since Lincoln 's assasination . Wherever Blaine can oust the British from the position they hold on the American continent , he will endeavor to replace the English Influence and trade by American . H is menacing intimation that he disregarded the ClaytonBulwer treaty is an evil augury for the future ' relations of England and America . This intervention in Peru was most ominous . When he declared that he disliked England to win commercial triumphs in fields legitimately belonging to America . " This Mr. MeCold hoped and believed to he true , and that " before long we may see our Government under the leadership of that great statesman , burning with commercial zeal , stimulated by a live , aggressive national policy . " 