@@744400

txt A prominent Ohio politician , who has been spending a week in Columbus , has returned home satisfied that the State will certainly go Republican by from 8,000 to 10.000 majority . " In this estimate , " he said , " allowance is made for Cincinnati going Democratic by from 5,000 to 6,000 , and the election there of one candidate for Congress , and perhaps both , although Butterworth has a fighting chance . This estimate is based on the fact that the Republican organization throughout the State is thorough and effective , while that of the Democrats is not . The result will be that a greater percentage of the Republican vote in the rural districts will be secured , especially in Republican strongholds , than the Democratic organization will be able to meet . The Democratic managers recognize the danger they are in on account of the apathy in their party ranks , and John a Thompson 's organ heads the list of Democratic journals in making frantic appeals to the Democrats to throw off their apathy and come out and vote . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means adopted by Pendleton and Thompson at the State Convention , and the subsequent management of the campaign by Thompson and his clique , has created an indifference that will make it a moral impossibility for the Democrats to poll their average vote . Mon of standing in the party go so far as to say that a defeat of the party would be better than a victory purchased at the price of a domination of the factions in control of the present campaign ; that with Democratic success a class of men would be given control of the party who offer , in their person and policy , no inducement to the intelligent Democracy of the State , and to an Increasing independent vote to vote the Democratic ticket . A defeat would be a retirement of the machine in the party to a rear place , where in the judgment of the ablest Democrats it ought to be if the Ohio Democracy ever hope for success . It has been distinctly recognized also as Mr. Pendleton 's personal fight , and thousands of Democrats are not kindly enough disposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ambition . It would have been bettor for him and his party if he had kept studiously in the background . Not acting on this idea , he came from Washington and personally superintended the campaign that foisted Thompson and his unwelcome management upon the party . The developments resulting from that light are decidedly unsavory as far as Mr. Pendleton was concerned , and added strength to the growing disaffection . Despite the loss of a portion of the German vote by the Republicans , the disaffection in the Democratic ranks produced by the above causes will more than offset it . "                     