@@781008

txt The body of E. Payson Smith , slain in the battle yesterday at Freetown , was buried to-day , a large number of people being in attendance . He was 42 years of age , a bachelor , a native of Ohio , and had been here only a few years . He was a popular citizen , forward in all enterprises , a fireman and a militiaman . The trouble of yesterday grew out of a spirit of revenge on the part of the negroes . The better clement of this and neighboring parishes had found it impossible to loueer toldrate a certain clement of idle and immoral characters . This latter class were ordered away from the various sections , and many of them found refuge at Freetown , a small village composed entirely of negro families . There they told stories to their friends and nursed their growing auger . On Monday the report reached this place that the negroes were arming and congregating at Freetown . Their number was estimated at 500 to 600 strong , mounted . Tuesday they had received reinforcements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their strength , they assumed a threatning attitude , boldly declaring that the refugees should not leave the parish and should not be molested . On Wednesday the numbers were further increased and the people of the surrouning country began to feel some alarm lest the negroes. overestimating their strength , should attempt , some acts of violence . On Thursday matters had not improved up to noon . By this time the residents and property owners of this section began to collect at a point a short distance from Freetown , their object being to disperse these nee-roes without violeuce and to send those who did not belong there to their honied and to business . The citizens rode into Freetown and found , as rumored , a large number of armed megrecs quartered there . Tney asked its meaning . and the negroes were silent . They then demanded a surrender of their arms , with the promise that when they learned to behave themselves they would be returned , and that the negroes should at once disperse . The great majority of them accepted these terms of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception to be loaded with ball or buckshot . The Rev. H. Nora , it colored minister , left Freetown in the morging to attend a conference of ministers at this place and , during his absence . his residence was taken possesoion of by a number of the armed negroes . This house refused to surrender the inmates , returning word that they were not to be taken . The whites then sent a second messenger to the house , saying they would give them 20 minutes in which to lay down their weapono . The negroes again refused . In this house , situated nut a short distance from the main road or street , were quartered some 12 or 15 negroes. among the number their leaders . A squad of mounted white citizens wore some 150 yards from the house , waiting the expiration of the 20 minutes , and before the given time had expired a door of the house was thrown open and a volley fired at them . One horse was wounded . This was a surprise to all , and immediately the firing became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but a constant fire was kept up from windows and doors , partly hence for some time . Later the lire was carried on by spurts by both sides , lasting in all for nearly an hour and a half . At this time Mr. Smith broke from his lines and made for too house . His comrades implored him to return , but , deaf to their entreaties he went on . The house was reached , tile door was forced , and he fell . At his side was a comrade who had followed him on his fatal errand , but when Mr. Smith fell , his comrade retreated backward , keeping up a constant lire from a repeating rifle anti ezcaped unhurt . At this stage of the light the negroes became panic-stricken and attempted to flee from the house , and the deadly work was soon brought to a close . After the light closed the bodies of eight negroes were found . in the house and five outside . Other 's say three or four more were killed . it is thought by some that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the scene deny this and say all were killed . Coroner Wolf called a jury as follows : Mr. William Lamb , Dr. James A. Lee . Messrs Zenon , Demur , Bond , Laughlin , and William R. Burke . lie proceeded with them to Freetown to view the bodies of the negroes . They returned this evening , and have deterred taking testimeny until a later date . Politics have played no part . The negroes brought the trouble on themselves . They tired the first shot . They shed the first blood , and they bore the consequences of their acts . The negroes who surrendered were not harmed In any way . No race issue is involved in the troubles at Abbeville , La . It was born of public sentiment of both whites and blacks against a number of persons of bad character of both races whose conduct has so outraged the good people of both races that steps were taken to rid the community of them . A party of young men , mostly clerks in the stores at Abbeville , began a crusade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and women until they were blistered . In their rounds for this purpose they visited the house of a white woman who was living with a mulatto and demanded admittance . In response they were fired upon by some one , doubtless the woman inside the house , with a doublebarreled shotgun , wounding one of the party , John A. Bodie , a clerk in ' Young 's drug store . He is only slightly wounded in the thigh , and no fears of fatal results are entertained . This shot put the party to flight for that night . A call was made Monday for an indignation meeting , talon met next day and was participated in by about 400 people , of whom about one-third were colored people . Resolutious were passed condemning in very plain words the disorderly persons whose immorality inspired the meeting , and concluded by ordering them to leave the community . About , 6 o'clock that evening a hundred mounted committeemen , white and black , armed with Winchester rifles and shotguns , proceeded to the abodes of those objeotionable characters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 hours . This was kept up until midnight . During this time the committee called on a negro named Deride. whom they had whipped Saturday night , and ordered him to leave the place , but be refused to go . On the second visit it was found he had just departed , leaving two heavily-loaded double-barreled shotguns in his house , showing that he was not only desperate in his defiance , but that his courage had failed him at the last moment , as he lied without his guns . At 8 o'clock Wednesday the committee was again under arms . The only person whipped by that committee was a white man , the colored members standing and seeing it done . That man was also ordered to leave the place . The committee finished its labors of giving notices to depart , and all parties notified , some of whom are white , have left the city . In almost every Instance those ordered away took their departure , but concentrated at a point nearly midway between Neiv-Iberla and Fayette . The Governor was informed that militia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Iberia Guards to investigate the troubles . Capt . Cade applied to the Sheriff of Abbeville far information . The response of the Sheriff was that the community could take care of Itself . In justification of the action of the Abbeville people , it is well to say that there are no divisions among the good people of either race . and that so bad had open immorality become with this objectionable class of people that no respectable person dared go on the streets after night for fear of encountering indecent sights on the public thoroughfares.                     