@@780774

txt The action of the Republican members-elect of the Legislature in this city and Pittsburg , in declaring for State Treasurer Quay for United States Senator , has settled the fact that as things now are no candidate can make a hopeful contest against him . In many counties of the State there is a deep and earnest feeling of opposition to his election , but much of this will now be discretely suppressed , and the prospect is that the Republican caucus will show a decided majority for him . This result has been brought about by Quay 's quiet but effective intrigues to secure a personal following in different parts of the State . The enormous Republican majorities in both houses of the Legislature  --  each having less than one-third Democrats  --  are in part due to the election of Republicans in close counties in Quay 's interest . It thus was evident , a week ago , that , even if the Philadelphia delegation were substantially solid for some other candidate , his defeat . would he difficult , if not impossible , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other candidates spoken of are Mr. Grow and Mr. Barker . The former has some enthusiastic friends in various parts of the State ; the latter has the support of his own county , Montgomery , whose delegation counts five Representatives and one Senator , and in which the Republicans obtained a notable , clean-cut victory , electing their full ticket for the first time in the history of the county . It is not probable that Mr. Barker now entertains any purpose , however , to make a canvass , while it may he that other votes than those of Montgomery may be cast fur him in the caucus . Senator Cameron and his following , including his lieutenant , Chris " Magee , of Pittsburg , are commonly ly said to be friendly to Quay 's election . This is not actually true in.the full sense . They would have preferred to see him fail , but did not wish to oppose him unavailingly . Cameron will find that Quay intends to play his own hand in the Senate , and his apprehension of this has made him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A sop to Cerberus , in the case of Magee , has been arranged for . As Quay 's term in the Senate will begin on the 4th of March , next , he will have over a year to serve as State Treasurer , until the last of May , 1888 . The vacancy , it has been arranged , is to be filled by Gov . Beaver , who will have the appointment in a way to satisfy Magee , who will probably want J. J. McDevitt , of Lancaster , a former Pittsburg man , and the one whom Magee put . forward against Quay for the Treasurer nomination in 1885 . The details of this deal " are not yet announced , but they are arranged , and will appear in due time . LANCASTER , Penn. , Nov. 15 . ? State Senators John M. Steliman and Amos II . Mylin. and Representatives Baldwin , Peoples , Kauffman , Kemper , Kemper , Smith , and Dr. Davis , met in this city this afternoon and adopted the following resolution , all voting for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had heard from his constituents : Resolved , That we , the Senators and P.epresentatives. members-elect of the Legislature for Lancaster County , recognize in the Hon. Matthew S. Quay , a statesman of eminent ability , and a Republican who has done grand service in harmonizing the discordant elements heretofore existing in the Republican Party ; and in consideration of his distinguished ability and constant fealty and loyalty to the great principle of the Republican Party , should his name be presented as a candidate for United States Senator , we pledge him our most cordial support .                     