@@780693

txt G. W. Walling , Chief of Police of New-York , telegraphed to the office of the Board of Health in New-Orleans yesterday the question : " Did William Stuckenholz , from California , professor of music , die there within the past two months ? " The reply was : " William Stuckenholz , 50 years old , died on July 18 , 1881 , at No. 217 Poydras-street , of congestion of the brain . " It appears that ' Stuckenholz came here from California several months before his death . He was a very large man , with an immense head . He made himself known at Grunewald 's , and was found to be a piano performer and composer of merit . He was liberally patronized , but it was noticed that he drank heavily . On the Friday previous to his death he appeared in Seatsman 's saloon , No. 217 Poydras street . He drank heavily , but the proprietor put him to bed and took about Sri from him for safe keeping . On Saturday he drew some money , bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and kept half sober . On Sunday he ran out of money and was given a number of drinks on promising to pay in the future . He begged to be allowed to remain in the house as he had no money . On his last evening on earth he complained of being sick . He drank immense quantities of ice water all the evening , and complained of feeling weak . Later , he left his chair , showing great weakness , and retired . The next morning persons coming down from up stairs told Mr. Seats , man that something had happened to Stuckenholz . It was about 0:30 o'clock in the morning . Mr. Seatsman went up stairs and found his lodger dead . Stuckenholz was buried by the city , but his grave was marked so that it could be recognized , as it was expected that relatives would be found to take charge of his body . Nothing of his past history is known here . George Hoperoft , Superintendent Walling 's secretary , said last night that the message had been sent by him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came over from the American District Telegraph office , No. 590 Broadway , with a message to the NewOrleans Board of Health , and asked to have the Superintendent 's signature affixed in order to obtain u prompt reply . He aeclined to comply until the circumstances were made known to him . The boy left the office , and returned in a few minutes with a fine-looking woman , of about 40 years , who stated that she was Mrs. Stuckenholz , and had been informed by friends in Germany that her husband had died in New-Orleans , and she wished the telegram sent in. order to be certain of the fact . The message was then signed and forwarded , and when a reply came in the afternoon it was sent through the District Telegraph office to Mrs. Stuckenholz , at No. 75 East Fourthstreet . On visiting there last evening Mrs. Stuckenholz was not in , and her servant said she would not return until very late .                     