@@781583

txt While military news from Egypt is often untrustworthy , and especially when it purports to give the number of combatants engaged in a battle , there is nothing improbable in the report that Gen. HICKS has met with an overwhelming defeat . The chief strategic point of the region of tostilities is Khartoum , at the junction of Ale White and the Blue Nile . This the Khedive 's forces would be justified in holding permanently , at all hazirds . But the base of Et . MARDI has for ten months been very far to the southwest , at El Obeid , the capital of the province of Kordofan . During five months he attacked this place , by assault and siege , occasionally drawing away his forces , as if . either to recruit them or to tempt the garrison out ; and at length , last January , after great losses , and after fearful privations among the starving inhabitants , be captured . the town , and therewith secured a large sum of money for his military chest . The advantages , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were his having a few good European officers and a supply . of modern small arms , breech-loading field artillery , howitzers , and machine guns . But against him were overwhelming numbers and the chance of attack where his destructive guns would be of no avail against ill-armed multitudes . Above all , his great danger has been a constantly increasing distance from his base , which involved the possible cutting of his communications , thereby depriving him at once of supplies and of the power of retreat or of seasonable reinforcement . Despite the exaggerated stories of his early successes , it is evident that he then met only EL MARDI 'S advance or detached troops ; that the False Prophet himself was never checked , and that with each step southward Hicks Pasha 's position became more perilous . The account of his actual disaster is thus far confused and indefinite . The " hollow square , " crushed in by the rebels , reappears in the story , almost as if borrowed from the recent narrative of the affair at Toka , with which it of courso @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many hundred miles distant . But IlloRs 's position and his inferiority of numbers will sufficiently account for any calamity that may have befallen him ; and indeed a very great defeat almost implies destruction , so difficult would be escape . It will now be recalled that Gen. HICKS complained last Summer of , the poor character of some of his troops and of the jealousy of Egyptian officers . The whole policy of the ' war in the Soudan has been a mistake . It was originally the result of the spirit of aggrandizement which came on Egypt when she ran into debt in order to make herself a military power , and then to use her new armies with their foreign instructors and weapons , sought to subjugate provinces where she had been before content with nominal sway . EL MARDI , who has proved so costly to her , relies not only on the frenzy of religious devotees but on indignation against the military policy of Lower Egypt . Possibly the peril of the English officers in Hicks 's army may prompt his succor by English forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the abandonment of the Soudan , holding a line from Khartoum eastward to the Red Sea at Suakin , is the wisest suggestion yet made . Flushed with his success , EL MARDI may be able now even to prevent for a time the holding of this line .                     