@@745178

txt The National Civil Service Reform League , at its meeting at Newport yesterday , was able to congratulate itself on much solid work done within the year . The specific aims which were avowed at the meeting of the League a year ago were , first , the repeal of the law limiting the term of most of the Federal ol.ceholders to four years , and , second , the extension of the principle of the reform to the State and municipal service . Mr. CURTIS , the President of the League , in his address , reviewed what had been done as to both of these matters . Though the House of Representatives failed to take up the Repeal bill at the last session , there was much in its action that showed how strong a hold the principle of reform has taken on the thoughtful members and representatives of both parties . The report of the House Committee in favor of the repeal was unanimous , the Democrats and Republicans agreeing in the view that the sound theory of administration required that the national appointees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause , and that the power of removal should be unrestricted and exercised with full responsibility . In this view is the very essence of the reform , which aims directly to make public office a public trrost and to hold those in office strictly accountable . In the debate that followed this report there was shown a very clear comprehension of this fact , on the part of members from both sides , while the shallowness and narrowness of the arguments in opposition were obvious . Though the measure was not taken up for lack of the two-thirds vote required to suspend the rules , the majority in its favor was very large , and would have secured its success could a vote on its passage have been secured . The work will be steadily pushed , and the degree of influence already attained by the Reform League is ample evidence that it will not be abandoned . In regard to the extension of the reform principle to State and municipal offices Mr. CURTIS was able to make a statement of a most encouraging and significant character . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invite for it the careful attention of those who are inclined to think that this work is in the hands of mere theorists . As a matter of fact there is no chapter in the recent political history of the " United States that shows a more deep-seated popular sentiment directed and embodied in more practical and fruitful policy , and leading to more valuable and permanent results . Whatever may be the delays or difficulties yet to be encountered , it is as sure as sunrise that the days of the spoils system are numbered . The public mind is grasping with constantly greater firmness and clearness the fact that the official service has been prostituted to partisan and personal ends , and is arriving at a constantly firmer resolution that this prostitution shall cease . The most important feature in the situation is one to which Mr. CuRns naturally did not feel at liberty to refer . It is that the Democratic Party , which in the past has been largely under the domination of the spoils system , has recognized the force of the reform sentiment , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief claim on the confidence of the country lies in his clear aid intern gent e.ent and faithful devotic n to the principle of the reform . On the other hand , the Republican Party , failing to recognize this new force , has been violently disrupted by placing in nomination a man whose character and career forbid the people to trust his fidelity to reform . Whatever may be the immediate result of the contest , the presentation of this issue for the first time in a national canvass marks an advance in the cause that will not be lost . Such an issue fairly and fully presented to the American people can be finally settled in but one way . 