@@781183

txt The Rev. James McLeod , D. D. , who has been Pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in this city for a few years , has resigned his pastorate and will preach his farewell sermon next Sunday . At a meeting in the church last evening he read a letter addressed to the church and congregation asking them to unite with him In requesting the Presbytery of Buffalo to dissolve the relations existing between Pastor and people . In the course of this letter he says : " I need not say anything about my ministry among you . The manner of my ministerial life is known to you all . I can scarcely hear the thought of parting from von . I love this church . I love my brethren of other cnurches , and I never expect to have warmer friends or a happier home than L have had in the good city of Buffalo , But , nevertheless , it Seeing to be the will of God that these tender ties should be severed . and therefore 1 ask you to join in my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me ask you to join in it unanimously . And that God may bless you , my dear peop:e , very abundantly is the earnest prayer of yours faithfully . " After the letter had been read a series of resolutions was offered acceding to Mr. MeLeod 's request , and concluding as follows : Resolved . That we as a church deplore this necessary action , but feel it would bo unwise as well as selfishly unkind to interpoSe any objections , when Providence has openea the way so clearly to a greater held of usefulness . Resolved . That in granting this request wo also desire to express our unfeigned love for our Pastor and confidence in his spiritual character , and heartily commend him to the church in which he is to labor as a brother greatly beloved for his uniform courtesy and kindness of spirit , for his strong convictions of truth and commendable courage in expression , and for his superior talents as a pre:wrier- Mr. McLeoct 's relations with his churoh and people have always been of the heartiest and most harmonious kind . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any division or ill-feeling in the church . Ile has had a very tempting offer from a church in Indianapolis , whither he will go . A single remark of Mr. McLeod 's at the close of the sermon last Sunday was wrongly reported , and may have given the impression that the church was in a row . He was reported as saying to his congregation : " May God deal leniently between me and thee . " What he said was : " May God guide us in this matter so as to glorify His name , and to promote the best interests of our beloved church . "                     