@@743645

txt Gov . HAGOOD , of South Carolina , in his Message to the Legislature , gathers into a few sentences some most remarkable statements concerning the condition and needs of that State . He dwells upon the improvement that has taken place in its industrial prospects and the great need of a further development of its resources , and says very truly that one of its most pressing needs is the " advent of an intelligent and thrifty immigration . " Then he remarks somewhat grandly that ' the progress already attained is due , " under the providence of GOD , to the resumption of the chief control of our local affairs by that portion of our citizens in whom the capacity of self-government is an inheritance derived from a thousand years of a free ancestry . " Having thus established the right of an intelligent and disciplined minority , " under the providence of GOD , " to gain control , not by winning the support of the weaker and less intelligent through a humane regard for their rights and interests , but by violently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the " wretched period of riotous misrule which preceded it under the domination of the lately enfranchised freedmen , " and gives warning that the State can not become prostrate again . As if to justify the means by which the change has been brought about and maintained , he refers them to the " God-given right of selfpreservation " which " inheres in communities " and which is " higher than law and older than Constitutions . " We are therefore left to infer that violations of law and Constitutions committed in its name are justifiable . " But , " he says , " the problem with us to-day is to preserve the life of the State within the conditions that surround us ; " and further , " the political equality of all men in South Carolina is now a fixed feature in her policy , as is the Blue Ridge in her geography . It can never be suppressed nor evaded . " These statements and admissions , mixed and confused as they are , fairly represent the state of mind of some of the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of the problem with which they have to deal . The state of things in South Carolina under the " domination of the lately enfranchised freedmen " is described with tolerable fairness as " riotous misrule , " but there is no admission of the fact that this was rendered inevitable by the attitude of the native whites toward enfranchisement at that time . They rejected and fought against it , and failed to exercise that control and direction which they might have secured , and the consequence for a time was " riotous misrule . " Still rejecting and despising the rights of the people , they resumed control , as Gov . HAGOOD says , with certain beneficial results , but he can neither deny the evil methods by which this was done nor justify them even by the tyrant 's plea of necessity . But now , with the infamous frauds of the recent election so fresh in mind , he is brought to admit that the political equality of all men is , at least in theory , a fixed feature of the policy of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the life of the State within the conditions that surround us ; " that is , to reconcile good government and the public weal with a practical recognition of the rights of citizens . This is , indeed , the problem for the people of the whole South , and its solution is all before them , for as yet they have made no attempt to solve it . They have had difficulties and embarrassments to contend with which they have never grappled with in the proper spirit . They are by no means at an end-of them , and the question now is whether they will at last deal with them in the spirit of enlightened self-interest and essential justice . The Southern problem is one which can be solved only in the South . The people of the whole country through the national Government may do something to facilitate the task and to promote the conditions necessary to its successful performance , but they can not take it out of the hands of those whom it immediately and closely concerns . The South needs an " intelligent and thrifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accession to the labor forces required to develop its resources , but it needs it more than all to help to regenerate the social and political forces that are struggling for good government without the sacrifice of the principles of equality and justice . But how is it to get this accession of industrial and political strength ? Not by depriving any part of its people of freedom of opinion and freedom of action in politics , nor by nullifying the expression of their will by frauds on the ballot-box . But the plea is made that the " lately enfranchised freedmen , " who constitute a majority of the legal voters in South Carolina , produce " riotous misrule " when permitted to dominate , and that only those are fit to govern who have inherited the capacity from a " thousand years of a free ancestry . " How , then , are the freedmen to be made fit without waiting a thousand years , or how are they to be allowed to exercise their rights without bringing the rest of the people under their ignorant " domination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern mind the matter does not seem so difficult , while to the Southern mind it has hitherto appeared impossible . The class which claims an inherited capacity for self government has placed itself in antagonism to the doctrine of equality and thrown the whole mass of enfranchised freedmen into one party , without the proper intermixture of trained and influential men . These freedmen have been justified in the belief that their rights depended upon an adherence to one party , because the other has always been hostile to those rights . If now the whites are prepared to accept , not in words merely , but in action , the equality of all men as a fixed feature of their policy , " never to be suppressed nor evaded , " they will find themselves speedily on the way to the solution of the problem that vexes them . Nothing else is needed .                     