@@780815

txt The Archbishops of New-York , Baltimore , Cincinnati , and Philadelphia and several other prelates are expected at the Vatican soon to confer with the Propaganda upon the extension of church regulations to the clergy of America . There are 12 Catholic ecclesiastical provinces in the United States , the principal incumbent of each of which is an Archbishop , and it is probable that all or nearly all of the Archbishops in this country will go to Rome in about a month . It has been customary , said a gentleman conversant with ecclesiastical matters last evening , for all Catholic Archbishops to go every 10 years to Rome and report to the congregation of Cardinals of the Propaganda on the condition and progress of the church within their respective districts . Some time ago Cardinal McCloskey issued a circular to the priests within the Province of New-York , calling for a Provincial Synod to be held in the cathedral in this City during the nineteenth week after Pentecost , that is , from the 23d to the 30th of this month , and to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the assistant clergy as shall conveniently be able to take part in the public prayors and procession that will precede the council , and to assist at the solemn sessions on the 23d , 27th , and 30th inst . At this Synod the Bishops and superior clergy will report on the condition of affairs in their sees and pastorates . It is probable that the example of the New-Tork Province in holding a Synod will be followed by the other Provinces iu the country . and then the Archbishops will , with their accumulated reports , proceed to Rome . The conference of the Archbishops with no Propaganda upon the extension of church regulations to the clergy of America , mentioned in the dispatch , is said to refer.to the supposed intention to extend the rules of the canon law , as laid down in the Council of Trent , to this country . These rules refer to the management of dioceses and ecclesiastical discipline and church regulations and education . in what are known as Catholic countries these regulations have always been in force , but in what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classified , they have not always been enforced . In this country the regulations have to a certain extent been followed , and a Judices Causarum , an ecclesiastical court before which a priest may lay a grievance or make an appeal , was appointed in this Province some time ago .                     