@@745314

txt When the conference of the European powers and the United States was called by the invitation of Germany the project was received with a good deal of doubt and some ridicule in England , in France , and in the United States . Some of the English papers , relying on the intimate relations between Great Britain and Portugal , declared that there was nothing for the conference to do , since Portugal was quite able and was entitled to manage the mouth of the Congo with En gland 's help , while the latter power had , or would have in clue time , treaties with the tribes along the banks that would place it in its natural position of guardian of the world 's interests in Africa . In France the proposition for a conference was regarded with suspicion because it came from the terrible Prince BISMARCK , and some of the more earnest . writers on the subject declared that France already had a lodgment on the Congo on the shores of Stanley Pool and treaties with the neighboring chiefs made by DE BEAllA. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any conference might wish to do or . wish her to do . In the United States we were warned to keep clear of entangling alliances , and assured that no good could come of mixing ourselves with the disputes of European powers . But , curiously enough , these plausible predictions and warnings have been singularly wide of what has actually occurred . There has been found to be in the conference substantial agreement as to the firm establishment of the principle of absolute freedom of trade not only on the Congo River , but on ? its tributaries and throughout the ' basin drained by these streams . This embraces a very wide region on the west coast , which is still more extensive in the interior , and . covers -a large portion of the continent , stretching well across it . The . English representatives have ? shown very little concern for the pretensions of Portugal , and have been anxious rather with regard to the interests of their own country on the Niger . The French have found no trap laid for them by BISMARCK , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see that their commercial interests ? if not their famous " sensibilities " ? would be favored by the international arrangement proposed . As for the United States , while the views of our Government have been considered with respect , the conference has relied for guidance in its deliberations almost entirely on the information furnished by Mr. STANLEY , one of the expert delegates of the United States . Being embarrassed by no " entangling alliances , " our representatives have done much to bring about the substantial accord that has so far prevailed . There still remains to be definitely settled the question of territorial delimitation with the connected problem of jurisdiction . But while this subject will necessarily provoke some difficulty it is most probable that it will be solved in the spirit shown in the adoption of the principle of absolute liberty of commerce . Indeed , if this principle be sustained in good faith , and an adequate system for its maintenance and application be devised , the question of jurisdiction will become one of secondary importance . It has been taken up so early and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even of a prima facie character , to be adjusted . Trouble of a more formidable character may arise in connection with the region of the Niger and the recent acquisitions in South Africa by Germany . The issue by Prince BISMARCK of a " white book " giving the details of the operations in South Africa is an event so entirely unprecedented that it is calculated to cause a good deal of excitement . But there does not seem any present reason to expect serious differences between England and Germany , and these are apparently all that could now interfere with the work of the conference .                     