@@744718

txt Commissioner Evans succumbs , not gracefully , but unwillingly , to save the Administration from embarrassment , and determines to return Mr. C. M. Horton to private life , instead of retaining him ' in the employment of the Revenue Bureau . Mr. Evans still refuses to give the press access to the report of Collector Slack in the Horton case , or to answer any questions in regard to it . Upon the arrival of THE Tisixs 's special dispatch of last night giving some of the salient points of the report , he immediately issued an order to the heads of divisions that hereafter no information is to be furnished the press without first submitting it to him . He then devoted himself to the preparation of a brief on the Horton case , which he has this evening furnished to two press associations . It does not quote the language of the Slack report , and what is worse , it does not give an accurate representation of those parts to which it does refer . Further than this , it carefully withholds some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to break their force in'advancEi . It is in many respects the most remarkable communication ' yet furnished to the press by an official of his rank . It argues Mr. Horton 's innocence from first to last , and yet declares that tue moment the Commissioner read the Slack report he demanded Mr. Horton 's resignation . In addition , the , forced resignation of an innocent man is asked in order to saved the Administration from embarrassment . The embarrassment of the Administration , which is several times referred to will just begin when the President sees Mr. Evans 's paper in print . As the position held by Mr. Horton is not an appointment but an employment solely under the authority of the Commissioner , and one over which neither the Secretary of the Treasury nor the President has by law any control , the embarrassment of the Administration will probably begin when it finds Mr. Evans furnishing the preys with such a paper as that prepared to-day . As an evidence of the false impression sought to be created by this document , it says of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a conclusion that the evidence failed to connect Mr. Horton with the receipt of the 5500 paid by Mr. Carter . " The report shows that Mr. Carter did exactly what he charged in his letter to the President , that is to say , he did pay 5500 to a friend of Mr. Horton , with whom Horton called at Carter 's store , and with whom Horton consulted while they were in the store , Horton remaining in the store till after the money was paid , and after the payment the so-called seizure of the stock was declared at an end . This is a fair illustration of the character of Mr. Evan 's brief . While not specially important , except as an indication of the carelessness of Mr. Evans 's statements , it is not correct to say that Collector Slack 's report remained unopened here during the Commissioeer 's absence . As a matter of , fact it was not only opened in his office hero , but a synopsis was telegraphed to him , and its points also became known to others outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of with 10 mild lines what are kn own to be very grave charges by several reputable Boston fis ms , one of them being that 5800 was paid personally to Horton to prevent a threat ? enod seizure . From his frequent requests to Mr. Horton to resign , it is evident either that Mr. Evans does not know he holds no appointment that calls for a resignation , or that he thinks the public does not know it . Under the law Mr. Horton is simply employed by Mr. Evans by the day . Mr. Horton may find it difficult to understand why , if he is innocent , as Mr. Evans argues , it should be due to the Administration and due to Mr. Evans that he should step out , and how the retention of a man so freshly and fully vindicated could create an embarrassment that would call for relief ; and yet Mr. Evans presents the case in that light . It is at least significant to know from Mr. Evans himself that no weight was attached to the charges made to Collector Slack by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal knoWledge of Mr. Horton 's irregularities . The reason for withholding Collector Slack 's report , while furnishing a misleading brief baied upon it , is inadvertently stated in the close of Mr. Evans 's article , and appears to be that the expected resignation of Mr. Horton would make it unnecessary to spread the scandal before the country to the confusion of the officer who appointed him in place of a.faithful and efficient revenue agent . 