@@744494

txt Whatever results may favorably accrue to Senator George H. Pendleton by reason of his civil service reform venture in New-York or the East , it certainly has been a profitless investment so far as the Ohio Democrats are concerned . Whatever may have been the disloyalty of the Democratic Party of Ohio during the war , or the heresies of financial belief into which it has fallen in later years , it has always possessed a rough , shell-bark hickory honesty of expression that has not kept its purposes or desires from view . It has always gone on the principle that the people were not to be gammoned by fine phrases , and that a hunt for offices was not made the easier by a pretension that the salvation of the country was the first thought , and office-seeking only a secondary consideration . They have therefore been more outspoken than the Republicans , and confessed to the hunger that was at work within them . The man who blurted out in the Republican National Convention of 1881 , " If we are not after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Ohio Democrat in nature , although a Republican by profession , and a Texan by nativity . The endeavor of the Democratic Senator of Ohio , therefore , to close the door on the golden future of 18S4 which nine of every ten of his party in this State believe has been foreordained to dawn upon them was at first met with good-natured contempt and the declaration that it was all buncombe and would never be pushed with any serious purpose . But when time and events proved that Mr. Pendleton had really gone in on this line with all seriousness , and risked his political future on it with the same recklessness that had led him to the edge of destruction through a half-insane Greenbackism a few years ago , contempt turned to opposition and indifference gave way to fear . The feelings of his constituents were not long left unuttered , and from every corner of the State a howl of rage was sent up from the Democratic press . The Cincinnati Enquir , , e , the Cleveland Plain Dealer , the Toledo Democrat , the Hancock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Mount Vernon Banner , the Seneca Advertiser , the Stark County Democrat , the Bryan Democrat , the Warren Constitution , the Chillicothe A drertiser. and a dozen other Democratic papers of great local influence have been very outspoken against what they call a weak and untimely move on the part of Mr. Pendleton , and some of their remarks have been characterized by great bitterness . Comments like these are met in their columns with each issue : " What we need is a genuine reform by turning the thieves out of office and putting honest men in . We favor that kind of civil service reform . " " We do n't want any fool civil service reform bill passed that will keep Republicans in office . " " The way to reform the civil service is to get the Republicans out of office . " " Rotation in office is the only way to keep matters straight , and that is the Democratic rule . " " Senator Pendleton may mean well In his able efforts for ' swivel ' service reform , but it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the wrong road to popularity . " " We are in favor of civil service reform after the Democratic Party gets control of ' Government offices . " " Nowthat the Republican Party has the offices , we are not favorable to a measure that will retain the offices in the hands of men who , from long experience , would possess an aptness for answering questions relating to the public service that a new set of men equally honest and equally capable could net so glibly answer . " " lieform is aoing all right , and does not need any doctoring . " " We have grave doubts whether the plan proposed by Mr. Pendleton is the best to remedy the evil . " " If Senator Pendleton wishes to be his own successor the quicker he abandons his bill to keep Republicans in office the nearer ho will come to getting there . " " Senator Pendleton 's Civil Service bill is obnoxious to the Democracy and the people , and he ought to see and know it . " This might go on indefinitely . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentiment of the locality in which they are published , and the greater the Democratic majority in a county the more outspoken is the denunciation of Senator Pendleton . " We feel , " said a prominent Eastern Ohio Democrat to THE TIMES 'S correspondent , " that the Senator is looking out for himself in this matter rather than for us . He hopes to gain fame and advancement by his advocacy of a great moral doctrine , but he forgets that he has little hope in politics except by permission of the Democrat-. is Party of Ohio . Yet he proposes to shut us out of the fruits of our long waiting and hard work , by what Bill Allen would have called a new d  --  d barren ideality . ' The long and the short of it is that Mr. Pendleton hopes to shove his nose deeper into the public crib , wails he asks us to keep on bleating out in the cold . Of course Politics make men selfish , but they need not make them foolish as well . If Pendleton could have seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , Come on , boys , it is our turn now . Let us gain possession of the Government , and then every man will get his slice . ' But instead of doing that he has put himself in such a position that were we to nominate and elect him President , the barest fc.rm of consistency would compel him to deny us all , and keep the wellfed Republicans under perpetual pay . We like reform in the abstract , but over in our end of the State the Democrats are not hungering for martyrdom . " And so one hears it all over the State . The party that believes in such practical , " grab-all-you-can-get " politicians as W. D. Hill , John G. Thompson , Ben La Fevre , 0 . H. Payne , W. W. Armstrong , L. D. Thoman , and George L. Converse has little patience for statesmen of the gilt-edge school . Mr. Pendleton 's course may have won him friends in some quarters of the country , but it has done him an irreparable damage in Ohio . 