@@745995

txt The prosperity of the State of New-York depends upon its commercial advantages . These have induced the growth of cities forming the centres at which the principal transactions of business are carried on . Lines of transportation converge to these and diverge from them for the collection and distribution of commodities in the operations of domestic and foreign trade , and they become the headquarters of corporations engaged not only in transportation but in insurance and the facilitation of exchanges of various kinds . In cities capital accumulates for these purposes ; there manufactures reach their highest development , and there the wholesale and jobbing trade is concentrated . In respect to all these matters the cities become the seat of those agencies which facilitate the operations of commerce , from which the whole State derives in. a large measure its prosperity . Of course , in the cities also large profits accrue , and wealth accumulates and is invested in various forms . It shows itself in the high values of real estate and in costly buildings . Under any fair system of taxation a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities , because in them valuations are high in proportion to their wealth and the objects of taxation are abundant . Their burdens are enormous for local purposes , and they contribute to the support of the State Government in full proportion to their wealth . But constant complaint comes from the rural districts of the unfair burden of taxation upon them , and constant effort is made - to get the entire weight of State taxation upon the cities . Almost every proposition that is made for obtaining State revenue - without direct assessment upon property looks to drawing that revenue from the cities and in very many instances by a , tax not upon accumulated wealth , but upon business operations and agencies that are the very sources of the State 's prosperity . In the first place , the assessments upon property , which are enormous in the cities , are yearly increased for State purposes by the Bdard of Equalization for the relief of the rural districts . The corporations which are made to bear a large proportion of State taxes have their chief offices and perform their principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried in largest quantities . There their securities are chiefly held , and taxation upon their capital and indebtedness draws directly from the funds employed in business . But this is not enough . Rural representatives in the Legislature rack their brains for new methods of drawing taxes directly from the business operations of the cities , and especially those of the city of New-York , which is the financial centre of the country . In the bill for taxing the sale of beverages which was discussed in the Senate yesterday the tax is put much higher upon places at which liquor is sold in large cities than upon those in other parts of the State . The liquor business is much more extensive in those cities . but it is indicated by the greater number of establishments rather than by their greater size . But a burden on this business should have in view its regulation and restriction rather than revenue , and as the communities in which the business is carried on have to suffer its evil consequences , bear the waste caused by it , and pay the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ought to have the benefit of such revenue as is obtained from it . But the main object of the Vedder bill is to draw still more heavily upon the resources of the cities for the support of the State Government and the relief of rural taxpayers . But the worst epecimen of this kind of discriminating legislation appears in the bill which the Senate passed yesterday , taxing the sales of brokers in stocks and securities . Mr. VEDDER spoke of these brokers very unjustly as rich men who have established . a monopoly in the business of dealing in stocks . Those whose business is merely that of brokers are not so rich as a class as those who deal in dry goods , and they have no more ot a monopoly . Their business is entirely legitimate , and serves a useful purpose in the community . Their sales are no more a proper subject of taxation than the sales of any other class of dealers . These sales are an incident , and an important one , in the vast complication of commercial and financial transactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon them is like putting a ligature upon one of the arteries through which the currents of our business life are coursing . Its tendency is to cheek the freedom and activity which are the source of our wealth , and it is in violation of the most elementary principles of taxation . But its intent is to obtain in some way , however clumsy or imprudent , more revenue from the city for the support of the State , though at the cost of the very forces that make the wealth of the city and . the State . The ultimate object aimed at is apparently the entire support of the State Government at the expense of the business which is concentrated upon New York Bay , with incidental aid from Buffalo , Albany , and the other cities .                     