@@780939

txt In the Beiechstag to-day Prince Bismarck declared that the reintroduction of Dr. Windthorst 's motion to repeal the law empowering the Government to expel or intern priests for illegally exercising their functions after its recent rejection by the Bundesrath was disrespectful to the Bundesrath . Moreover , he said , the last two Prussian Ministers of Public Worship had not applied the law . The attitude taken by the party of the Centre impeded an understanding between Germany and Rome . Prussia would not consent to repeal the law  --  at least not for the Polish districts . The Government would only accept a prelate for the Archbishopric of Posen , who did not sympathize with the efforts to sever West Prussia and Upper Silesia from the Prussian State . The negotiations , between Prussia and the Roman Curia since 1878 had been practically without result , although Prussia had granted various concessions . These negotiations are still pending . The Government could afford to wait . It would only make further concessions in case concessions were made by Rome with a view to the restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince Bismarck , the Chancellor continued his remarks against Dr. Windthorst 's motion . Ho declared that the freedom of the church was nowhere challenged , and that Prussia 's rejection of the Papal candidates for the Bishopric of Posen was simply an exercise of her sovereign rights and was in accordance with treaties . Prince Bismarck said that he was rejoiced to hear Dr. Windthorst state that be was opposed to a Parliamentary Government . If it were possible for tae Government Quietly to resign and say to the majority : " Here- are our portfolios ; he good enough to continue the dispatch of public business . " then matters would be even worse than now . If the majority , consisting of the Conservatives , the Centre , with its adherents , the New German Liberals , the Volkspartei , and the Social Democrats had to reconstruct the Government the result would be a ministry like that of England under Mr. Gladstone . He predicted the breaking up of the Centre Party when the Kulturkampf terminated , and its members would either join the Progressive Party or disappear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned about the struggle between Church and State than Dr. Windthorst suppose a . The law , he contended , was directed against political agitation , and not against religious liberty . In spite of Prince Bismark 's opposition Dr. Windthorst 's motion to repeal the law in question was passed by a vote of 217 to 93 . PARIS , Dec. 3 . ? The Morning News reports that Count Herbert Bismarck recently challenged Herr Eugene Richter on the ground that the latter had insulted the Chancellor in a speech in the Reichstag . Herr Richter refused to accept the challenge . He declared that he would not fight a duel with Prince Bismarck even concerning a matter which occurred in Parliament . and if not with him then much less with his son .                     