@@781638

txt A considerable number of intelligent and respectable citizens of New-York are daily disgusted at the evidence of the interest taken by a still more considerable number of persons whom they assume to be less intelligent and . respectable in the game of baseball . They regard it as monstrous and aosura tnat the papers should devote so much space - to chronicling the procedures of nine persons of no eminence except for their capabilitiesof throwing , catching , and hitting balls and of running short distances with . rapidity . They deplore the effect et these chronicles upon the young , and they resent the absence from the public prints of matter more interesting to themselves which they assume is displaced to make room for the accounts of baseball matches . Those of them whose disgust has not prevented them from learning anything at all of its subject point out that it is not even a local pride that is properly involved , since the players are mercenaries who may appear this season in the green shirts and scarlet stockings and blue caps of . one community , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new allegiance . This is all true , and yet the zealots of baseball , at least in this city , have some reason on their side , though they may not be able to produce it . However illogical it may be that local pride should be aroused by the victories of one team of professional baseball players over another or touched by its defeats , yet , as a matter of fact , that feeling is enlisted on the part of a considerable fraction of the pppulation in the varying fortunes of the so-called . " NewYorks , " and we hold that anything whatsoever that-can excite the local pride of NewYork is so far a good thing . ' For local pride is much the same thing as public spirit , which at least can not exist without it , and there is no city in the world that is more deficient in public spirit than New-York , or that ought to welcome more anything that tends to stimulate that quality . It is in some respects a misfortune fora town to be the biggest in its country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would gladly assnme . Its inhabitants are too apt ' . to assume that its bigness puts it out of competition and that deleted 4 lines he is equally sure to regard the indication as " provincial , " assuming that the , establislunent by the census that there are more head " of New-Yorkers than-of Bostonians or Philadelphians renders any other indication of its superiority unnecessary . He is only internationally sensitive . When he goes to London or Paris , or when a Londoner or a Parisian is under his charge in his own city ; he is apt to wish that he bad something else to point out than the bigness in which their cities exceed his own . He would like them to admire New-York , though he is above soliciting the admiration of his countrymen . The , Londoner , on the other hand , has not even our international susceptibility , now that the old censuses of Pekin are discredited , and if his American visitor does not like London he will cheerfully agree with him that it is a beastly hole . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any . If New-York were not , so big as to be out of competition In that respect it would doubtless be a better place to live in , and anything that brings it into direct competition with other cities , even in so trivial a matter as playing baseball , has wholesome elements . It is not at all municipally important that the New-Yorks should win the championship , but it is important that New-Yorkers should be anxious that their city should excel in anything . When Iroquois won the Derby it was plausibly. said that the - victory raised the United States higher in the estimation of the general mass of Englishmen than any other they had ever achieved . A cynical philosopher , replying to a person uninterested in aquatic sports , who betrayed the same impatience with the inordinate attention paid by the press and . the public to the international yacht races that we are now remarking upon with reference to baseball , defended the public interest upon the ground that the America 's Cup was really the only trophy the country had to show . Possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pennant by New-York would be equally exaggerated , but at all events the competition proves that it does not quite suffice for all New-Yorkers that . New- . York is big . if this sentiment were extended in more rational directions there might actually come an irresistible public demand that New-York should become the best paved , cleaned . and policed ' city and the most attractive place of residence in the United States . Meanwhile , , any stir of local pride is to be welcomed that makes a beginning in the direction of that distant and Utopian end .                     