@@745356

txt J. C. Talbot , alias Otto . Funk , who was arrested here yesterday for stealing over 2,000 books from the public library , proves to be a dangerous crank . Two mysterious boxes were found at Police Headquarters in the City Hall to-day among the six wagon loads of books taken from his lodgings , and Detective Bonfield was the only man brave enough to examine them . One of these boxes was labeled " Dynamite " and the smaller one was uninscribed . The detective carefully carried the boxes out into the court between the City Hall and the Court House . In the smaller box , which was about a foot long and Rix inches deep , the officer found a nickle-plated revolver . minus tine barrel , packed in sawdust saturated with glycerine , and in the sawdust were several cakes of dynamite . A little crank made of thick wire was attached to the outside of the box , and had this been turned an inch the cartridge would have been exploded with fearful results . In the larger box was found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The operations of the courageous detective were timidly watched by a crowd of people who stood at a good safe distance . Talbot admits that the cakes in the smaller box were genuine dynamite , and enough was found to blow up a structure larger than the City Hall . The officers who recovered the stolen books last night carelessly tossed the infernal machines into a patrol wagon and out again into headquarters . After the discovery they . erect when they thought of their narrow escape . Had the boxes been exploded while they were being tossed about this morning both the City Hall and Court House would have been wrecked and hundreds of persons killed . It is believed by the officers that the bookstealing crank had prepared the machines to blow:himself into eternity if his thefts were discovered . Talbot is a graduate of the Chicago University , . a medical student . and a former employe of I ho library . He is about 27 years of age , 5 feet 5 inches in height , wears a full beard , and is of German descent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ho has three married sisters living in the city . When arrested he wore a long-tailed coat , on the inside of which were sewn two buttons to which be attached a strong bag when he went on his book hunts . About four years ago he was arrested for stealing l , 200 books from Jansen , McClurg Co. and indicted , but a jury let him oil on the ground that he was insane . The detectives returned 2,280 books to the public library this afternoon , and have several hundred more volumes belonging to firms in the city .                     