@@780930

txt State Attorney Fessendon 's trio of detectives returnee tss . Bridgeport this evening from their Naugatuck N.alloy excursion to confess that their three days ' labor there has been virtually in vain . It has been boasted in the Inner official circles of Fairfield County that finally a big burst of light was about to illuminate the mysterious murder of Rose Clark Ambler , and reveal to justice her slayer . As stated in the dispatch to THE TIMES yesterday the detectives have been industriously canvassing Birmingham , Derby , and Shelton , the villages which William Lewis . Rose 's lover , visits daily . In addition to the four affidavits there outlined the detectives have been able to obtain other statements from more or less responsible persons tending to criminate Lewis , but Interviews to-night with them and with the county officers , by whom they are employed and to whom they report , show plainly that these investigators are in anything else than a contented and satisfied mood . These latest clues , which at the start promised so much , hid fair to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inculpated  --  each in turn and separately  --  Boston White , the neero , John Pierce , the railroad employe , Michael Heslin , the threefingered Irishman , and Norman Ambler , the girl 's divorced husband . Oue after another each of these men were suspected , surrounded with criminating circumstances , placed under surveillance , and prepared for arrest , and in turn each suspicion was dismissed , and each suspect fitted out with an improachable record . But during all this time there have been expressions of opinion that some guilt somehow must attach to William Lewis , the insipid fellow who sent his sweetheart unprotected toward her home over a lonely country road in the night-time . Twice was his record searched , twice was he depleted Innocent . The State 's attorney and the Coroner questioned him . The jury rigidly examined him . The detectives confronted him with charges . The State attorney and the Coroner , the jury and the detectives all dismissed him from their presence . with the statement that not a scintilla of convincing evidence was obtainable against him . sari @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory which involved him was the theory of a volunteer detective , and they of the official household sneered and tabooed it . Two or three witnesses mime forward to testify that they had seen a mysterious stranger loitering on the ? renegue road , in Rose Ambler 's homeward path , and within an hour or less of the time when William Lewis avers that she bade him farewell at the grape arbor on that fateful Sunday night a fortnight ago . The oil elal detectives were impressed with the idea that they , too , must have a mysterious stranger . They claimed to have found one , but he was not produced , Their tardy pace intensified excitement , Stratford and the sturdy honest farmer folk , In town meeting ussembled , offered a reward of $1000 for the criminal 's apprehension . The mysterious stranger theory forthwith disappears and William Lewis is brought to the rack again , but the pursuit loiters while the public demands a bigger reward , hoping so to induce quicker and better work . State Attorney Fessenden and Gov . Waller agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the announcement comes from official circles that an arrest is not to be longer delayed . William Lewis is to be sent to Bridgeport Jail . Spots on his laprobe , which an export is expected to discover are human Wood , were to be considered sufficient evidence in connection with certain other circumstances heretofore explained fully in Toe Times . The expert 's report , however , perhaps to be delayed for several daya.was to be super-ceded by startling statements from citizens of Birmingham and Shelton . Their statements were put in the form of affidavits . Yesterday they were to have been certified and made stronger to-day . Here was where the latest disappointing feature of the case has overtaken the States detective trio . Gentlemen in the mood for gossip on Friday and willing to dictate atlidavite then appear in a different mood on Saturday . Charges made boldly then are qualified and softened now , and testimony which seemed likely to throw a close net-work of circumstantial suspicion around William Lewis - snaps and breaks at nearly every fibre , and the warrant prepared tin take the'eblprit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pocket . Samuel Durand , of Birmingham . and S. E. Woodward , of Shelton , both of whom keep country grocery stores and receive daily visits Hem Lewis . were chief among the witnesses who promised most important testimony . When originally seen by the detectives these gentlemen were quoted as authority for statements which would have gone far toward crlminating Lewis . The story then attributed to Mr. Durand was as folloWs : " William Lewis came into my store on the day that the body of Rose Ambler was found , and before I had heard any rumors of the crime . Be seemed much depressed , and , In reply to my inquiry as to the cause of his solemn manner , he said : Why , have n't you hoard that my girl was murdered last night ' ? ' Then Lewis told in a detailed way the story of the crime , something after the way I read of it later in the newspapers . lie spoke of his intended marriaeo and professed to have loved the girl very dearly . When I asked it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said : Yes , there are two negroes In Stratford whom I suspect . and If they ever come across my truck J will shoot them . ' During his conversation he shed tears . " This was the story the detectives expected to incorporate Into Mr. Derand 's affidavit , but Mr. Durand wavered when asked to make oath to it . The most Important point , that this alleged talk by Lewis was on the day that the body of Rose Ambler was fouhd , was almost wholly abandoned when the time came to sign the prepared affidavit . If it was a later day the testimony was Practically useless , if on this particular day it would go far toward a conviction , for William Lewis , as a dozen witnesses have testified , loft Stratford at 3 o'clock on that morning , four hours or more before the young woman 's body was discovered by the Raven stream . So vanished the Durand story . Grocer Woodward 's testimony held out but little better , and the affidavit , as finally prepared , contains virtually nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he could name the murderer or murderers , for Mr. Woodward quotes Lewis as saying : " One man did not commit the deed . for Rose was too strong . and one man could not handle her . 1 have felt of her and I know what she can do . " Mr. Woodward adds that subsequently Lewis denounced him for having repeated this statement , and declared that he had never used anon language , but finally , in soft-ened tones , said : " I could tell you all about this murder If I had not been advised to keep my mouth shut . I would rather toll you than any other man . " Grocer Woodward Intimated that he was holding hack evidence of a most startling character , an Intimation , however , that the nthdavit-gathering detectives have found unfruitful . The doleful countenances of the detectives tonight show that Grocer Woodward and Grocer Durand did not weaken more than did others who were to condense convicting evidence Into affidavit form . Ono Naugatuck mall has been found who testifies that William Lewis declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hose 's divorced husband , and other people are quoting Lewis as attributing the crime to Boston White and a colored companion . The mention of the name of Norman Ambler gives rise to a threat which that person is said to have uttered since his innocence was established by an alibi . " William Lewis must be careful hew he talks about me , " so the threat runs , " or I will I make It awful hot for him . He and I have talked about Rose , and I know from his own lips that he was anxious to get the girl out of the way after lie had won his victory by stealing her from me . " Norman ambler is now at his home near Newat Ilford . but it is Intimated that a loug statement sworn to by him is in the possession of Coroner Holt .                     