@@745718

txt We are not in a position to say that Mr. LOGAN is weary of the fight in the Senate over the Edmunds resolutions , but he acts as if he were . Whether it be due to a conviction that the action he has induced the Senate to take on the Dement case has knocked the bottom out of those resolutions , or whether it be due to a perception of public opinion as to the real position of the majority Senators , we do not know , but the resolution introduced by Mr. LOGAN yesterday assuredly points the way which Mr. EDMUNDS must follow if he does not wish to wreck the party of which he has assumed the leadership . This resolution was as follows : Resolved . That the sessions of the Senate commonly known as executive sessions , so far as they apply to nominations , confirmations , or rejections , shall hereafter be held with open doors , and that a public record of the same shall be kept the same as of legislative sessions . We have no desire to impute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will undoubtedly be able to sustain his resolution by sufficient arguments ' based on the public good . But Mr. LOGAN is an experienced politician and a very shrewd one , and it is not uncomplimentary to him to say that he has recognized the drift of public sentiment , and in preparing to go with it is showing himself a far wiser party man than those who resist it . The safety of the Republican Party lies in open sessions . It can do nothing to regain public confidence unless it resort to them . Had the leaders , so far as it has any , of the party in the Senate taken a moderate course toward the new Administration , the secrecy of the Senate might have been maintained for a long time without any special consequences . Sensible men who had reflected on the subject would have seen that it was an anomaly , an abuse , and , in some regards , a nuisance . But public sentiment would not have been aroused . The people generally would have been indifferent . Had the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to removals or the reasons for removals except in cases of conspicuous error or injustice , no one would have seriously questioned the persistence of the Senate in its time-honored course . But this policy was not pursued . The Republican leaders were too eager . They were not content with such reasonable ground of criticism as might be afforded in the regular course of affairs . They wanted to pick flaws in the President 's policy from the start . They set out on a hunt for political capital . They forgot that in fixing public attention on the President 's way of dealing with the offices they must necessarily , at the same time , invite attention to their own way of dealing with the same subject . They did not perceive that every time they accused Mr. CLEVELAND of concealing his motives for his official acts they were ' provoking the question why they shrouded their own motives under an oath of complete concealment . They also failed to see that their real difficulty in finding fault with him lay in the fact that there was very little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense and cool judgment they would have gone on with their regular business and waited for some good opportunity to gain legitimate party advantage . In doing so they would have helped , without directly trying , to divide the Democratic Party , for up to the time the Edmunds policy took shape the President was steadily losing active sympathy in his own party . The Republicans did not perceive that their tacit approval of his course would be more effective in weakening him with the Democrats than anything else they could possibly provide for that purpose . They made the mistake of attacking him , and his party was forced to rally to his support . Having deliberately chosen to make the question of the treatment of the civil service the chief issue of the session , the Republican leaders must now fortify themselves by abandoning the secret session . If they do not do this they will inevitably lose the day . They can not face the public conviction of the absurdity , the weakness , the hypocrisy of their position toward the President while they persist in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , undoubtedly , is what Mr. LOGAN perneives . He follows Mr. PLATT , and Mr. VAN WYCK in demanding that the doors be opened . He is a Senator of much ; neater influence and importance than either of these gentlemen . His resolution A yesterday marks the beginning of the Bud .                     