@@743571

txt If there is one thing more noticeable than another it is the general consolidation and activity in the camps of the Republicans since the result of the Maine election has become known . The fact is the Republicans were over-confident , and had not prepared for the money influence which the Democracy had carried into Maine . Nov , however , they have been awakened , and what promised to be a quiet campaign two weeks ago , is now turned into a most active one . The Democrats have been encouraged a little , and now give out that they will carry Ohio , but the members of the Republican Committee say they are ready for the onslaught and will not be found napping on election day . Gen. Beatty says : " It is the most fortunate thing that could have happened . We were too confident ; now we know what we have got to fight , and will be prepared to go into the contest . We will beat them out of . their boots , " said the General ; " mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an independent paper , says to-day just what the public mind has been and is now . The News puts it as follows : " The Maine election was a pretty bad wreck , but not a complete rout , for the Republicans . The first returns created something of a panic in the Republican camps throughout the country , but when later reports showed that the disaster was not of irreparable proportions , the depressed spirits of the Republicans gave way to buoyancy . The Maine battle was substantially a drawn one . The Republicans , whose vote is almost up to the highest they ever cast in the State , lost no important ground . ' The Legislature , which will have the choice of a United States Senator , is strongly Republican in both branches , and the Republican State ticket seems to be elected by a small plurality . About the only thing the Fusionists ( Democrats and Greenbackers ) have to crow over is the fact that they prevented Jim Blaine and his . Republican followers from giving one of their old-fashioned majorities . This Maine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has admonished them that they will be driven from power in this country if they do n't put forth their best endeavors to carry the October States . To the accomplish . ment of this end they are already mustering their latent energy , as is plainly indicated by the rapidly increasing warmth of the campaign , particularly in Ohio and Indiana . The last named State is now the main battle-ground . The Democracy can not lose it add elect Hancock . " 