@@745960

txt Nothing could show more plainly the attitude of a majority of the Senate toward questions relating to the public domain than the Senate 's action with regard to the Backbone grant and the House bill repealing certain land laws . For years the Interior Department has asked for legislation to keep the public lands out of the hands of thieves . Volumes of evidence have been presented , showing how rascals have used the homestead , preemption , timber-culture , and desert-land laws for the fraudulent acquirement of great estates and the discouragement and exclusion of real settlers . For years the department has recommended the repeal of some of these laws and the amendment of others . The House has responded more than once by passing bills in accordance with these recommendations , but in the face of all the exposures that have been made the Senate has never failed to defeat the bills by delaying action upon them or by attaching amendments devised to protect the very scoundrels for whose discomfiture legislation is required . In response to the recommendations of the President , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land Office , the House again passed in the first session of the present Congress a bill repealing the laws by the use of which thieves have been stealing the public lands . The bill was sent to the Senate and there certain amendments were adopted which transformed it into a measure for the protection of thieves . These amendments were denounced by the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the Land Office . The House , by a vote ' of 142 to 20 , refused to accept them . At the end of the session the bill was still in conference . Last Friday the conferrers held a final meeting , and resolved to report an absolute disagreement . The representatives of the Senate , Mr. PLUMB , Mr. Dom:a , ' and Mr. COCKRELL , refused to give up the Senate 's most important amendment , which is the eighth section of the Senate bill . Let us see what kind of a provision this is which the Senate insists upon retaining . Its nature has been clearly and forcibly exposed by Secretary LAMAR and Commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is what the Commissioner of the Land Office says : " This section the eighth practically cuts off adverse claims and effectually prohibits contests against invalid entries , also rendering impossible an official investigation of fraudulent ones ; confirms all entries that may be sold , however false or baseless , unless knowledge of the fraud is brought to attention within an impossible period ; deprives the land department of its jurisdiction to determine the validity of claims against the United States under the public land laws ; transfers executive functions to the judiciary ; imposes upon the courts duties which , if they could be performed , would require a qua.dru.plication of the judicial establishment , and makes an absolute confirmation after two years of all entries not otherwise confirmed in fact or effect by other provisions of this section and bill . " I regard this section as a nullification of all guards and restrictions on the public land laws ; as a reversal of the whole policy of legislation in respect to the acquisition of individual titles to public land ; as a repudiation of the pledges of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual settlement ; and , in short , as the destruction of the public land system of the United States . And I perceive that this radical change can have no other effect than to promote the interests of speculation and monopoly . " That is sufficiently explicit . Secretary LAMAR describes the amendment as follows : " It condones all fraudulent claims in the past , even those where the question has been adjudicated and the entries have been legally canceled , and it invites new frauds in the future by providing such a precedent . It does not limit the sales to those made prior to the act , but invites every fraudulent pre-emptor to make a swift conveyance of his claim , pretended or otherwise , and evade the penalty of the law . Its evident purpose is , however , not so much the relief of entry men as of their Assignees , of whom it is notorious there is a large number who have got into their hands great tracts of land by means of the grossest frauds and perjuries , which they have aided and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ever more severely condemned by the executive department directly interested in it and affected by it . The amendment was designed to confirm to thieves the title to their plunder . The Senate will not consent to the passage of the bill unless it shall contain this amendment . That is the case in a nutshell . We have suggested that it would be possible to preserve the public lands without repealing these laws by pursuing all the thieves through the agencies of the Department of Justice and the Federal courts . If , however , it be plain that the lands can not be protected except by a repeal of the laws specified in the House bill , , It follows that the Senate deliberately prevents the use of the only available means of protection by supporting this iniquitous amendment . If no law for the discomfiture of land thieves shall be passed by this Congress the people will know where khe blame should lie .                     