@@745638

txt An order to show cause why the judgment of divorce granted about a month ago in the ease of Allen R. Jones aginst Louisa A. Jones should not be set aside was argued in the County Court this forenoon . The matter is a very interesting one and involves the professional reputation of two or three leading lawyers , notably ex-Judge D. W. Small , to such an extent that disbarment proceedings have already been commenced against him . Judge Small has stood high among Wisconsin lawyers . He was Judge of the Circuit Court for a dozen years . In the Jones case to-day the affidavit of Louisa A. Jones was read by her attorney . The affidavit recites the fact that she obtained a divorce in the Circuit Court on Nov. 10 , 1883 . She was allowed alimony to the  --  amount of $25 per month . Ex-Judge David W. Small appeared for her in that ease . The alimony was collected by Judge Small up to Nov. 21 , 188.5 . On May 21. 1885 , her husband commenced a suit for absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Y. Hopkins . When the papers were served upon her she engaged Judge Small to defend the case . The ground of divorce stated in the complaint was voluntary separation for more than five years . Judge Sinai ' assured her that the plaintiff could not secure a divorce upon that ground . She made a verified answer to the complaint . Afterward Small informed her that the plaintiff had amended his complaint by changing the cause of action to one of desertion . She told Small that she was not willing that a divorce should be obtained by her husband and that she wanted him to resist the suit , which he pronlised to do . Believing that her attorney would protect and guard her interests , she left the matter entirely to him , Soon afterward she learned that a divorce had been granted by the County Court . She first learned of the matter through a newspaper article . She at once applied to Small for an explanation , and not receiving any satisfactory answer she employed other lawyers to investigate the matter . They discovered that Hopkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceeding had been hatched up in Small 's office . During the bearing to-day Hopkins made a clean breast of the matter and an affidavit to the effect that the affiant has been the law partner of Judge Small sine() last March , and that he was made acquainted with Allen It . Jones by Small In April last . He was sitting in one room of the firm 's office , and Judge Small and Jones were talking about bringing a divorce suit in another . Ho heard Judge Small say to plaintiff : " Tali ( with my partner about it and see what he says , " or words to that effect . After Jones left the office Small said to the affiant : " That man wants a divorce from his wife and he may come to you to get you to help him . If he does , you take his case . We may as well have the money in this office as to have it go to some other one . However , do not use my name as one of the attorneys for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , and I was her attorney in that . I do not know as it would be wrong for me to act as his attorney , but if my name does not appear as such there will be no chance for remarks . " After the lawyers had concluded their remarks Judge Mann sternly , and without a moment 's hesitation , stated that ho should set aside the judgment of divorce that Jones bad obtained in his court and dismiss the suit . He directed the clerk to record an order to that effect , and at once a motion was made and entertained that Small be investigated and duly disbarred.                     