@@781894

txt At last the Chinese are undertaking the construction of railways . But it does not appear that foreign syndicates are to profit by the changed attitude of the Government . In May last there was issued a decree sanctioning the building of railroads north of the Pei-Ho River in the province which contains the great city of Pekin . A company composed of Chinese officials was formed , and . native capitalists were urged to take stock . These capitalists , however , were unwilling to invest . Thereupon the Viceroy of the province issued a proclamation , in which the advantages to be derived from railway communication were set forth , and the rich were advised that by delay they might " lose their opportunity . " Investors ' still declined to support the work , and it is reported that French bankers have loaned the Government $4,500,000 to be used in building the road , which is to extend . from the mouth of the Pei-Ho to the interior by way of Tien-Tsin . The decree which marks this change of the Government 's opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emperor 's father to the Empress Regent . The memorialist , Prince I-HuAN ; was opposed to the innovation , but the arguments of Li-HUNG-CHANG and the Marquis TSENG have convinced him that the empire can not afford to be deprived of the iron roads . His memorial will be hereafter regarded as a State paper If great importance . The following is taken from it : " TsErza-CHI-I'sE the Marquis . Tsnico has been Ambassador in foreign countries for eight years , and has himself studied the railwarsystems of other nations , their utility in providing for the transport of troops and material . their immense benefit to the people , the large issues they involve , and the very great advantages to be derived from them ; and he has seen that they not wily afford protection to the frontier and a stimulus to Um tiade of the people , but at the same ' time are in no way attended with danger or hindrance to the State . Shia his appointment to the Tsung-li-Yfimen he has aevoted much thought to this matter and made many inquiries , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set forth in this memorial . In our deliberations we have dilly recognized the fact that the circtimatances of China have from ages past differed widely from those of other nations ; and , while we are fully cognizant of the many and great advantages to be derived from railways , we halts not been blind to the financial difficulties or to the objections that might exist to an unsightly network of railways spread hire a web over the land , as is the case in many countries . On the other hand , when we consider the important advantages to be gained in the facility and rapidity with which troops and material can be moved from place to place , we are convintes of tile desirability of taking the best measures in this direction . One should not.look at only one side of a question . " While it is proposed that a road connecting Pekin with the sea shall be built , China 's first and only railroad  --  the line seven miles long which affords an outlet for the coal mines of Kai-ping  --  is to be extended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension was in progress some , months ago . The leading , minds of China have not lost sight of the railway operations of other nations in Asia . They see the Transcaspian . Road approaching the Middle Kingdom through the heart of the continent , and know that Russia has determined to build a road through Siberia to the Pacific .. On the southwest the construction of roads through India and Burmah to the Chinese boundary *only a question of time . They are convinced that the empire must ! lave a system of railways , but they are hampered by the conservatism of the people . Eventually that conservatism will be overcome .                     