@@743895

txt Judge Shipman , of the United States Court , has rendered a decision which is considered of great Importance as a test of Southern claims on life insurance policies . In 1852 the Connecticut Mutual Company issued a three-thousand-dollar policy on the life . of Lewis Ellis , of Virginia . Premiums were paid up to June , 1860. when , the war breaking out , the company ceased doing business in the South , and there was no tender of premiums . Ellis died in 1860 . In 1856 the Virginia Legislature enacted a law requiring life companies to appoint resident attorneys upon whom legal service could be made , and It provided that in case a company should issue policies without having complied with the law the policies should be valid , and the agent should be liable to a penalty . The Connecticut Mutual Company appointed aS its agent A. A. Little to accept service under the law . Little acted till the war brokia out , but not afterward with the knowledge of the company , and at the close of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the company in the State after 1861 . Little died in 1876 , and C. W. Edrington was appointed his Administrator . In 1877 the Virginia Legislature passed a law providing , in case of the death , removal from the State , resignation , or removal from office of the agent , the company shall make a new appointment , and in case of failure to make such appointment , the personal representative of the deceased person shall be held authorized to accept service . No such power of attorney can be revoked until after a like power has been given to some competent person . In 1873 the wife of Ellis brought suit against the Administrator of Little to recover the face of the policy , with interest . The defendant made no appearance , and the jury gave a verdict for $2,200 and interest from Oct. 6 , 1877 . The claim of the plaintiff was that by virtue of the act of 1856 the defendant had entered into a contract to help an agent . in the State to accept process ; that , although this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because there was at least a liability upon it for the equitable value of policies which had become forfeited by the war , and that the defendant , failing to appoint an agent , Virginia had the right to direct how service of process should be made , and that such service would be valid . The opinion of Judge Shipman that , assuming each proposition to be true , but not admitting the truth of it , it remained to be shown that Virginia bad directed how process should be served upon a foreign corporation which had long heretofore ceased to do business in the State . The plaintiff 's position was that the State gave such direction by the act of 1877 . The court says : " It seems to be plain that the act of 1877 is prospective , and relates only to the companies which were , at the time of the passage of the act , engaged in the business of making or renewing contracts of insurance within the State , or should hereafter engage in such business . Statutes are to be considered prospective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a necessary implication to that effect . ( Harvey vs . Tyler , 2 Wall .. 328 ; Warren Manufacturing Company vs. . tEtna . Insurance Company , 2 Paine , 501 . ) The act is not In terms retrospective . It can not be presumed , in the absence of express terms , that it was the intention of the Legislature that the act should apply to a company which had abandoned business in 1861 , and that it should he construed to provide that the Administrator of an agent who had died before the passage of the act , and whose power terminated in 1861 , was clothed with power to accept service in 1861 . Such a construction of the statute is not permissible , unless language is used which admits of no other construction . In my opinion , the State court of Virginia had no jurisdiction of the defendant . Judgment should have been entered for the defendant . " 