@@745824

txt A dispatch from Washington this morning stated that W. H. Swallow had been arrested in that city for obtaining money under false pretenses . At Fredericksburg he ? obtained from Father Donohue , Pastor of St. Mary 's Church , $50 upon the statement that he was editor of the Southern , Bivouac of this city . At the office of the Bivouac it is said that Swallow is a very accomplished scoundrel . About a year ago he forwarded to the editors of that mitgaZine an article upon Lee 's invasion of Pennsylvania . Though the author was not known by name or reputation to the editors the article itself was of such a character as to at once secure consideration . Swallow 's style was exceedingly vivid and picturesque , and if he had not participated in the campaign he evidently had studied all that had . been ' written about IC , and as a result was able to present a paper of unusual merit . When published this article attracted considerable attention , but no one was able to identify the narrator . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but inquiry failed to discover his identity . After the publication of several articles from Swallow information came to the editors to the effect that he was a gentleman of good family and good education but lacked morals . It was said that he was a convict in the Tennessee Penitentiary , and was there repenting of his sins . It seems that he had swindled Dr. Ward , of Ward 's Seminary , in Nashville , by presenting a check with which he wished to pay in advance for the tuition of a daughter , and that he secured from Dr. Ward $50 upon this check . After the publication of his first article the Bivouac forwarded him payment for his work , and he sent for , Dr. Ward and repaid him . This information did not come from Swallow , but from others in Nashville who because of it had become interested in him . Some time last June Gov . Bate received information from Missouri to the effect that Swallow 's family had discovered his whereabouts , and upon representation that it was his first offense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without any knowledge of his intention on the part of Swallow , visited the prison July 4 , and in accordance with his usual custom pardoned a number of convicts , among them Swallow . It seems that the promised reformation with this forger did not last long . It is one of the peculiarities of crime that he should again resort to the practice which brought upon him such severe punishment before , for the man certainly has capacity enough to earn his living in an honest way . He is evidently a man of a certain amount of shrewdness and ability , especially of the kind which imposes upon the sympathetic classes . 