@@744411

txt Gen. Butler has accepted the nominations of the Democratic and Greenback-Labor conventions . In the letter to the Democratic committee , Gen. Butler , after acknowledging the honor , says that he had not desired to bo a candidate for any office at the coming election . Business engagements , personal and professional , had accumulated upon him to such an extent as to seriously raise the question whether in good faith to his clients and justice to his own affairs they could be laid aside even for the election canvass , much more if ho is to serve the State for a year . To that service no divided energy nor industry could be given . He says : " After a conference with my friends and clients , and waiving all considerations of personal sacrifice , I think it my duty to accept the very high honor and the opportunity to do great service which the convention has tendered me . I fully cencur in the declaration of principles and measures in the resolutions of the convention ; they seem to me to enunciate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson . While I do sometimes change relations with those with whom I act politically , I am not conscions of ever having changed the principles upon which I have acted , save as I have learned to discard errors by riper judgment and instructed conscience . All the issues of national politics of which the war was the result , or which grew out of it and the adjustment of its consequences , have now , or ought to have , passed away . Parties are actually divided upon the questions of equality , the rights of all men , governmental administration , economy in the expenditure of public money , both State and national , and methods of taxation . The platforms of of both parties agree in asserting the equal rights of all citizens and the necessity for an economical expenditure of public money ; and so far each might well subscribe to the other , so that only ' by their fruits ye shall know them . ' " Gen. Butler then discusses at length the leading issues before the people . Civil service reform in governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and efficiency in the incumbent have always seemed to the writer to insure to the occupant the best tenure of office . This has been his guide during his political life . As to the manner of the selection of public officials there was very much difference of opinion . Latterly a very considerable and well-educated class of citizens had insisted that the best mode of selection of persons for public trusts and administration was competitive examination and not otherwise . Still , as the experiment is substantially untried , Gen. Butler sees no reason why the trial should not begin in Massachusetts , and to attest his own sincerity in this regard is quite willing that competitive examinations should be made of candidates for the highest offices . Of the tariff and other taxation the General says : " Theoretically , free trade , that is , buying what you need cheapest and selling what you have dearest everywhere , would be true statesmanship in a country so situated that is might be carried out , but with the United States that is impossible . So large a sum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be required to be raised by the Customs revenue that all needed protection to American labor can be given to it within the limits of a tariff raised solely to meet the wants of the Government . I have yet to meet any thoughtful statesman who would seriously object to raising such a needed revenue incidentally to protect , to any needed extent , American enterprise and American labor . A tariff , therefore , intelligently framed , which should do this would have what enterprise and industry both need  --  the great element of stability , In raising such a revenue there should be no tax whatever upon the necessaries of life , Including in that term everything used by our whole people for their support , comfort , and necessities . The highest duties up to the point of possible collection should be laid upon luxuries . No taxes whatever should be levied upon American ship-building . " The letter closes with a strong condemnation of the extravagance in the expenditure of public money . He says : " There is no greater danger to the permanency of Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men having in charge moneys not their own to use them in wasteful and lavish appropriations not required by the public convenience or necessity . " The letter to the National Greenback-Labor committee , after tendering thanks for the nomination , says : " I can congratulate your convention that hereafter you may well lay aside the word " Greenback " as a designation of your party ? unless you keep it in remembrance of the fact that you took it upon you when conferred by your enemies as a title of reproach . In behalf of the greenback or legal-tender note , your labors are done , and the mission of your party is as completely fulfilled as is the mission of the Republican Party , which was the abolition of slavery . The greenback is now the money of the United States , and is the equal of gold and silver . " The committee is then referred to the expression of the writer 's views in his letter to the Democratic committee , and the rest of the communication is given to a restatement of his devotion to @ @ @ @ @ @ 