@@743390

txt From time to time in these columns , the advantages to the South which would follow the establishment of cotton mills in that section have been very fully set forth and commented upon . But , from one cause or another , suggestions of the kind indicated seemed to have found but little favor with the capitalists of the Southern States , and even less with the poor white men and women who would in any other community have gladly hailed the opportunity of becoming mill operatives . On the one hand , the principal objection to such establishments seemed to be that they were new , untried , and might prove disastrous speculations , and on the other , it was urged against them that the work which they had to offer was fit only for " low-down Yankees , " not for " the white people of the South . " Still , and in spite of these and many other objections equally ridiculous , the true friends of the Southern States continued to urge the importance of establishing cotton factories in them . Persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The people of Georgia , who are , beyond all comparison , the most enterprising , progressive , and wide-awake in the South , were among the first to see the profit which must surely follow the manufacture of cotton in the field which grew it , and some years ago extensive mills were erected at Columbus , Atlanta , and other points . More recently the moneyed men of South Carolina appear to have become thoroughly alive to the importance of , and the benefits to be derived from , the spread of the industry in question , and they advocated their theory to ? such purpose that , as appears from a recent report , there are now in the Palmetto State eighteen cotton factories having a capital of nearly three million dollars . With nearly one hundred thousand spindles and two thousand looms , these mills produce more than one hundred thousand yards of cloth , and nearly eighteen thousand pounds of yarn , in each full working day . In the same period they consume more than fifty thousand pounds of raw cotton , making an annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand bales . They pay $38,159 in wages , give employment to 2,612 operatives , and support nearly ten thousand people . Contending against the most adverse circumstances  --  the disinclination of intelligent white people to do work which they believed to be beneath them , the lack of skilled and experienced foremen to direct the labor of the operatives , and the general dullness of trade  --  the South Carolina:factories have for some time past been paying dividends of from 18 to 25 per cent . upon the capital employed . If any additional arguments be needed to encourage the manufacture of cotton in the South , they can be found in the fact that by them work and bread is given to white women and children who could find no other labor so well suited to their strength , and which yields them so large an income . Again , as must be sufficiently apparent to the most casual student of the subject . the entire profit upon cotton manufactured in the South , from the time it is gathered in the raw state from the field until it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form or another , goes to the people . Heretofore the Southern States have supplied to both Old and New England the raw material upon which their industries largely depended , and then in a manufactured state have , at high prices and in a manufactured form , bought that material back again . If the industry which has developed in Georgia and South Carolina within a comparatively recent date goes on increasing , this state of things must of necessity be changed . The pound of raw cotton , which was formerly worth only ten cents in South Carolina ; is now , after having been manufactured into yarn , worth either in the South or North from twentytwo to twenty-three cents a pound . In this way , as will appear from a very simple calculation , the eighteen cotton mills now running in South Carolina keep in that State more than two million dollars which would otherwise go to manufacturers in other parts of the country . From the prospect that the capitalists of the Southern States , seeing the advantages which are derived from the manufacture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills , it need not be argued that the industries of Fall River and other parts of New-England will languish or fall to the ground . There is no probability that the mills of the South will for many years to come be able to produce the ' finer qualities of goods now furnished by the looms of the Eastern States . The former will for many reasons be obliged to devote themselves almost exclusively to the making of coarse cloths and yarns , while the monopoly of producing the finer sorts of cloths will still be held by NewEngland . Meanwhile , however , and no matter what may be the result to the industries of other parts of the country , it is sufficiently obvious that from this time on the number of cotton factories in the South may be expected to increase steadily , if not with marked rapidity . 