@@781911

txt A delicious story regarding Mr. TILDEN 'S alleged withdrawal from the race for the Democratic nomination for President was printed in JOHN KELLY 'S morning newspaper , yesterday . Of course , every intelligent observer of the political field very well knows that TILDEN 'S withdrawal and his obituary will be published at the same time . Like Lochiel , he will in victory exult , or in death be laid low , victory in this case consisting in his triumph over all rivals in his own party . Nevertheless , one of the amusements of his political enemies is the invention of tales of his physical and mental weakness , and his determination not to enter again the field of active politics . This latest fiction is remarkable only for its ingenuity . It must be a very ingenious story which can for a moment deceive any well-informed person into believing that Mr. TILDEN , while the immortal spark survives , is no longer a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination . The highly imaginative narration to which we have referred is to the effect that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon " the Sage of Gramercy Park , and make an exhaustive diagnosis of his health . To this extraordinary and portentous proposition , it is said , Mr. TILDEN consented ; and five eminent practitioners accordingly sat upon him . The verdict of these eminent persons , we are told , was to the effect " that Mr. TILDEN 'S brain is still clear and active , though left in a precarious condition by the paralytic shock he has suffered , and will not bear the inevitable stress and stimulation following a nomination to the Presidency . " This is very nicely done . The ingenuity with which Mr. TILDEN 'S alleged paralysis is alluded to , as if it were an admitted and celebrated fact , is calculated to deceive even the very elect . To his immediate and devoted followers a crumb of consolation is given in the incidental allusion to the alleged fact that the " paralysis " is only partial , and does not " at present " affect his mental faculties , although we are left to imagine how soon this partial obscuration may become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show of grief , that the mental and physical powers of the Sage of Gramercy . Park have suffered irreparable disaster , the next step is to withdraw him from the phi . This is done by the statement that the old man consented . to follow the advice of the distinguished medical men who had so emphatically sat upon him stipulating only that he should be permitted to name his successor . As the jury was composed of physicians , and not politicians , this was agreed to . . Whereupon , the alleged moribund Sage , like ZACHARIAS , called for a writing-table , and wrote , " His name is HENRY B. PAYNE , of Ohio . " And they were all much amazed . One gentleman , we are next told , " asked quite sharply if the claims of Speaker RANDALL were to be ignored , " and was told that Mr. RANDALL had no barrel , and that TILDEN would not " put up " for him , while Mr. PAYNE is rich and has rich friends . This , of course , finished RANDALL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrel is no longer on tap . A new man , with a barrel of his own , must be the successor of TILDEN , who has an abiding faith in the power of cash . The pleasing moral attached to this tale is that Tammany will be so very glad that TILDEN is out of the way , even at the cost of his mental powers , that KELLY will issue an order to his braves that they must support PAYNE at all hazards . This was a good story , but it lived only until noon . Before the clock in St. George 's tower struck 12 , a mob of reporters besieged the house made famous as No. 15 Gramercy Park , by the cipher dispatches . The great man was too cunning to submit to an interview , and the army of desperate men on the door-stoop waylaid the members of the Tilden family as they went in and out on errands of state . These too , were mum , and in a fever of anxiety the reporters fell upon that eminent ex-shoulder-hitter and preserver of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RYNDERS . The hale old veteran laughed to scorn the tale that Mr. TILDEN 'S physical or mental condition was precarious . " Why , " he cried , with that hearty blast of his lungs which the estimable Captain always delights " Mr. TILDEN is in better health than he has been for years . " He added , though no reporter has said so , that the Sage was at that moment engaged in swinging a pair of Indian clubs , varying the exercise with putting up a 200-pound dumb-bell and putting down a gin cocktail , made very sour and with a dash of absinthe in it . Capt . RYNDERS , when asked if Mr. TILDEN had withdrawn , or had any thought of withdrawing , arched his eyebrows and . whistled his astonishment . No , he had just come from Mr. TILDEN , and could say " authoritatively " that he had not said to any man that he is not a candidate . Mayor COOPER , who , as Mr. JOHN KELLY will admit , is on friendly terms with Mr. TILDEN , confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Tammany was meant for credulous marines . Mr. TILDEN was , and is , and ever will be , a candidate for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency . Mr. Thomas A. HENDRICKS will read the news this morning , and softly say to himself , " The dear old man , how I should like to wring his neck ! " Mr. BAYARD will cast another glance at the reflection of his manly form in the mirror and remark , " This does not affect ME . " And the gifted member of the FIELD family who adorns the Supreme Bench will lay down his copy of THE TIMES with the philosophic reflection that " It seems as if that old wretch would live forever . " We congratulate the Democratic Party on the immortality of its candidate .                     