@@745461

txt Entirely apart from the question whether an underground rapid transit line is a desirable thing for this city , there are objections to the Arcade Railway bill now in the hands of the Governor which would certainly justify him in withholding his approval This scheme is a development of the old Beach pneumatic tube project , and in the-transformations through which it has gone by legislative action no adequate provision has been made for the protection of the rights of the people or of the city , and no such provision is contained in this act . The powers asked for by the company have been granted without regard to the consent of the local authorities or of the property owners along the line of the proposed road . It is authorized to excavate to a width of forty-four feet inside measurement , which in some parts of Broadway would trench upon the space beneath the sidewalks which is very generally occupied by private vaults under authority of the city . No proper provision is made for compensation for damage done by this excavation . The fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stations and depots or housing or storing , when not in use , its cars , stores , supplies , and such other property as may be in its care or custody , or belonging to it , " and for the removing of material , &c.,; excavations may be made under the side streets to a distance of 300 feet , in which " suitable structures " may be erected for housing or storeroom purposes . It is understood that the company proposes to do a freight business , and to this there is no valid objection provided it is so conducted as not to interfere with the proper transportation of passengers , which is the main purpose of granting the franchise ; but the provisions of this section seem to indicate that it also proposes to do a general storage and warehouse business in these underground spaces . If such is its purpose it should be clearly understood and all objections to it duly considered . If the franchise is so broad as to include the privilege of doing a business of this kind some adequate provision ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for such a use of spaces beneath the streets . The provision for removing sewers and underground pipes and replacing them in vaults or subways is not so well guarded as it ought to be , and there is danger of serious interruption to the use of these appliances . Perhaps the most serious objection to the bill is to be found in the financial arrangements which it permits . The act fixes the capital stock at $20,000,000 , but it does not require that any part of it shall be paid in . It is not necessary even that it shall be subscribed for if " other financial arrangements are made for commencing within one year and completing the first section of its railway or railways within four years from and after July 1 , 1885 . " As power is given to the Trustees of the company by a three-fifths vote " from time to time to borrow any sum of money they may deem necessary for its business and for constructing , completing , and finishing or operating its said works and railways , " it is evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stock used as a bonus or for speculative purposes . There is nothing in the act to prevent the stock from being one mass of water upon which dividends may ultimately be paid . We have had too much experience already with the kind of financial management implied in these provisions . The new bill contains no restriction upon fares or charges and establishes no control over them . The act of 1873 , which first transformed the old pneumatic tube company into a corporation authorized to construct an underground railroad and to carry passengers , limited the fares to be charged to 8 cents for any distance less than three miles and 2 cents a mile or fraction thereof in addition to three miles , and established commission hours from 5 to 7 o'clock in the morning and in the evening , during which not more than 10 cent 's should be charged for any distance . This is left in force by the bill now in question , but the limitation is not sufficient for these times . In short , the act is drawn wholly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rights of the public . If an underground railroad is to be built the interests of the public should be very carefully guarded , . and the city itself should be officially represented in the scheme . It will hardly do to surrender Broadway and Madison-avenue , with lateral projections of 300 feet in the cross streets , to a corporation with such extensive powers and such slight restrictions , even though a great public convenience is intended . Great public inconvenience and much private damage might be incidentally produced , and in the end it might be found that another great " monopoly " had been brought into being over which altogether too slight a control had been established .                     