@@781505

txt Nominations to the Legislature have been watched this year with special reference to the effect to be produced on the present members by the record of the last session , but it is rather difficult to calculate this with any degree of exactness . The effect on the election may possibly be more distinctly marked . The Assembly chosen a year ago . consisted of 81 Republicans and 47 Democrats . Of the Republicans 31 have been renominated , and of the Democrats 19 , a result which presents no material difference in the ratio . The Streetcleaning bill for this City was one of the measures in regard to which the action of members was expected to have some effect on their future . This can not be said to appear anywhere except in this City . The vote against the bill of the Committee of Twenty-one was 65 , all cast by Republicans , and of these 25 are now candidates . Of the 6 City members , however , only 2 ? Mr. BRODSKY and Mr. HAMILTON  --  are up for re-election . Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination , but felt constrained to decline it . In his case there is no doubt that this course was occasioned by the opposition produced by his conduct on the Street-cleaning bill . Mr. BREH ) I has been made a candidate for Coroner by the " machine , " and will have the opportunity of seeing in what estimation he is held by the people of the City generally . Messrs . WILLIAMS and TRIMBLE have been laid on the shelf without ceremony . On the other hand , of the 10 Republicans who voted for the Committee of Twenty-one 's bill , only 3 are candidates for re-election . It is to be mentioned , however , that 2 of them , Messrs . Hum ? and SKINNER , are running for higher offices . Among the 45 Democrats who voted for this measure the 19 renominated are included , but only 4 of these are City members out of a total of 18 , and in every case there are other Democratic candidates running with them . The only effect of the action on the Street-cleaning bill that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this City , who all voted against it . The position of Republican members in the Senatorial contest was expected to have a perceptible effect on their ability to secure rcnominations . On the first ballots , June 1 , 26 Assemblymen voted for Mr. CONKLIN ? and 21 for Mr. PLATT . On the last ballot. , after Mr. LAPIEAM had been accepted as the regular candidate by a caucus in which all Republicans took part. , 21 still voted for Mr. CONKLING . Of these , Mr. HURD , of Erie County , is a candidate for the Senate ; Mr. CULLINAN , of Oswego , is running for the Assembly , with another Republican candidate against him , and Messrs . DRAPER , of Albany , and DICKEY , of Orange , are candidates for reelection . The remaining 12 have been retired from politics , for the present at least . Six members who voted for Mr. CONKLING on the first ballot did not vote for him on the last . Of these , Messrs . SEARPE , of Ulster , REITZ , of Kings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Senate having passed the original Street-cleaning bill without material opposition , its defeat has produced no perceptible effect on nominations . In the Senatorial contest 9 members of the upper branch supported Mr. CONKLING on the first ballot , and 7 voted for him on the last . Mr. ASTOR had given no evidence of a change of heart , but Was not present to cast his vote when the final ballot was taken . Of the 7 , BRAMAN , of Albany , is the only one seeking a re-election . Mr. STRAHAN , of this City , was put through the farce of being nominated for the purpose of de-clining , It is not an easy matter to trace the effect of action on the railroad question in the renominations cf the Tear . We have heretofore referred to the subject so far as it concerns Senators . As the Assembly 's action on the subject was favorable to the proposed legislation , there was less likelihood of unpleasant consequences ' for those who were in the ineffective minority . It is to be noted with : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made himself the special champion of the Commission bill , and was otherwise an industrious and capable legislator , is not a candidate for re-election , while Mr. WAGNER , who was the head of the successful opposition in the Senate , is . So far as renominations are concerned , the most significant fact perhaps is the unusually small proportion they bear to the whole number of candidates . It is also to be remarked that active politicians who for any reason have excited a feeling or dissatisfaction among their constituents retain more influence with the nominating power than with the power that elects . The effect of the record upon the election will be still more interesting than its effect upon nominations .                     