@@745271

txt The season of pestilence . which will make this year long memorable in Southern France and in Italy is very nearly concluded . The analogies which lead us to believe this lead us also to expect that our turn will come next year . A vigilant administration of quarantine from now until the Summer of 1885 may possibly prevent altogether the importation of the disease . But it is by no means certain that the germs of cholera can be altogether excluded by any practicable process of quarantine . The practical problem before us is not only : to 7 : keep out the 3 cholera , so ' far as that is possible , but to take order I that it may do as little . mischief as possible if cit should ' obtain a lodgment . We have reason to expect that there are at least six months in which these preparations may be made , and ; the responsibility for making them falls in the first instance upon the sanitary authorities of the seaboard cities , and especially upon the Board of Health of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with that department since the retirement of Prof. CHANDLER , whose qualifications for his place were purely professional , the working staff of the department still command the public confidence , and any measures which they recommend will be accepted by all intelligent citizens . It may be that additional powers of summary dealing with nuisances are needed . 1 . In that case - the , needful authority can be obtained at the approaching session of the Legislature . It is abundantly clear that the ravages of the cholera may be lessened by sanitary precautions , and that a community in a perfectly good condition of sanitation would have scarcely anything to fear from the importation of the disease . New-York is in some respects , and notably in respect of the condition of its streets , better fitted to repel an invasion of cholera than it has been for many years . On the other hand , there are quar ters in New YOrk , and these its most populous quarters , where the residents will take no sanitary precautions but such ' as are forced upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who in their native country have been mobbing doctors and exhibiting approved saints as a better protection against cholera than scrupulous cleanliness and prudence in eating and drinking , and we have other colonies not more disposed to rely upon sanitary defenses against pestilence . Whatever precautions are taken for the safety of these people must be taken in spite of themselves . A general system of sanitary inspection should be begun at once , and the regulations necessary for the public health should be enforced rigidly throughout the city . Whether the cholera comes or not we shall reap the reward of this course in a lowering of the rate of mortality , which , considering the natural advantages of New-York , constitutes a scandal to its sanitary administration .                     