@@672104

txt MR . CLEVELAND 'S ADMINISTRATION . In the very frank conversation with the Washington correspondent of THE TIMES which is printed in our issue of to-day the President reviews with admirable candor the work of his Administration , speaking freely of the things done and attempted and of the motives which have inspired and the principles which have guided executive action during his four years ' incumbency of the office of President . That " fair and reasonable estimate of the fidelity and usefulness " of public servants which the President in his inaugural address bespoke for his Administration from the citizens of the United States has already been made np , and it is an estimate which Mr. CLEVELAND may treasure with just pride as a satisfying reward of his arduous labors . We do not lose sight of the fact that President CLEVELAND has had to bear much criticism from those who were his sincere well-wishers , that he has been subjected to partisan censure of unusual bitterness , and that the intemperate abuse of not a few persons who had not the excuse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance of duty . But in this experience he is by no means singular among our Presidents . Probably no President since WASHINGTON has had to endure more incessant or more virulent personal attacks than those which the Father of His Country bore with such exemplary dignity , and it can not be forgotten that the enemies of both LINCOLN and GRANT went to the extreme of villification and seemed to find no bounds save those imposed by their own or the public 's weariness in assailing those great men . Evidently the teaching of history is that the calumnies which fall to the lot of the Presidents of the Union are forgotten by the people with the passions which inspire them , while it is the " fair and reasonable estimate " that forms the permanent tradition . And this is only just , since men of the class who have been Mr. CLEVELAND 'S most malignant detractors have no proper title to a place in the public memory . being for the most part of those who are more notable for the noisiness and violence than for the justness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. tend to them . That impression of President CLEVELAND 'S Administration which is to be the lasting one is already formed in all candid minds . It is an impression which the President 's own statements of what he has aimed to do and what he believes he has done will tend only to confirm . The perfect frankness with which he says that some part of the disappointment of " the most active advocates of civil service reform " with his course is due to the fact that they have " entertained a very different understanding of what is meant by civil service retorm from that which the law required me him to observe or that it was practicable to carry out " will go far to strengthen the conviction that an honest difference of opinion may account for a portion of what the most active civil service reformers regard as departures from the line of conduct indicated in the pledges made by Mr. CLEVELAND , though in other instances the reformers will continue to regret that the President had not clearer light or greater courage . But no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during Mr. CLEVELAND 'S Administration the reform has been visibly and solidly advanced by executive acts as well as in public favor and official acceptance . The record which shows that the number of places fucluded in the classified service is now 27.000 , against 13,000 four years ago , can not be disputed or erased , and upon that record the larger and lasting impression of Mr. CLEVELAND 'S attitude toward the merit system is formed . The advance of the system in public favor may be in no way so adequately measured as by the disposition shown alike by the party friends and the party enemies of the present Chief Executive to exact of him a standard of profession and performance in respect to appointments such as was never exacted of any of his predecessors . THE TIMES insisted at the time of Mr. CLEVELAND 'S renomination last Summer that the principle he conspicuously represented was " the honest conduct of the public business . " He has been unflinchingly faithful to the great trust he is about to lay down . The administrative reforms he has introduced and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bear their fruit in a more sure and economical dispatch of the public business . Perhaps of the possible results of the defeat of Mr. CLEVELAND none would be more to be regretted should the incoming Administration fail to maintain the standards he has fixed , than the withdrawal of his inspiring personal example from the national capital . No President ever performed his daily tasks  --  and no citizen of the country has tasks that are more burdensome  --  with a more rigid fidelity or with a more unflagging industry than President CLEVELAND . And if there was inspiration in the example of his habits of work there was a higher and nobler inspiration in the courage with which he has determined and set out upon the policies he has been called upon to adopt . Of this courage certainly there is no more memorable example than the tariff-reform message sent to Congress at the opening of its session in December , 1887 . It may be true , as some of his own party contendedlin the hours of despondency following their defeat , that had this pronouncement been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more worthy of admiration , how much more justly entitled to respect of mankind is a Chief Magistrate who attacks an abuse which he ; believes to be monstrous and undoing , and goes to the people for his mandate than one who would weakly evade the issue and put forward others less pressing merely because they would not imperil his personal success . By the impartial verdict of history GROVER CLEVELAND , we are entirely confident , will be ranked among the greater ' Presidents of the United States , and this matured judgment of time will rest , not alone on his courage or his fidelity to a public trust , nor be due to the method and industry with which he discharged it , but upon the unquestioned ability of the man . Certainly no President since LINCOLN , and only three or four before him , have put forth public papers which will outrank CLEVELAND 'S as the products of a strong , trained , and logical mind . In respect to the mere detail of their style and composition alone they will unquestionably stand among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have carried to the people is already demonstrated . Mr. CLEVELAND will go into history as a President who has honestly and consistently sought the public good and has wrought for it with unusual courage and high ability .                     