@@781481

txt Mr. TALMAGE , if we may believe what he says  --  and it is capable of proof that there are several persons who think that he frequently tells the truth  --  has made a brilliant success as a " beggar " ? which ? pleasing title he proudly claims . A short time ago . he published a request that everybody who reads his sermons should give him a dollar to pay the debt on his place of entertainment . It was to be expected that among men capable of reading TALMAGE 'S sermons there would be many who would be willing to give him a dollar , but the enthusiastic and liberal response which , according to TALMAGE , has been made to his appeal for alms is simply wonderful . In the Herald of Saturday , Mr. TALMAGE caused the publication of a number of ingenuous letters which , he said , he had received from benevolent persons anxious to assist him to keep his establishment open . No ' doubt , all these letters were written by the persons by whom they purport to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this is probably at least as true as his assertion made before a temperance meeting in London that he is a total abstainer from wine and spirits , or the various other assertions which Mr. TALMAGE has made from time to time , and which have dissatisfied Dr. VANDYKE . The letters certainly reflect great credit upon the ingenuity and versatility of the  --  receiver , and are far more interesting than the letters of the contributors to the Herald 's Irish famine fund . There is , for example , the letter of an alleged " Baptist friend , " who , according to TALMAGE , sends a dollar to assist in " liquidating your church debt . " Notice what a fine local color is given to this Baptist 's letter by the use of the word " liquidate . " A Presbyterian would have said " pay , " and a Methodist might have preferred to " lift the debt , " but only a Baptist would naturally use the word " liquidate . " There are people who fancy that TALMAGE is always dull , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of words which it would be idle to deny . Then there is a letter from a very curious and novel kind of person . " The son of a Catholic father and Baptist mother . " When we find this curious person giving money to a Presbyterian minister  --  for as yet the Presbyterians have failed to brush TALMAGE from their skirts  --  his religious complexity becomes still more remarkable . Mr. TALMAGE has undoubtedly displayed a good deal of imagination in receiving a letter from so remarkable a person , and the public will begin to wonder if his true sphere in life is not that of a writer  --  we should say receiver  --  of a " Complete Letter-writer 's Guide . " Quite a number of Episcopalians contribute to TALMAGE 'S pocket . An " Oldfashioned Episcopalian " hopes that TALMAGE may have " a complete victory over the Amalekites " ? which method of describing Dr. VANDYKE and Mr. CROSBY will probably induce them to bring a new charge of libel against TALMAGE . " Au Episcopalian " without any qualifying adjective wishes TALMAGE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she takes " great pleasure " in reading TALMAGE 'S sermons . It may be suggested that perhaps TALMAGE has been a little imprudent in this last letter . He must admit that it is intrinsically impossible that any " lady " takes pleasure in reading either his sermons or M. ZOLA 'S novels . It really seems as if he had made a slip of the pen in receiving this letter , and in any future publication of it he might do well to change his " Episcopalian Lady " into , say , an " Independent Woman . " Various kinds of professional sinners rally to the support of TALMAGE . One , " who belongs to no church , " sends a dollar , remarking that he reads TALMAGE 'S sermons  --  probably by way of explaining why he belongs to no church . A Cincinnati " sinner " sends a dollar , and desires to take it out in prayers , provided TALMAGE really thinks that the prayers of his congregation will help a Cincinnatian . Of course , this sinner will promptly receive his dollar 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is truthful in his business transactions . A real estate broker of this City not only sends a dollar , but adds that he " will just go it one - better , and see who calls . " This is apparently intended to show the familiarity of TALMAGE with the slang of the street , but it fails of that purpose , for the reason that the slang in question does not belong to Wall-street , but is an innocent form of poker slang . Mr. TALMAGE ought not to receive letters containing what he imagines to be the familiar language of brokers without first submitting them to some accomplished member of his congregation for correction . Of the remaining letters , there is not much to be said . An alleged " Scotchman " speaks of TALISIAGE 'S " usefulness , " without , of course , having any idea that he is writing a humorous letter , and there is a " Blue-stocking Presbyterian " who wishes to " bounce " the debt , and who would have seemed more probable , in view of his peculiar style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " or a " Millerite . " Taken as a whole , the collection is a really able one , and displays the versatility of the receiver in a very strong light . The most remarkable feature of the affair is the unanimity with which all churches and seats drop their dogmas and rush to the help of TALMAGE . Even the Roman Catholics are  --  according to TALMAGE  --  giving him money . The prospect is that he will collect enough money , not only to pay off the debt of his so-called " church " without personally giving a cent of the money that he has himself subscribed for that purpose , but to furnish himself with ' a new trapeze , and perhaps a handsome clown 's uniform .                     