@@780865

txt While the members of the House of Representatives were this afternoon hurrying away to catch the trains which were to take them home for the Christmas holiday , that part of the Senate that had remained to discuss the Civil Service Reform bill was settling down to its work in a calm and determined fashion that was agreeably disappointing . The most anxious friends of the reform bill were relieved to find that there was a quorum in the Senate Chamber , and that it could be kept as long as necessary to pass the bill . Taking up the discussion where it had been dropped yesterday , with Mr. Pugh 's cumbrous amendment for a text , the talk indulged in ranged over the whole subject of appointments and promotions , the Democrats constantly exhibiting the fear that they have so persistently betrayed during this debate , lest there should be some hidden trap in the measure designed to mislead them Into voting to keep Republican office-holders forever in their places . It was not until 4:30 liclock that the first vote was reached , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 23 . After a long discussion of the various propositions to modify the composition of the commission Mr. Allison 's amendment was defeated , but the friends of the bill who had charged him with hostility to the measure allowed the number of Commissioners to be reduced to three , retaining all the powers , however , of the five proposed by the committee . Mr. Edmunds , who was heard during the deDate , did not create the impression that he was very friendly to the bill , or that he had Lily confidence that it would accomplish the end desired by the friends of civil service reform . At 6 o'clock the Senate hail no audience in the galleries , and it was not until after 7 , when Mr. Butler began to speak , that a new audience came in . Those who came in at this time heard the most spirited speech of the day . Mr. Butler is usually a soft-spoken man . As a member of the Civil Service Reform Committee he has been a faithful friend of the Pendleton bill , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 When he came to express his opinion of the centemptuous epithets used by Mr. Ingalls , Mr. Brown , and Mr. Voorhees in criticising the bill he abandoned his usual self-control and in thunder tones resented with all the ardor of a true Sothron the assertions that the bill was a " juggle " or " mere humbuggery , " nicking a warm plea for civil service reform . The ' absurd amendment of Mr. Voorhees , calling for a board of examining schoolteachers , to ascertain the fitness of members of examining boards , was spurned by the Senate without even a division . It was with the consent of Mr. Hawley and Mr. Pendleton that Mr. Hale 's amendments , pressed by Mr. Allison , providing that the boards of examiners should sit in each State twico a year for the convenience of applicants , was adopted by a vote of 20 to 15 . Mr. Vance , who shares the general Democratic hostility toward revenue officers iu the South , endeavored , unsuccessfully , to have the employes of revenue collectors included in the enumeration of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office . This was rejected by a vete of 23 to 24 . All the affirmative votes being cast by Democrats , except one , that of Mr. Van Wyck . Mr. Brown , of Georgia , has proposed several silly things as the leader of the Democratic opposition to the bill , but none more absurd than his proposition made to-night to have the provisions of the bill apply to the Secretary . of the Senate and his subordinate officers . As soon as the Republicans retorted by asking that the same rule be applied to the House of Representatives , the absurdity of the suggestion became apparent . All at once the truth appeared to flash upon members that they could not apply competitive tests to elective officers , and the Senate was so unanimously against the amendment that it would not second Mr. Brown 's call for the yeas and nays . At 10 o'clock the Senate got back to the old talk about forced assessment , the provocation being Mr. Hawley 's amendment absolutely prohibiting the solicitation or receipt of contributionsby officers of the Government from each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the extravagant assertions he had already made , and Mr. Van Wyck woke up several slumbering Senators by making a humorously sarcastic speech . It was at 10:S0 o'clock , and while Mr. Van Wyck was speaking . that Mr. Jones , of Nevada , made his first appearance during this s " ssion , and not long after arriving he had an opportunity to hear Mr. Vest maintain that the bill would be absolutely ineffective if it did not prohibit the payment of contributions for political purposes . Mr. Hawley denounced this sentiment as utterly indefensible and preposterous , and as a proposition to rob every citizen who knew the difference between parties of one of his most sacred rights , that of sustaining the party which he considered the right one to be maintained . In the discussion that followed Mr. Butler : asked Mr. Hoar it he thought Congress had the right to prohibit the giving of money to an employe of the Government for political purposes . Mr. Hoar said : " Yes , for a corrupt political purpose . " Mr. Butler asked him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a purpose . Mr. Hoar  --  To buy shot-guns to shoot negroes Would be such a purpose . Mr. Butler  --  Or to buy votes and disfranchise eael , 000 people , as it is said they have done in Massachusetts . Mr. Hoar  --  What does the Senator mean by that f Mr. Butler  --  I mean that it is stated that they have disfranchised 136,000 men in the State of Massachusetts . I propounded a polite Inquiry to the Senator , and when he injects into his reply a piece of venom , I propose to answer him in the same manner . He undertook to thrust at me a very unworthy suggestion , and when he proposes to discuss his shot-gun policy with me , I am prepared to meet him . Mr. Hoar  --  Mr. President , I made no allusion whatever to the Senator in any form , shape , or manner . I alluded to one manner of using political contributions , and if any personal application has been- made of that re-mark Mr. Butler  --  Oh , Mr. President Mr. Hoar interrupted , claiming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awarded it to Mr. Butler , who again said he had asked a Question in politeness and good temper , to which Mr. Hoar had replied in an extremely offensive manner , and that when he said he ( Butler ) made a personal application of the remark be intended to say by innuendo what he perhaps would not dare to say directly  --  not that he was afraid of being held to any personal responsibility , for he ( Butler ) had no idea of having any such perlonal issue with him . Mr. Hoar  --  I made no personal allusion whatever to the Senator from South Carolina . I alluded to one form of political crime in this country without any thought of an individual application to any Senator . I wish to say to the Senator from South Carolina that I never hint or insinuate anything to anybody . If my public duty requires me to state any opinion , whether creditable or otherwise , of the character or history of that Senator or any other , I shah do it in terms the clearness and distinctness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was some slight applause in the gallery , and the President gave warning that if the demonstration were repeated the galleries would be cleared . Mr. Vest  --  I hope not , Mr. President . This is the only ripple on the surface of this debate that we nave had this evening . Laughter. sow , Mr. President , that this storm of war has passed I propose to submit a few feeble remarks on the legal aspect of the question . Reeewed laughter . At the conclusion of Mr. Vest 's remarks , Mr. Voorhees suggested that it : was now within half an hour of Sunday morning , and as it was obvious that the bill could not pass to-night . he moved to adioaro . At Mr. Pendleton 's suggestion he withdrew the motioi temporarily in order that an understanding might be had as to the disposition of the bil next week , and at 11:35 the Senate adjournee to Wednesday , with a unanimous agreemen that the bill should be taken up after the morn ing business , debated under the 10-minute rule and disposed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House wa : called to order by Mr. Page , of California Mr. Peele , of Indiana , moved that the House adjourn , pending which the Speaker pro tern submitted five requests for leave of absence but they were objected to amid much noise and confusion . The House refused to adjourn the yeas being 56 and the nays 5S . The roll call was several times interrupted by Mr White , of Kentucky , with points of order which created much merriment , until tie Speaker pro tem. at last flatly refused to recog nize the gentleman . The leaves of absence were granted , and the House , at 12:50 , ad journed until Wednesday next .                     