@@743515

txt The significance of the late election in Alabama is greatly confused by the fact that the Republicans had no ticket of their own in the field . The nucleus of the opposition to the Bourbon Democracy was furnished by the Greenbackers , and to that was attached more or less of protesting Independents and of such Republicans as considered it worth while to enter into such association in the mere hope of promoting a disintegration of the ruling power , and obtaining allies in the effort to secure a fair count of the votes . It was assumed that the antipathy of Southern Democrats for Republicans was stronger than any they would exhibit for a third party putting forth claims for support in which the old controversies had no part . But while their bitterest hostility is reserved for the party of the Union and of equality for all citizens , they have no present intention of releasing their hold upon local power in behalf of any opposing party or combination of parties . There is no reason for supposing that they would not count out Greenbackers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little scruple as Republicans . There is no ground except the delusive predictions of Mr. WEAVER on which the real strength of the Greenback sentiment in Alabama can be estimated , but it is probably not very great . Furthermore , it is net easy- to calculate how far the Republicans , from one motive or another , cared to assist in the support of that ticket . The returns of the election thus far received are fragmentary and indefinite , but if we had the full official statement it would throw little light on the case . Returns in Alabama , unfortunately , are not indicative of the actual vote cast , and still less so of the relative strength which parties would display if the right to vote were untrammeled and unobstructed , and there were confidence that the votes would be fairly counted . While there is little doubt that the count was tampered with wherever anything was to be gained by it , it is altogether probable that a large majority of the votes actually cast were given to the Democratic ticket . There is no evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is apparent that the Republicans took but a languid ? interest in it , and that not for its own sake . But the fact that nothing is to be gained by it in local contests affords the lowest of motives for keeping clear of such an alliance . Greenbackism as a national movement is not merely waning , it is as good as dead save as a basis for corrupt political bargaining . For any such purpose Republicans can not afford , in any part of the country , to have anything to do with it . Its'doctrines are pernicious and utterly at variance with the principles of the Republican Party and the claims it is putting forth for the confidence of the people of the country . If Mr. WEAVER chooses to carry on his fruitless crusade in the South , he should be left without Republican aid or comfort . The organization of the party should be maintained there in harmony with its spirit and purpose throughout the Nation . It is for the maintenance of the public faith and credit everywhere , and for the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles upon which it should insist . They are as essential in the Southern States as in the North , Not only should the party in those States keep clear of the errors and fallacies which the national organization condemns , but it should repudiate all alliance and sympathy with repudiators of every name and hue . Debts which have been incurred by State or local authority , as well as that of the Nation , are to be honestly paid , and every obligation is to be squarely met and discharged . That is Republican doctrine , from which there should be no variation or shadow of turning . Even if there were a prospect of temporary or local gain in States where the sentiment of honor is not prevalent , it could be made only by incurring future and general loss . The Republican Party organization should be maintained in every Southern State ; it should have its own candidates in every contest , and , above all , it should have its own principles , untarnished and uncompromised , as the best basis on which to perform its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit allies for it . Any disposition of Southern Republicans in their discouragement to make discreditable alliances should ' furnish another argument in favor of carrying a vigorous discussion of the true principles of the party into that section They have been too much absorbed with the single issue which most nearly affects them and their rights . This should by no means be obscured , for it is one of vast importance , but on other subjects they should have sound views and hold themselves in full harmony with the national party . They will gain nothing by dallying with this or that faction which , for purposes of its own , is engaged in fighting the same enemy , unless their own principles are accepted as the basis of action . Let the disinter grating forces work . If they can break up the Bourbon conservatism of the South , so much the better . The Republicans may gain by it , but not through an abandonment of their own principles . Those principles , firmly maintained and vigorously advocated on their own merits , are likely in time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the younger generation of native whites . The effect is already visible in Florida , where imported Northern sentiment is making itself felt . The same is true in a less degree in North Carolina . The need is felt of Northern capital and enterprise to develop the material resources of the South . In spite of social and political intolerance , they will gradually make their way there , and if the hopelessness of Bourbon aspirations through the solidity of the South can be demonstrated , the work of regeneration will receive a new impetus . The time will come when the people of that section , with national aid , will be able to secure and maintain their rights , and the Republican Party can best promote this end by preserving the integrity of its organization and its principles , and courageously and persistently doing its own work .                     