@@745312

txt For some years the leaders of the Mormon Church in Utah have been sending converts into the adjoining States and Territories , where they have taken Government land and established flourishing colonies . In this way the polygamists have undertaken to extend their power . Two years ago half ' of the members of the Idaho Legislature were Mormons . In Wyoming they have sufficient political strength to determine the choice of a Delegate , it is said , and in the State of Colorado they have a large and growing settlement . They also exert some influence in Nevada , and about 5,000 have settled in Arizona . Year by year the crafty rulers of the church have been reaching over the Utah boundary and quietly building up towns and villages that will in time sorely vex State and Territorial Governments . The arrival of 2,000 Mormons in Arizona last Summer seems to have opened the eyes of the people in that Territory , for within a few days five of the unwelcome immigrants have been tried , convicted of polygamy , and sentenced . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  one of them a " Bishop " ? were heavily fined and sent to the penitentiary for three and one-half years . The remaining two , who were " Elders , " pleaded guilty , and escaped with a fine of $500 and imprisonment for six months . One of those who suffer the heavier punishment leaves two wives and twelve children in great poverty , and would have pleaded guilty if the church at Salt Lake City had not forbidden him to do so under pain of excommunication . This is a very good beginning . If there are among the new. , settlers other men who have violated the law they should be promptly prosecuted and sent to the penitentiary . In no other way can the growth of polygamy in Arizona be checked . It may not be possible to exclude from the Territory those w ho believe that polygamy is sanctioned and required by a Divine revelation , but a vigorous enforcement of the law now , before the Mormon immigrants have become a powerful factor in political contests , will probably prevent them from practicing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter in Arizona should lead the authorities of Idaho , Wyoming , Nevada , and Colorado to bring their polygamists before , the courts without delay . By prompt and vigorous prosecutions now these States and Territories may not only escape much trouble in the future , but also give some support to the National Government in its work in Utah . In their own behalf and for their own protection they should strive to give each polygamist within their boundaries all the punishment that the law allows . Concerted action in this direction in all the States and Territories that surround Utah would confine the open practice of polygamy to that Territory , where the National Government in the next few years will probably exhaust all its constitutional powers in the work of purification . 