@@745959

txt A bill is now before the House of Representatives , and . will probably come up on Thursday , it having been favorably reported by the Ways and Means Committee , relaxing in part the senseless and mischievous trammels placed by the law of the United States upon the business of warehousing in the seaboard and lake ports . Under the law as it stands this business is treated very much as liquor selling is in extreme temperance districts ; that is to say , it is treated as in itself disreputable and injurious to the community ; its practice is made as difficult and vexatious as possible , and . the utmost income that the Government can get from those - who patronize warehouses is extorted . At first blush this would seem inexplicable . There does not appear to be in the business of providing secure storage , with facility for rapid , cheap , and . safe handling , for merchandise which the owners may not wish immediately - to sell , anything necessarily nefarious or opposed to public policy , or requiring direct or indirect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of the merchandise stored . If it be exclusively domestic the Federal law leaves it free ; but if it be foreign , and . subject to duty , then the Federal law interposes and subjects the business to all the restrictions and burdens that can conveniently be invented or applied . Thus , under existing Federal law , dutiable goods remaining in warehouse for more than one year are chargeable with 10 per cent . in addition to the duties that may have been assessed thereon , and , as if this were not a sufficient penalty , the duty , both the original and the additional , is levied . upon the goods that were placed in store without any allowance for leakage , wastage , or shrinkage . The 10 per cent . extraordinary tax was imposed during the war nominally as a war measure . It continues to be collected . to the last penny , though profound peace reigns in the land and . the vaults of the Treasury are overrunning with the revenue from unnecessary tax ation . In this regard , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dutiable goods is in the same case as the great body of existing op- pressive taxes , usually called , with grim humor , protective taxes . They also were imposed as war taxes , and . are continued long after there is any excuse for them . The scheme of taxing goods that no longer exist , because at the time they were stored . they did exist , springs from the same motive , the desire to make foreign trade difficult , with the intention to make domestic trade profitable . There is obviously no justification for it . It is sheer , bare-faced extortion , which , like all wrongdoing by a great Government , spreads and . multiplies its mischievous effect in every direction . The Ways and Means Committee report favorably a bill to repeal the 10 per cent . additional charge , to collect the duty only on the amount withdrawn for consumption , and to extend . to three years the time within which the goods may be withdrawn . It is possible that three years is long enough to cover the bulk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no excuse for any limitation whatever . If a man chooses to let his goods lie five years or ten years before withdrawing them no one else is harmed . Even the most bigoted . protectionist must concede that it is the goods put on the market that compete with the domestic goods , and not those locked up in warehouses , growing more and . more costly with the warehouse dues and interest . The extension of the limit to three years is. however , . a great improvement , and the other provisions of - the bill are just and necessary . The business of warehousing in the United . States already employs a capital of $60,000,000 and . 50,000 men . All the commercial bodies of New-York , Boston , and Philadelphia have approved this bill , and committees from them have urged it upon Congress . It ought to be passed promptly . There is no reason why the warehousing business in the United States , and especially in the ports named , should not grow rapidly and steadily . There is ample room on the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rivers for tenfold. the number of warehouses now existing , and there will be a safe , stable business for them if they are allowed to do it on equal terms with their foreign competitors . The present law in hampering the home capital practically gives a premium to foreign capital in the same business . It is a gross injustice and amazing folly , and it can not be too soon changed .                     