@@745563

txt The announcement that the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Boston has determined to appoint a French Canadian priest to a parish in Fall River is of more importance than at first appears . The Bishop of the diocese in which Fall River is situated insisted upon appointing an Irish priest , and it is from this decision that the congregation has appealed to the Archbishop , with the result of securing a reversal . It may be assumed that the Archbishop would have preferred to appoint an Irish priest , but that his discretion is greater than that of his suffragan . The dispute that has been referred to him for adjudication is an appearance in the ecclesiastical field of a change that is affecting powerfully the social life of New-England. - The change has been especially marked in the manufacturing communities . In such towns as Fall River and Holyoke the French Canadians have nearly shouldered out the native American operatives , who a generation ago impressed foreign observers by their superiority to any persons engaged in similar occupations elsewhere . They have crowded the Irish very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element in the social problem . Where they constitute an appreciable part they constitute much the most physically degraded part of the " tonement house population . " Their dwellings are the despair of sanitarians and themselves the despair of social philosophers . Nor is there any prospect of an improvement . They are the Chinese of New-England inasmuch as they seem rarely , to strike root in our soil . Whatever may be the fate of the Irish immigrant , there is always the hope that his children , and his grandchildren may be assimilated with the native population . He himself has at least come with the intention of remaining . His interest in the land of his birth is chiefly sentimental and is expressed in occasional contributions to the emergency fund . But even if the French Canadian leaves his bones here his thoughts all lie beyond the Canadian border , and hecannot be brought to take any interest in the life around him of a ' ommunity in which he regards himself as merely a sojourner . He maintains his own churches and no schools . Add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it becomes evident that he must be a troublesome element in the population . Although he presents himself as a problem mainly in manufacturing towns , he has invaded the agricultural districts also in great numbers , though here he appears more often in the character of an avowedly migratory laborer at harvest and other seasons when labor is in unusual request . Whatever were the motives of the Bishop of Fall River , there is little doubt that the effect of the action he proposed , if it were adopted as part of the systematic policy of the Roman Catholic Church , would be to make the French Canadians better citizens than they will be made by following their own devices . In the absence of schools and newspapers the church is the one civilizing influence that can be brought to bear upon people in their position . - Even the Roman Catholic Church has not been able to erase national differences . An Irish priest in charge of a congregation composed mainly of French Canadians would necessarily detach them more or less from their clannishness .. The mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be good for them . Their own priests , on the other hand , would find their pastoral authority strengthened by encouraging the ignorant isolation to which their flocks are already too much given .                     