@@744835

txt The lumber manufacturers of the Northwest have decided that the work of cutting off the valuable timber of the Northwestern States must be retarded , for two reasons  --  first , because the forests will soon disappear if the present rate of cutting is maintained , and , second , because the markets are overstocked . Probably the first of these reasons was not the one that led the manufacturers to make this decision , although it is the one that demands the especial attention of persons not engaged in the lumber trade . Over-production was undoubtedly the more powerful of the two reasons , and the other may have been an after-thought , for lumbermen heretofore have not been greatly moved by protests against the destruction of forests . The decision itself , however , whatever may have been the reasons that caused it to be made , is one that will give satisfaction to those who have done what they could to point out the disastrous effect of cutting off the forests around the sources of our streams . The supply of certain kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it will be exhausted in a few years . The Commissioner of Agriculture declares that in Maine the pine will last but four years and the spruce but fifteen , while at the present rate of cutting the pine forests of Michigan and Minnesota will be exhausted in ten years , and those of Wisconsin in twenty . These forests ought to be protected and renewed , and it is worse than folly to cut them off so rapidly as to glut the lumber markets . The people of the Southern States will soon find it expedient to protect their forests , for as the white pine of the North becomes scarce and costly , the lumbermen will set their axes and saws at work in the heavily timbered regions that have thus far escaped . The South Atlantic and Gulf States abound in pine . Commissioner LORING shows that while the percentage of woodland in farm acreage has fallen from 21 to 15 in Minnesota since 1870 , it is 55 per cent . in the South Atlantic States and 53 per cent . in the Gulf States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of railway lines has already exposed the pine in parts of the South to the axe , but it has been estimated that at the present rate of cutting the pine forests of Georgia will last for 80 years , those of the Carolinas for 50 years , those of Mississippi for 150 years , and those of Arkansas for 300 years . So far as Arkansas is concerned , however , this is probably an inaccurate estimate , for the timber lands and the forests of that State are rapidly passing into the hands of lumbermen , who , in the words of Gov . BERRY , are pouring into the State every day from Michigan and Wisconsin . " The number of saw mills in the State has more than quadrupled since 1880 . They have been erected along all the railway lines and navigable streams , and the production of lumber is twenty times as great now as it was only seven years ago . Those who are at work in these Southern forests , like those who have almost exhausted the forests of the lake region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is paid for it . The inevitable effect of their work upon the climate , the streams , and the soil is something in which they take no interest , but it is a matter of great importance to the permanent inhabitants of these regions , and especially to the farmers , and the experience of other States and of foreign countries proves that those who shear from the land its most valuable crop ought to do their work under careful supervision . 