@@780712

txt At a meeting of the Corporation in the Central Hall , Municipal Buildings , to-day , the freedom of the city was conferred upon the Marquis of Ripon and Mr. John Morley . Ex-Lord Mayor Sullivan occupied the chair , and many members of Parliament , Mayors , and members or various city corporations were present . The Marquis of Ripon , in an address thanking the Corporation for the honor conferred on him , assured them that the object of British Liberals was to see that Ireland was accorded , at the earliest opportunity , full recognition of its real and legitimate political aspirations . There was a growing conviction among the masses of England in favor of home rule for Ireland . Ur . Morley also expressed his thanks to the ( irporation , and said that the freedom of the : its was bestowed upon the Marquis of Ripon and himelf because they represented a great political cause and the advancement of a great constitutional reform movement in Ireland . There would be no peace in Ireland until the question was settled , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leinster Hall was speedily linen to its utmost capacity . Ex-Lord Mayor Sullivan presided . Messrs . Devitt , Redmond , Healy , Plimsoll , and a large number of Parnellite members of Parliament were on the platform . The audience rose en masse to greet Lord Ripon and Mr. Morley . Mr. Sullivan opened the meeting with a short address , and read a letter from Archbishop Walsh , who Is now in Rome , apologizing for his absence . Mr. E. Dwyer Gray , member . of Parliament , proposed a resolution welcoming the visitors on behalf of Ireland and expressing thanks to the Liberal Party fur its efforts in furthering the Irish cause . The resolution was carried amid great enthusiasm . Lord Ripon then addressed the meeting . Upon rising to speak he was loudly cheered . He thanitect the audience for the cordial welcome extended to Mr. Morley and himself . He wished to be perfectly honest , and he must therefore remind them that he had belonged to a Government that had voted coercion for Ireland , but had Some to see that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that he had never supported a permanent coercion bill . Ireland had now the great party of England on ter side , and the time was near at hand when her napes would be crowned with success . Ho therefore appealed to them not to allow violence XI goad them to commit crime , which would be the foulest treason to the Irish cause . The opponents of home rule hail searched the records ) f the past and had dragged up every possible Crime to dishonor Irishmen . They had made 3weeving charges and uttered gross and tout calumnies that could only emanate from the losing side . The practical answer to these men was for the Irish people to keep their temper , and wrest from the hands of their foes the sharpest weapons they possessed by showing peace and tranquility iu the land . He wished to assure the English and Scotch Protestants that there was not the slighest reason to fear that the Catholic majority would interfere wit If the just interests of Irish Protestants , because If there should be any unjust interference those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Morley met with a warm welcome . He said the reception given them was a fitting sequel to the extraordinary demonstration of yesterday . The home rule question , he said , was rapidly approaching a crisis . The only fear was that they might forget that itwasone of their own countrymen who had started the movement , and that Irishmen , in the main , would have to carry it through . The Government 's policy was a pitiful and cruel farce , and had utterly failed to discourage the commission of outrages . It benefited neither landlords nor tenants . It was said that the Liberal Party would fall to pieces over the details of their scheme , but he did not fear any such result . He would liko to ask the landlords who was the better for the Tory policy . If the tenants were the dupes of agitators it seemed to him that the landlords were the dupes of Lord Salisbury . Their property was being eaten , leaf by leaf . like an artichoke . Laughter . They were in a toboggan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tilt them out . Laughter and cheers . He was not in favor of any Socialistic extirpation of property . He believed that an Irish Parliament would ho the last to agree many such thing . In the heat of the struirele desperate men loubtless used desperate language . but that would cease when the struggle cooled . He agreed with Lord Ripon ; that there was no danger of religious persecution . With regard to the question of admitting men like Parneli and Dillon to the Irish Government , he thought that if they were good enough to inspire a policy they were good enough to execute it . Cheers . Their policy was to make one Ireland , united and happy . If that policy was a dream he fur one was very proud of it . Both speakers briefly addressed overflow meetings outside the hall , and were enthusiastically greeted . Mr. Cox , member of Parliament , who is in prison at Limerick , put on the jail dress without protest and went to work iu the prison yard chopping wood and doing other labors of ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cheerful mood . At a meeting of the Limerick breech of the National League this evening Mr. O'Shea proposed that if no local man could be found Mr. Slandeville should be selected as candidate for Parliament . Eight persons have been convicted at Kanturk , County Cork , of attending meetings of a suppressed branch of the National League and sentenced to two months ' imprisonment at hard labor . Five arrests have been made in Donegal tor offenses under the Crimes act , and more are expected . The tenantry on the estate of the Countess of Kingslou nave expressed themselves satisfied with the terms offered by the landlord , who agrees to allow a 20 per cent reduction in rents , to pay all costs , and to reinstate the tenants who have been evicted . A warrant has been issued for the arrest of Father Fahy of Woodford .                     