@@781895

txt Mr. JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN 'S speech at the dinner of the Toronto Board of Trade , delivered Friday night , and . Mr. GOLDWIN SMITH 'S , letter on tie commercial interests of Canada , are calculated to stimulate reflection on both sides of the border . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN speaks , of course , as an absolute free trader . In the Liberal Party , or at least in the section of it to which Mr. CHAMBERLAIN belonged before the schism on the Irish question , the cry of " fair trade " counts for nothing at all . The newly-enfranchised agricultural laborers , it is hoped , will vote with their . landlords for protection to the products of British soil , and this " vote " is the only one which the fair traders hope to capture . The repeal of the corn laws was distinctly the work of the manufacturing and trading classes . The attempt to revive those privileges of " the landed interest " is the work of Tory squires , reinforced , as they hope , by the agricultural laborers. who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , politically , than so many horses or oxen . The efforts of the English fair trader are of course directed as much against Canada as against the United States . Canada is a large exporter of agricultural products , and her contribution of breadstuffs helps to increase the burden of competition that prevents the British farmer from paying rent at the old rate to the ? British landlord . Since Canada set up a protective tariff of her own the manufacturing free traders in England have joined the agricultural fair traders in deprecating her commercial policy , though upon very different grounds . The trade of Canada with Great Britain is about equal to her trade with the United States , her exports being larger to Great Britain and her imports larger from the United States . But to the great majority of Canadians the United States is much nearer , commercially as well as geographically . than Great Britain , and free trade between the two American countries would be much more popular in Canada than free trade with England . Mr. GOLDWIN SMITH , writing from Toronto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not " detach Canada from her continent . " In fact , when our statesmen inquire what we have to do with abroad they do not include Canada . When Mr. CHAMBERLAIN at Toronto " refused to speak of the United States as a foreign nation " he was putting into words what divers American statesmen have been trying to put into practice . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN is a British free trader and Mr. BUTTERWORTH is an Ohio protectionist , but they are at one in holding that.a string of Custom Houses between the countries which for a thousand miles , as Mr. CHAMBERLAIN says , " are divided only by an invisible boundary line , " is a great absurdity . This is a sentiment that will he much more generally welcomed on both sides of the invisible boundary line than the proposition that a string of Custom Houses along the seacoast is an absurdity would be welcomed on either . In this country nobody has ever seriously proposed to set up Custom Houses except at the frontier . It is agreed that absolute free trade among the inhabitants of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are not competent to follow economic discussions have no difficulty in apprehending that the more freely a , man in Minnesota can trade with a man in New-York the better it will be for both : A them , and that such industries as have sprung up spontaneously under this system are the most profitable . A proposition to obstruct this trade with the barrier of a tariff would be laughed . out of Congress or out of the Legislature of any State , as would a proposition to encourage the infant industries of Minnesota by arti-ficial increasing the cost of freight from deleted 20 lines                     