@@781461

txt The vote of KNUTE NELSON for the-Mills bill deserves - the thoughtful attention of the Republican-arty . Mr. NELSON is the most popular Republican in Minnesota . His district stretches across the northern part of the State , covers thirty counties , and . contains about 50,000 - voters . He recently declined a , renomination , but it is understood that his constituents were guided by his wishes itrthe selection of the man who is to succeed him . The opinion prevails in Minnesota that Mr. NELSON'inlends to become the successor of Mr. SABIN ' in the Senate . It appears to be admitted that he can have any office that Minnesota Republicans can give him , if he wants it and . asksfor it . He has won the confidence and admiration of the Republicans of the State by his fidelity to their interests and . his repeated declarations in support of a revision and azeduction of the tarifE His own tariff bill , introduced some months ago , provided that coal , salt , lumber , hemp , jute , manila , and sugar should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mills bill not only because he thinks that thetariff should be cut down , but also because he-knows that his constituents and a great majority , ca.zne Republicans of Minnesota are of the same opinion . After he had introduced his WI and had defended it upon the floor of the-House his constituents said , in a Congressional Convention held just before theRepublican National Convention : " we highly appreciate the services of our Congressman , KNUrE NELSON . and are proud of the honorable distinction so justly attained by him . We heartily approve of his earnest efforts to secure a reform and reduction of the tariff , and his action therein has been in accord with the ' plainly-expressed will of the Republican Party of this district , as ennuciatea in the platforms upon which he has been elected . " And at the same convention there was adopted . the following resolution : " We insist upon a material and judicious reduction of the tariff , especially where it bears heavily upon the producing and agricultural interests , and demand that Congress shall cease trifling with this moat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff bill the Hon. CHARLES A. PILLSBURY , one of the most prominent Republicans and business men of Minnesota , wrote to him : " Your course has met with the cordial approval of nearly all of the people of this State , especially on the tariff question . I think it safe to say that 90 per Dent , of the Democrats and 75-per Gent . of the Republicans agree with you . Whatever difference of opinion there may be as to the necessity of having a general reform of-the tariff in order to promote the interests of our whole country said I am units sure that a material reduction of the tariff would help the , country as a whole , ) there is certainly no chance for a difference of opinion but that the Northwest would be immensely benefited by a very material reduction of our tariff on almost every article . " This Republican Congressman who voted for the Mills bill represents a district whose Republican majority at his last election exceeded . BLAncE 's majority of 42,000 in the entire State four years ago . Thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foremost representative of their race in public life . The sturdy Norwegians of the Northwest were once Republicans almost to a man . The control of the national party by riles of protected manufacturers and the influence exerted in it by railroad corporations have driven many of them to political independence . The action of Mr. NELSON will be warmly approved , not only by a great body of his constituents , but-also by the Norwegians of other districts and other States , and they will continue to drift away from a party whose declared policy is obnoxious to them . It may be said . that the convention in the Fifth District of Minnesota denounced the Mills bill ' That is true . It declared that the bill was " a subterfuge , designed only to deceive , and fraught with mischief , bearing upon its face the unmistakable evidence of having been prepared solely in the spirit of sectional interest . " But the other part of the platform which we-have quoted , and especially the action of Mr. NELSON , represents the opinions and desires of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NELSON what the people of Minnesota want in tariff legislation . He has voted fpr this " subterfuge , designed only to deceive , and fraught with mischief , " because he knows that it provides for many of the reductions which his people have persistently demanded , and . because he knows that the paragraphin the St. Cloudplatform relating to the bill does not fairly represent their attitude . NELSON 'S opinions and his vote are in large measure the platform of his constituents . It may not be possible for the advocates of revision and reduction to carry Minnesota , but the returns from that State next November will be very interesting .                     