@@781055

txt On Wednesday next this city will remove a big stain from its good name by unveiling a statue of the late William H. Seward . The great Secretary gave to Auburn a national reputation . He died here , and his tomb is in the beautiful Fort Hill Cemetery in this city , within half a mile of the Seward homestead . Ever since he died it had been the intention of a few prominent citizens to erect a statue to his memory , but they were in no hurry , and for years the city has had the reputation of being too miserly to spend , a cent in honoring one of the conspicuous figures in American history . A few years ago Mr. Walter G. Robinson , a sculptor in this city , started to make a model for a statue of Seward . He worked away , and about a year ago finished his labors . The family and intimate personal friends pronounced the model perfect , and it was decided to nave a bronze statue cast . This has been done , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unveiled with appropriate ceremonies at Seward Park Wednesday next at 11:30 A. M. Seward Park is a triangular plot of ground adjoining the Seward homestead , in South street . It has just been enlarged by the gift to the city by the Seward family or a strip of the south end of the Seward garden , which includes the spot where there used to be an arbor in which Secretary Seward spent a great deal of time in study and in preparing important papers . The land was deeded to the city when the statue project became an assured fact . The citizens ' committee has received subscriptions from the residents of Auburn for several weeks , and the response has been generous . There has been a marked desire on the part of the poor people to contribute their mite . The exercises at the park will consist of prayer by the Rev. John Brainard , D. D. , Rector of St. Peter 's Church of this city ; an introductory statement by ex-Mayor Wheeler ; presentation of the statue in behalf of the donors by the Hon. T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the statue by Mayor M. V. Austin . In the afternoon at 2:30 o'clock Senator William M. Everts will deliver the oration in the Genesee Rink . Among the distinguished persons who will be present are the following : The Hen . Edwards Pierrepont , ex-Minister to England ; the Hon. John Bigelow , ex-Minister to France ; Gen. Alexander S. Webb , President of the College at the City of New-York ; ex-Gov . A. B. Cornell , ex-Lieut . Gov . Stewart L. Woodford , the Hon. Thomas C. Acton , late Assistant United States Treasurer ; Lient. - Gov . Jones , the Hon. Frederick Seward and the Hon. Clarence Seward , and George E. Baker , President of the First National Bank of New-York City . The William H. Seward Club of New-York has accepted an invitation to attend the unveiling .                     