@@672094

txt It Is somewhat strange that with our traditional policy of avoiding all " entangling alliances " with European powers and keeping out of complications at a distance from the American Continent we should fink ourselves in something of a snarl with ' the most powerful nation of the European Continent over a wretched group of islands on ? the other side of the globe . This international difficulty , if it must be dignified by such a term , comes from the officious meddling of adventurers in a quarter in which we had no particular concern and the too ready adoption of their doings by the Government . Why should it matter to us which of the rival savage chiefs in the Samoan Islands was the recognized ruler , and why should we care what jurisdiction was ultimately to extend over that Polynesian domain ? What business have we to be mixed up in the affair at all ? It may be that a coaling and supply station in that quarter of the world may be of use to us some time . At all events , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , though we have never made any use of it or even taken the trouble to perfect our title and prepare it for use . if we had limited ourselves to acquiring that station , there is no reason to suppose that our right to its enjoyment would ever be questioned or interfered with by any European power . Our " interests " would have been perfectly safe . But we must needs enter into arrangements and negotiations about the Government of Samoa with its native chiefs and with Germany and England . That was almost sure to lead to complications which it would have been better for us to keep out of . Such " interests " as we have in those islands , and their extent is very vaguely defined , aside from this Pango-Pango station , consist in the mere fact that there are a few Americans there owning property and engaged in trade to some small extent . For their protection some sort of stability in the Government is desirable and we have become parties to an agreement for the neutrality of the port of Apia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in behalf of the native Government in case of trouble with other countries , and there has been some sort of an abortive understanding with reference to the independence of that Government from the control of either Germany , England , or the United States . Step by step we have got entangled in the petty business until there are not- only " interests " but " rights " and " obligations " to . talk about , and members of Congress are shaking their fists at the burly form of Prince BISMARCK . What Prince BISMARCK has been aiming at is the protection of German " interests " in Samoa , which are greater than those of either England or America . Perhaps he aims at the control of the islands , possibly at their acquisition as a German colony . But we ought to be in a position to regard such schemes in that part of the world with unconcern . We do not want the Samoan Islands , and there is no legitimate reason why we should care whether they are autonomous or under a foreign protectorate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such legitimate interests as we have acquired there through the adventurous zeal of naval officers , Consuls , and special agents can be made quite as safe without the independence or neutrality of the islands as with it , probably more so . Germany protests that she has no intention or desire to harm our interests or the property or right4 of any American in Samoa , and we can see no reason why she should have such intention or desire . In the confused troubles there , where Consuls and naval officers act more or less on their own responsibility , and drunken sailors act on no responsibility , it would be strange if there were not reports of insult and outrage , but there is no evidence of any intentional affront to the United States on the part of German authorities . There was something disquieting in the report that Germany had declared war on MATAAFA , proclaimed martial law and given orders for the search of vessels arriving there for contraband of war , but later reports are reassuring . We could not concede the right of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that did not belong to her , and BISMARCK has disclaimed any such intention , and has modified his orders . Still less could we submit to a search of our vessels , and on that point we can afford to be outspoken and resolute , for the right to do anything of the kind could never be sustained or justified . Talk about war over the wretched Samoan complication is nonsense . It appears that Germany has proposed a further conference , and surely out of this will come a better understanding , for now there seems to be nothing but confusion and misunderstanding .                     