@@746046

txt The mystery attaching to the disappearance of George R. Parks , the young actor , was solved to-day when the harbor police , in making their customary afternoon rounds , found his body floating in the harbor off the South Ferry , about midway between the city proper and East Boston . Just what lea him to seek death in this way is as much a mystery as ever . On Friday and Saturday a gang of boatmen , under the direction of the police , dragged the water front on the:theory that he had jumped overboard after fastening to his body a suit of armor that he had when he left the Tremont House . and that his body would remain where he met his death . The theory was undoubtedly correct , for upon the body found to-day was a belt , to which was attached a swivel hook , and to which the armor was probably fastened by a line which finally parted under the constant action of the waves and currents . At first the police were inclined to think that the bloated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frightfully disfigured by decomposition , and the features were effaced by the gnawing teeth of fishes ; but once ashore an examination of the clothing set all doubt at rest . The clothing was of good quality and answered the description given of that worn by the missing man . In the overcoat pocket was found a theatrical date book , inscribed with his name , and giving the route of " The Held by the Enemy " company , the last with which he was connected . All his jewelry was in place , the gold shirt studs and sleeve buttons bearing the initials " G. R. P. " The underclothing was also marked with the letter " P. " Mr. Parks left the Tremont House at 12:30 on the night of Tuesday , May 31 . A watch in his pocket stopped exactly at 1 o'clock , showing that he must have gone directly from the Tremont House to his death . Soon after the body had been taken to the Morgue it was viewed by Stage Manager Seymour , of the Boston Museum . and other actors who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to discover in the shocking remnant of humanity stretched on the dripping marble slab any semblance of the bright young actor who had been one of their number . His sister also went to the Morgue , but the officers thought the sight would prove too offensive for feminine eyes . All sorts of causes are assigned in theatrical circles for this strange suicide , but no sufficient cause has yet been assigned other than financial difficulties and family troubles . Ybung Parks was 32 years old . He first appeared on the stage with Mr. Thomas at Salem , and his first regular engagement was with the stook company of the Boston Theatre , He was afterward at the Museum for several seasons , and has recently been with different traveling companies . 