@@744166

txt The Advisory Commission began its hearings in this City yesterday on the question of maintaining differential rates for the transportation of merchandise by rail between the West and the cities of the Atlantic sea-board . Mr. ORR submitted the argument on behalf of the Produce Exchange against keeping up the discrimination . He confined himself chiefly to the commercial effects of the policy , and did not enter into the question of the relative cost of transportation by the different trunk lines of railroad . He showed conclusively enough that the controlling influence which determines the course of commodities destined for exportation is the price at which they can be placed in foreign markets . It matters nothing to the Western producer what route they take or what sea-port has the business of shipping them abroad . The foreign buyer is concerned only with the price at which they can be obtained on his side of the Atlantic . The cost of transportation is divided between the ocean routes and the railroads from the field of production in the interior , and largely determines the price at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates are equal from the different ports of shipment , it is obvious that the cost of railroad transportation will to a very large degree determine the course of the traffic and seriously affect the interests of the rival cities . Mr. ORR undertook to show that the reasons which formerly existed for differential rates have passed away . It was claimed that the facilities for foreign traffic from Philadelphia and Baltimore were not equal to those presented by New-York , and the cost of ocean transportation from those ports was greater ; and it was to offset this disadvantage that a difference was allowed in the railroad rates . It is hardly to be admitted that this was a valid reason for making the difference . If New-York had superior advantages , it was entitled to the benefit of them . The action of the railroads in discriminating against it for the benefit of its rivals has resulted in building up the commerce of Philadelphia and Baltimore until it can be said that the reason for the discrimination no longer exists . Differential rates now operate to give them an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still they insist upon the policy of protection by railroad tariffs in order that they may reap the benefits of the generosity exercised in their behalf by a combination of railroads without the consent of New-York . If the validity of the reason alleged for the original difference of rates is allowed , the fact that it no longer exists may be an argument in favor of discontinuing it , but it can hardly be admitted that the reason was a sufficient one . It made the basis of rates purely artificial and recognized a right in railroads to control by agreement of their managers the commercial destinies of the cities at which they terminate . From the point of view of the Produce Exchange and of New-York business men ' generally , the fact that differential rates operate unfavorably upon the commercial interests of this City is a sufficient ground for their abrogation , but they operated in the same way when they were holding the commerce of New-York in check and stimulating that of Philadelphia and Baltimore . To put in this plea now is to adopt the Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which the discrimination was based . If it is a fact that the three cities stand now on terms of substantial equality so far as terminal charges and facilities and ocean freights are concerned , then the chief element of difference in the cost of transportation is thrown back upon the railroads which connect them with the interior of the continent . This is substantial If tie ground taken by Mr. ORR , and lie contends that a difference in through rates should no longer be maintained because it puts New-York at a disadvantage and tends to divert traffic more and more to its rivals . This is logical from his point of view and on an admission o : the principle upon which the discriminating policy was originally based . But Philadelphia and Baltimore now shift their ground and f their A T claim for differential rates on me trot that they are nearer to the distributing cities of the West and their railroads are shorter than those which terminate at New-York . The fallacy at the bottom of the whole case consists in a departure from the true principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be at liberty to make the most of its natural and acquired advantages for foreign commerce , and it is not the business of rival railroad lines to endeavor to equalize these . Every railroad line , on the other hand , should be at liberty to carry on its own business at such rates as it may find advantageous for itself and the commerce dependent ' upon its . operations . New-York has an established foreign trade and certain facilities and advantages growing out of its position and accumulated capital . It affords a wide market for home consumption and local distribution , and has a very large share of the import trade of the country and of the business of distributing imported merchandise . its railroads have a large and profitable local business . Considering all the advantages and opportunities which they enjoy , most of which are derived from this City , they can undoubtedly afford to:bring Western products to the sea-coast as cheaply as they can be brought by the rival roads to the rival ports , and that is a sufficient reason why they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed on any ground .                     