@@780668

txt Another attempt on the part of the Somerset County swindlers to thwart the administration of justice has been discovered . When John V. Vegbto , the County Collector , was first charged with defalcation last Fall , and the investigating committee appointed by Judge Dalrimple had commenced work , the books and vouchers of the Collector suddenly disappeared from the vault of the Somerset County Bank , of which Veghte was at that time President , and have never been found . Their loss was a great obstacle to the examination . Several weeks ago the Board of Freeholders appointed William S. Potter , one of the Dairimple committee , an expert to look into the affairs of Collector Veghte . In order to make a fair and full examination , Potter determined to compare the items set out iu the yearly reports of the Collector with the deposits and statements entered in the ledgers of the bank . The books of daily itemized accounts of the bank from 1868 to 1874 would tell the story , as most of the defalcations had occurred during those years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to examine the books , and he specified a time when he would call for them . He went a few days ago , and the books could not be found . Diligent search shows conclusively that the same mysterious hands which spirited away the deposit-books and vouchers last Fall have taken charge of the itemized accounts . The boldness , as well as adroitness , of this act , astounded the community . The books in question are exceedingly valuable to the bank , outside of any connection with Veghte . They are the only trustworthy books of reference in case any old depositor should desire to examine his former accounts , and their absence may cause a great deal of trouble . There is only one opinion as to the real author of all these thefts . Veghte 's game is plain . After January , 1881 , most of the items on which the charges against him are based . will be outlawed , and if he can postpone the action of law , either by the Grand Jury or experts , until then , he can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most eminent counsel in the State , among whom is the Hon. Thomas N. McCarter , of Newark . Mr. McCarter appeared before Judge Magic on Saturday , and asked for an order allowing a writ of certiorari , so that the indictment hanging over Veghte may be examined by the Supreme Court at Trenton . Ho claims the indictment is defective in form , and wants the opinion of the higher court on the subject . It is understood that Attorney-General Stockton , for the State . acquiesced in this request , and that Judge Magic will , therefore , grant the order .                     