@@780682

txt Gen. Count Waldersee has assumed the functions of his office as adlatus to Gen. Count von Moltke . It is stated that Gen. von Moltke will soon take a long furlough . Gen. Waldersee 's appointment is a compromise , as Gen. von Moltke wished to retire from the office of Chief of the General Staff because of his advanced age . He was , however , overruled by the Emperor . An imperial rescript , dated Jan. 4 , countersigned by Prince Bismarck , has been addressed to the Prussian Ministry . It says : " The right of the King to direct the Government and policy of Prussia in accordance with his own judgment is restricted , not abrogated , by the Constitution . The official acts of the King require the countersignature of a ' Minister , and are carried out by his Ministers ; but they remain the official acts of the King , in whose resolve they originate , and who in them gives constitutional expression to his will . Therefore it is not permissible to represent their exercise as proceeding from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the monarchical tradition of this country , whose development rests on the living relations of its Kings to the people . These relations can not be transferred to Ministers , because they appertain to the person of the King , and their maintenance is necessary for Prussia . It is , therefore , my will that in Prussia , and also in the legislative bodies of the empire , no doubt will be allowed to attach to my constitutional right or that of toy successors , to personally direct the policy of the Government . It is the duty of my Ministers to support my constitutional rights by protecting them from doubt and obscurity , and I expect the same from all officials who have taken the oath of loyalty to me . I am far from wishing to restrict the freedom of elections , but the functionaries intrusted with the execution of my official acts are bound to support the policy of my Government , even at the elections . I shall acknowledge the faithful discharge of this duty , and shall expect all officials , remembering their oath of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from all agitation against my Government . " There is much disappointment among the Clericals at the decision of the Government to introduce no more comprehensive measure than the July bill . The Clerical leaders in the Diet are preparing a series of amendments , which , if adopted , will practically have the effect of repealing the May laws . The Conservatives regard the forthcoming Ecclesiastical bill as purely temporary , to be followed by a revision of the Falk laws as soon as the nee , utiations with the Vatican are concluded . It is only on this assumption that the Conservatives have agreed to support the bill . PARIS , Jan. 7 . ? La Defense publishes a telegram to-day from Rome , saying that Prince Bismarck has sent a courteous , but very explicit , note to the Quirinal , in which ho states that in his opinion the Pope 's independence can not be regarded as a question for Italian home politics , but should be held as an international question . The note declares an intention on the part of Prince Bismarck to promote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of making the guarantees of the independence of the Holy See stronger and more effectual than they are at present . The telegram adds : " Russia , Austria , Germany , England , and Spain favor the holding of a congress as early as possible . France has not yet enunciated her views on the subject . " La Defense says : " All arrangements are complete for the departure of the Pope for Malta , in case he deems it impossible for him to remain in Rome . "                     