@@671958

txt HARRISON 'S IDEA OF TRADE . If the Republican members of the United States Senate dare not go so far as the platform of their party in the promotion of industry and trade by taxation , the candidate for the Presidency is ready to go quite beyond it . The platformdeclared distinctly against the reduction of existing duties and in favor of spending the surplus . The Senators appear to have concluded that that is going too far , and they propose to have some of the duties reduced . Gen. HARRISON , in a speech delivered at Indianapolis on Tuesday to one of the numerous delegations which visit him nowadays , announced a doctrine in economics that is not exactly new , but has never , so far as we have observed , been so directly formulated before . His idea , concisely put , is that we must grow rich and prosperous by buying nothing from foreign nations and selling them much , paying steamships to carry our products to them , and presumably forcing them to buy these products for hard cash . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine without quoting his words . He ? says : " Our party stands unequivocally , without evasion or qualification , fo  --  the doctrine that the American market shall be preserved for our American producers . We are not attracted by the suggestion that we should surrender to foreign producers the best market in the world . Our 60,000,000 people are the best buyers in the world , and they are such because our working classes receive the best wages . " Let us pause and . take in the full meaning of this . Now our working classes receive the best wages because labor applied to our vast and varied natural resources will produce the largest results . But for the same reason they are able to produce more than enough to satisfy the wants of our people . They have a surplus to dispose of , and with it they might obtain products from other countries , articles for which they could find many uses for their gratification , which they do not produce themselves . But no , they must not buy from " abroad . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they must buy only their own products . They must limit themselves to passing around and exchanging among themselves the results of the work of American producers . Thereby , and thereby only , shall they grow rich and prosperous . If Gen. HARRISON had stopped here he would have had a complete American policy  --  America for Americans , and no traffic with abroad . We would buy and sell among ourselves and use up our own surplus and go without the products of " pauper labor . " But he did not stop here . Americans must not buy from abroad , but they must sell to " abroad . " Hear him : " But we do not mean to be content with our own market . We should seek to promote closer and more friendly commercial relations with the Central and South American States . And what is essential to that end ? Regular mails are the first condition of commerce . The merchant must know when his orders will be receivedvand when his consignment will be returned , or there can be no trade between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the establishment of American steamship lines between our ports and the ports of Central and South America . " These are to be secured by paying the steamships a subsidy , and as we are to keep our markets to ourselves of course we would buy nothing in Central and South America . Wo would only sell . It is a settled principle in foreign trade that what is sold can only be paid for in the products of other countries . Money is only used in settling balances , and rarely passes from one country to another . It is especially notorious that Central and South American States have no surplus of cash , and whore are they to get it if they can not dispose of their own products beyond their own borders ? How they are to be compelled to purchase from - us is a detail to which Gen. HARRISON has given no attention , but perhaps they could be subsidized or furnished with . the cash by taxation of our own people . There has been nothing more delightful than Gen. HARRISON 'S doctrine of a home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared the tariff question to be a mere local issue . For absurdity it even excels that . Mr. MORTON , when he was received by his fellow-citizens of Rhinebeck after the Chicago Convention , said that the candidate for President had been advised to make no speeches and . write no letters . The advice was most prudent , but it has not been heeded . If Gen. HARRISON is not to make himself ridiculous ? before the w , hole country the National Committee will have to find some way of keeping his month shut . On the subject of the tariff and foreign trade he shows an ignorance and a crudity of thought that would disgrace a boy in the Indianapolis high schooL MATT QUAY should repeat to him the advice he gave to Gen. BEAVER when he was a candidate for Governor of Pennsylvania : " Do n't Talk . "                     