@@744253

txt Immigrants are landing at this port at the rate of more than 17,000 a week , or over 2,000 per day . In April 67,901 were landed , an increase of 8,153 over the arrivals in the corresponding month of 1881 , and this proportion of increase is being kept up . It is plain that the unprecedented total of last year is to be far surpassed in 1882 . No small part of the increase is due to systematic efforts to stimulate and guide immigration . This matter of promoting immigration is likely to receive increasing attention from many Southern and newer Western States which have not hitherto received their due quota , and it will be well for the Legislatures of those States and others interested in their development to study with some care the methods in use elsewhere , and to profit by the experience of their neighbors . We gave some time ago an account of the working of the South Carolina Bureau of Immigration , which has been in successful operation for two years . In Georgia a valuable work has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the rather niggardly and short-sighted Legislature of that State refused all reimbursement , though the taxaable property of the State has been greatly increased in value by the resulting immigration . Missouri has also a well-organized and vigorous immigration society , which made a very good showing in its first annual report . The society has had some aid from the Legislature , $15,000 having been appropriated for printing and disseminating its publications , but it is in the main a private organization and dependent upon private means . Out of the 114 counties in the State , 78 have branch organizations working with the central society , and the latter is able to supply intending immigrants in distant States or foreign countries with a full and detailed description of the leading features and attractions of every part of the State as an aid in determining their choice of locality . The experience of the Missouri society proves the necessity of organized effort for all States wishing to attract immigrants . The foreign agencies are now so numerous and active that the Swede , Dane , or German who makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the condition of a traveler who falls into the hands of rival hackmen or hotel runners . Most of these agencies receive commissions on the sale of passage tickets , and from the railroads in this country over whose lines the immigrants pass on their way to the West . Any State which lies a little out of the stream of westward travel , like Missouri , therefore , must suffer so long as it is unrepresented in the Continental emigrant ports , for it is for the interest of the agents to guide the flow toward the North-west , and their advice has great weight with thousands who do not know where else to seek counsel . The Missouri society now has a central agency in London , with representatives in Hamburg , Antwerp , Bremen , Brussels , Paris , and some of the minor sea-port towns . Its " Hand-book of Missouri , " translated into German , is being widely distributed in Germany , and efforts are being made to secure its dissemination in Sweden , Norway , Holland , France , and Switzerland in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of immigration propaganda has been proved by the experience of the railways leading from the Atlantic sea-board to the West and Northwest . By means of pamphlets , prospectuses , and native agents scattered through the towns and small villages of the Teutonic countries they have done much to give the North-west its present character . Only the beginning of the society 's work shows in the first year 's results . The number of European immigrants whose coming is noted on its books is 236 , which will doubtless be greatly increased this year now that its newly established agencies are at work . About 3,000 of the correspondents in other States of the American Union have either settled in Missouri already or are preparing to do so . This record of inter-State emigration is one of the curious features of the society 's report . The Secretary 's abstracts of correspondence show that during the year inquiries were made of the society concerning the advantages of Missouri from a settler 's point of view by 232 persons in New-England , 798 in the Middle States , 6,373 in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Canada , and 786 in Europe . The nomadic tendency of the people of the Western States as shown here is something remarkable . From Illinois alone 2,043 letters were received . In most cases of this kind the correspondents mentioned the desire to find a better climate and cheaper land as the reasons for making a change . From across the Kansas border there was a steady influx of population , principally German farmers and tradesmen , who were not content to live under the prohibition law of that State . The Secretary of the society , Mr. MORRISON RENSHAW , states that 4,000 persons of whom the society has knowledge passed into the State through St. Louis during the year , intending to settle . This number , he thinks , was about onetenth of the arrivals at all points in the State , and of this ' total number fully onehalf were men of family , so that he reaches the conclusion that the total increment to the State population during the year was not less than 90,000 . This is probably too high ; but assuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of only a little over 4 per cent . in population in a single year , a rate of growth she may easily surpass with a fuller development of such means of attracting immigrants as have long been at work in favor of Kansas , Nebraska , and Minnesota . The census of 1880 gives her a population of 2,168,380 , on 65,380 square miles of territory , or 33 to the square mile . There is evidently room enough for a great many more people in Missouri , and it is a good sign to see her citizens going to work in so intelligent a manner to secure for their State the great material advantages in industrial development and increase of wealth which come of immigration . Some of the Southern States which are beginning to recognize the need of a leavening of this kind will be profited by a study of her experience and imitation of her example .                     