@@745499

txt Students of the theory of evolution have latterly had their attention attracted to the prospect that a new variety of dog is about to appear . The dog in all ages has been distinguished by an inability to climb . This did not impair his usefulness in his original state . Deer , foxes , and other animals hunted by dogs do not climb trees , and the dog has always been satisfied after treeing a cat orn small boy to dance at the foot of the tree until relieved by a man with a gun .. . But modern civilization has developed the back fence of our city houses , and the cats that the dog once drove into convenient trees now seek safety on the fence ? and smile serenely at their enemy . Now the dog can not look upon a fence only five or six feet high . in the light of a tree twenty or fifty feet high , and he is buoyed up by the constant hope that he can in some way reach the cat that mocks him from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground to the top of the back fence for nearly a century , and at last incessant practice has so developed the dog 's muscles and his command over them that dogs are frequently met who are very nearly entitled to be called climbing animals . ' A dog of this ; . kind can spring - ; from the ground and seize with his ' front paws the top of a back fence fully six feet in height . He can then draw himself up until all four feet are on top of the fence , and the neighboring cats are at his mercy . If there happen to be any convenient knotholes in the fence or any projections on a fence post the climbing dogs will contrive to use them so as to reach the top of the fence without leaping . There are probably a hundred dogs in this city to-day who habitually perform feats of climbing in connection with back fences which no dog of the last century could possibly have performed . From the progress made by dogs in this direction it is reasonably certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cats in climbing . They will become arboreal , and will fearlessly chase birds to the tops of the highest trees . Of course , it will not be long before the cats are totally annihilated , for as soon as the back fences and trees no longer insure them safety they will have no means of escape . For this reason the climbing dog will be enthusiastically welcomed , and if he could only be taught to fly and to catch mosquitoes and sparrows on the wing he would approach very near to ideal perfection .                     