@@744245

txt Some six weeks have now elapsed since Commissioner DUDLEY , of the Pension Office , gave to a delighted land his great American scheme for the reformation of the civil service , for such , indeed , it was , though in terms confined to the Pension Office . It would be a pity to limit so statesmanlike a scheme to the selection of a paltry 800 pension clerks , when its benefits might be equally well extended to the entire public service . The unanimity with which the plan has been condemned by the puling theorists who know nothing of practical politics has doubtless only confirmed its author in his confidence in it . But DUDLEY did not lack converts . No sooner were his views made known than Congressman ORTII , a fellow Indianian of an equally practical turn of mind and very appropriately Chairman of the House . Committee on Civil Service Reform , announced to an expectant country that he was going to embody them in a bill . For some weeks now we have scanned the pages of the Congressional Record with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the announcement that this precious piece of statesmanship had been added to the ten thousand ? embryo laws awaiting the attention of Congress ; but all in vain . Whether the time of the honorable member has been too much engrossed with the cares of practical statesmanship in the form of providing hungry constituents with comfortable places , or he has found difficulty in harnessing DUDLEY 'S soaring views to the prosaic cart of legislation , we can not say ; at any rate , the ' promised bill is not forthcoming . In this emergency we cheerfully come to the aid of the cause of true reform by presenting the draft of a bill exactly embodying Commissioner DUDLEY 'S views . The task has been an easy one ; it was only necessary to put the Commissioner 's own luminous language into the proper legal form . As a friend of reform , he can not object to this course , for if his views are correct , as every practical statesman knows they are , they will only shine the brighter when put into effective shape . Here is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inaugurate Practical Reform in the Pension Office . Whereas , An additional force of clerks and examiners is required for the settlement of pension claims ; and Whereas , The examiners should be men of character and good habits , who have settled down to the real work of life  --  if possible who have fought for the Nation 's life  --  who are ripe in years and experience , of capacity and education sufficient to enable them to discover the legal points involved , properly weigh and apply the testimony , as well as determine the kind or amount required to sustain a declaration and to reach an intelligent and just judgment ; and Whereas , An unripe youth who has seen little of the world , knows little or nothing of the habits of the people or methods of public business save what he has learned in the books , and which he has knowledge of only as abstract theories , although he may pass a brilliant examination in orthography , syntax and prosedy , mathematics , classical literature , science , art . geography , and other branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and Whereas , The clerical force should be composed of young men and ladies of good moral oharaoter , good penmanship , and a reasonable degree of accuracy In orthography and syntax ; therefore ' , Be it enacted , fc. , That all candidates for appointment in the Pension Office shall be subjected to oral and written examinations which will demonstrate their fitness for the peculiar work of that office ; Provided , however , That the Board of Examiners need pay no regard to tho results of the examination , but may certify for appointment those who , in their judgment , shall be deemed best fitted for the work . Sac . 2 . That in the selection of persons for appointment as clerks , other things being nearly equal , preference shall be given to ex-Union soldiers , their sons , widows , or daughters , and due regard shall be paid to a fair and equitable apportionment of the whole force among the several States and Territories . SEC. a That the examiners of the Pension Office shall be men who are fully impressed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will care more to get ante-mortem pensions to the veterans who for years have been languishing with diseases and wounds , and have been kept waiting so long for their rights , rather than calculate how long they can make their own employment last . And said examiners shall be ex-Union soldiers , and shall each have a vote somewhere , and shall have interest enough in the welfare of their Nation and State to vote at every election , and , other things being equal or nearly so , Republicans shall be preferred . SEC. 4 . That . inasmuch as this is a Republican Administration , the appointments of examiners shall be divided among the several States and Territories in. proportion to the Republican vote each casts to the whole Republican vote of the country , taking into consideration the distribution of those now employed ; Provided , That whenever the pendulum shall swing the other way and the Administration pass into Democratic bands the Democratic , vote shall be allowed as the basis . We freely present to Congressman ORTH this simple scheme of reform . Whatever merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We confidently expect to see it presented to Congress on the very next bill day . If it does not cause the visionaries who have been prating about the Pendleton bill and - other impracticable measures to bury their heads in shame , they must be a hardened set indeed . 