@@781769

txt deleted 3 paragraph said , in July , 1887 , in the course of an article relating . to ex-Senator DORSEY 'S projected combination of all the iron mines in the Gogebic and Menominee ranges : " The iron mines of the Marquette region in Michigan have been under a combination arrangement for years , and the mines of the Vermilion region , a few miles north of Duluth. are in the hands of two or three groups , so that withthis arrangement with reference to the Gogebic and Mepominee ranges perfected . the Bessemer iron ore supply from that region will be in so fell , hands that it can be manipulated as a monopoly . " The Vermilion range contains an almost inexhaustible deposit of the finest iron ore . The greater part of this deposit a year or two ago came into the possession of a syndicate composed of D. 0 . MILLS , J. D. ROCKEFELLER of the Standard Oil Trust , J. C. MORSE , and certain other-persons connected with steel rail companies that are members of the Steel Rail Ring . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the district and in the largest mines of the other Northwestern iron regions . The Tribune appears to have had sufficient foundation for its assertion that the entire supply of high-grade ore in these ranges " will be in so few hands that it can be manipulated as a monopoly . " But we also have the testimony of the Tribune that such combinations " are radically hostile to and are destined to defeat the very object of the protective system . " Nevertheless , these gentlemen , as members of the Western Iron Ore Association , have asked Congress to retain the present duty upon ore and even to make it higher . The burden of their cry is that the workingman 's wages must be protected . Etery  - -  body knows , of course , that all the managers of the Sugar Trust , the Standard Oil Trust , and the Steel Rail Ring are continually torn with anxiety about the wages of - the workingmen . An impression prevails that the iron-ore companies have made very large profits . Mr. STOUT of Michigan declared in Chicago three years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " twenty years ago with a capital of $300 , - 000 ; had paid 90 per cent . per annum on the investment for the last fourteen years , and , although it had during the last six years watered its capital 100 per cent. , it was still paying 90 per cent . per annum . " We have quoted from the New-York Tribune certain statements about the existence of combinations in the iron ranges . Let us see what another Republican paper , the Chicago Tribune , that is supporting HARRISON with all its might , says about the plea of the iron-ore men cencerning wages . Several of the wealthiest owners of iron mines live in or ' near Chicago , and . the Chicago Tribune is well acquainted with the industry . Here is something from the Chicago Tribune of the 16th of January last : " In its session at Cleveland the Western Iron Ore Association remonstrated against tariff reduction and greedily demanded the preservation of the present duty of 75 cents per ton on imported iron ore . They represent that otherwise they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Cuba , where the poorest paid labor in the world is employed , and that the wages of their workmen must be correspondingly reduced . This , of course , is all bosh . The peculiar high-grade ore of the Lake Superiorregion does not come idto competition at all with foreign ores . In fact , the free importation of foreign ores and their use iu mixing would increase the demand for the home product . There , are as many varieties of iron ore as of wool , and in iron manufacture , as in the woolen industry , peculiar advantages are gained by mixing different varieties of the raw material . The Lake Superior iron men in demanding the preservation of duties on imported ores that do not compete with their product are repeating the blunder of the wool growers and manufacturers . Trustisni is at the back of the de mand for duties that are of no benefit but positively injurious to the manufacturers and . consumers . The ore Producers can not persuade themselves to forego the power to hold up prices on the furnacemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is useless to expect that the ore ' Trusts ' will consent to cutting off any of their tariff stimulant . The only thing to do is to pay no more attention to the clamorous ' Trusts , ' but put raw materials like iron on the free list . The ' taxing of raw material . has crippled American manufacturers , excluded their wares from foreign markets , and given an ' enormous advantage to the English . " To this the President of the association made reply , whereupon the Chicago Tribune , on Jan. 31 , published additional remarks upon the subject , among them the following : " We have no patience with the chatter about high-priced labor , the great wages of American miners , &o.; They are as near the level of pauper wages as they can well get and live . - " It is simply bosh to say that Lake Superior ore ca n't be mined unless the 75-Dent-per-ton duty is levied on the furnace men and steel-rail mills , and by them in turn on the public and farmers . The farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . get along ' ? The time has come and now is for the rights and interests of consumers and farmers to be considered and consulted . " It appears that the duty on iron ore was sneakingly increased in 1883 through the fraudulent intervention of the tariff lobby at Washington ; and it would be simply justice to have the whole duty wiped out as a penalty for that act of barefaced fraud . " This was the worst kind of heresy , of course , but there was a great deal of truth in it . Such doctrine might be even more acceptable and satisfying to the iron miners than the reasons given by Mr. HARRISON for the failure of bread trees to grow on the cliffs of the Vermilion range .                     