@@745024

txt The fuller reports of the battle on Thursday make it appear that it was a more extensive and important engagement than was indicated by the first dispatches . They do not , however , show that Gen. GRAHAM has won a final victory . Although the British remained in possession of the field at the end of the battle , they have fallen back in one direction , while OsmAN 's forces have fallen back in another , and have made no attempt to pursue their advantage to a decisive result . This fact throws a shade of doubt over the exultation of the official dispatches . Another fact equally significant is the admission in the British dispatches that the Arabs behaved in and after their attack with courage and resolution . There was nothing resembling a panic . The Arabs were simply repulsed in an attack on the British position after carrying the first line . They were not so repulsed as to impress them with the belief that the British forces were invincible , nor so as to discourage them from repeating the attempt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not likely that OSMAN will accept any terms that they can offer while he retains any hope of beating them in the field , and the victory is not of such a character as to dispel his hopes . In dealing with inferior . races , the prestige of victory is everything , and this the British do not seem to have won . The most impressive assertion in the whole narrative is that which declares that " it was impossible to take prisoners . " In plain English , this means that every Arab taken was butchered . If the wounded thought nothing of their own lives so long as they could exchange them for the lives of their enemies , it was necessary , of course , to dispatch them with as little compunctidn. as CROMWELL showed at knocking captive Papists on the head . But the necessity of killing wounded men lest they kill you is at least a tribute to the fervor of the fanaticism which animates them . The wounded Arab has a serene confidence that if he can contrive to kill an infidel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once and with all the honors . In this respect he enjoys a distinct advantage over the agnostic British private , who has no Mandi to promise him immortal joys for killing Arabs , and who fights under a merely mundane system of rewards and punishments . It seems safe to predict that Admiral HEWITT 'S latest summons to the tribes to come in and submit will be no more respected than the previous warnings to the same effect , and that the problem of suppressing the Mandi and dispersing his followers is still before the British forces in Egypt . 