@@744876

txt The decision of a Pennsylvania court in regard to sleeping cars is certainly in ac3ordance with common sense . The court folds that inasmuch as the railway company professes to provide its patrons with facilities for sleeping , it is bound to protect them in , use of these facilities , and is therefore justly liable for damages if it fails to protect sleeping car passenger from robbery while ae is sleeping and hence unable to protectaimself . This decision is not only of interest to those who travel in sleeping cars but it is full of hope for another class of railway travelers . It was long ago settled that a passenger who pays his fare is entitled to a seat , and that if he is not furnished with a seat the company has not carried out its contract . Now , it is settled that a sleeping car passenger is entitled to sleep , and the next step will necessarily be a decision entitling a passenger to protection while trying to use the smoking car . At present smokers have no protection whatever while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoke anywhere except in the smoking car , and they are crowded out of the latter by people who . do not smoke . At least two-thirds of the men who ride in the smoking car are men who are never seen in the act of smoking  --  at all events : when traveling by rail . On a railway train of average size there are , let us say , sixty men ' who want , to smoke in the smoking car . That car holds about sixty people , and is always full ; but of these people only twenty are ever seen with cigars or pipes in their mouths . There are , then , at least forty smokers on every train who are deprived of their rights , and in behalf of these our courts should be called upon to act , The great principle that smoking cars are meant for smokers must be sustained , and the smokers must be protected against the wanton and wicked ' encroachments of the non-smokers who maliciously ride in smoking cars . There are two theories which explain the ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the persons guilty of this practice are so stupid that they can not distinguish between a smoking car and one free from the smell of smoke . This , however , is very improbable , for it requires ? a degree of stupidity which is never met outside of an idiot asylum . The other theory , that the non-smoking occupants of smoking cars are anti-tobacco fanatics , maliciously determined to keep their fel ! ow-men from smoking , is vastly more probable . It is only a very powerful motive that could induce a man to breathe the atmosphere of a smoking car unless he is at the same time neutralizing its pestilential character , so far as he himself is concerned , by enveloping himself in his own smoke . But the non-smoking offenders accomplish nothing by forcing themselves into smoking cars except the single result of keeping smokers out . This , then , must be their motive . In their wicked rage against tobacco they are willing to endure a smoking car atmosphere for hours at a time , provided they can deprive other men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were one of these men to be seized and searched there would be found upon his person some of the anti-tobacco tracts written by the late Mr. TRASK . The experiment is worth trying , and , if successful , it would conclusively establish the true char acter of the non-smoking monopolizers of smoking cars . What is needed is a judicial decision to the effect that when a railway company provides passengers with a smoking car it is bound to protect them in the enjoyment of smoking facilities by keeping non-smokers out of their way . Such a decision would be hailed with delight by the thousands of suburban residents who are anxious to enjoy their morning cigar while on their daily way to the City , but who are deprived of it by the malicious fanatics who crowd them out of the smoking cars .                     