@@672105

txt President CLEVELAND appropriately celebrated Washington 's Birthday by signing the bill which provides for the admission of four new States to the Union . Probably when the Fifty-first Congress shall meet for its first regular session in December North and South Dakota . Montana , and Washington will be represented as States . These four States will therefore come into the Union during the centennial year of our National Government , as Colorado , the last State previously admitted , came in on the hundredth year after the declaration of the independence of the Republic . But for the narrow strip of Idaho which stretches to the northern border between Montana and Washington they would carry the union of States continuously across the continent from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean . It is a mistake to assume that the bill which became a law yesterday effects the admission of these Territories or provides for the admission of South Dakota in advance of the others . They are likely to come in together next Fall , after the result of elections to be held in October has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of them from coning in then is a failure to adopt Constitutions conforming to the requirements of what may be called the enabling act , The only advantage that South Dakota has acquired is the possession of a ready-made Constitution , framed at Sioux Falls in 1885 and ratified on the 3d of November of that year . It is required to hold a new Constitutional Convention at the same time with the other Territories , and either frame a new Constitution or resubmit the old one to a vote of the people , according to the result of a vote to be taken at the same time that delegates to the convention are chosen . The question of dividing Dakota into two States on the line of the seventh standard ' parallel is definitely decided by Congress , and that question is not to be submitted to the people . The Governors of the three present Territories are required to issue proclamations on the 15th of April for elections to choose delegates to Constitutional Conventions , the elections to be held on the Tuesday after the second Monday in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of July at the capitals of the several Territories , except in the case of South Dakota , whose convention is to be held at Sioux Falls . The number of delegates in each convention is to be seventy-five , to be duly apportioned to districts according to population . The Constitutions framed by these conventions are to be submitted to a vote of the people at an election to be held on the first Tuesday in October . At the May election In South Dakota , at which delegates to the Constitutional Convention are to be chosen , the people are to vote , also , for or against the Sioux Falls Constitution of 1885 . If the vote is in favor of retaining that Constitution , it is to be resubmitted to the people for ratification at the October election , and if the vote is adverse to it a new Constitution must be framed , as in the other Territories . Until the apportionment of representation based upon the next census South Dakota is to be entitled to two Representatives in Congress and each of the other new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the State officers provided for in the new Constitutions are to be voted for at the October elections at which the vote on the ratification of the Constitutions is taken . If in any of these Territories a majority of the votes cast in October is in favor of the adoption of the Constitution the result must be certified by the Governor thereof to the President of the United States , together with a statement of the vote , a copy of the Constitution and of articles or propositions separately submitted to a vote , and the ordinances of the convention . Then , if the Constitutions and Governments adopted are republican in form and the provisions of the act of Congress have been complied with in their formation and adoption , it becomes the duty of the President to " issue his proclamation announcing the result , " and thereupon " the proposed States which have adopted Constitutions and formed State Governments as herein provided shall be deemed admitted by Congress into the Union under and by virtue of this act ou an equal footing with the original States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus it will be seen that the four new stars are not likely to be added - to the national flag before next November . In the improbable event of any one of the " proposed States " failing to adopt a Constitution and form a State Government in accordance with the requirements of the act of Congress , the Territorial Government will continue , but in that case the Governor must call the convention together again to amend the Constitution or make anew one , and submit the result to the people at such time as it shall determine . The present Territory of Dakota is believed to contain not far from 600,000 inhabitants , of whom probably two-thirds live south of the seventh standard parallel . It is well qualified to come into the Union as two States , but it is to be regretted that a new name should not be adopted for one of them . Montana is credited with a larger population than Washington , but being largely devoted to mining and grazing it can not he regarded as so well developed for Statehood or likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people of these Territories for their admission as States there has been comparatively little partisanship displayed in dealing with the question . This is due in part probably to the expectation of the Republicans that they will gain strength by the admission of the new States , and the hope of the Democrats that throughout the agricultural region of the Northwest they are to make gains through their policy for the reduction of duties on imported goods , which would certainly be a vast benefit to that section .                     