@@780547

txt In the Senate to-day , during the morning hour , no one called for a continuation of the debate upon Mr. Allison 's proposition concerning West Point Cadets , but a successful attempt was made to restore to the Navy an officer who resigned six years ago in order to avoid a trial for drunkenness . This officer , Stephen A. McCarty , declares that he resigned simply in or der that he might reform in private life , with the intention of applying for restoration after his reformation should have become complete . The bill was opposed by Mr. Anthony and Mr. Edmunds , and supported by Mr. Conk-ling , Mr. Kernan , and Mr. Voorhees . Mr. Anthony said that any man dismissed from the Navy for drunkenness should be dismissed without hope of return , and declared that the Navy had been largely recruited from men Who had been dismissed for drunkenness and other misdemeanors . Mr. Conkling made an eloquent defense of Mr. McCarty , and Mr. Kernan declared that he had truly reformed . The bill was passed by a vote of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C who was a mem-ber of the Southern Claims Commission during the entire term of its existence , will probably be appointed Commissioner to settle the claims of citizens of France for damages incurred during the rebellion . This commission will continue for at least two years , the salary of the Commissioner being $5,000 per annum . N. G. Ordway , of New-Hampshire , who was Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of Representatives when the Republicans were in a majority in that body , will probably be appointed . Governor of Dakota , vice Howard deceased . The House to-day passed the Trade-mark bill . The United States Supreme Court recently declared the law on trade-marks unconstitutional , and in view of that decision it would seem to be a mere waste of time for Congress to pass another law on the subject . A bill was reported by Mr. Frye to-day , from the House Ways and Means Committee , providing that all materials or articles wholly of foreign growth orproduction which are manufactured in the United States and used in the construction , equipment , and repair of vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade between the Atlantic and Pacific ports of the United States , or built for foreign account , may be imported in bond , under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe , and upon proof that such materials have been manufactured and used for the purpose aforesaid . No duty shall be paid thereon . Sections 2,513 and 2,514 of the Revised Statutes , and so much of section 5 of the act of Feb. 8 , 1875 , as are inconsistent herewith , are repealed . The Secretary of the Treasury read statements at the Cabinet meeting to-day , showing the financial condition of the Treasury . He estimates that the surplus receipts during the present month will be between $10,000,000 and $12,000,000 . It can be stated on official authority that the report that United States men-of-war are to be dispatched to Canadian waters to protect the American fisheries is purely speculative .                     