@@781101

txt Dr. Eugene Thayer , a well-known organist of New-York , committed shields by shooting at 11 o'clock this morning . Dr. Thayer arrived here this webk , accompanied by his wife , and was to have begun giving in-structions to-day . He was out with Mrs. Thayer previous to the shooting . She noticed on their return that he had a package in his band . He asked her if she intended to go out again . She replied in the negative , and went to her room . About an hour later she found his body in a closet . A. revolver was clutched in his hand . He had placed the weapon in his mouth and pulled the trigger . ' The Coroner de-oided it a clear case of suicide , and the phy-sicians said that death must have been instan-taneous . Mrs. Thayer says that her husband had been mentally unsound for some time , and had complained of pains in his head . He had also been disappointed in not gettiug more pupils . Dr. Thayer was one of the best known organistsdn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in London , England . He was about forty-nine years old , and was a native of this country , although ho acquired most of his musical education abroad . Ho lived when a young man several years in Munich aim Vienna , and while in the latter city was brought particularly under the influence of the classicists , and their tenets he held to in his instruction and in his playing . While he played " popular " music , he was . apparently in torment , and the demand for such work on the part of church choirs led him finally to relinquish all church employment as a profession and confine himself to teaching . His friends in this city do not believe that financial difficulties induced him to take his life . His pupils were numbered by the score , and as his terms were quite high he should , have been in the receipt of a handsome income . He had the reputation of being very generous , and this may have caused him to find himself in occasional straits . For some time he had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pain in this organ become at times that he was obliged to relinquish his labors . His friends here believe that it was during one of those attacks that he was driven to the mad act of suicide . Dr. Thayer was not alone a non-practieing physician , but also a Doctor of Music , it title bestowed upon him , it is understood , at Stuttgart . When the Boston Music Hall was in all its glory , with its mammoth organ , Dr. Thayer'e recitals used to be among the chief musical events of Boston society . He gave them weekly , and gave selections only from the older musicians , Bach particularly . The influence ho thus exerted was considerable , and when he ( lame to this city , about five years ago , it was only alter be had rejected tattering odors from his Boston friends . When he arrived here he became organist for Dr. Hall 's church , but he aid not remain there very long , though his ability as an organist was freely acknowledged . He rented a pretty suite of apartments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iu them continuously with his wife , two daughters , and son , until about five weeks ago . Then the family sold their furniture and moved , so they informed their neighbors , to Yantic , Conn . Since then they have not been heard from in this city . Mr. Thayer 's family , it is said , reside in Connecticut , and the body will be probably removed there for burial .                     