@@745500

txt The recent disclaimer from St. Petersburg of any intention on the part of the Russian . Government to acquire a port in Corea , or otherwise to impair the integrity of that country , has evidently been received with incredulity in China . Dispatches from Shanghai say that the Chinese Government is much alarmed at Russia 's purposes , and has both massed troops on her northern frontier and dispatched all her available war vessels to resist Russian aggression in Corea . Thus , an Asiatic question quite different from the two that have occupied attention during the last twelve months is suddenly brought forward . It may prove a question as momentous as either of the others , since the next armed conflict between the populous Empires of Russia and China , whenever it may come , is likely to be sanguinary , and may . change the map of Eastern Asia . There is a vivid suggestion of Russia 's irrepressible mania for aggrandizement in this apprehension that while she was drawing all eyes to one flank of her Asiatic frontier , at Penjdeh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other flank , at Vladivostock . Mongolian suspicion , however , is matched against Muscovite stealthiness of approach , and China 's mobilization of her troops and- dispatch of her fleet to the threatened quarter may at least prevent a duplication of the stroke on the Afghan border . That an ' emphatic and circumstantial denial will again be given at St. Petersburg to all charges of interfering with Corea may be expected . It is quite possible , too , that Chinese fears at this time are premature . But British professional authorities , military and naval , have been under the same apprehension for the last three months . Russia , in fact , has a double temptation to annex a part of Corea . Vladivostock is too far north to satisfy her as a Pacific port . Ice blocks up its harbor every Winter , and thus it never can compete save at a disadvantage with more southerly ports in that march of commerce in Eastern Asia which will doubtless be one of the memorable features of the close of this century . Russia 's first step southward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this peninsula all hopes of a better seaboard are at an end . A second incentive is that the greater part of the people in and around Vladivostock are Corean . They control the trade of the place , and their relations with the peninsula are intimate . The case is one of those in which arbitrary lines drawn by statecraft , assigning the people . on either side to opposite Governments , do not affect the relations of the people themselves . Not long ago a British military paper , having good opportunities for forming an opinion , declared that " Russia has already made such good use of this weapon that no local resistance would attend the annexation of the northern part of the coveted country . " Another advantage of Russia in prosecuting this scheme , if she really entertains it , is that Corea is in an anomalous political condition , being technically under the suzerainty of China , but practically almost independent . To the northern portion at least Russia might make union with her appear as desirable as vasalage to Pekin . The noteworthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the defense of Corea . Hitherto Great Britain has been chiefly anxious over Russian menaces in this quarter ; and while she has reckoned up possible . allies in resisting them , she has seemed to put no very high value on China . Yet China is already said to be acting vigorously , whether from her own motion or under a secret stimulus from England . She is a power , too , that Russia can not afford to despise . , Her navy , despite some hapless encounters with the unusually strong marine forces of France , is amply able to cope with anything that Russia has on her Siberian coast , and it will be reinforced with the new war ships on their way from Germany . China , in fact , reaped nearly all the moral advantages in her late struggle with France . She grappled with a leading European power , and lost no honors in the encounter as a whole . She now boldly proclaims her rights over Corea , and proposes to defend them by arms , whereas not long ago our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power . At the same time hostilities with France break out afresh in Anam , and China is suspected of instigating them . Possibly the firm front shown by the Celestial Empire may cause a cloaking and temporary abandonment of any Russian schemes against Corea . If not , in the common interests of England and China in this quarter , the revival of British anxiety over Russia 's movements on the Afghan border , and the bitter resentment of France against China for reasons of her own , there are possibilities of serious complications and combinations .                     