@@744477

txt Mr. WILLIAM E. DODGE has recently written a letter on the Sunday question in reply to a circular addressed to many prominent citizens , requesting their opinion as to railway traffic on Sunday . Mr. DODGE . is an earnest advocate of the Puritan Sabbath , but the cause which he has at heart will hardly be benefited by the curious collection of facts which he quotes in support of his opinion . It appears to be Mr. DODGE 'S belief that a railway company which runs trains on Sunday is sure to meet with calamity . In 1 873 Mr. DODGE was a Director of the New-Jersey Central Railroad , and in spite of his opposition the other Directors decided that two Sunday trains should be placed on the mud . Mr. DODGE thereupon sent in his resignation and sold his stock at " 116 to 118 . " Mark what followed . Two years later the company was bankrupt and its stock was selling for 10 cents . On the other hand , the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western Railroad , of which Mr. DODGE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is now greatly prosperous . From these facts Mr. DODGE seems to be convinced that no railway which is operated on Sunday can prosper . Furthermore , it is Mr. DODGE 'S evident conviction that railway accidents can be avoided only on condition that railway engineers are " first-class " Christians . Years ago there was an engineer on the NewHaven Road who was a " first-class Christian engineer , " and who ran an express train . One day leave of absence was given to this engineer to visit his family , and his engine was put in charge of a man who " had just returned from California , " and who , of course , must have been all sorts of a pagan . The train promptly ran into the Norwalk drawbridge , and the engineer and thirty passengers were killed , " thus showing the value to a railroad of a first-class Christian engineer . " No one doubts the sincerity of Mr. DODGE , but it is amazing that he can regard such facts as those just quoted as arguments against running railway trains on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove that running trains on Sunday is the surest way to secure prosperity for railway companies and safety for passengers . It is generally conceded that the two most prosperous railroads in the country are the New York Central and the Pennsylvania Central . Why should we not assume that the high price of their stock is owing to their Sunday trains ? The two roads in question have also been remarkably exempt from accidents to trains  --  a fact which clearly shows that Providence has blessed them because of their Sunday trains . Undoubtedly the accident at the Norwalk drawbridge to which Mr. DODGE refers was a very serious one , but instead of assuming that it was due to the fact that the engineer was a returned Californian instead of a " first-class Christian , " we may assume that it was the result of running trains on weekdays , for no such accident has happened to any Sunday train on the New-Haven Road . The elevated railroads , which grieve Mr. DODGE by running trains on Sunday , have killed very few passengers . Why may we not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the fact that they are operated on Sunday ? As for consistent Sabbath-keepers , they do not seem to meet with uniform prosperity , and Mr. DODGE would have no right to condemn the reasoning which should draw from that fact the conclusion that " Sabbath breaking " is the surest road to safety . The late eminent evangelist , Mr. P. P. BLISS , was killed in a railway accident while traveling , not on Sunday , but on a week-day , and Mr. DODGE 'S business firm , in spite of his careful observance of the Sabbath , was subjected to the misfortune of having to pay an immense sum to the Government as a penalty for a breach of the revenue laws . Had Mr. BLISS never traveled on any day except Sunday , he certainly would have escaped the particular accident which caused his terrible death , and we may assume , if we choose , that the trouble which came upon Mr. DODGE 'S firm was a judgment upon him for his willful and persistent " Sabbath-keeping . " Mr. DODGE and most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all mankind should be compelled by law to outwardly keep Sunday as if it were the Jewish Sabbath are playing most successfully into the hands of their opponents . The recent enforcement of the Sunday laws by the arrest of bootblacks and bakers has done more to encourage those who seek the entire abolition of all Sunday laws , including that restricting the sale of ardent spirits , than anything that has occurred for many years . It is only necessary for Mr. DODGE and his friends to secure the strict and literal enforcement of the Sunday laws , and a reaction will take place which will sweep every vestige of Sunday laws from the statute-book . Among those who are the earnest advocates of Sunday rest , Dr. HOWARD CROSBY stands almost alone in the clear , strong common sense with which he views the matter . He has pointed out that any attempt to prevent by law what is called " Sabbath-break- ing , " on the ground that His contrary to the Fourth Commandment , must be a failure , and that its failure will involve the failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rest . The great majority of our people either disbelieve that the Fourth Commandment is any part of the Christian religion or they disbelieve the Christian religion altogether , and they become indignant when those who believe that Sunday is the Jewish Sabbath try to force that view upon them by the aid of the Police . On the other hand , every man wants a day of rest and freedom from business , and Sunday laws designed to assist men in obtaining a day of rest can command popular approval . The rest of Sunday is a blessing that we can not afford to lose and that is even of more value to working men than to men like Mr. DODGE . It is a great pity that the latter , by their injudicious zeal , should be unintentionally doing their utmost to completely destroy Sunday as a day of rest .                     