@@743735

txt The record of President HAYES 'S Administration may be regarded as made up . It can not yet be viewed in the impartial light of history , and no judgment pretending to entire accuracy can now 13e passed upon it ; but in looking over it in its completeness we may be able to do a fair degree of justice to its purposes and to its achievements . While it is claimed for the President that his Administration stands in no need of vindication or explanation on its own account , we have obtained from a source that reflects his own feelings and judgment in regard to his official course a statement that may be considered as placing it in the light in which he hopes that it will be viewed by the people of the country hereafter . It will probably be long before the general judgment will be as ' favorable as that claimed , but the Administration is safe for an honorable place in the memory of the Nation . The last four years have been the period of a somewhat remarkable transition in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no means wholly disappeared , their harshest features have been softened , and it is easy to mark a decided degree of progress toward renewed nationality . The finances of the country have been restored to the basis of specie with a prospect of permanency , and the national credit has acquired a degree of strength which it never before possessed . The civil service has been in a considerable measure purified and freed from old abuses , and the beginnings of a reform have been made which has sufficient root to acquire a healthy growth if it is favored with fostering care . It is claimed for the President that the progress which has been made in these directions is largely due to his clearness of conviction , steadiness of purpose , and firmness in action . So far as the Southern policy is concerned , the explanation made in behalf of the Administration goes far to qualify its claims to peculiar merit . There is a plea , though it is not put in that form , that the withdrawal of military interposition for the support of State Governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect its purpose , and its maintenance would not be sustained by public sentiment even in the North . This is undoubtedly true , and when President HAYES came into office an embarrassing situation of affairs existed , from which some means of extrication had to be devised . Whether that adopted by him was the wisest and best may still be questioned , but the task , however it was to be performed , was forced upon him . Its accomplishment was accompanied by professed purposes of conciliation which were to win Southern support for the Government and do much toward mitigating the evils anticipated from leaving the States ' to themselves . It p this part of the policy , well-meant , but more sentimental than practical , that utterly failed of its purpose . Whatever progress has been made in the South toward abetter state of things has been the product of events and of time , and in no sense the - work of the Administration . It has not even done what it might have done to win respect and beget confidence for the Government by placing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It withdrew the troops and left events to take their course , and this , by its own admission , could not long have been avoided . It has done very little to direct or modify the course of those events for the production of beneficial results . One of the chief claims made for the Administration to the gratitude of the Nation rests on its civil service policy . For what has been gained we should be duly grateful , and can only hope that it may constitute the foundations of reform of such breadth and firmness that they can not be abandoned . President HAYES came into office with very clear convictions on the subject , very distinctly set forth . His purposes were , no doubt , excellent , and he surrounded himself with advisers who were in the main in sympathy with them . He broke so distinctly with the leading opponents of his purposes as to be largely independent of their influence , and the way was clear for him to pursue steadily and consistently a policy that would have put the reform on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit is due to him for what has been gained , it is also due to him that there are serious misgivings as to whether it is to be retained and improved upon . There have been occasions of hesitancy and vacillation , and of actual departure from the principles laid down , that almost fatally compromised the great work that was undertaken . Even without legislative aid four years might have sufficed to establish a reform in the civil service on a basis so solid and in a form so complete that no party would dare to undermine it . It must be admitted that the task was a difficult one and the obstacles to be encountered many and great . The President is not to be severely judged for his shortcomings , but neither is he to be credited with the success of greatness in his achievements in civil service reform . But we are inclined to agree that under his Administration an advance has been made which it will be perilous for his successor to think of abandoning . He has compelled his party to a position from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its adversaries . In regard to his financial policy , there will be a very general assent to the claims made for the President . Whatever of wisdom and steadiness has been lacking , the responsibility rests elsewhere . The outgoing Administration deserves the meed of praise belonging to good intentions , a decorous demeanor , and achievements whose general results are beneficial , but the crown of heroism or of greatness is not likely to be accorded to it . It will be remembered as eminently respectable and on the whole distinguished for peace , prosperity , and progress .                     