@@671844

txt THE EVIL AND THE REMEDY . The report of the Senate Committee on General Laws presents fairly and dispassionately a summary of the facts disclosed during the recent investigation concerning Trusts and similar combinations . The purpose of those who make Trusts and combinations ? to annihilate competition in buying from the producer and . in selling to the consumer , to create monopolies , and to fix prices by which abnormal profits may be exacted from the people ? is clearly set forth . The committee explains that it was unable , for lack of time , to make a thorough inquiry concerning the operations of the Standard Oil Trust , and reminds the Senate that the Trust 's cause was " presented . in the most favorable light possible , " because testimony concerning it was taken only from its chief officers . But this testimony has by no means convinced . the committee that the Trust exists only for the benefit of the people . The committee has not been misled . by the assertion that the sins of this brutal and . merciless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of oil . " Such diminution in price to the consumer , " says the committee , " is not due to the influence of the Standard Oil Company or Trust , but is attributable to causes wholly independent of it , to wit , the constantly-widening field of oil production and the ever-increasing volume of crude oil put upon the market . " The public is already acquainted with the facts to which the report relates , and . while it may read with satisfaction the committee 's comments , it is more deeply interested ' in the remedies which may be pointed . out . The committee says : " A wise people will always find a remedy consistent with its own prosperity for every great vice of the State . And in this case capital should be subjected to the rule of which it has always claimed to be the strongest advocate , that no combination or conspiracy should be tolerated in the State which would interfere directly or indirectly with the exercise of the boldest competition in every industry and calling . Your committee'will at an early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a law ; modify , if it does not prevent , the greater evils complained of . For the restraint of many of the lesser combinations which tend to destroy competition and restrain trade and hinder the sale of the necessaries of life the law now provides remedies more or less effective . The attention of the Attorney-General is respectfully called to the testimony taken before your committee showing a violation of these laws . " This report and the resolutions passed . Monday night by the Tammany Committee of Twenty-four prove that the labors of THE TDfES have not been in vain , for it is probable that the remedies to which THE TIMES has repeatedly directed attention in the last few months will now be tested . We have again and . again in the last year referred to the laws under which the Attorney-General may proceed against erring corporations . The laws of this State say : " An action may be brought by the AttorneyGeneral , in the name of the people of this State , on leave granted by the Supreme Court or a Judge thereof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of . a'oorporaMe , other than municipal , whenever snob corporation shall " Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts creating , altering , or renewing such corporation : or , " Violate the provisions of any law , by which such corporation shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers ; or , " Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises by failure to exercise its powers ; or . " Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which amounts to a surrender of its  --  orporate rights , privileges , and franchises ; or " Whenever it shall exercise a franohise or privilege not conferred upon it by law . " And it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General , whenever he shall have reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can be established by proof , to apply for leave , and , upon leave granted , to bring the action in every case of pubdo interest , and also in every other case in which satisfactory security shalt be given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses to be incurred thereby . " It is also provided than an action may be brought by the Attorney-General in the name of the people , upon his own information or upon the complaint - of any private party , against the parties offending , when any person shall " usurp any franchise within this State , " or " when any association or number of persons shall act within this State as a corporation without being duly incorporated . " Is it not the duty of the Attorney-General under these statutes to proceed against any corporation of this State which has become part of a Trust , thereby abusing its powers , or surrendering its rights and privileges , or exercisin a a privilege not conferred upon it by law ? Is it not his duty to proceed against those persons who have used corporate charters granted by the people in making monopoly organizations which the courts have declared to be unlawful ? Is not the Sugar Trust , which directs the affairs of several corporations and issues stock which is sold in the market , an association which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duly incorporated ? And on Friday last we directed ' attention to that provision of the Penal Code which says that when two or more persons conspire to commit any act " injurious to trade or commerce " each of them is guilty-of a misdemeanor . The courts have said that combinations to prevent competition are unlawful because they are " injurious to trade or commerce . " Ought not Col. FELLOWS to lay before the Grand Jury the testimony concerning the existence of such combinations which was taken by the Senate Committee The Tammany Committee has directed Mr. PRYOR and his associates to urge the Attorney-General and COL FELLOWS to take such action as these statutes suggest and the facts may warrant . These laws should be tested .                     