@@780644

txt For , the first time in the history of railroad strikes in the West the strikers today scored a noteworthy victory , and this after a long strike in which neither violence nor intimidation was used . Yesterday the tracks of the Wabash and its branches , the Missouri Pacific and its score of connecting lines , were covered with freight trains which have been lying idle for weeks . This afternoon when the railroad companies sent out word of their capitulation the strikers rolled up their sleeves and went to work with a will . The meeting of the railway officials and the State representatives of Texas and Kansas brought , about the end of the strike . Gov . Martin and the State Board of Commissioners of , Kansas came from Topeka to help bring about a settlement , but they did not come until they were given positive assurance that General Manager Hoxie of the Gould lines was willing to discuss the qUestion in all its details , and negotiate terms . Besides the Kansas delegation the Board of Railroad Commissioners of this State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanied by Adjt. - Gen . Jamison , Labor Commissioner Kotchkisky. and AttorneyGeneral Boone , Gov . Marmaduke was Ill at Ills home and did not attend the meeting . Besides Messrs . Hoxie and Hayes the railroad companies were represented by the attorney of the Missouri Pacific , and by Solon Humphreys and Thomas E. Tat . Receivers of the Wabash Company . As a result or the conference it was resolved to restore the rate of wages which prevailed prior to last September , and to give the men one and a half time for all extra work . This was more than they asked for , their request being that the railroad companies restore the rates which prevailed prior to the January . cut . This proposition was first made by the State offleialS , and that it was kindly received by the railroad companies was proved later , when Mr. Hayes drew up a circular in which he embodied not only the above terms but inserted another clause to the effect that henceforth the railroad companies would notify employes of any , cut 30 days in advance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objections , and so as to do away with another clash like the present . This latter clause Mr. Hayes inserted , not only to conciliate all parties but in deference to the Texas law requiring railroad companies to give 30 days ' notice of a cut in wages . The following is the text of the circular issued by Vice-President Basest The following suggestions have been presented to the undersigned as a solution of the difficulties at present impeding the operations of these railroads : To Cast . R. S. Haves , First Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer , Missouri Pacific Railway Cornpanu , and associated roads : Ti'hereas . On account of the strike among certain employes of the Missouri Pacific Hallway Company In the States of Missouri and Kansas , resulting in the stoppage of all freight traffic over the said company 's lines in the said States , to the great detriment of the business interests and the rights of the people in the said States , and the continuance of which endangers the public peace and the safety of the company 's property : and Whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are anxious to restore harmonious relations between the said company and its employes and to restore to the public unobstructed use of the said lines , do recommend and request the said company to restore to its striking employes in Missouri and Kansas the same wages paid them In September , 1884 , Including one and one-half price for extra time worked , and to restore all said striking employes to their several employments without prejudice to them on account of the strike . Believing that the foregoing will constitute a Just and fair settlement , we recommend their acceptance by the striking employes as well as by the Missouri Pacific Railway Company .                     