@@781901

txt Although the Chinese Envoy in France still lingers at his post , and diplomatic relations betwen France and China have not been sundered , there is little doubt of the imminence of war . Both parties have advanced so far that it is difficult to see how either can retreat without discredit . France , in her anxiety to promote the interests of her trade in China , has invaded Tonquin , and has claimed the right to push her flag from the southern part of the IndoChinese peninsula to the frontiers of the Chinese Empire . Disguised by various pretexts , and masked by a pretended desire to maintain the Christian religion in the peninsula , it has been the policy of France during the past twenty-five years to conquer and subjugate the region formerly known as Cochin China . The French colony consists of six Provinces that were partly acquired by cession from Cambodia and partly by conquest . With steady persistence , every occasion has been seized on by the French to acquire territory along the eastern edge Of thepeninsula , and , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Idea of invasion and conquest has been ever kept in view . - The undefined but positively asserted suzerainty of China in the Annamese Provinces has been a serious obstacle to the insidious advances of the French . But not until recently have the claims of China been a direct check to further progress northward . Within the past few weeks , events have rapidly developed a settled policy of resistance on the part of China ; and an equally determined purpose on the part of the French has been more sharply brought out by this unexpected impediment . The Chinese are wily in their diplomacy , and , lacking as they do the Gallic bumptiousness and alertness which would have characterized their adversaries under similar circumstances , they have feebly protested and faintly de- , murred until the French have gone so far that honorable retreat is impossible . After a few unheeded warnings , the Chinese Government declares that it will be satisfied with nothing short of a , return of the French to the six Provinces in the lower part of the peninsula now known as French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted , will be considered as an-aggression which China must resist and defeat if possible . An avoidance of hostilities is not yet impossible ; but it is not easy to see how a peaceful solution of existing difficulties can be reached . There is no explanation of M. Tnrcou 's astonishing telegram , and it is certain that until some reasonable attempt is made to reconcile that dispatch with the facts , public opinion will be unfavorable to the management of the French Foreign Office . It was emphatically declared in the Assembly , on the alleged authority of M. TRICOT ) " , the French agent in China , that the Chinese Foreign Office had disavowed the policy of Marquis TSENG on the Tonquin question . This assertion was designed to affect the debate on the Tonquin question then in progress . A vote of confidence was secured . The Chinese Government lost no time in contradicting the alleged dispatch of M. TRICOU , and it has now , it is-said , . addressed a dispatch to the French Government on the subject framed in significant language . Marquis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Petersburg and Vienna , and has conducted sundry important negotiations with credit . War between France and China is ' to be deplored . Any war would now be considered deplorable by the civilized world , no longer swift to resort to the arbitrament of battle . But it is likely that if hostilities do begin , China will contrive to gain the sympathy of all Europe outside of France . And it is also quite probable that the scarcely concealed friendship of Great Britain has already assured the Chinese Government of more substantial aid and comfort in case war should actually begin .                     