@@780656

txt The south-bound passenger train on the Jacksonville and Southeastern Railroad , consisting of engine , baggage car , and two coaches , was thrown down an embankment near Girard last night , injuring State Senator E. Southworth so severely that he will probably die , and seriously wounding 12 or 15 other persons . The train was running at a high rate of speed alongside a train on the Chicago and Alton , it being the intention of both trains to gain the crossing at Girard . While crossing the bridge two miles north of ' Girard the Jacksonville and Southeastern train broke a wheel on the second coach , spreading the rails so that the rear coach followed on the ties , displacing them and tearing the trestle bridge to pieces . Efforts to stop the train by pulling the bell rope failed , and on reachingthe further side , both coaches were thrown down an enabaukmeat of 15 feet , one coach being imbedded in mud and water . There were nearly 30 passengers in the two cars , and the following were reported injured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , injured internally and very seriously ; A. B. Wallace , Litchfield , left side bruised , not serious ; Mrs. Tiff , of Jacksonville , Ill. , an aged lady and invalid , very seriously injured and not expected to live through the night ; George Parks , of Girard , injured in the head and also internally , not expected to live ; L. M. Smith , train master of the Wabash Railway , Litchfield , left leg out below the knee ; G. E. Conrad , . Dorchester , Ill. , injured in the head ; Representative Campbell , of . Hamilton County , badly contused head ; Representative Fletcher , of Fayette County , serious injuries ; Senators Stephenson of Shelbyvile . Higgins of Duquoin , MeGrath of Mattoon , and Hadley of Edwardsville all injured slightly . A Misc Russell , of Carlinsville , was badly hurt about the feet , legs , and body . The Chicago and Alton train stopped , backed up , and rendered great assistance to the passengers of the wrecked cars . The locomotive and baggage car of the Jacksonville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exception of Mrs. Tifft , who was left at Girard . Fortunately the coaches were in such a shape that those who were able to move could easily escape . Those who were hurt were injured by the seats which were broken loose and thrown in every direction . The stoves were held iu their position , and the fire which usually comes with a wreck was averted .                     