@@745593

txt The people of this city are to be congratulated on the fact that in voting for Judges at the coming election they have a sufficient number of candidates of the highest character for the places to be filled . There are some weak candidates presented , but the people have become so accustomed to insist upon raising the judiciary out of the mire of party politics that there is little danger that any one of them will be elected simply because he wears the label of a nomination by some party or faction that on general grounds has the preference of a large number of voters . The habit of independent voting has nowhere produced such good results in this State as in the choice of Judges , and it has made itself felt to such an extent that the most partisan nominating bodies have been forced to recognize it . Great progress has been made in this respect in the last fifteen years , until it has come to be considered that in voting for Judges partisan considerations should be laid aside and the men best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect was conspicuously displayed last year when the two parties united in presenting the same candidates for reelection to the Court of Appeals . It has been shown again this year in the nomination by all parties of Judge BARRETT in this district and Judge BARNARD in the Second for re-election to the bench of the Supreme Court . There is a little danger that the sentiment in favor of re-elections may go so far as to enable the existing incumbent to secure a nomination when a just discrimination would dictate a change . This has been the case in the Fourth District , where Judge POTTER , whose record has not been uniformly good , and who stooped to electioneering in its lowest form to overcome the disadvantage of his shortcomings , has succeeded in obtaining the nomination of his party . The only way to check such a tendency is to disregard regularity of nomination and defeat the unworthy candidate . In this city , besides the renomination of Judge BARRETT , we have that of Judge SEDGWICK , of the Superior Court , against whom there is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of election . The retirement of Chief-Justice DALY , of the Court of Common Pleas , on account of age left his place open for competition . Three candidates have been nominated for that place , two of whomPATTERSON and STRONG  --  are admirably qualified . Whichever is elected , the high standard of the judiciary which has been established by long and persistent effort and the gradual development of public sentiment will be maintained . We have so much confidence in the determination of the people to maintain it that we look to see BOOKSTAVER , the Tammany and Jay Gould candidate , fall far short even of the general Tammany vote . The City Court is an important tribunal , having to deal with a multitude of cases in which comparatively small amounts are at stake , and therefore coming very close to the every-day ? interests of the people . There are six candidates for the two places to be filled , and at least three of them are well qualified for the duties of the Bench . The only positively weak candidate is EHRLICH , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominees , are respectable candidates , but MCADAM and the two IlAwEsEs represent a much higher standard of fitness . The only chance for any real contest is between MCADAIII and J. W. HAWES . The former has the advantage of experience , with a good record on the Bench , and the disadvantage of affiliation with Tammany . The popularity which he has enjoyed has been gained to some extent by the social and political arts which such an association implies . His natural capacity for the Bench , his education and general training , and his endowment in respect to the special qualities that fit a man for the judicial career are not to be compared with those of Mr. HAWES , who graduated from the leading university of the country at the head of his class , took the full course at its Law School , and has had sixteen years of active and varied practice at the Bar in this city . Mr. HAWES , moreover , ha been identified with the best tendencies h politics , and has been an active worker for the cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energeti4 members of the Committee of Fifty-three which did so much to promote the reforn measures of last year . His training an ( qualities of mind and character exactly fi him for the Bench , and we are sure that i he is elected it will be a substantial gait for the City Court and for the judicial. : of New-York.                     