@@744072

txt The vote in the Italian Senate , by which the law extending the suffrage to all citizens of the required age who can read and write was adopted , is an evidence that the Conservative Party , which is much stronger in the upper than it is in the lower house , has joined with the Left in supporting the measure . It is by far the most important measure ever adopted by an Italian Parliament and amounts to nothing less than a political revolution . Hitherto the suffrage has been restricted to citizens  --  by which term , of course , only males are intended  --  who have reached the age of 25 years , and who pay taxes amounting to 40 lire  --  or rather less than $8 ? annually . The whole num ber of electors registered at the last general election was less than 600,000 . The entire male population of the Italian Kingdom is , in round numbers , 14,000,000 . If we assume that one-third of these are adults , the voting population  --  providing that all adult males could read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adult males who can read and write at the present time is estimated to be only 40 per cent. , or 1,880,000 . If we assume that these last figures represent the population which , under the new law , will have the right of suffrage , we shall be sufficiently near the truth . The voting population of Italy has thus been suddenly made three times larger than it has hitherto been , and it is impossible that so far-reaching a measure should fail to have results of the utmost importance . An immediate result of the new law will be to increase greatly and disproportionately the number of voters in Northern Italy . The proportion of men who can read and write is much greater in the North than it is in the South . In 1870 about 70 per cent . of the adult males of the Lombard cities could read and write , while in most of the Provinces formerly belonging to the King of Naples , only 20 per cent . of adult males knew their alphabet . The number of the analfabeti in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but education has made even more rapid progress in the North , and the great majority of the men who have been made voters by the new law are North Italians . At present the representation in the Chamber of Deputies is based not on the number of voters but on the entire population ; there being one Deputy for every 40,000 souls . Unless a change in the apportionment of Deputies is made , the people of Northern Italy will have a much larger share in the election of itheir representatives than will the people of the South , and the Deputy from Vicenza , for whom 2,000 men have voted , will feel that he is entitled to more consideration than the Deputy from Taranto , for whom only a few scores of votes have been cast . This is certainly not a state of things which will strengthen the union between North and South , and if a new apportionment be adopted , by which the number of Deputies is based upon the number of electors , the great increase of power which will at first be gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Southern Provinces . The South has been the weak place in the armor of united Italy . Nearly one-half of the population of the kingdom is found in the Neapolitan Provinces , including Sicily , and not only is this population ddnsely ignorant , but it is widely removed in temperament and sympathies from the inhabitants of the rest of Italy . The voting population of the South has been almost exclusively confined to the cities , and while the voters have returned a large proportion of the extreme radical and politically unscrupulous members of Parliament , the peasantry has remained under the dominion of the priests and still regrets the loss of the Bourbon Kings . Although the first effect of the extension of the suffrage will be to increase the jealousies between North and South because of a real or fancied unfairness in the apportionment of representation , the final result will he to give into the hands of the Southern peasantry a power which they will use to the injury of the monarchy and of free government . Under the system of compulsory education , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kingdom , suffrage based upon an educational qualification will inevitably become nothing less than universal suffrage . In the course of another generation all the South Italians will be able to read and write , and long before that time a large proportion of the Southern peasantry will have acquired the right to vote . Their votes will undoubtedly be controlled by the priesthood , and , reinforced by the clerical party of the rest of Italy , they will become the ruling power . The intelligent and progressive North will be arrayed against the reactionary South , and the two great divisions of the country will be further apart than ever . This is the real evil to be feared from an extension of the suffrage such as has just been adopted . It must inevitably delay the welding of North and South into one homogeneous nation . No apportionment of representation can he made which will not give offense either to one or the other half of the kingdom , and as no extension of the suffrage can ever be revoked in a free State , the law which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an adult voter must finally place the controlling power in the hands of the peasantry of Sicily and Naples and the blind followers of the priesthood throughout the peninsula . The measure adopted by the Senate last Wednesday was inevitable , and the ablest statesmen of the Right accepted it as such . It is , however , one which no friend of Italian unity can regard as other than an unfortunate and dangerous necessity . 