@@745264

txt The more the career of Gov . CLEVELAND is examined the more plain it becomes that he is worthy of the confidence of those who seek the elevation of the political life of the Republic . The country has suffered sorely in reputation , in material prosperity , and in its moral character by the insidious but rapid and wide growth of mercenary politics . The Republican Party , which was the offspring of a deep moral sentiment , has , by circumstances that were perhaps inevitable , been subjected to this corruption . It has become , so far . as respects its official representatives , largely what the Democratic Party was previous to 1860 , and it now needs what the Democratic Party then needed  --  a purification by the awakening of the conscience of its members , stirred by the presentation of a living principle . The pursuit of office for the sake of office , the greed and lust for place and profit , have created among its managers a guild of politics , exclusive , grasping , and despotic , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain from politics , has demoralized the party till its lowest depth is reached in the desperate use of party power and influence to elect a thoroughly disreputable candidate . The Democratic Party has by no means escaped this process of corruption . In many places where it has been in power . and notably in the city of New-York , we have seen the evil effects . The party has been to a great extent a mere organization for the procurement of public plunder , and for this reason it has for many years not only been unable to command the confidence of those who feared the tendencies of the leaders of the Republican Party , but it has been incapable of doing the work of an active and efficient opposition . But this campaign gives strong proof that the party has to a degree overcome the bad influences that hampered it . It has done so sufficiently , at all events , to present to the suffrage of the Nation a candidate whose character is the strongest possible safeguard against the corrupting tendencies of the politics of the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is independent of partisan tyranny , and that there is not in party rule any power that can disturb or weaken his devotion to the highest interests of the people . He owes his advancement in public life wholly to this quality . Each promotion that has come to him has come from this source . The positions to which he has been elected have not been partisan rewards ; they have been trusts , for which he has been selected because it was known that he would be true to their requirements . He has been true . No man can say that he has ever been able to persuade the Governor to put party or personal interest before the demands of duty to the public . This is no small security for the people of the country to possess . It is another proof of the certainty with which the republican principle works , of the dependence which can be placed upon a free people , under an orderly government , to produce in each supreme exigency the man who is required to meet it . The rise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of LINCOLN , of GRANT , the result of the silent but potent and beneficent forces which free government sets at work . He is to-day , as these others were , each in his turn , the instrument which a free people finds in its midst supremely fitted for the task which the Nation sees before it . 