@@743724

txt At an early hour this morning people commenced crowding into Winchester with the intention of overpowering the Porter Rifles and Rock City Guards and lynching John Poe and Cicero Poe , who are accused of murdering IC . E. Baker . At 9 o'clock the counsel for the prisoners , in order to more surely protect their clients from the infuriated citizens , waived further examination , and the accused were committed to the custody of the military to be taken to Nash . vile for safe-keeping until the case was called at the next term of the regular court , or at a special term . The proceedings were concluded before the people were aware of the transaction , and the prisoners were placed in charge of troops , who immediately started to depart with their charge . Two or three hundred people followed them to the depot , threatening vengeance , and urging Baker , the father of the , murdered man , to make a start . Appeals were made to make a rush , to go ahead , to " kill them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm and undaunted . They kept back the mob , who followed at a distance of 10 feet , armed with guns , pistols , and rifles , and shouting viciously all the while . Upon reaching the depot a line was formed around the platform and no one was permitted to come within it . In the meantime Baker , the father of the deceased , was reasoned and expostulated with , and invited to accompany the men to Nashville . He made the excited crowd a speech , and assured them that he was satisfied . This had a tendency to allay the excitement . The bridge having broken down south of Winchester , causing a delay of the train on which the troops were to go to Decherd , three miles distant , the soldiers were forced to march to that place . The prisoners were kept in front and the mob in the rear , at the point of the bayonet , the guards being made to walk backward , to prevent the crowd from closing in upon them . One or two attempts were made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they were repelled by the threat of death . Two hundred men followed the mob to the trestle work , a mile from Winchester , and then gradually dropped off . About 50 kept up with the soldiers , and remained at Decherd two hours , while the troops , who took possession of the depot , waited for the train . The military reached here this afternoon and lodged the prisoners in jail .                     