@@745845

txt A plan of promotion has been prepared bytho Civil Service Commissioners , and will probably be submitted to the President for his approval soon after his return from the Adirondacks . It contemplates the formation of Boards of Promotion in each department in Washington , to be assisted by an auxiliary number from each bureau , to whom applications and candidates for promotion are to be presented . Applicants are to be subjected to practical examinations , and are to be rated and marked after examination and certified for promotion four at a time , just as candidates who are successful in the primary examinations before the commission . The heads of bureaus or divisions are to have the privilege of marking the papers of candidates as to efficiency . ? Attention was directed in April last by a member of the Board of Departmental Examiners to the fact that a few of the 14 examiners on the official list were marking all the papers and passing upon them , and ' that the excuse was made by most of the examiners that they could not attend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination papers . The proposition will be made to have a board of one member from each department to be constantly employed in marking papers , some of which a year old and not yet marked up are iu the office of the Commissioners . It is in contemplation to have this proposed board mark all papers , not only for the aepartmont but for the Customs and Postal Service , so as to insure perfect impartiality by having them judged by absolute strangers and persons who will soon become experts in discriminating between papers . On Aug. 16 charges were Preferred against Mr. A. D. Parker , secretary to CollectorHedden , at New-York , by Mr. David Thom , with the specification that Mr. Parker had refused to consider his application for an appointment and had questioned him with a view to sounding him politically . Upon examination it was found that Mr. Thom maintained that Mr. Parker had referred him to Police Justice Murray . while Mr. Parker declared that he only asked Mr. Thom if he knew Police Justice Murray . Commissioner Oberly has dismissed the case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This decision is given out with the statement that it will bind only when approved by one other Commissioner .                     