@@744912

txt Whoever has followed the reports of the suit to set aside the modified lease of the Metropolitan Elevated Road to the Manhattan must be considerably impressed with the futility ' of legal proceedings as a means of discovering anything which anybody has any interest in keeping concealed . Perhaps we ought not to say anybody ; perhaps we ought only to say JAY GOULD . It was desirable for theplaintiffs in this Emit to show . that GOULD " rigged " the stock market by first bearing ' 7the property in. order to buy it cheap , and then madly " bulling " it in order to sell it dear . That is the usual method of GOULD 'S operations ? making people believe that a property is worthless before he gets control of it , proceeding to verify this belief after he has got control , " unloading " it and passing on , leaving a procession of squeezed lemons bobbing in his wake . So there was every reason to believe that that was the course he had followed in this case . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in. detail by establishing Gotrian 's connection with the World , during the season of his labors in. elevated railroads , and comparing the fluctuations of that journal 's mind about the value and prospects of the roads with the contemporaneous transactions noted in the books of GOULD 'S brokers . There is no doubt that such a showing would be in the interest of public justice . But it is painful to discover that Judge VAN BRUNT could not see his way to allowing such a showing to be made under the rules of evidence , by which he is bound . GOULD knows very little about the World of 1881 . He has a general impression that there was such paper , and that it was owned by a corporation ; but as he was not an officer of the corporation he really knew very little about it . Judge VAN BRUNT did see his way to allowing a question as to what connection GOULD had with that newspaper at that time . GOULD answered that he had no connection . This was an . exhibition of moral courage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GoULD , but it put a strain on his moral nature which even GOULD could not often repeat . Happily , he was spared the ordeal , for when the plaintiff 's counsel offered to : prove that Gotrix ? controlled the . World , by virtue of his interest in it as owner or mortgagee , Judge VAN BRUNT found himself compelled to reject the offer . The books of GouLD 's brokers , covering the period during which the views of the World upon the future of the elevated railroads changed from leaden blue to rose color would no doubt be of extreme interest when compared with the columns of that print . Even by themselves they would have done much either to establish or to refute the hypothesis of the plaintiff . It is not clear whether the rules of evidence would have permitted these books to be used for that purpose . Judge VAN BRUNT was spared the necessity of ruling on that point , for the books were not produced . GOULD 'S partner , who had been served with a subpoena to produce them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books . They were only two years old , and yet they had disappeared . He had looked for them almost everywhere where they were not to be found . It is not to be supposed that books so important and so recent as these had been carelessly mislaid . They must have been privily removed by some enemy of GOULD 'S who was anxious to prevent him from establishing his innocence of the vile schemes with which he was charged . Now , partly on account of the large gaps in GOULD 'S memory about the World and partly on account of the disappearance of these books , a complete vindication is impossible . This , at least , is the theory of MoRosm and the defense , and it appears that the technical rules of evidence compel Judge VAN BRUNT practically to adopt this theory . That magistrate has shown as much manly sympathy with Mr. MOROSL.NI in his bereavement as judicial impartiality will permit . Instead , of adding to MOROKm 's misfortunes by sending him to jail for committing a palpable fraud upon the court , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some hasty and hot-headed Judges would have done , Judge VAN BRUNT has done his best to cheer up the witness . He has related an interesting anecdote to show with what success he himself once evaded a subpoena of the Supreme Court , and he furnishes a bright example to show that there is nothing about being even in chronic contempt of court which ought to trouble a well-regulated mind or which even interferes with the exercise of judicial functions , All this may be true . Still , the suit against GOULD seems to indicate that the laws of evidence , even when applied with the learning and . impartiality of a VAN BRUNT , are not in all cases calculated to elicit , the most important facts . Q. E. D.                     