@@743865

txt The prolonged dead-lock at Albany is so injurious to the party which has a majority in the Legislature , and is so entirely opposed to the known wish of that party throughout the State , that it is calculated to throw discredit on the representative character of the Legislature . If the members of the Senate and Assembly had really reflected the sober opinion of their constituents , the senseless struggle would have been brought to a close long ago . If they could be brought now to pay decent respect to public sentiment , we should have two Republican Senators elected before the close of the . week . - The pretense that the members of the Legislature , either the supporters or opponents of Messrs . CONKLING and PLATT , who are bestowing their votes upon candidates whose prospects of election are absolutely worthless are acting the part of sensible and honorable representatives of the people is one which can not be sustained for a moment . It has been conceded for a long time by the friends of : the ex-Senators in private conversation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this Legislature , and among the other candidates there is only one  --  Mr. - If DEpEw -- Nivhose chances have gained with the voting . The excitement which has been stirred up by the Bradley-Sessions scandal , while it has not weakened Mr. DEPEw , has certainly intensified the partisan feeling on both sides and made the possibility of concentrating the anti-Conkling vote on his name more remote , if it has not destroyed it altogether . The investigation has so far been very damaging to Mr. BRADLEY personally , and he has involved himself in so much contradiction and absurdity in his testimony as to make his distinct charge incredible to all who are not predisposed to believe it . e , But unless it shall go further and expose a , conspiracy ' on the part of the Conkling managers , which now appears plausible , but nothing more , the Senatorial contest does not seem likely to be seriously affected by it one way or the other . In the meantime , the Conkling faction , with almost no support in the ranks of the party , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them on the part of the great body . of the party , are openly seeking an ad : journment of the Legislature , either directly or by prolonging the dead-lock . If this were done with any purpose of submitting their cause to a frank judgment of the voters of the State , it would be a very different policy from what it is .. But no such purpose is entertained . On the contrary , an adjournment , in all human probability , would be followed by the election next Fail of a Democratic Legislature . The tactics of the Conkling machine are too well known to leave any doubt as to that . The constant boast of its managers is that the party can not get on without Mr. CONKLING , and they would make haste to prove it in this case . The result would be the election of two Democrats to the United States Senate or an extra session of the Legislature . In the latter case there would be enough doubt as to the validity of an election of Senators to make their admission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PLATT and CONK LING have turned over the United States Senate extremely uncertain . The situation , therefore , which the Republicans in the Legislature have to face is perfectly simple . They must either elect two Republican Senators before adjourning or they must consent to surrender the Legislature of the State of New-York and the Senate of the United States to the Democrats . This situation is , no doubt , perplexing , as it is unquestionably humiliating . Scarcely more than a month since the Republican Party was in practical possession of every branch of the United States Government , and in undisputed possession of the Government of this State , with every prospect of consolidating and strengthening its power throughout the country . To-day it has lost the Senate and is threatened with the loss of this State , all through the egotistical folly of Mr. CONKLING . It would seem , under such circumstances : that the course of the Republicans in the Legislature was sufficiently plain , and it would be so , as we have said , were they the faithful representatives of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offense which , he has committed against ? the party ; he and his colleague would be replaced by men faithful to the Republican cause ; the party would enter the canvass next Fall in this State with fair chances of success , and with the certainty , at least , of making an honorable contest . This result ' could be surely obtained if the opponents of the ex-Senators would concentrate their entire strength on two available and trustworthy . candidates . They must make up their minds to do this or to see the party defeated in New-York , the United States Senate in the hands of the . Democrats , ' and Republican supremacy in the Federal Government broken up .                     