@@745163

txt The men who met in conference in this city yesterday represent the high character and deep conviction which originally founded and guided the Republican Party of this country . Their action indicates an aroused moral sense among the people and a determination to maintain a high standard of political action , regardless of the decrees of party conventions . The conference had no issue to evolve , and therefore had little occasion for discussion . The issue with which it had to deal had been already made , and its single purpose was to declare its position unequivocally . This it did with absolute unanimity . There was no difference of opinion as to the object with which the delegates had met or the means of promoting it . The object was the defeat of a bad nomination made by one political party ; the means of promoting it was the support of a good nomination made by the other party . As to this there was no dissent and no hesitation . In it was involved every other consideration with which the conference was concerned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are fully and clearly set forth in the address which was adopted . They rest as a starting point on the assumption that the two political parties are not at present divided from each other by any vital principle of public policy . They acknowledge a difference of opinion among themselves on the very questions upon which neither of the political parties is fully agreed , and which can not , therefore , have any decisive influence on the pending canvass . But over and above all these questions an issue has been thrust upon the people which has an importance paramount to all others  --  that of official integrity . The conference justly treated this as no party question . It would be a humiliating confession as to the condition of American politics if it had to be admitted that it bad become a party question . Two elements were recognized as existing among those whom the delegates represented  --  independents and Republicans . The former are men who hold themselves ready at any time to vote regardless of party lines and in accordance with personal convictions of right and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their party , but who believe it to be their imperative duty to oppose a nomination which is a disgrace to its record and a menace to its perpetuity . This distinction is recognized throughout the address , and there is no intimation of a purpose on the part of either class to ally itself with the Democratic Party in the future . " Independents " says the address . " can not support a nomination which is the culmination of the tendency that they would correct . " " Republicans , faithful to their party but holding with the great Republican fathers that political morality and purity of administration are more precious than party , are now constrained to oppose the Republican Presidential nomination in the interest of what they believe to be pure Republicanism , of the public welfare , and of the honor of the American name . " Again it says : " Such independent voters do not propose to ally themselves inextricably with any party . Such Republicans do not propose to abandon the Republican Party nor to merge themselves in any other party ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination which , not for reasons of expediency only , but for high moral and patriotic considerations , with a due regard for the Republican name and for the American character , was unfit to be made . " This defines the situation precisely . No sneers or epithets or sordid appeals to party spirit can swerve honest American citizens from a course which they believe to be right and for the ultimate good of the Nation . We have entire confidence in the honest instincts and the sound intelligence of the American people , and especially of that part of the people who from earnest conviction and sincere patriotism have acted with the Republican Party in the past . When the case is fully and clearly set before them , and when the sober processes by which their convictions are shaped have taken effect , they will be found acting in behalf of the cause of public morality and political virtue . It is the proper function of those who are directing the antiBlaine movement to reach the intelligence and the moral sense of the people by laying before them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is based .                     