@@745514

txt The men who are urging the policy of improving the canals of this State will find a strong argument in behalf of their movement in the prospective failure of a conspicuous effort to establish competition between railroad lines from this city to the West . If the maxim laid down by STEVENSON ? " Where combination is possible competition is impossible " ? is accepted , we must admit the futility of trying to control railroad rates by establishing competing lines . Sooner or later there will be a combination of interests which will result in maintaining rates at the highest point that the traffic will bear . The inducement to this will be increased by the fact that a large amount of additional capital has been invested in appliances for carrying on the same amount of business . In a case like that of the West Shore and the New-York Central Road , supposing that these are destined to come under a single control , there can hardly be an-increase of rates in consequence of the combination over those which would have prevailed if the attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other elements that control railroad charges which can not be escaped . The competition of other routes for traffic between the West and the seaboard will not be lessened , and whatever devices may be resorted to for its control will not be more potent than before . If the parallel lines between New-York and the lakes become in effect one , and if that one succeeds in maintaining a traffic combination with those which virtually connect the same points , competition will not be wholly suspended . However strong the combination may be it will be subject to pressure from routes which reach the sea from the interior at wholly different points . There is danger of diverting traffic down the Mississippi or down the St. Lawrence or to the Atlantic coast below New York . Rates will be necessarily limited by this danger , but within certain limits the combination would be able to maintain their charges . But here comes in the factor of the New-York water line . With that combination is impracticable . Tho line itself belongs to the State , and is not likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a free highway for a multitude of small boat owners . It has undoubtedly exerted a very strong influence over railroad charges heretofore , and may continuo to do so . The canals already carry a large proportion of the grain which passes from Chicago to New York . They can doubtless be made capable of i carrying a still larger proportion . They carry at rates which make the total cost of transportation considerably less than that by rail . It is possible that by an improvement of the canals their rates may be made still lower . This water line is a competing factor of no small significance . There is no doubt that its effect has been to lower the limit of possible charges on the railroads for a considerable part of their traffic . However close and strong their combination may be they are compelled to take this competition into account . It serves another very important purpose to the State and city of New-York . The railroads in their pooling arrangements exercise to a certain extent an arbitrary power over the distribution of traffic among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route is wholly in favor of New-York and materially limits the possibility of discrimination against her . These considerations all weigh forcibly in favor of maintaining the canal line and increasing its efficiency . It is the only direct factor of competition in transportation which checks the tendency to monopoly in the traffic from the West to the Atlantic coast . Within the limits at which competition outside the trunk line field would come into operation it is the sole regulator of rates , assuming an effective combination of the railroads to be possible . The failure of competition and the tendency- to combination between the railroads themselves has an important bearing on another great question . Notwithstanding the confident predictions of the advocates of canal improvement it is more than doubtful if the competition of the water line will be sufficient to regulate railroad charges on . anything like an equitable basis . It has little effect on any part of their traffic except that in grain , and as a factor in transportation it has long been , and probably will continue to be , one of decreasing power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is regulation by Government authority . Every failure at an effort to establish competition and every new step in a combination of the agencies engaged in inter-State traffic emphasizes the necessity of a control that shall be in the interest of the public , and not exclusively in the interest of the corporations . A due regard to the principles of equity and justice can only be secured . by a regulation deriving its authority and sanctia from the Government , and enforced by tribunal whose decrees shall have th force of law .                     