@@745491

txt The jury in CARPENTER 'S case was out yesterday for ten minutes and found him sane and guilty . The day before the jury in the case of Mrs. DUDLEY was out five minutes and found her insane and innocent . Probably CARPENTER was quite as insane as Mrs. DUDLEY . The expert evidence was about equally strong , in both cases , and in both was little more than worthless . But CARPENTER impressed his jury as a detestable scoundrel who had committed a heartless and cowardly crime upon a woman whom he was specially bound to protect . Mrs. DUDLEY , who failed to kill the object of her assault , received the sympathy which was the converse of the antipathy with which decent people regard O'DONOVAN . It was felt that O'DONOVAN , though technically " in the peace of the State of New-York " at the time he was assaulted , was morally not in the peace of any civilized community . The jury in effect put upon him a ban of outlawry by deciding that an assault upon him for being what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been an assault upon a respectable person . This is the feeling of most persons not jurors . So in CARPENTER 'S case the jury expressed in its verdict the general indignation and resentment that must be felt for CARPENTER 'S crime by everybody who has followed the case . The distinction between mental unsoundness and moral depravity , which ingenious alienists delight to draw , is fortunately too fine for the apprehension of the plain people from among whom jurors are chosen . The trial has had a good result in discrediting the . pretensions of expert alienists . Whenever the defense of insanity is set up , alienists by the dozen can be found to swear that a man is insane upon a certain set of assumptions given to them in the form of hypothetical questions , when in fact they know no more about the matter than anybody else . An opinion upon such a question , to have the authority of science , must be a deduction from physical facts as unmistakable as the evidence furnished by a dissection . One man 's guesses are as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call his guesses " expert evidence " is simply humbug and pretense . It is gratifying to observe that Judge BARRETT treated these pretensions with the disrespect they deserved . It would have been still more gratifying if he had availed himself of the discretion committed to him by the law and appointed a commission to try the question of CARPENTER 'S sanity . That was done by Recorder SMYTH in RHINELANDER 'S case , and although the decision of the majority of the commission in that case was contrary to the opinion of those who , without pretending to be experts , had paid most attention to the case , there was a distinct advantage in keeping such a discussion away from a jury . It would be very easy for experts to muddle the minds of a jury except in a case like CARPENTER 'S , where the disgust and indignation of the natural man are too strong to be overcome by the refinements of the expert witnesses .                     