@@780577

txt Park Policeman Dwyer saw a young girl crying in the Park near Seventy-ninth-street and the Transverse road about 1 o'clock : yesterday afternoon . Her clothing was in disorder and dirty , and bore evidence of a struggle . The officer asked her what the trouble was and she told him that she bad been assaulted by two men , who ran away . Droyer immediately took her to the police station at the Arsenal , where she told her story to Capt . Beatty . She said her name was Ellie Callahan. 17 years old . She came to this country five months ago , and has a sister living in Fifty-seventh-street . She had been living with a family in Brooklyn until a few days aeo . She went to the Park yesterday morning and staid there some hours . About 1 o'clock she noticed four or five young men sitting on a bench near her . She got up : : nu started dawn the walk , when one of them followed her and spoke to her , asking where she was going . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifty-seventh-street . The young man then said he was going that way , and would show her a shorter cut through the park . He walked alongside of her and then turned into a side path . When they had gone a short distance up the path her ' companion threw her down into a clump of bushes and assaulted her . She says another man came along and also assaulted her . Both then ran away . The girl gave accurate descriptions of her assailants , and Capt . Beatty at once detailed Officer Dwyer and Roundsman Robert ECelly to hunt them up . About 5 o'clock Dwyer arrested William Loeffel , age 26 , a gardener , of No. =I East Eighty-eighth-street , whom he found in the vicinity of the place where the assault was committed . Miss Callahan identified Laeffel as one of the young men in the party on the bench , but said he was not one of her assailants . He was locked up , however . About 9 o'clock last night Roundsman Kelly and Officer Dwyer brought to the station Daniel Barry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and who answered the aescription given by the girl . He was arrested at his home at No. 305 East Fourth-street . Miss Callahan had been sent to the Presbyterian Hospital , and Barry was taken there for identification . He was placed among 10 Park officers in citizens ' clothes and the girl was brought before them . She at once picked out Barry and said that he was one of her assailants . Barry denied the charge , but was locked up in the Twenty-eighth Precinct Station House . He claims to have been at work in the Park stables at the time of the assault . The pollee under Capt . Beatty are looking for the other man .                     