@@780616

txt The progress of education in the coal-fields of Pennsylvania curing the past decade is one of the most gratifying features of life in the anthracite region . Under the excellent public school system of the Stale , schools are springing up in every town and hamlet , and the standard of teaching is really good . The annual institutes of teachers , which received so much encouragement from Dr. J. P. Wickersham during his term of office as State Superintendent , have been made a part of the system by au act of Assembly , passed at the last session of the Legislature , and their influence iu awaking. an interest In the work of education is most fruitful of results . Prior to the passage of the act referred to , the attendance of teachers at such gatherings was entirely optional with the directors having control of the schools , and as Boards of Education are not always educated , the teachers who desired to avail themselves of the benefits of the institute were frequently deterred from attending because the men who had supervision could see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is mandatory on Directors not only to give the teachers the necessary week annually , but also to pay them while in attendance at the institute . Ono of those interesting gatherings , attended by all the teachers In the Lackawanna Valley , numbering 200 or more , was held in the Academy of Music at Scranton last week . It was presided over by the County Superintendent , Miss Brooks , a bright , keen , active , and industrious little lady , who commanded attention and kept splendid order throughout . Miss Brooks has the honor of being the second lady that has been elected County Superintendent of Schools in Pennsylvania , and the progress of education under her administration shows the wisdom of the choice . Among those who participated in the exercises of the week were Dr. Iliabee , the new State Superintendent of Public Instruction . Miss Lelia Patridge , of Philadelphia , and other well-known educators , and there were lectures in the evenings . The last of the lectures was given by the Ilon . Schuyler Coifax , on " Our Martyred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was Mr. Colfax 's immediate predecessor in the Speaker 's chair of the national House of Representatives , was among the interested listeners . Mr. Colfax in the course of his lecture denounced in scathing terms the vile abuse which had been poured out against Lincoln and Garfield while they lived , and said that ho had himself been the subject of bitter calumny , although lie never condescended to notice it , believing that time at last sets all things even , Ile said lie was enjoying life too well in his present position as a high private to desire office , and the moral of ills discourse was to the effect that the private citizen is much happier than the politician .                     