@@780825

txt A special dispatch to the Times from Reading , Penn. , says : " Israel Wentzel is a well-to-do farmer near Baumstown , this county , eight miles from Reading . He has been prosperous in busi-ness , ana is known as one of the solid men of the township . lie is father of an inter-esting and pretty daughter , Eleanora . She is a blonde , has sparkling blue eyes , a , wealth of golden hair , a petite figure , and has been the object of the attention of a number of young men in the neighborhood . She is sweet six-teen . George Lott , the son of a blacksmith , is employed in the nail works at Dirdsborough , and is 28 years old . Miss Wentzel bestowed her affections upon Lott and disdained the company of all other young men . Her father was opposed to the object of her choice and forbade him the house . He remained away , but the young folks managed to hold clandestine meetings , when they renewed the pledges of love and plighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married , but old man Wentzel refused to listen to such a proposition . The young folks finally planned an elopement . This morning was the time set for carrying out their plans . Miss Wentzel arose early , milked the cows , took her breakfast , and trudged off to school in a short dress , her books under her arm , while she sang a merry song . Her father looked after her approvingly and smiled . " Lott is not as wealthy as some of the rich young farmers who have been anxious to nay the girl attention . Pretty Eleanora did not go to school . Her path led beyond the school house , to an old toll house , which she entered . Here she remained for about 15 minutes . and when she emerged from the building she was attired in a costume of brown cashmere , cut long in the skirt , which enveloped a womanly figure . Her girlish dress she left behind her . While she made a change in her attire the thermometer was sibout down to zero . She stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until finally a carriage came along with her lover as driver . He took her up , and together they drove over the rough snow-covered country roads for five miles . to the residence of the Rev. Mr. Heiman , at Amityville , who made them man and wife . They next took the train for Reading . Here they went out shopping , and visited the residences of several friends , who congratulated them . They then left for Baumstown , and it is supposed went to the residence of the groom 's parents . Wbritzel , it is said , declares that he will shoot his newly made son-in-law if he can catch him . "                     