@@743433

txt At the last meeting of the New-York Chamber of Commerce a report was submitted from a special committee relating to the Bankrupt bill now before Congress . It is an extremely interesting and valuable contribution to the discussion of this important quettion , and though it is not likely to have any immediate effect upon the passage of the Measure , which can hardly be taken up at the present session , it ought to be carefully considered . The report , which was presented by Mr. D. C. ROBBENTS , criticises with great particularity the measure prepared by Judge LowELL , of Massachusetts , approving many of its provisions , but suggesting radical changes in others . The point which will strike the general reader with greatest interest is the proposition of the committee of the Chamber that " a discharge of the debtor should ' never be allowed without a careful examination of past transactions , by which recklessness and dishonesty may be punished and discouraged . " This is a perfectly sound proposition , and one which has been ignored to much too great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation has fallen . In the opinion of the Committee of the ' Chamber , it has not received from the author of the Massachusetts measure the attention which it deserves . The committee says : " In Great Britain a trial of the debtor for bankruptcy is regarded as essential . In 1869 the British act was so modified that a debtor. might arrange a settlement with his creditors and avoid a trial for bankruptcy , but this amendment has not given satisfaction . A recent bill , proposed by the AttorneyGeneral in 1879 , disposes of this provision ; and insists that all cases of bankruptcy that may occur hereafter , as before 1869 , shall receive public trial , without regard to any arrangement that may be made between the debtor and his creditors . " In Judge LovrELL 's proposed bill all this is overlooked . A debtor may have made a fraudulent partnership , and may have conducted a reckless and fraudulent business for years , without responsibility to the public , provided that care be taken to keep within the requirements of the act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months preceding his adjudication as a bankrupt . " If this be a correct statement of the effect of the bill now before Congress , it can not be neglected with safety . Nothing is more demoralizing to the whole business community than the possibility of a debtor receiving a legal discharge from indebtedness incurred with intention to defraud , or with a carelessness equivalent to dishonesty , This was the bane of the former Bankrupt law . That law might fairly have been described as a legal contrivance for the encouragement of swindling . It was a terror to creditors , and to honest debtors as well , but to the clever , unscrupulous sharpers who , unfortunately , infest every branch of trade , it was a welcome refuge when the time of settlement came . Its enormous costs and its expensive delays - and great uncertainties enabled a shifty swindler to hold it over the heads of his creditors as a club by means of which to force their consent to a settlement . Directly and indirectly , it is the opinion of those most familiar with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good . The experiment to which the committee of the Chamber refers as having . been made in England in the direction of greater indulgence to the debtor has been a signal and disastrous failure . The amendments proposed . at the last session of Parliament by the Attorney-General not only include the change mentioned by the committee , but several others in the same spirit . For instance , the new bill provides that the right to an absolute discharge be refused where the creditors have not received and are not likely to receive ( without any fault on the part of the Trustee ) at least 50 per cent . of their claims , or where the bankrupt , being a trader , has not kept " . proper - books during the three years prior to his bankruptcy , or has increased his ' liabilities by carrying on trade while insolvent , or contracted debts without reasonable expectation of beingable to pay them ; or , not being a trader , has brought on his bankruptcy by reckless speculation or , extravagant living . These are more stringent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , for that matter , in Great Britain either , but they are not so severe as some of those which went into effect in Germany on the 1st of October last . In that country , if a bankrupt has gone considerably beyond his means , either by speculations or excess in personal expenditure , or if he has kept his books negligently , or a omitted to draw up balance sheets at ' appointed ' intervals ; he is liable to imprisonment for a term which may reach two years . It will be seen that these old-fashioned Germans actually regard the recklessness which robs another of his property as a crime , an idea which is quite foreign to American minds . No bus ! hess community can be made honest by law , but the standard of the law should , nevertheless , be that of the strictest honesty , and it should never throw its protection about those who do not conform to such a standard , even if it do not punish them for a departure from it . No one can deny that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below that of strict honesty . Men who " fail " from carelessness , extravagance , br even worse faults do not suffer the positive disgrace which they ought to . suffer . There is an unwarrantable tenderness for their faults , growing out of the consciousness among their associates , perhaps , that if every man got his deserts too few of them would go unwhipped of justice . While this is so it would be idle to expect that very stringent laws would be rigidly observed . But such laws would have this advantage , that it would be to the interest of creditors to enforce them , and so gradually ' they might come to be enforced . In any case , the principle laid down by Mr. RoBBINS 'S committee is an essential one , " that any law which may be devised will prove a misfortune , unless account is taken of the responsibility of the debtor for the proper management of his business . "                     