@@744420

txt Citizens who have a real interest in Municipal reform , who are above political dickering and detest cowardice , were pleased yesterday to discover that there still existed hope for the movement recently begun . On all sides were heard expressions of satisfaction that the eminently respectable gentlemen who had attempted to kill and bury the movement had overreached and exposed themselves , and everywhere was declared a hearty approval of the proposition to take up the cause with a new vigor and press forward to the accomplishment of the high purpose which has been sought . Thare was a general expression of regret that faithless men had been intrusted with position in the movement , but the almost universal opinion among citizens interested in the cause was that no set of men could overthrow it , however carefully they lay their plans . Those members of the Committee of Twenty-one who stood out so stanchly for a continuance of the work showed no signs of special discouragement . Convinced from the first that the time was come for just such a movement as that undertaken , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the background , even should the shirking and the slinking he above all things dear to John Kelly or the Manhattan Club . Arrangements were completed yesterday for a meeting to-night of the citizens who attended the original meeting , at which the Committee of ' I wenty-one was created and instructed to perform certain duties . The citizens are to hear from this Committee of Twenty-one why it has refused to follow the specific instructions given it , and they expect also to discover why an attempt has been made upon the life of the cause which all the members of the committee pledged themselves to support . To-night 's meeting will be held in Municipal Hall , Madison-avenue , and it is expected that there will he a large attendance . Mr. Simon Sterne , Secretary of the citizens ' first meeting , has invited all the gentlemen who were present at that meeting to take part in this evening 's proceedings . Mr. Sterne said yesterday that he hoped to see the movement go on , and he believed it would go on . Mr. Henry J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Municipal affairs , declared that he had seldom been more astonished than by the position recently assumed by the recreant members of the Committee of Twenty-one . " The citizens ' movement , " said Mr. Scudder , " was not premature . It was needed and badly needed , and the tax-payers of New-York stood ready to support it . It is idle to say that funds for the necessary expenses of a campaign could not be secured , and equally foolish to declare the time too short for the work required . The movement which swept the Tweed r6g.ime out of power disgraced was compressed within a few weeks . " Ex-Gov . Edward Salomon is an earnest sympathizer with the cause of Municipal reform . If his business engagements will permit he will be present at the meet ? ing to-night and declare himself heartily in favor of pressing forward . He was much surprised , not to say disgusted , that men who had been given prominence in the movement were suddenly recommending retreat . In his opinion the public is ready for a fight on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for honest , efficient , local government shall he arrayed openly against mean political control . Mr. Salomon was inclined to rate some members of the Committee of Twentyone as eminent humorists . He had listened to their arguments in favor of abandoning the movement . Mr. Salomon eulogized Allan Campbell , and expressed a hove that he would stand as a citizens ' candidate for Mayor . 