@@745951

txt There were many indications yesterday that the inevitable failure of the foolish strike of those who handle coal and merchandise on our water fronts is at hand . The desperate tactics of the leaders of the Knights of Labor have reached the point at which many of the workmen refuse - to obey their orders and begin to defy their power . The men see that they have been egged on to a hopeless contest and that destitution and distress stare them in the face . Those who gave up their employment when they bad . no grievance of their own find that they are in danger of not getting it back and that they have exchanged places with the great army of the unemployed . What they had not foresight enough to appreciate in advance they are coming to realize by experience . If our workingmen have the intelligence they are so fond of claiming they must see how inevitably such a strike as this works against the interests of their own class . They not only give up the steady and well paid labor upon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throw thousands of others out of employment and add to the hardships of all who are dependent upon daily labor for their bread . The interruption in the regular distribution of coal which they have produced compels manufactories to shut down , both here and in distant places , depriving thousands for the time being of the chance to earn their living . It adds to the cost of what , at this time of the year , is one of the prime necessities of life . So far as they succeed in interfering with the transportation and distribution of other kinds of merchandise they are helping to force up the prices of other articles of necessity . By leaving their places they make an opening for men who were unemployed or employed at less advantage than themselves and attract laborers from all directions to a market already overcrowded . The effect of this will be to shut many of them permanently out of their old places and compel them to seek new employment and to bring such a surplus of laborers here as to force wages down for a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the non-union element and correspondingly weakens the organization which they have been brought to look upon as a protection , but which has really been used against their interests by wrong-headed men whom they have consented to obey . The whole sorry business is the result of a false theory and a mischievous method . lt. is our boast in this country that we have no classes , but the leaders of the Knights of Labor have been endeavoring to organize men who labor with their hands into a class and to array them against the rest of the community , including all laborers whom they do not succeed in bringing into the organization . Against this great body of the community they undertake to make war as a means of forcing a redress of grievances in every petty case of disagreement between employers and employed . There was neither justice nor common sense in a strike of all coal handlers because those of one company were dissatisfied with their pay . Equally unreasonable and iniquitous was the general strike of longshoremen because those employed by one steamship line were aggrieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trumped-up complaints as a further means of coercion was the height of folly and of disregard of common justice , and the broad threat of extending the strike to all engaged in the work of transportation was sheer madness . The consequences of warfare of this kind upon a whole community by a class that has a slender hold upon its resources are so sure to be disastrous upon those that undertake it that it is marvelous to see so many ready to enlist in it blindly . Those who control coal companies , steamship companies , railroad companies , and manufactories may be subject to expense and annoyance , but they can be brought to no real privation . They can withstand the loss and trouble for an almost indefinite time . The community at large may feel the pressure of interrupted business and the disturbance of prices , but those who are doomed to suffer all the real penalties of the contest are those who depend on wages for subsistence and who are brought to destitution and distress by a loss of labor for even a short time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dear to them by a few leaders who gratify a love of power and tax workingmen to support them in a life of agitation , instead of supporting them- selves by a life of industry , ought to awaken the real workers to a sense of their own right to control their individual interests , and lead them - to assert that personal independence which is the birthright of American citizens . They have been subjecting themselves to a tyranny such as no combination of capital or of employers would presume to attempt , and such as is utterly foreign to any constituted public authcaity in the land . Are American workingmen masters of themselves and their rights , or submissive subjects of executive committees and slaves of the walking dele-gate ?                     