@@743733

txt Of late years there has been a very great advance in aesthetic culture among the upper ' class of horses , and in nothing is this more conspicuously shown than in the improve ? i ments which have been made in stable and . , barn architecture . Twenty years ago our best horses were contented with stables that in point of architectural merit were no better than the quadrangular brick boxes lighted by rows of quadrangular holes , which are usually described by enthusiastic Americans as the " palaces of Eifth-avenue . " In those days a stable was a plain wooden building , with a high peaked roof , two doors , and one or two windows . The lower story consisted of a rough room in which the horses were required to eat , drink , sleep , and perform all their other indoor duties , and the second story was a rude loft filled with hay . The whole building contained nothing that could appeal to the higher nature of a horse or develop his taste for the beautiful . It was , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the tramp then existed he would have scorned to sleep in it , even with full permission to smoke and set the hay on fire . At the present time no intelligent and cultured horse would consent to enter such a stable , and it is to be hoped that few men of wealth and station would insult their horses by lodging them in such a wretched manner . In a recent number of an architectural journal there appears a series of designs illustrative of a new stable recently built for the horses of Mr. John Smith , the wellknown millionaire . This stable is a fair specimen of the beautiful horse-villas which are now springing up on the banks of the Hudson , at Newport , and wherever our plutocracy is to be found . A brief description of it will show how great an advance has been made since the days when any sort of shed was thought good enough for horses . The stable is built of brown sand-stone and pressed brick , in the Norman Gothic style . Its steep wooden roof , and the tall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are conspicuous at a long distance , and when seen near at hand harmonize wonderfully with the rest of the building . Every opportunity of enjoying the air and the romantic scenery of the Hudson River is given to the horses . They can sit in the loggia of the tower and gaze for miles up and down the river ; they can lounge , on the broad veranda which fronts the river , or they can recline:in:easy chairs and survey the prospect from the elegant bay-windows which are to be found in nearly every room . The interior of this horse-palace is finished with native woods , oiled and varnished . On entering from the veranda on the side furthest from the river , the horses find themselves in a well-lighted hallway , furnished with a whip-stand and other appropriate conveniences . On the right , opening out of the hall , is a large reception room for carriages , and on the left is the dormitory , with beds for twelve horses . On the same floor are also a dining-room , a wash-room , with hot and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harness , it being expected that each horse will keep his harness in his own closet , of which he will retain the key . The windows of the diningroom open on the veranda facing the river , so that the horses can easily step out on the veranda and finish their after-dinner coffee and cigars in the open air . The staircase is contained in the tower , and is , of course , a winding one . It does seem as if the horses would find it rather difficult to get up and down the stairs , but of the beauty of the staircase there can be no question . In the second story is a bathroom , a room for the storage of buffalo robes and other Winter garments , and rooms for the storage of hay , oats , bran-mash , and other necessaries and delicacies of the table . The view from the second-story balconies is very fine , and will be quietly enjoyed by horses whose love for nature has been cultivated . The whole building is heated by a furnace , and is provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern improvement . It is intended to fit up the basement as a billiard - room , and a grand piano for the use of one of the mares who has a fine musical taste is to be placed in the reception-room . The total cost of this magnificent horse-mansion is said to have been only $48,000 , a trifle hardly worth a second thought in comparison with the result attained . The demand which exists among horses for the " Stable Beautiful " is the best evidence of the progress they have made in aesthetic culture . There are hundreds of thousands of men who at this moment are living contentedly in houses not to be compared in comfort and beauty with Mr. Smith 's horsevilla , and other thousands who have no houses whatever . The inferiority of these people to our cultured horses is painfully evident . They make no effort to acquire houses like that of Mr. Smith 's horses , in which they can subject themselves to the refining influences of art and nature . They live their wretched unaesthetic lives in houses for which an intelligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redeeming trait is their willingness to confess that they are inferior to cultured horses in their manner of living . As yet the cows and pigs seem to be passably contented with dwellings not much better than those of men . They will , however , let us hope , improve . , The example of the horses can not be wholly lost upon them , and in time all our domestic animals will be lodged in houses that will develop all - that is tender , noble , and beautiful in their nature .                     