@@671839

txt Testimony taken by the Senate committee in this city has revealed the existence of certain unlawful organizations called Trusts or Associations . They are unlawful because they are combinations whose purpose is to prevent competition , restrict production , and . raise prices . Such combinations have repeatedly been pronounced unlawful by the courts of this State and of other States . For exampleAn. this State afew years ago , a-coal company bought coal from several corporations upon their contract not to-sell to any other parties in that locality , the purchasing company 's purpose being to secure a monopoly-of the market . One of the selling corporations failed to obtain its pay and brought suit against the buying corporation . The court refused to aid the plaintiff on the ground that the contract and the combination were illegal . Again , in the case of a combination of five coal corporations in Pennsylvania , which agreed to sell their coal through a general agent so - that competition might cease and a uniform price might be maintained , ' when one of the corporations sued to recover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined to assist - the plaintiff because the combination was illegal and void . And so in other cases , some of which we referred to a few days ago , organizations in. many respects resembling the Trusts now under consideration have been condemned . In a decision relating to a dispute between members of a combination of canal transportation lines in this State the court declared that the combination was void under the-statutes of New-York , and said : " It is a familiarmaxim that-competition is the life of trade . It follows that whatever destroys or even relaxes competition in trade is injurious if not fatal-to it . " The Penal Code of the State . of New-York says in the section defining conspiracy : " If two or more persons conspire to commit any act injurious to trade or commerce each of them is guilty of a misdemeanor . " Well , combinations whose purpose is to prevent competition , restrict production , and " regulate " or raise prices have been characterized by the courts as unlawful and void for the very reason thatthey are " injurious to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whenever a , member of a competition-killing combination has sought to enforce his contract with his associates , or whenever such a combination has asked the courts to compel a member to stand by his agreement . But such decisions have not prevented the formation of numerous combinations , nor do therrelieve the people of the exactions which these combinations make . Something remains to be done . It Is plainly the duty of public prosecutors to proceed against these unlawful combinations in the name of the people . It is the duty of Col. FELLOWS , the prosecuting attorney in this city , to lay before the Grand Jury the testimony procured by the Senate committee , together with such other - useful testimony as he shall find , and to urge the indictment of those who have combined to commit acts " injurious to trade or commerce " ? to prevent competition , restrict production , and create . monopolies in trade . Is it not clear to every one that the Trusts have been formed to attain these ends which the courts have declared - to be unlawful ? How are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be checked unless prosecutors who represent the people shall strive to enforce the laws which have been violated ? 