@@744211

txt The discussion of questions relating to the tariff has directed attention to the treaty with the Hawaiian Islands , under which sugar from those islands is imported into this country free of duty . The amount of sugar brought from the islands since the treaty went into effect has risen from 30,000,000 pounds in 1877 to nearly 77,000,000 pounds in the fiscal year which ended June 30 , 1881 . Before the treaty was made , a protest against it was sent to Congress by Claus SpreCkels and three other sugar refiners of San Francisco , who declared that under the action of reciprocity they would be ruined and the Pacific coast market would be entirely supplied from the islands , which were capable of producing 150,000,000 pounds annually , or 80,000,000 pounds more than the amount annually consumed by all the States and Territories west-of the Rocky Mountains . As soon as theitreaty was ratified Mr. Spreckels went to the Hawaiian Islands , leased 26,000 acres of land , bought machinery , and expended $1,000,000 in a sugar plant . He soon gained control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great sugar king . The imports into San Francisco , nearly 77,000 , - 000 pounds , are from his fields and his refineries . A gentleman thoroughly acquainted with the sugar industry said to THE rIMES/S correspondent to-day that the Eastern refiners would soon be subjected to the influence of Spreckels . " Before the treaty was ratified , " said he , " the average duty paid upon Hawaiian sugar imported into this country was 2% cents per pound , so that Spreckels would have an advantage of 2% cents per pound over Eastern refiners if the Eastern refiners could meet him in San Francisco . But the cost of transportation from Louisiana or New York adds to his advantage 2 cents per pound more , making the total advantage 4% cents . Under this shelter ho has supplied the Pacific slope and enjoyed a monopoly , because no one would , to any extent , send sugars which bad paid duty from New-York to California to compete with his . This advantage has enabled him to sell his sugars recently for 114 cents per pound more on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the East . Protected from competition by transportation charges and the treaty , he has compelled the people to pay for sugar more than they would be obliged to pay for Eastern stwars , if the Central Pacific Road would put its freight charges down to a reasonable figure . So it appears that the treaty has been of no benefit to Pacific coast consumers . For example , I am told that in 1881 California merchants were forced to pay 123i cents for Spreckels 's crushed sugars , while the same sugars were sold for 03. ; cents in Denver and Kansas City , which were reached by Eastern sugars , so that competition was established . In Novem- ber , 1881 , Spreckels 's crushed sugars were 19% cents in San Francisco , and similar crushed sugars which had paid a duty were almost 9 cents less in New-York . By inducing the Central Pacific Road to establish prohibitory freight charges he has kept Eastern sugars out of the Pacific market and so advanced the price of his own that be and his associates are becoming enormously wealthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar rates i one-half , but in March , probably through Spreckels 's influence , they were raised again to the old figures . Heretofore the Spreckels combination and the free Hawaiian sugars have had no effect upon Eastern refiners , except in the Pacific coast market , but a vessel left the Hawaiian Islands about a month ago laden with sugar for New-York City , and it is understood that Spreckels has made an arrangement there with one or two refiners . The introduction of Hawaiian free sugar , even in small quantities , in New-York , in direct competition with sugars which pay duty , must have some effect upon the refiners of that City and upon the market , and some go so far as to say that if Spreckels should continue to send his sugar there and place it in the hands of one or two refiners , the effect upon the others would be of a serious nature . "                     