@@780715

txt Owing to fits of coughing last night the condition of Emperor Frederick was less satisfactory this morning . The Emperor received the usual State reports at noon . The Crown Prince and Princesses of Greece and the Prince of Saxe-Meiningen visited Princess Victoria to-day and offered their congratulations , this being her birthday . Prince von Hohenlohe , Governor-General of Alsace-Lorraine. has been Questioned at Strasburg as to how he would receive an oiler to succeed Prince Bismarck . His answer was evasive . The Post states that at the conclusion of her long conference with Prince Biemaxok the Empress grasped the Chancellor 's two hands and said. : " I sacrifice my daughter on the altar of the Fatherland . " Other papers print various reports , One story is to the effect that Prince Bismarck before the conference formally tendered nisi resignation , but that the Emperor refused to accept it . The worry over the crisis has had a bad effect upon the Emperor 's health . The rumor that another swelling has appeared in his larynx is repeated to-night . The Cologne Gazette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday and his audience with the Emperor yesterday resulted in bringing the question or the marriage of Prince Alexander and Princess Victoria to a standstilL The crisis , in so far as it relates to the Chancellor , is not likely to reach a more acute stage within the near future . Dispatches from Vienna affirm that the interview between Prince Bismarck and the Czar in November last had reference to the proposed marriage of Prince Alexander and Princess Victoria , and that the Chancellor at the time declared that such marriage should never take place , at least while his advice was ticcented . Baron Roggenbacli will cause a semi-official statement to be issued at ICarlsruh , denying that he has any personal pretensions to any official post , not even in the case of Chancellor Bismarek 's retirement . The Baron upon all oc-casions has strongly maintained the necessity of keeping Prince Bismarck at the head of affairs . Tao North . German . Gazette , referring to the attacks of the Progressist newspapers upon . Prince Bismarck for what they term his officious interference in imperial family affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Emperor Frederick as similar criticisms front the same source did on hio deceased father . Prince Bismarck was appointed Chancellor of the Empire by both that they might receive responsible advice according to his knowledge and conscience . They never doubted that Prince Bismarck would watch over the interests of the imperial dynasty as attentively as over the interests of the country . This confidence stands quite apart from the question whether or not the Chancellor remains Prime Minister . It would have no existence if it were thought possible that the Chancellor could belie his convictions and act dishonestly toward the Emperor in order to remain in office . " The Journal de St. Petersbourg , referring to the proposed marriage of Prince Alexander of Battenberg and Princess Victoria . daughter of the German Emperor . says : " Facts can not be effaced from the pages of history . Every one knows . the causes which alienated Prince Alexander from his august protector , and every one remembers the late Emperor William 's condemnation of the Prince 's actions , which were not only ungrateful but compromised the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper , " but that the placing of Prince Alexander in a new and high position might rekindle thoughts of his return among the leaders of the Bulgarian revolution , and , notwithstanding assurances to the contrary , defer the establishment of tranquillity fin the Balkans and also of pacific relations between the powers . The question is how to reconcile these possible consequences with Prince Bismarck 's programme and Emperor Frederick 's pacitie views and friendly assurances . We are certain that the German policy will know how to weigh the consequences and prevent possible dangers to the relations between Russia and Germany and to the general peace . "                     