@@744967

txt If the Sunday Capitol of to-day is correctly informed , Secretary Chandler is not the only member of the Cabinet who looks with disfavor upon the candidates for office put forward upon the examinations of theCivil Service Commission . It prints an interview with Secretary Teller in which the head of the Interior Deartment Eittye : " The Civil Service Commission institution authorized by law , and therefore it is our duty to endeavor to conform to its provisions , but I am satisfied that what Secretary Chandler is reported to have said expresses the situation about as fairly as anything . No one has made greater effort to give the Civil Service Commission act a fair trial than myself , and I have yet to see where it presents any claims to consideration , either in point of practical utility , benefit to the service , or economy . In my own department , for instance , I have upward of 100 , if not 100 , names of persons who wish places and who have the stamp of the Civil Service Commission that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general test of their merits that they will not compare in efficiency with the men whom I could pick up in every-day life . The duties of my department require practical experience , and in some branches added to that a certain amount of technical knowledge . I have not found that in the material offered by the Civil Service Commission , and I have , therefore , been embarrassed in the performance of the duties of my department . If I am responsible for the work of my department , I must have the proper material and must be permitted to select my own men , and not be compelled to take anybody who is sent along simply because he can answer ? and many very poorly answer  --  a few ouestions which any 15-year-old schoolboy should answer . I need men of mature experience and accustomed to dealing with men . Under the present arrangement I can not secure the services of such men . I am in hopes that something will be done , and that speedily too ; otherwise the public service will suffer . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to get over the false notion that the service requires . an outlay of over 5100,000 a year in salaries , loss of time of clerks , and printing in order to protect it from abuses which , as a rule , exist purelyin the imaginations of a few chronic grumblers . At any rate , something must be done or the efficiency of the service will be seriously impaired . " 