@@671881

txt GIVING UP THE SOUTH . It is getting to be more and more plain that the Republicans will rely a good deal in the national campaign this year on what they call the issue of an honest vote , meaning by that the question of the suppression of the negro Republican vote in. some of the Southern States . There was a time when they honed . to avoid this plan . They thought that they had a " fighting chance " in several of the Southern States  --  in the two Virginias and in North tarolina  --  and they felt that if they were to make anything of this chance they must do so on some other issue than that of race , for this is *what the matter amounts to . When Senator SIIERMAN went South and made his peaceful and smooth speech , he had this chance in mind , and there was a number of other signs : of the same sort . The plan was a good one , and it would have been likely to work fairly well but for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , the only one left for them was the tariff , and , though the leaders are clearly going to stick to the tariff issue , they have a suspicion that they can not get rid of , that it will drive off a good many of their votes in the North unless they can hold them by the old feeling that the Southern question arouses . They have been halting between the two as long as they could , but the Louisiana election has decided what doubt there was left in their minds . They have given up all hope of carrying any Southern State . and have made up their minds to work the Southern question " for all it is worth . " It is not wholly worthless , strange as it may seem . They can not hold their old voters with it ; they can not gain any of the young men who vote for the first time this year ; of course they can not win over any Democratic - votes upon it . But it still remains true that they can probably get a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it were put to one side . There is a certain number of Republicans , men old enough to be strongly swayed by the memories and feelings of the war , who do not believe in the protectionist ideas on the party , who clearly see the evils that have grown up in the party , who are afraid of its corruption and cowardice and the time-serving , weak , and narrow spirit of its leaders , who believe it is rno more to be trusted than is the Democratic Party in the treatment of the finances , and who yet cling to it because it represents , in their eyes . canal suffrage . and opposes the wrongs upon the ballot box committed by the Democrats in the South . Many of these men would not vote the Republican ticket if this question were ignored . They will vote it despite everything else so long as this question is kept at the front . Therefore , as we have said , the plan to make the most of this question is not wholly worthless . Nor do we see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to do so . It has become a part , and a strong part , of what the party stands for in the minds of its members . It is hardly too much to say that when the party gives it up the process of breaking to pieces will have been pretty well advanced . But though the party seems bound to adhere to this issue and to put it forward very generally . in the pending campaign , and though they would not bo so strong without it as they will be with it , that is not a hopeful statement of the case . If the Republicans can not win without an appeal to the feelings aroused by this question , there is mo proof that they can win with such an appeal . The decision between the two great parties this year  --  the election in the first meaning of that word  --  lies with voters to whom this question is not of controlling weight . This body of voters is made up in part of men who have come into the use of their rights as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his first vote this Fall was not born when the war closed , and . none of the voters under 40 years of age had . any ' direct personal association with the war . These men , as a rule , do not feel the Southern question to be a vital one . In part , also , this body of voters , with whom the decision will rest , is made up of men who recognize the grave nature of any wrong upon the suffrage , who believe that it is committed in the South by the Democratic Party , but who do not see any chance of remedying it by restoring the Republicans to power . To either of these two classes of voters , who together certainly are numerous enough to turn the scale , the appeal on the Southern question is utterly useless . Yet the Republicans will make it . So far as we can see , they can not help but make it , and they will make it in vain . 