@@672081

txt It is reported . that the objectionable features of legislation for the improvement of rivers and harbors have recently been examined with care by army engineers and certain members of Congress with the purpose of devising some plan for the removal of them , This is a subject that deserves the thoughtful consideration of all who desire that needed improvement shall be made without costly delay and that the public money shall not be wasted in brooks and creeks as it has been in the past . But if the country must wait for reform in this field , as some one has suggested , until the people and their Representatives in Congress shall all work together for the completion of important improvements that ought to be made at once , and for the exclusion of all petty jobs from River and Harbor bills , it will wait , a long time . So long as bills shall be made as they are made now , and so long as they must be approved or vetoed as a whole by the President , they will contain inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of appropriations for socalled improvements that should not lie made at public expense . The average Representative . in Congress will not cease to use all his influence to obtain public money for streams or harbors in his district , for his constituents will continue to exhibit the peculiarities of human nature . But it is not the Representatives alone who should be held responsible for bad bills of this kind . It is reported that the army engineers are moved to protest against a distribution of the money upon a plan that delays the completion of important improvements in order that a host of unworthy projects may be included in the list . The army engineers can see the need of reform , but it must be admitted that they are in some measure responsible for the bad legislation . The appropriations are based upon their reports . In the first place it is their duty to make preliminary examinations and surveys of the streams or harbors that are named in the final sections of every River and Harbor bill and that are the seed of bills yet to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last fiscal year in carrying on the improvements for which money has been appropriated . With respect to these improvements they also report as to the sum of money that can profitably be expended in the following twelve months . It is well known that the total of the sums thus reported by them is about three times the amount which the Secretary of Wax places in the estimates , and that even his estimate far exceeds the sum appropriated for the year by the most generous Congress . So it happens that with respect to each project in his district , as a rule , the Representative or the member of the committee who asks for a liberal appropriation can point to the report of the engineer in charge , whose estimate of the sum that can profitably be expended covers all that he can . desire and much more than he obtains . There is no project out of all those that have repeatedly been opposed with respect to which there is not such a report from the engineer . The so-called improvement of Buckhannon River for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been carried on in accordance with an engineer 's estimates . Yet there is not one in the list that deserves less consideration in Congress . The enormous appropriations for the improvement of Sabine Pass  --  a harbor on whose shores there are but a few score of inhabitants , and that lies between two very largo counties whose entire population was less than 10,000 at last accounts  --  were based upon engineers ' reports , and after the little settlement of Sabine City was wiped out by a flood hundreds of thousands of dollars in addition wore given for the reason , in part , . that the engineer had stated that very large sums could still be expended profitably there . We do not forget that in some cases the engineers have submitted reports that precluded the making of appropriations for the projects under consideration , but their reports and estimates with respect to projects not rejected are used as a foundation of the bills . If the President should be empowered to veto separate items in appropriation bills the indefensible appropriations and the jobs could be cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is needed for improvements of importance . But the Judiciary Committee of the House not long ago made an adverse report upon a proposed amendment giving him power to do this . 