@@743538

txt There have been reported from various parts of the East , and especially from NewJersey and Pennsylvania , special efforts of manufacturers in behalf of the Republican ticket , on the avowed ground that its success would tend to maintain the protectionist policy . So far as these efforts are based on an intelligent appreciation of the attitude of the two parties , they are legitimate and beyond criticism . Unquestionably , the Republican Party , should it regain power in the national Government , could be relied on to treat the tariff in a more conservative spirit , with less probability of violent changes and with a greater regard to the interests which would be affected by such changes than the Democratic Party . It could be so relied on for various reasons . The majority of its representative men are believers in moderate protection . Some of the more prominent of them are extreme protectionists . The party inherited tendencies in the direction of protection from its immediate predecessor , the Whig Party , which may in a sense be regarded as its parent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and although its most pronounced protective features may be said to be accidental , since they survive high internal taxes for which they were at first intended as compensation , still the party is the only one which in its professions and in its legislation has openly and consistently applied the doctrine of protection . On the other hand , the general and marked tendency of the Democratic Party is toward practical free trade . Many of its leaders are ardent theoretical free-traders . It has , at times , attempted very radical measures in the direction of the abolition of ail discrimination in tariff rates in favor of home industries . Its controlling element lies in a section whose manufactures are rare and unimportant . It is liable at any moment , should it have undisputed sway , to undertake sweeping a revolution of the tariff . It has but few statesmen among its representatives who could be counted on to shape its policy with any- degree of prudence , or to restrain the rash and narrow impulses of the more violent faction . Under these circumstances it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up on the basis of the present system , and who have much to fear from any sudden and extreme disturbance of it , or from any very strong agitation in the direction of such disturbance , should labor zealously for the Republican , as against the Democratic , Party . But it would be a great error on their part to imagine that the Republican Party can be expected , should it be replaced in power , to continue the existing system in all its features , or to refrain from gradually and firmly reforming it . It would be an equally great error on the part of the Republican press to allow the impression to be made that the more extreme views of these manufacturers are those of the Republican Party and will be carried out in its action . The most that protectionists can require of the Republican Party , the most that Republicans can encourage them in expecting , is that the tariff will be reformed with proper care and with due and scrupulous regard to all the interests involved , not rashly and in obedience to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reform of some substantial character must be had sooner or later , and the Republican Party has shown itself , on the whole , too responsive to the currents of intelligent public opinion . too appreci ative of broad and enduring general interests , to refuse such a reform . If , unhappily , it should so far fail to be true to its progressive instincts as to yield control to blind and narrow-minded leaders , who will try to avoid errors in action by the greater blunder of absolute inaction , then the party will inevitably give way to some organization which will satisfy the real requirements of the country . There are facts in connection with the actual tariff which can not be ignored , and which make a thorough revision of it imperatively necessary . As it stands , it does not conform to the needs of the business of the country . On the contrary , it is practically a tariff of favoritism toward some interests , of oppression toward others . It is not pervaded by any intelligible principle . Professedly protective , it lays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to others the advantage , wholly unjustifiable and unnecessary , of nearly prohibitory rates . It was essentially a war measure , and , like all war measures , it was necessarily crudely and hastily prepared , while , owing to peculiar circumstances , and particularly to the greater relative importance which purely political questions have maintained in the public mind for the last fifteen years , it has escaped any considerable and careful revision . Its original motive , as we have intimated above , was not only to gain a large revenue for the Government , at that time in sore straits , but to give American manufacturers compensation for the internal taxes which it was necessary to impose , and from which their foreign competitors in our own markets were free . Both of these considerations were at the time rational and controlling . But neither of them any longer exists . Moreover , the tariff as it stands was modeled , and very hastily and badly modeled at that , to meet conditions in our industry and in our foreign trade which have passed away . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was necessary to protect certain home manufactures from foreign competition in our home market . Since then a vast variety of industries individually more or less important have grown up , which are not helped , but hindered , by the tariff , while those which the tariff was intended to foster are no longer in need of such extreme favor as they now enjoy . American industry , moreover , while perfectly able to keep its home market under a much more moderate protection , than it now enjoys , is aiming in many directions toward a foreign market , for which the tariff is a positive obstacle . Under these circumstances reform is absolutely necessary , and it would be the height of folly to encourage the belief that reforms ought not to be , or will not be , undertaken , under all proper restrictions , by the Republican Party . 