@@781469

txt We print this morning a series of four letters exchanged between ex-Gov ' . CHAMBERLAIN and Gen. GARFIELD , at the time President-elect . The letters were written in December , 1880 , and in the early part of 1881 . They have a peculiar value . Gov . CHAMBERLAIN may be accepted as an expert upon the subject of affairs in the South , since he is a man of exceptional ability , of probity , and of experience in the matters he discusses , to which he ' had given candid and close study . He addressed the Presidentelect for the purpose of urging upon his attention facts and views as to the South , and the gist of his statements was that the Republican Party had been overthrown in that section , and free suffrage with it , because that party had not , with freo suffrage , given good local government to the Southern States . It had failed to do so mainly because bad or incapable men , or both , had been appointed to Federal positions . And he urged upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning with the removal of the bad officials for the announced cause that they were bad , and replacing them by men of character and capacity . These suggestions were received by Gem GARFIELD with approval , while at the same time he expressed his appreciation of the difficulty which would be found in selecting both the officers for removal and proper persons to replace them , and he called Gov . CHAMBERLAIN 'S attention to the fact that , apart from the animosity toward the Republicans in the South caused by bad government , there was great bitterness toward them simply as Republicans . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN replied , recognizing the sentiment alluded to , but repeating that the natural prejudice toward Republicans would have gradually worn away in the years following the war if it had not been reinforced by the resentment and contempt aroused by misgovernment . And he pointed out the danger to which the party was exposed of forming an alliance with any faction which might break with the Bourbon Democracy , as in the instance of Dal:IONE , where party advantage was being secured by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be better in such a case to aid even the Bourbons , who were for a comparatively sound and honest financial policy . He repeated his original opinion that with care , and a resolute purpose to put good government before all other things , the task of reforming the civil service in the South , though it would be difficult and tedious , was by no means impossible of achievement . Gen. GARFIELD replied with a hearty indorsement of the general views of his correspondent and added : " I am ready to say that I agree fully with you in your views of MAHONE and his party . " This correspondence has more than a historical interest . The views wh:cii Gov . CHAMBERLAIN with SO much vigor and frankness , and with the weight given by his experience and unblemished reputation , presented in 1880 , were those which were urged by this journal upon Mr. HAvEs 's Administration four years previously , in the same spirit and with complete identity of reasoning , as , indeed , they had previously been urged upon the Administration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to cite but one of many expressions  --  TuE TIMES said : " What the Federal Government can do for the South * * * consists almost solely in filling the Federal offices in the South wisely with men of suitable character , ability , and standing . This is something which , under any circumstances , without any qualification , must be done . It will be found a work both delicate and difficult , and it will take time ; but it is absolutely essential . " Unfortunately , the work was not done . What Mr. CHAMBERLAIN calls the " indifference " of Mr. HAYES , combined with the malign influence of Secretary SHERMAN 'S Presidential ambition , prevented it , and the old problem presented itself on the threshold of Gen. GARFIELD 'S Administration . The spirit in which he approached it is shown by his letters . What he would have done with it can never be known . So far as the Federal service is concerned , the problem remains much the same . It is easier now than it was even six years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is , on the other hand , more difficult , because it has been complicated by persistence in wrong-doing and ; by tile alliances with men like MAHONE and CHALmnits . The only possible solution for it is the same now as before . The hope of solving it is less , because the Administration is not disposed rightly toward it , and because the people are losing patience . One thing , at least , is certain , that the policy followed in MAtroNE 's case not only can not benefit the South , and can not build up the Republican Party there , but is tending to disintegrate the party throughout the country .                     