@@745433

txt One of the rural newspapers of this State , speaking of the New-York Gas bill before its defeat , remarked that so much had been said about it in the press that a country member could not vote against it " without being suspected of being bought " This it characterized as the " newest system of bulldozing , " and declares that it ought not to be tolerated . It advised country members who believed the bill to be an unwise one not to be " bulldozed into voting for it . " It is a new ' idea , that because much has been said about a bill those who oppose it are necessarily under the suspicion of being bribed . The Watertown Times , the author of these remarks , does not seem clearly to apprehend the cause of the suspicion which country members have brought upon themselves . It is not due to the much speaking about the Gas bill in the press nor yet to the simple fact that so many country members finally voted against it , though it affected only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they believed the bill to be an unwise one . It is admitted that the bill had defects , and but for the peculiar character of the fight against it they could have been corrected . It is not denied that there might be two honest opinions regarding its constitutionality . If there had been a semblance of sincerity in raising and discussing the constitutional question , any member convinced by the arguments of its , opponents would have been entirely safe from imputations upon his honesty in voting against it . But the spirit of the opposition and the flimsy character of the arguments advanced showed plainly that the constitutional point was the merest pretext . The gas companies are chartered by the State to supply this city with gas as a public service . This service might be provided for by other means . The city authorities might be empowered to perform it . , It might be done by a commission constituted in any lawful manner prescribed by the Legislature . As a public service any proper restriction might be put upon it and any necessary supervision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis from that of any purely private business . The fact that the companies have persisted in : consolidAing and establishing a monopoly ; that they , have charged what are proved to be extortionate prices and watered their stock to conceal their profits ; and:that theirebills bear no recognizable relation to the amount of gas " supplied , furnish an ample reason why the State should exercise its power over corporations chartered for a public service and compel them to respect the rights of the people . There was no serious discussion of the limits of the State 's authority in such cases , but a bold pretense was made that the price of gas and the profits of gas companies were no more subject to legislative restriction than the price of coal or the'profits of a newspaper . As a constitutional argument this is ridiculous . But what was the real source of the/suspicion of bribery ? The gas companies had their monopoly and their great profits at stake . They could afford to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to defeat the bill , and they were willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actively at work to defeat it and that they employed men whose methods are notoriously corrupt . It is reported that they sent $70,000 to Albany to effect.their purpose . The Assembly ordered the bill to a third reading with a single negative vote . Three days later it was defeated . No new constitutional discoveries had in the meantime been made ; no respectable constitutional arguments had at any time been advanced , though such were possible . But in those three days the lobby was very busy . Its agents beset members of the Assembly everywhere , secretly and openly . Many reports circulated as to the price of votes . City members were quoted at $2,000 and country members at $1,000 apiece . Men familiar with Albany ways in such a crisis , and intent on nothing but getting at the truth , have no doubt whatever that members were bribed , and their own conduct confirms the suspicion . Whatever the merits of the bill , whatever might honestly have been urged against it on constitutional or other grounds , as a matter of cold fact there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and if the exposure of the proceeding is bulldozing , then it is bulldozing to attempt to prevent fraud and crime when there are indications that they are about to be committed . Country members have themselves to blame if they are easily susnected of corruption . Unfortunately , there is much occasion for legislation at Albany affecting this city only , and often it is opposed by combinations that are both rich and unscrupulous . The great difficulty for years in securing legislation actually demanded for the well-being of the city , and urged by the best of its citizens , has been the ease with which country members whose constituents had no direct interest in the matter could be bought up or made to act under partisan pressure shrewdly secured by corrupt means . Of this there is no room for doubt , and it is a burning disgrace of which we have a right to complain . The Watertown . Times says that if the constituents of these country members did not have faith in their honesty and integrity they would not be at Albany to vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are inclined to think it is . But those constituents do not always know how their faith is abused when their own interests are not at stake and the money power is brought to bear to affect legislation . Nobody can suffer seriously from unmerited bulldozing , but the bribery of legislators is an evil so insidious , so debasing , and so menacing to the well-being of the State that no honest man can hold his peace when there is evidence that it is going on .                     