@@743747

txt The struggle in the Senate over the reorganization of the Senate began to-day , and continued for more than two hours . While the Chaplain was praying Dlr . Edmunds stood in the rear of the Republican seats , having ; lust come in . The illness which had kept him out of his seat for some weeks had left its impress upon his face and manner . After the Journal had been read he came forward , escorted by his colleague , and was sworn in . Some changes in seats have been made since the beginning of the special session . The scat in the front row , formerly occupied by Mr. Kirkwood , is now held by Mr. Logan , who so strongly believed that Mr. Kirkwood would go into the Cabinet that he applied for it a day or two before the nominations were made . The seat next to Mr. Conklin% so long held by Mr. Hamlin , is now occupied by Mr. Allison , who has given his old seat on the Democratic side to Mr. Hill , of Georgia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Mr. Sherman , very properly , in Mr. Windom 's . Among those in the chamber ' was Marshal Dudley , of Indiana . who was such a prominent figure in the October campaign in that State . The galleries were crowded , for now the Senate is the solo attraction at the Capitol . The debate was a very tiresome one . Mr. Pendleton called up the resolution providing for the organization of the committees on the basis chosen by the Democratic caucus . This resolution had been laid on the table for one day by a Republican objection made yesterday . Mr. Davis , of Illinois , showed an inclination to speak , and Mr. Conkling interposed merely for the purpose of reserving all points of order to be made under the rules . The speech of Mr. Davis , which he read from manuscript , was almost the only interesting part of the proceedings , and his explanation of his position gained the close attention of both Senators and spectators . He spoke as follows : " Before casting my vote on this occasion it Ls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1877 the Legislature of Illinois unexpectedly elected me Senator . I was not in any sense a candidate for that honor , and when applied to for the use of my name I declined to answer the request . Numerically the Republicans were in a plurality in that Legislature , and my distinguished colleague was their candidate . The Democrats stood next in strength , and a small body of Independents held the balance of power . The two last united and voluntarily conferred upon me the honor which 1 now hold . No man ever entered Congress freer from political committal or personal obligation than I did four years ago . I bad been identided with the Republican Party and still look back with prido to its grand achievements . The extreme measures after the war , and the excesses incident to civil strife , drove tens of thousands into the Liberal movement of 1872 . I found myself in company with Charles Francis Adams , Horace Greeley , Carl Schurz , Murat Halstead , Stanley Matthews , R. E. Fenton , - John Wentworth , Samuel Bowles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others known to fame , who had been conspicuous Republicans . Some of them have returned to the fold from which they had separated , doubtless prompted by patriotic motives . I have never acted distinctively with the Democratic Party , and unless its methods are changed and ; its wisdom is broadened there is little prospect of my revising opinions calmly formed . The country would be materially benefitted by the reconstruction of parties , especially since the errors of one seam unaappily contrived to prolong possession of power in the other . Standing between these two great organizations , and exposed to the earpings of the organs of both , who hold independence a crime . is not an agreeable position . But it has suited my policy , because I could not accept either extreme . I have voted on all public measures without regard to their political origin , according to my convictions of rights , and I propose to continue that course until the close of my Senatorial career . Dreams of ambition do not disturb my sleep . When the day for retiring comes I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , carrying with me the consciousness of having striven to discharge every duty , An honorable recognition of the trust generously confided to my keeping by Democratic votes in 1877 requires me to sustain the existing organization of the Senate , for which I disclaim all responsibility . Parts of it are neither agreeable to my taste nor to my judgment . In giving this vote it is proper for me to say , whatever may be the result , that I can accept no honor at the hands of either side . A new Administration is starting out under exceptional circumstances . The States were numerically divided at the Presidential election . A few thousand votes separated the . two principal candidates in a poll exceeding 9,000,000 . Both branches of Congress are almost balanced . The country craves a respite from angry discord , and most of all , it needs rest from sectional strife . The voice of patriotism demands peace and fraternal fellowship , North and South , East and West . Every good citizen should desire the success of the Administration , for we all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the . greatness of the Republic . Measures intended Do advance either shall have my cordial support . The President and his Cabinet are entitled to a fair hearing , and to be judged impartially by their acts . If they fail to justify the public confidence it will be a misfortune which has overtaken other Administrations having equally good intentions and prospects . I shall vote for the appointment of all these committees except the Judiciary Committee . I wish to retain my old place on the Judiciary Committee , and , though I am thankful to my friends , I must decline the position of Chairman . " Mr. Mahone , the other so-called Independent , was not in the chamber . Mr. Davis 's refusal to take the position Of Chairman of the Judiciary Committee surprised many Senators . At his suggestion the list was amended by substituting for his name that of Mr. Garland , who would have been promoted to the place by the traditional practice of the Senate , but who had yielded in favor of the man who had once been on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the consideration of the resolution was then raised by Mr. Conkling . He held that a proposition to change or to suspend a rule of the Senate by electing committees in a bunch by one resolution , instead of by ballot , must be made by a resolution in writing , and must go over one day under the rules . The establishment of this point of order would postpone the election for another day . It ' pas been said that in a debate upon a point of order the Senate is in its glory , and the discussion which followed showed that many Senators were determined to reveal their knowledge of parliamentary procedure . Mr. Conkling led the Republicans , declaring that a constitutional majority of the Senate was opposed to the organization which had been planned by the Democrats , and calling for a postponement of the election until the vacant Republican seats should be filled . The position taken by the Republicans was sustained by Vice-President Arthur , who ruled that the election must be by ballot . unless the Senate should otherwise order , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be made by a resolution . It can be seen that an objection to this resolution would cause it to be laid on the table for one day . Mr. Pendleton appealed , and the Democrats proceeded to oppose the ruling , in accordance with a decision reached at their caucus in the morning . Mr. Sherman made his first ? appearance on the floor since . his election in an argument supporting the decision . Mr. Garland said , in the course of his remarks , that the Senate was constrained by a blab conatitutional duty to organize its committees al once . Mr. Conkling inquired how that could be when four seats on the Republican side had suddenly been made vacant , and when on ' text Tuesday the Democrats would have no power to do what they were now attempting to do . This was greeted by some applause in the gal leries . Mr. Garland then said he did not seek any unfair advantage , and asked when the seats would be filled . Mr. Conkling replied that the new Senators would all be here next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made by that time , but he was willing to wait a reasonable period . He was not in a hurry , and he hoped the whole matter could be settled harmoniously . Mr. Hill , of Georgia , made a long speech , and became somewhat excited about the convincing character of his own argument . He maintained that the President would not have called the Senate together on March 4 , and then sent nominations every day if he bad not desired the Senate to act upon them , and the Senate could not properly act without committees . There was an interchange of allusions , which were supposed to be funny , between Mr. Hill and Mr. Conkling , and the galleries occasionally laughed . The galleries are pleased by the faintest shadow of wit , and there was not even so much as that in the heavy passages which excited them . The debate was cut off at 2:30 by an executive session . The absence of Mr. Mahone from the Senate to-day gave rise to a rumor that he did not intend to vote at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were building hones upon this foundation were disconcerted by Mr. Conkling 's emphatic assertion that a constitutional majority of the Senate were opposed to the Democratic list . It is said that Readjuster candidates for offices to be voted for in Virginia next Fall are writing to Mr. Mahone declaring that he will destroy their prespects by acting with the Republicans of the Senate . The Senate , although nominally in executive session from 2:30 until 4 o'clock , devoted the whole of that time to a continuation of the controversy begun in open session concerning the proposed organization of the committees . Various ineffectual efforts were made to effect some agreement as to a day when final action should be allowed to be taken without the interposition of dilatory proceedings , but the Republicans declined to fix any time more specifically than by saying that they would be ready to act upon the question as soon as all the vacancies were filled . They also declined to give any positive answer to an inquiry addressed to them several times from the Democratic side as to whether or not , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure of having enough strength to control the organization . Finally , it was agreed that the point of order and the appeal from the decision of the Chair in regard to the pending . resolution should both be withdrawn , and that the resolution should be allowed to come before the Senate for consideration on its merits next Monday . The withdrawals were accordingly made by unanimous consent , and the Senate adjourned until Monday . Soon after adjournment the Republican Senators assembled in caucus , and as the result of a brief consultation it was decided to persist in opposing any election of the Senate committees in advance of the arrival of the four incoming Republicans , unless four of the Democratic Senators shall previously pair with them , and that before allowing a final vote to be taken the Republicans should be prepared with a list of committee members to offer for adoption as a substitute for the Democratic list . It is still confidently believed by the Republicans that Senator Mahone will side with them in the matter of organization , and unless this expectation is disappointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional aid of the Vice-President 's casting vote , they will control the organization before the close of the present session .                     