@@745254

txt The British military authorities , having decided to employ a camel corps in Egypt , have issued an order instructing the soldiers to treat the camels " with kindness and consideration , " and strictly forbidding the use of " foul language " in the hearing of those interesting animals . The camel is said by those who are well acquainted with him to be about onethird more exasperating than the army mule . Like the latter beast , he kicks , but , his legs being strengthened by natural angle irons , and being twice as long as " the mule 's legs , he can do correspondingly greater execution with them . No intelligent Arab will approach within eighty feet of a camel 's hind legs , and even ? with this precaution nearly one-half of an average Arab caravan is kept in the air by accidents from camels ' legs . As for biting , the army mule is a mere beginner in comparison with the camel , who will bite entirely through a mountain howitzer without an . effort . The mule has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is always misanthropic . Moreover , the camel is rendered so conceited by the possession of half a dozen spare stomachs , with watertight bulkheads , that he will never sacrifice his opinion to that of his driver . And this is the animal who is to be treated with " kindness and consideration , " and who is never to be whipped or sworn at ! If this order is obeyed the fate of the camel corps can be easily foreseen . Heedless of the coaxing of the driver the camels will carry the British soldiers who are compelled to mount them straight into the heart of the Sahara , where the soldiers will either perish of thirst or of camels ' heels . , In vain will they be addressed as " good camels " , and offered sugar and other delicacies . " The beasts will be filled with contempt for the weakness of their riders , and will lose no time in demonstrating that a healthy camel is the master of the man who treats him with kindness and consideration . What Lord WOLSELEY ought to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veteran army teamsters , selecting only those who can pass a good ' examination in competitive swearing . These , men might be able to manage the camels as well as the Canadian voyageurs are . able to manage the rapids of the Nile . ' At any rate the order , requiring camels to be treated with kindness and consideration should be promptly rescinded , for kindness is as completely thrown away upon the camel as reasoning is thrown away upon the Blaine man .                     