@@745386

txt At one time to-day it looked to both Senators and Representatives as if an extra session could not be avoided . A sort of informal agreement was entered into during the night by members of the Appropriations Committees of the two branches that the House should agree to the Pacific Mail subsidy olause in.the Post Office Appropriation bill and give up the general legislation on the Indian bill , in return for which the Senate was to agree to such modifications of the Naval bill us the House desired . The vote of the House rejecting the subsidy clause broke up this programme , and for half an hour nearly everybody believed that it would cause so much ill feeling between the ' two houses that no agreement could be reached by to-morrow noon . When the Senators had taken time to look over the House vote on the subsidy , however , they concluded that it would be useless to try to force submission to the schema , and Mr. nye , who offered the clause , said that no further fight would be made for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears of most of the legislators , and in the reaction they became positive in their convictions that all the appropriation bills would be disposed of in time . Members of all the conference committees say this evening that their work is going on with satisfactory speed and results , and this has still more added to the feeling that there will be no extra session . At the same time it is not forgotten that the situation is such that one or two obstinate men on conference committees may block a bill in such a way that it can not be got out of the way before adjournment . For this reason it can not be definitely declared that Mr. Cleveland will not have to call the Fortyninth Congress in session , long before its regular meeting next December . At midnight both houses of Congress are in session . The Senate has interrupted a discussion of the " lump " River and Harbor bill to talk about the disagreement of the two houses on the paragraph in the Indian Appropriation bill looking to the opening of the Oklahoma lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give up this clause , and the Senate conferees desire to attach to the clause a provision keeping people out of those lands until they are formally opened . Although no conference reports have been received since afternoon Senators and Congressmen are still confident that all disputes will be settled within the next 12 hours , so that an extra session may be avoided . Seven appropriation bills are now pending in conference committees . These are the Legislative , Executive and Judicial , Navy , Post Office , Indian , Sundry Civil , General Deficiency , and Fortifications bills . They must all be agreed upon in committee , acted upon by each house , engrossed and signed by the President before noon tomorrow , or fail and make an extra session necessary . The Pension Appropriation bill went to the President this evening , and the River and Harbor bill is now pending in the Senate . The other five regular appropriation bills have received the tiresident 's signature and become laws . 