@@671914

txt THE SELFRIDGE COURT-MARTIAL , The approaching trial of Capt . THOMAS 0 . SELFRIDGE for his connection with the Ikeshima disaster will be one of the most interesting that has recently occurred in the navy . The detail for the court , of which Rear-Admiral J. E. JOITETT is President , is a strong one and . should give assurance of a competent and fair trial and judgment . The subject involved is the loss of life resulting from target practice on . the Omaha off the coast of Japan . The undisputed facts are that in March , 1887 , Capt . SELFRIDGE , then commanding the Omaha , ordered and conducted practice with the great gnus within three miles of the shore without first having obtained permission of the Japanese authorities . There is no question that this was in violation of international usages and also of an express edict of the Japanese Government . The defense of Capt . SELFRIDGE on this point is that he was ignorant that any such edict had been issued by Japan , or otherwise he would . certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly be that , independently of any specific prohibition , the usages of international law should have been sufficient to deter Capt . SELFRIDGE from conducting such gun practice within the marine jurisdiction of a foreign nation without first obtaining permission . Possibly the defense may seek to qualify the force of this general proposition by citing instances in which such practice has been carried on upon Asiatic or African shores . A second fact beyond dispute is that unexploded shells were left upon Japanese territory after the target practice was concluded , *and that one of these , while being examined by the natives , burst and killed four of them , besides wounding seven others . While this fact is clear , the inferences to be drawn from it must yet be established by evidence . A naval court held . at Nagasaki found that insufficient precautions were taken by Capt . SELFRIDGE against endangering life , although it exonerated him from any willful misconduct . It considered that the very fact that the loss of life resulted from the explosion of his shells implied . culpable negligence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed it . But it freely admitted that the evidence indicated that Capt . SELFRIDGE supposed that he had taken proper precautions . The court-martial which is now to review the whole subject will have to determine whether Capt . SELFRIDGE did take reasonable precautions . His own view is understood to be that he had fully examined the island and noticed a few lints on the north side , and that the south side was high , rising into cliffs mapped as being 369 feet above the sea level . Hence he considered that , since no habitation or human being was in sight at the time of practice , firing at targets placed at the foot of these cliffs was perfectly safe . The defense will doubtless hold . that stories about shells passing over - the cliffs into the settlement on . the north side are preposterous . The shell which exploded was one of number that were dug up and , carried into the village to be examined there . The question then arises as to the responsibility for leaving these unexploded shells . The defense will probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at fault as Capt . SELFRIDGE , since it furnished shells with defective fuses . But this point is hardly well taken , since the proportion of defective fuses and unexploded shells in target practice is habitually very large , and . . this fact should be taken into account in precautions against aeoident . The defense , however , will probably seek to show that only the quarterly allowance of shell , forty-two in all , were fired ; that an officer was stationed to watch the fall of each , . and reported that they had all exploded ; that they all struck within fifty yards of the target , and . those that ricocheted and bounded above the target did not strike the cliff higher than half way up . That an incorrect report , in that case , must have been given as to the explosion of all the shells is palpable . Such are the leading facts in this im. portant case , whose developments will be watched with interest both in and out of the naval service . 