@@744415

txt It is generally supposed that the evil worked by our present extravagant tariff is confined to the consumers , so-called , that is to say , to those not engaged in manufactures . But this ie very far from being the truth . The burden of taxes imposed for the purpose of advancing prices , does , of course , fall upon all who are compelled to use the goods so taxed , and as those engaged in agriculture comprise by far the larger portion of the population , it is not unreasonable to say that the protective tariff weighs most heavily upon them as a class . But there is another very large , very important , and steadily growing class upon whom the tariff imposes burdens of still greater weight . This is the class of manufacturers who are compelled to use , in addition to the goods consumed by them personally and n their families , other goods , heavily taxed , as raw material in their respective trades . The grievance of these men deserves special attention , because they receive their wounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a system pretended to be devised for their particular benefit . And when any of them show signs of restlessness , the protectionists remind them that the cause of protection is not a selfish one , and that individual interests must be sacrificed to the maintenance of the general principle . But this plea is so unjust as to be insulting . Protection is , if anything ever was , a matter of pure selfishness . It is advocated on the ground that it will advance certain interests which are necessary to the general good . But when it fails to advance any of these interests it so far ceases to be for the general good . It requires a good deal of faith to believe that even the consumers , as a body , should submit to it ; to demand that manufacturers should suffer in silence from it is sheer impudence . Take , for instance , the manufacturers who use copper ore or copper in any of its forms . They are very numerous and their trades are - very various . The smelters , ( if ore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or sheathing , those who use copper or its compositions as the basis for plated ware , the brass-workers , with their almost infinite variety of product  --  all these have to bear the burden of the tax of 8 cents . a pound on copper oro and 5 cents a pounel on copper ingots . How considerable it is may be inferred from the fact that the Lake Superior copper mines can afford to deliver their copper on the other side of the Atlantic for a lower price than is required in this country . That price , less freight and expenses , represents the imposition practiced , by aid of the tariff , upon every manufacturer in the United States who uses copper in any form . Is it not perfectly obvious that this is not protection , but oppression , of manufacturers ? Now , when we add that the copper mines of Lake Superior yield a - very large profit on even their nominal capital ; that that capital is to a great extent made up of the applied profits of their business ; that they enjoy from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of their works and the ease with which the copper is obtained , it is plain that the few and the wealthy are being made richer by the law at the expense of the many and less prosperous . Aud this is entirely apart from the general interests of the country which are in nowise served by this fostering of what is practically a monopoly . Another instance of the same character even more striking , though not on so broad a scale , is the manufacture of nickel plate . That is a special industry of quite recent origin , but it is one oconsiderable importance , and , if not superseded by other inventions , is capable of almost indefinite expansion , both for the home market and for export . It is one peculiarly adapted to our character as a manufacturing people , and is used in constantly ' more numerous and varied ways in those minor articles of utility , convenience , or ornament , which are nowhere in the world so plentiful as in the United States . The basis of this industry is nickel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is in effect prohibitory . Almost the entire production of this metal is confined to one mine in the State of Pennsylvania . The practical operation of the tariff as it now stands is to enrich the owners of this mine at the expense of the thousands who employ nickel If there can be found any justification in morals , or in the principles of a free Government , for using the lawmaking power of the entire Nation to accomplish such a purpose by such means , we can not imagine what it is . A forcible proof of the truth of the statement we have made is found in the fact that the Meriden Britannia Company , one of the most extensive consumers of the metal in this or any other country , has been obliged to establish a factory in Canada in order to compete with the manufacturers abroad . This is fostering " home industry " with a vengeance . So far as the employment of labor and investment of capital are an advantage to the country , there has probably been very nearly a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gain from the Pennsylvania mine . There are very many other examples of the manner in which our protective tariff hampers , represses , and suppresses American manufactures . Many of them are individually of small importance . Taken together , they are of very great value , and their claims should be considered the more carefully because they have not the same means of making them heard as have the larger and favored interests . The only way in which justice can be done them is by the removal of duties from all goods which , directly or indirectly , are the material of manufactures .                     