@@744148

txt Lord LORNE 'S pathetic picture of the miserable bachelors of Manitoba who are cut off from female society and are.without hope of wives has awakened a warm interest in the bosoms of the unmarried women of Great Britain . Societies for supplying Manitoba with wives have been formed , and so many devoted British maidens of more or less advanced years have nobly offered to go to Manitoba that there is every reason to believe that large invoices of unmarried women will be shipped thither early in the Spring . This good news has filled the Manitobans with joy . Each inhabitant of that remote reservoir of detestable weather already regards himself as engaged to some as yet unknown English girl , and pools for the first , second , and third choice of girls are selling at high price . It has always seemed to the Manitoban that circumstances had made matrimony more desirable for him than for other men . In the new rude settlements of the country the Manitoban wife would be far removed from the temptations of fashion . Dress-makers and milliners would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the cost of clothing a wife would be ridiculously small . The Manitoban husband could thus have all the comforts and none of the inconveniences of matrimony , and whether he should clothe his wife in blankets or in furs she would be happy and contented , since there would be no better dressed woman in the Province to fill her with envy and to take the sunshine out of her life . It is sad to find that these bright Manitoban visions are to fade . There appeared the other day a brief paragraph in a Canadian paper , which , like the ordinary Canadian paragraph , has attracted no attention in the Dominion , but which , to the thoughtful American reader , is fraught with the ruin of Manitoban matrimony . The paragraph in question announced that " A Toronto dressmaker has started for Manitoba , taking with her five young women . " Let no one weakly imagine that the dress-maker and her five young women are in search of husbands . Dress-makers never marry , lest they should thereby kill the golden marital goose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In order to he a successful dress-maker a woman must have almost as much boldness and ability as a plumber , and no woman possessed of these attributes and capable of charging four hundred dollars for a dress the cost of production of which is not over seventeen dollars would he guilty of the weakness of becoming a wife and buying her dresses of another dress-maker . The Toronto dress-maker and her five assistants know that in the Spring an enormous influx of women will pour into Manitoba , and it is in order to make dresses and trim bonnets for these women that the wily dress-maker has preceded them . There can be no question that the serpent is about to enter the Manitoban paradise . When the first consignment of marriageable English girls reaches Manitoba , the Toronto dress-maker 's sign will be already in position , and specimens of her work will be exhibited in her windows . Where will then be the dreams of tile Manitoban bachelor , who has fancied that his prospective wife would make her own dresses out of blankets and skins , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people can bear with much fortitude the misfortunes of others , but who is so hardhearted as to refuse to drop the tear of sympathy over the wreck of the once bright hopes of the men of Manitoba ? It is quite possible that the full meaning of the presence of the Toronto dress-maker and her five young women in the Province of Manitoba may not at once strike the Manitoban . Perhaps , with the astuteness of her kind , she will at first conceal her true character and , representing herself and her companions as women in search of husbands , will win the esteem and admiration of the male population . She will , however , promptly throw aside all disguise as soon as Manitoba is moderately well supplied with wives , and some morning the Manitoban husbands will receive a circular announcing that Madame So-and-So , of Toronto , has opened a dress-making establishment and is ready for custom . We can imagine with what avidity the newly married wives , whose stock of clothing is mailing low , and who have not seen a dress-maker since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designing Toronto dress-maker . With what enthusiasm will they examine her latest fashion-plates and discuss the newest designs in dresses , bonnets , and lingerie . Not a Manitoban wife will be able to tear herself away from the dress-maker 's premises without ordering at least one new dress and a quantity of more esoteric garments . The peace and contentment of Manitoban households will vanish The money of the pioneer will rapidly flow into the pockets of the ? Toronto ' dress-maker , and the ruined husbands will express , in the strongest fron- tier language , their regret that they ever allowed Lord LORNE to tempt them into matrimonial ways . It is , however , not too late to save Manitoba from the fate which threatens it . The Legislature can be called together and can pass a law forbidding any dress-maker to enter the Province under pain of death . The safety of the commonwealth is the supreme law , and in the face of the threatening danger the strongest Measures are justifiable . In case the Legislature does not pass such a law , the Toronto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married by force the moment they enter the Province , for if they are permitted - to remain single and to ply their trade , Manitoba will in one brief year become a wilderness , howling with deserted wives and filled with graves of ruined husbands who have blown out their brains with their own rifles .                     