@@744973

txt The Winter carnival in Montreal bids fair to become as famous as was the Roman carnival in by-gone days . It is not only a succession of striking and pleasing spectacles , but it has the merit of legitimacy . Were it an imitation of some Old World custom it would - probably be as stupid and ridiculous as was the attempt made a few years ago to introduce into this city an Americanized imitation of an Italian carnival ; but ' being as it is thoroughly indigenous and full of local color , it will thrive and grow more attractive year by year . There is no city except Montreal where an ice carnival could be made as brilliant and impressive as is the Montreal carnival : Other Canadian cities lack the local advantages of Montreal , and as for our large towns on this side of the line , they do not produce ice and snow and clear cold weather in quantities sufficient to warrant them in imitating Montreal with its ice palaces and tobogganing slides . New-York need not feel humiliated because she can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can , if we choose , have a carnival that will be as distinctively , characteristic of New-York as the ice carnival is characteristic of the Canadian city . We can have a mud carnival , and it is safe to say that such a carnival would remain quite unrivaled by anything of the kind that Philadelphia , Boston , or any other civilized city could produce . Interesting as the Montreal ice palace is , we could build a mud palace that would be still more interesting . We have architects  --  such as those who built the Western Union and the Evening Post Building ? who would accomplish even still greater wonders in plastic mud . The mud of our streets is not only abundant enough to afford material for building a palace twice the size of the Montreal ice palace , but it has a peculiar consistency which would render it an admirable building material , and there is no doubt that walls made of New-York mud and thoroughly frozen would last much longer than ice walls . Indeed , judging from the condition in which some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mud is practically indestructible . We could not , of course , entertain visitors with processions of snow-shoe clubs or with the wild sport of tobogganing , but we could amuse them with other and equally entertaining sports . For instance , we could show them the pleasing spectacle of middle-aged citizens constantly slipping in the icy and muddy streets , and falling in picturesque attitudes , a spectacle presenting much more variety than is offered by tobogganing . In the place of torch-light processions made by snow-shoe clubs we could have processions of Tammany office-holders with blazing diamonds in their shirt-fronts . Such a procession would instruct as well as amuse our Canadian visitors , who would at once comprehend that young men who waste their time in walking in snow-shoes are much inferior . in practical good sense to young men who engage in municipal politics under the guidance of wise and experienced statesmen like the Tammany leaders . It is true that we have no Lord LANSDOWNE to show to admiring visitors , but have we not Mr. JOHN KELLY , and has he not twice as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have ? Then , too , we have our other great men  --  our Fields , our Goulds , and our Vanderbilts . With what pride could we exhibit them , and with what admiration would they be viewed . By all means let us have a mud carnival . Nature and our municipal Government have given us advantages for such a carnival which we ought not to neglect , and with the example of Montreal to stimulate us , we should make the most of them .                     