@@780681

txt No progress has been made toward an organization of the Senate since the adjournment to-day . The regular Democrats have apparently abandoned all further attempts to come to any terms with Kellv , and they scout the idea of backing down to his dictation by the withdrawal of Jacobs . They say they can not afford it , even if they had the disposition . The 400,000 voters at their back , they say , would never tolerate a surrender to the handful of men who follow Kelly 's lead in New-York City , and to do so would cost the party more votes than it would gain , to say nothing of the odium of again installing the Tammany Bo " as the leader of the Democracy in this State . But how are they going to organize the Senate unless they do ? That is the question . No one expects Kelly to back down ; such an event is not counted as a possible contingency in any speculation about a settlement of the difficulty . The organization of the Senate , if effected at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senators . What that action will be , and when it will be taken , or whether it will be taken at all or not , it is impossible at present to say . A majority of the Republican Senators are emphatically opposed to latermeddling in any way with the Democratic quarrel . But a majority is not needed to help the Democrats out of their difficulty . Five will be enough , and there are already two or three who indicate by their talk that they may be constrained to end the dead-lock rather than allow the Senate to remain unorganized for any great length of time . A Democratic Senator , who ought to know whereof be speaks , assured a TIMES correspondent this evening that an organization would be effected by Thursday of this week . The argument used by Republican Senators who favor the action- woken of is that they owe it to the people to see that the Senate is organized in a reasonable time , and that if the Democrats are unable to organize it is their duty to do it in order that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , have a majority in both branches of the Legislature , and will be responsible for whatever legislation is done , but to help con- tinue a deadlock and prevent any legislation at all would devolve more Dr lees responsibility upon every member of the Legislature . This kind of talk warrants the belief that some Republican Senators contemplate rendering assistance , at the proper time , to one or the other of the Democratic ! actions , probably to the majority faction . Whether there will be enough of these to ef ! ect an organization this week remains to be Peen . There is not likely to be any organization tomorrow , though a vote will probably be taken on a President pro tern . At their caucus this evening the Democrats proceeded to divide up the prospective patronage of the Assembly . It required an exploration of the Blue Book 's pages to learn exactly what this consisted of , so completely had they lost all track of it in the long period that has elapsed since they last controlled the House . So little interest was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regulars were present . The Anti-Monopolists sent in a communication asking just where the Democrats were to be found on the antimonopoly question , and requesting a conference . A disposition eras at first manifested to lay it carefully among the caucus archives . Erastus Brooks , however , came to Its rescue , and said that as it was couched in respectful language it should receive respectful consideration . and his motion to refer it to the Caucus Committee when appointed prevailed . With Tammany and the Anti-Monopolists both to satisfy , the perplexities of the regulars are increasing rather than diminishing . The pap of the House as finally parceled out was distributed as follows ; Putnam  --  James Delaney , Sergeant-at-Arms ; Sullivan  --  John Quincy Adams , Door-keeper ; Westchester  --  Wilford Purdy , First Assistant Door-keeper ; Niagara  --  Albert H. Lee , Second Assistant Door-keeper ; S. C. Rogers , stenographer . The Caucus Committee named by Chairman Cock comprised Catlin , of Westph ester ; Morrison . M. Fatten , ( Tammany , ) and Murphy , of New-York ; O'Brien , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steuben ; Welch , of Niagara , and Poucher , of Oswego . The Niagara , people repeat their statement that when an effort is made to organize the House they will vote for nominees of their own , J. J. Costello being their choice for Speaker , and ex-Assemblyman M. J. Dougherty for Clerk . Neither Patterson nor Bunn , the regular nominees , it is now ascertained , are objectionable to Tammany , and once the Senate difficulty is fairly adjusted they will , they say , help to elect them . This is a concession which is new and at the same time interesting to these two candidates . Without some agreement being reached in the upper house the Democrats can not organize the Assembly to-morrow under any circumstances .                     