@@743531

txt The political outlook in Broome County is most encouraging , and a larger Republican majority than has been given before in eight years is expected . The voters who lean toward Republicanism lean clear over and clear into the party , and are earnestly at work . One convert in this city is a wealthy manufacturer , and a representative man among the religious element , he being a chief man in the Congregational Church . The morning after the nominations were made , Tun TIMES 'S correspondent found him really enthusiastic over the result . He said the Chicago Convention had done " gloriously , " and brought about just what he had prayed for . This gentleman " works as he prays , " and will vote the same way . In this , also , he is a representative of a very large class , not only in his Church , but in the other Churches . The floating voters , as far as they can be classed , are largely with the Republicans . Not a Republican soldier , as far as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will vote for Gen. Hancock ; but an energetic pension agent here informs me that a good many Democratic soldiers will vote for Garfield . They are Democratic , but do not exactly fall in with the idea of treating loyal and rebel soldiers just alike . Their pensions are not forthcoming promptly . They learn that Congress , under control of the Democrats , has blocked the Pension Office business , so that their cases will not be reached in 10 or 12 years yet , and they associate this misfortune to them withlthe rebel Brigadiers in Congress . There is a live and enthusiastic Republican club in Binghamton which starts off with a large membership , and will be ready in great force fez the Fall demonstrations . Among its members is Mr. James H. Barnes , who represented the Democrats as President of our Common Council in 1878 , and the same year he was Democratic candidate for member of Assembly . Mr. Barnes says that now we are fairly out of the panic , his business is good , and he shall vote to keep it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here who have well earned the reputation of being good , candid citizens , who are doing nothing at all ? in the campaign , which is the next thing to declaring for Garfield . Upon these facts a large increase to the usual Republican majority may safely be predicted . Another item in the political situation should not be overlooked . We have a good many colored " hewers of wood and drawers of water . " The colored vote with us is of some importance , as well as the colored vote South . Appearances seem to indicate that more colored Republicans will vote in Binghamton for Garfield this Fall than will vote in the whole State of Alabama , for in Binghamton there will be a " free ballot and fair count . " Last Fall enough colored men split off to form a Robinson club . This year they are solid for the Republican candidates .                     