@@671867

txt A CLEAR FIELD FOR CLEVELAND . The political incidents of the present week make it . clear that President CLEVELN:zD 'S name will go before the convention at St. Louis on the 5th day of June with scarcely a flutter of opposition to his renomination . He may already fairly be said to be the only Democratic candidate in the field . Oregon , as a wool-growing State . has been claimed by the few opponents of the President 's tariff policy as one of the States in which that policy would alienate the party from his support , and yet at the convention just held at Portland there was no thought of any other candidate . Six unequivocal Cleveland men were chosen as the delegates to the National Convention and were in effect instructed to vote for the President 's renomination , though instructions were manifestly unnecessary . Moreover , the convention was emphatic in commending his tariff policy , and none were more earnest in its favor than the representatives of the great wool-growing section in the eastern part of the State . The action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' beyond question that the New-York delegation will go to St. Louis united in support of the President 's renomination . It confirms the view which we have long maintained , that the so-called Hill boom had nothing in it . It collapsed . at the first touch of representative action for the party by those who have the best means of understanding the sentiment of the people . The appearance of opposition to the President in this State has been due wholly to the ambitious designs of Gov . HILL . He has used all the resources of his office and all the opportunities of such political leadership as he could maintain in his party to foster a show of rivalry for the nomination . Until the meeting of the State Committee some weeks ago to recommend a candidate for the vacancy on the National Committee the friends of the Administration had done nothing to expose or counteract his plots . He was allowed to do his utmost , and by favors and promises he had " sharked up " a following which covered its weakness by the loudness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set about the work of preparing for the canvass the Governor 's pretensions are wholly disregarded , as a factor of no importance , and that , too , by a State Committee which was made up with far more friendliness to him than the general feeling of the party justified . No doubt Gov . HILL and his friends will take the ground that he has never aspired to be a rival of the President for the nomination , but his plotting and subterranean machinations are too well known to allow plausibility to such a pretense . He had a boom , which was carefully nursed and watched by the malcontents of the party , but it proved so puny that it will be buried without ever being exposed to the light . The disappointed may grumble and the venom which has been engendered in base minds by the President 's straightforward course will still find vent . but it will be impotent to harm his candidacy . The moment the current of popular feeling in the Democratic Party is set in motion it is found to be wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House , and the spite and detraction of the few disgruntled politicians are mere froth-on its surface . The flimsiness of the opposition which gathered around the name of the State has been exposed , and yet it was more substantial than anything that has appeared against the Administration in any other quarter . RANDALL in Pennsylvania is hostile to the President 's tariff policy , but he has lost his hold . on the party organization already , and there is no sign of popular support for any opposition to CLEVELAND 'S renomination which he may represent . We have no doubt that when the time comes for the Democrats of Pennsylvania to define their position they will be found in accord with the party elsewhere . In Connecticut W. H. BARNUM and . a few other high-tariff Democrats have a strong hold upon the State Committee and may be disposed to control the action and expression of the State Convention in a spirit unfriendly to the Administration , but before the opportunity comes the strong tendency of party sentiment in and out of the State is likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the current without resistance . All predictions as to the strength and popularity of the President are on the way to fulfillment . He bids fair to be nominated by acclamation and . without opposition . No doubt hiii growing strength in his own party has been accompanied by some flagging of confidence on the part of independents and reformers . They are not wholly satisfied , ' but in spite of the drawbacks which cause them to grieve there is little prospect of a choice being presented which will induce them to withdraw any of their support . CLEVELAND 'S strength is due mainly to the honesty , ability , and - courage with which he has held his course at the head of the Government , but it also owes much to the fact that the Republicans in opposition have done nothing toward regaining the confidence of the Nation . Their petty and carping attitude toward the President and all he does , their obstructive tactics in Congress , their stirring in the cold . embers of sectional strife , their tendency to extravagant legislation , and their opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources of the people in surplus revenues have helped to unite the Democratic Party in support of a President and . a policy which stand for something positive and progressive .                     