@@744965

txt the only constituted authority for directing general party action it has a plain duty before it . Unless it is prepared to accept the responsibility of proving false to that plain duty it must take the proper steps for making effective the " option " which belongs to the Republicans of each Congressional district . There is but one way in which this can well be done and that is by providing for Congressional district conventions throughout the State that will give the Republicans in each district an opportunity to " elect their own delegates to the National Convention " in accordance with rule 10 of the Convention of 1880 , and it will give them the " option of electing their delegates at separate popular delegate conventions " in accordance with the rule of the National Committee . If in any district they do not see fit to choose their delegates to the National Convention at such " separate popular delegate convention , " then the selection will remain to be made at the , time and place of the State Convention . It is clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide the matter The last Republican : National Convention instructed the National Committee of the party to prescribe " methods or rules " . for the selection of delegates to the Convention of 1884 , with ithe proviso that such methods or rules shall include and secure to the several Congressional districts of the United States the right to elect their own delegates to the , National Convention . " , The committee , at a meeting held in January , 1883 , prescribed a rule in which it was declared that " the Republic- , - ans of the various . Congressional districts shall have the option of electing their dele'gates at separate popular delegate conventions , called on similar notice twenty days and held in the districts at any time within fifteen days next prior to the meeting of the State Conventions , or by subdivision of the State Conventions into district conventions , and such delegates shall be chosen in the latter method if not elected previous to the meeting of the State Conventions , all district delegates to be accredited by the officers of such district conventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Convention of 1880 was to secure a separate and independent representation of each ' 7 , Congressional district in the National Convention of 1884 . That was ' made evident by the contest and debate out of which that rule sprang as the settlement of a sharp controversy . Such a representation can only be secured by separate district conventions , and the action of the National Committee in presenting an " option " is calculated to produce confusion and beget new contests . These can be avoided only by a timely exercise of the " option . " It will be noticed that the option is given to " the Republicans of the various Congressional districts " and not to State Committees or State organizations . The Republicans of each and every district are entitled to their choice in the matter . As the State Committee is in this State for the districts or for any district , and it can act in good faith only by giving all a chance for their " separate popular delegate conventions . " If it shall fail to make provision for these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Republicans in any district may act independent of the State Committee , but this will occasion a good deal of trouble and is likely to lead to confusion and " contests . The Republicans of this State can not be manipulated and managed against their will , and they are very likely to resent a failure to accord to them their plain rights on the part of committees and managers . They have admi-nistered one or two very ' emphatic lessons on . this subject already , and it is doubtful if any considerations involved in the next Presidential election will deter them from administering another if necessary . We say all this now simply because there is a well understood disposition in the present State Committee  --  whether it dominates the majority or not we can not say  --  to force a selection of all the district delegates at the State Convention in order to facilitate the plans of those who wish so far as possible to secure a united and pledged delegation to Chicago . ? It may as well be understood that such a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force it is likely to cause incalculable mischief to the . party .                     