@@781902

txt The hackmen may have given pain to some worthy persons by holding their meeting on Sunday . But Sunday is the accepted day for launching wild schemes of reform , and nothing could be wilder than the notion of a Hackmen 's Association for Ethical Culture . The degree of carnal good sense shown by the hackmen was one of the most refreshing and hopeful phenomena exhibited at the meeting . Nobody has ever imagined that the hackman was greedy of gain . In fact , it has always seemed to the public that the hackman cared nothing about money . It has been evident to the man on the sidewalk all these years that the hackmen would make more money by carrying four passengers at 50 cents each than no passengers at $2 . This was so plain a proposition to the man on the sidewalk that he has assumed it to be equally evident to the man on the box , and has therefore imagined that the man on the box occupied that padded perch in the spirit of Simeon Stylites , purposely putting on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrusive persons who desired to be driven to places . When the hackman is seen with a fare the presumption is that the fare is either a cripple , an operator on the right side of the market , a belated traveler who must catch a train , or a . philanthropist who does not wish to undermine the self-respect of the hackman by giving him money without the pretense of receiving an equivalent . It always seems as if he must have offered some extraordinary inducements to persuade the hackman to abandon his dignified leisure . We now learn that we have all this while been doing the hackman an injustice . He has really been willing to earn money by driving people about the streets . He has simply not known how . He has no more notion than a Pennsylvania protectionist that a revenue tariff is one thing and a prohibitory tariff another . He does not know that the most profitable rate is not the highest rate which the human imagination can conceive , but the rate which , being high enough to pay interest and wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has imagined that the demand for hacks was fixed by some law of nature beyond his ken , and that if a man objected to pay a week 's wages to the hackman and the price of three days ' board for the hackman 's horses to be driven from the Astor House to Central Park , such a man simply did not belong to the hack-taking classes . Now , however , the hackman has been converted . As he was driving down to Damascus , at the rate of foul miles and $5 an hour , a light shone upon him from the canary-colored panels of a cheap cab . He now perceives that if he had been carrying passengers at the rate of half his legal fare or thereabout , instead of waiting forlornly for reckless millionaires to turn up , he would have made very much more money . He uses up in an experience meeting of his brethren and declares that he has been making an ass of himself for many years . " A dollar is too much . We charge too much for short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Who would believe that these could be literal quotations from remarks made at a conference of hackmen ? Moreover , the sincerity of the hackman 's conversion is testified by the hackman 's profession of a willingness to be punished for his past offenses. f ' There ought to be a law passed , " groaned one penitent , " giving policemen power to arrest and fine a driver for overcharging a passenger . Then we 'd do more business and people would respect us . " The notion that fine and imprisonment are calculated to entitle the victims of them to the public respect may excite hilarity among the young and thoughtless , but it is really founded on fact . If twenty hackmen were to be sentenced during the next week for overcharging their passengers , the public would no doubt believe that the remaining hackmen , and , indeed , the offending hackmen themselves , would thereafter confine- themselves to the legal rates . This would make the public respect the hackmen , but it would not make the public employ the liackMen , for the simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If these rates were divided by two the business would be multiplied at least by four , and the hackmen would thus make twice as much money as they do now , the deductions for wear and tear excepted , since both the horses and the hackman cost as much to keep , whether they are idle or busy . The cheap cabs have thus already effected a great and difficult work . They have illumined the dark mind of the hackman and softened his hard heart- If they had only performed this missionary labor they would be entitled to public gratitude . For the proceedings of the hackmen on Sunday night open a fascinating vista , down which the public already sees.itself drawn at a tolerable rate of - fare and a tolerable rate of speed , in a clean and wellappointed cab drawn , by a four-legged horse under the skillful guidance of a converted hackman.                     