@@780665

txt The third and last Winter meeting of the Harvard Athletic Association , in the Hemenway Gymnasium , at Cambridge , took place this afternoon . The interest was fully as great as at the previous meetings . Among the spectators were many of the older graduates , as well as parents of the students . The first event was the vaulting , ( one hand , ) the rules the same as in the two-hand vaulting last Saturday . The competitors were F. B. Keene , ' 80 , and J. L. Paine , ' 81 . After repeated trials , Paine cleared 5 feet 4 inches , while Keene failed to eo higher than 5 feet 212 inches . Next on the list came the final bent of light-weight sparring between F. W. Sharon , ' 80 , ( 131 pounds , ) and G. H. Heilbron , ' 83. ( 12532 pounds . ) Sharon was the shorter and more compactly built , while Heilbron had the longer reach . The classmates of each were enthusiastic in their applause during the bout , as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Heilbron , who evidently had a wholesome respect for his opponent 's proficiency , fought very carefully and got the greater number of blows . In the second round the men seemed more evenly matched , although Reilbron was not so successful in avoiding Sharon 's blows , and the sturdy , aggressive lighting of the latter gave him , at the end of the round , a slight superiority . The last round was i even closer than the second . Both men did their best , and counters , cross-eounters , straights , and outsiders filled the air while the round lasted . At the conclusion , the bout and the cup , now for the second year , were given to Sharon . Club-swinging ( legitimate ) now claimed the sbeetators ' attention . There were four entries  --  J. C. Rolfe , ' 81 ; J. T. Howe , ' 80 ; R. Luce , ' 82 , and E. D. Brandegee , ' 81 . Rolfe and Luce both executed motions that were by no means easy , but the contest was plainly between Howe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was presented by the association with a cup for club-swinging juggling , and used light three-pound clubs : Brandegee is stroke of the " Varsity , " and used eight-pound clubs . His motions were chiefly full arm , indicating great strength and no mean skill , while Howe exhibited a much greater variety of motions , more complex , but there were many of them wrist motions . The judges took the ground that , with heavy clubs , Howe could not have executed many of his motions , and finally decided to give a prize to both men . The final bout of the heavy-weight sparring between H. Burr , L. S. , and R. Bacon , ' 80 , now came off . Both men weighed close to 180 pounds , but while Bacon was in prime condition , due to three months ' work in the " Varsity , " Burr is not yet rid of the effects of a severe illness , and was by no means competent to meet his powerful opponent . It was plain to all in the first round that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was fmished , and the second after it . In the third round Burr sank from sheer ex haustion into the arms of his friends , who assisted him to the dressing-room , where he was cared for by . Dr. Sargent . The cup was , of course , given to Bacon . The last event was the running high jump , between R. Sturgis , ' 81 , and G. B. Morin , ' 83 . The latter cleared 5 feet 2 inches , and the former 5 feet 1 inch . , During the meeting , Mr. Hooper , in behalf of the association , presented P. B. Keene , ' 80 , with a cup , for general excellence in athletics . The judges for sparring were H.C . Leeds , V. Stow , and J. Fay ; for club-swinging , Dr. Sargent ; for other events , the officers of the association .                     