@@743497

txt The growing interest with which the Presidential election is regarded by the Republicans is evinced by the increased number of visitors to the Republican National Committee head-quarters , at No. 241 Fifth-avenue . Republicans from other States resort to it as a place where they can obtain information about the conduct of the campaign , and City Republicans and those from the interior of this State lounge about head-quarters to talk with the visitors from distant States . Among the prominent visitors Wisconsin , was Senator Matt H. Carpenter , of Wisconsin , who is not only full of earnestness for Garfield and Arthur , but confident that they will be elected . He is perpared to do his part in the campaign , , and will address a massmeeting shortly to be held in Milwaukee . He will probably be heard in the East later in the campaign . In talking about the situation in Wisconsin , he said that no man who had not had opportunities of observing the situation in the West could begin to comprehend the vitality of the Republican Party , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of earnestness that was to be developed before the campaign is over . He had no patience with men who are yielding to the Democratic fuss because they had a military man for a candidate , and were intimating that he would capture Republican votes . He is represented as expressing his belief that the military record of the Democratic candidate would , in many Southern sections , be found to be as great an objection there as it is considered an advantage here . Ex-Senator Dorsey , who arrived from Ohio on Thursday night , was at head-quarters all day yesterday . He was very much gratified with the condition of the party in the West , where a most active campaign has begun . Mr. Dorsey said he had a plan on foot that would recommend itself to all members of the party . The National Committee will meet on Aug. 5 . At the same time it is proposed to invite to the meeting about 300 leading Republicans from all parts of the country , in order to consult about the work to be done by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united and strong . The Republicans will carry Indiana , and it would be safe to wager on a handsome majority for the Republicans in Ohio . There is plenty of fight left in the pal L yet , and we will get it out if possible . " Mr. Thomas C. Acton , who loses none of his active habits , declared that this contest would be an exceedingly vigorous one before it is closed , and that the common enemy will find the Republicans in line , and as many of them as there have been in line for Lincoln and Grant . Gen. C. A. Arthur left this City last night to go to Utica and join Senator Conkling , whence they go to Alexandria Bay on a fishing excursion with some friends . They will remain at Alexandria Bay and the Thousand Islands for three or four days , and will then go by the Intercolonial Railway to the Metapedia River , to fish for salmon . ft is expected that Senator Edmunds , of Vermont , who has for many years been a regular fishing companion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Conkling is much worn out with his Congressional and private law business , and having worked close up to it , has taken the first opportunity for rest and recreation . The party will be gone about two weeks , when all will return prepared to go into the stirring labors of the campaign . Among the callers at the head-quarters yesterday , were Collector Merritt , Daniel H. Gildersleeve , of Brooklyn ; S. H. Manning , of North Carolina ; Charles W. Tankersley , of Colorado ; Senator Alvin Saunders , of Nebraska , and T. S. Owen , of Trenton , N. J. Ex-Gov . Jewell is expected back to-day .                     