@@671913

txt The evidences are multiplying that the form at least of the Papal rescript upon Irish affairs is seen at Rome to have been a political mistake . The Irish Bishops have been forced to come out with an explanation that the rescript was a deliverance upon morals and not at all upon politics , and that the Pope really sympathizes with the struggle of the Irish for home rule , and approves of all lawful means to that end . The same explanation has been cabled from Rome to Boston . Obviously , however , a deliverance that requires all this explanation must have been unhappily worded in the first instance . What has excited the Irish so nearly to rebellion against the church is the general belief , which has a good deal of evidence to sustain it , that the pontifical perception of the wrongfulness of boycotting and . of the plan of campaign was not spontaneous , but . was due to the instigation of certain English Catholics who are at the same time English Tories and opponents of home rule . The thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the church has been used against them by their political opponents . It is to Irishmen in this country rather than to Irishmen in Ireland that we would naturally look for the.fullest and freest expression upon this subject , since an IrishAmerican is encouraged by his surroundings to a boldness of talk about religious as well as secular affairs which to an Irishman in Ireland would seem little short of blasphemy . It is not without significance that the meeting of the Irish-American Catholics of Chicago called to take action upon the Papal rescript should be described as " undoubtedly the largest and most enthusiastic meeting of Irish-Americans ever held in Chicago , and probably the greatest ever - witnessed in America . " The resolutions , though rhetorically extravagant , left no doubt of the willingness of their framers to abandon their church rather than the Irish cause , if such an issue were raised ; and they were adopted without a sign of dissent from anybody . The speeches were considerably more violent in tone than those that have been reported from Ireland , and they also were received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the religion and the politics ' of Ireland , it is not less significant.as it concerns American politics . The principal persons concerned in the meeting and all its speakers , we believe , were American citizens . Nobody could possibly have conjectured that fact from the proceedings of the meeting . So far as those proceedings showed , the meeting was merely an assemblage of Irish exiles , whose only politics are Irish politics , and who ' are as willing to subordinate the interests of their adopted country as their own religious ties to the cause of Ireland . It is not too much to say that every foreign-born citizen who takes such a view of the order of his political obligations is morally untrue to his oath of allegiance , and that , whether or not he be a bad Catholic , he is a bad American citizen . The danger to the Roman Catholic Church of such a meeting as that in Chicago does not concern us except as observers of human affairs ; but the danger to this Republic concerns us much more intimately . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more effective guarantee than we now have that when a foreigner applies to be naturalized as an American citizen he shall really mean to expatriate himself , and to be governed thereafter in his political action by considerationsof thewelfare of his adopted and not of his native country .                     