@@780753

txt The trial of Samuel B. Hendricks. charged with attempting to murder Blanche Budden , was concluded today by the conviction of the prisoner , who was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment . Samuel Hendricks six years ago was forced to marry . After that he attempted to secure a divorce , and while that action was pending he became enamored of Blanche Budden , daughter of a lithographer . He visited her some years , but when her father found out that Hendricks was only a possible widower , he forbade him the house and premises . This was last November . In the meantime Blanche saw and corresponded with Hendricks surreptitiously , meeting him frequently by appointment . About April dO she received information that Sam was on a " jamboree , " and she wrote him stating that if he intended to keep up his intemperate habits she would have nothing more to do with him . Hendricks , knowing that Blanche would attend the picnic of the Western and Atlantic Railroad employes on May 24 , took passage for the picnic grounds at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was drinking soda water with a party of friends Hendricks forced his way into the party , seized Blanche by the arm , and demanded an explanation of the note she had written him . Her escort gently took Mr. Hendricks by the arm and led him to a secluded spot . There Hendricks agreed to leave on the next train for Atlanta , and did so . Before leaving he said he would see the Budden girl on Monday . Monday morning Hendricks entered the lithographic establishment of Mr. Budden. on Alabama-street , on the third floor . Proceeding to Blanche he said : " Oh , Blanche , " grabbed her around the neck with his left arm , and began to mit at her n ck with a knife he held in his right hand . Her father jumped on him and pulled him backward to the floor , Hendricks pulling Blanche down ' at the same time . Mr. Galvin , an employe in the shop , broke Hendricks 's knife . Hendricks was then told to leave . He did so , saying he had come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon he armed himself , by stealth , with a large butcher 's knife and placed himself on Mitchell-street , where he could waylay Blanche . The police caught and arrested him , however , and lie was lodged in the station-house . That night he made a pretended attempt to commit suicide by cutting , his throat with a butcher 's knife . He did not succeed , however , but was held for the trial which began and closed yesterday .                     