@@780678

txt The people of Connec-ticut have ratified a constitutional amendment which provides that all Judges of the Supreme and Superior Courts shall be nominated by the Gover-nor and confirmed by both houses of the General Assembly . These Judges have hitherto been elec-ted by the Legislature and have been nominated by party caucuses . Gov . Bigelow will for the first time exercise the new power vested In the Executive during the next . Winter session , and there will be five Judges to nominate and elect , as the terms of the following-named Judges expire : John D. Park , Norwich , Chief-Justice ; Elisha Carpenter , Hartford , Supreme Court ; Sidney B. Beardsley , Bridgeport : Earl Martin , Billingsley , and Roland Hitchcock , Winchester . The two Supreme Court Judges are Republicans . Judge Beardsley is of the same faith , and Judges Martin and Hitchcock are Democrats . The last two were elected to the Bench during the temporary Democratic revival in 1874 , when Mr. Eaton got into the Senate , and there was a general cleaning out of Republicans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Governor or Legislature . They were caucus nominees , and the question of their fitness was very little considered , party service being the main qualification . Mr. Eaton . who was a member of the House at the time , found a partisan judiciary , and as there were three Judges to be elected wanted thorn all Democrats , but the Hon. Nathaniel Wheeler , of Bridgeport. then a Democratic member of the Senate and holding the balance of political power in that body , refused to go with Mr. Eaton and the caucus , and stood out for a Republican nomination , and finally Judge Beardley , one of the best Judges the State has had , was elected . Now that the State Administration is Republican , there is a strong disposition to rectify the partisan doings of 1874 in electing two Judges not up to the right mark in the popular estimation nor in the judgment of reputable members of the Bar , though there is no demand that their places should be filled with Republicans . The general desire Is to have a non-partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also as to the reappointment of Judge Carpenter , who during the past year has had a severe attack of paralysis , and is generally not considered in proper health for further service . There is some discussion whe:her , in view of the fact that he has done the State a long service , there should not be some provision made to give him a pension in case of his retirement . As to ChiefJudge Park , considerable opposition to him is developed , as he has never been considered a learned Judge , but he will probably keen his place , There are sure , however , to be some changes made , and Gov . Bigelow will probably regard public feeling enough to send in such names as will secure the prompt approbation of the General Assembly .                     