@@744248

txt In the House of Commons this evening , Sir William Harcourt , the Home Secretary , introduced the bill for the repression of crimes in IrchInnr1 began by stating that the Government had considered the question of instituting a military tribunal , but had come to the conclusion that resort to such a measure was undesirable . There was ample testimony that the heart of Ireland was sound , but Ireland was suffering from the bane of secret societies . He characterized the prevalence of crime there as a national disgrace . He said : " The time has arrived for the entire House to unite in taking stens to repress it . The case we deplore to-day is not a solitary one . Crime is a plague spot on Ireland , and I believe the Irish people desire its removal . It springs from secret societies , and must be extirpated . The mainspring of crime is the expectation of immunity , which is only too well founded . The Government , has , therefore , concluded that it is necessary , in those places where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , consisting of three Judges , be appointed by the Lord Lieutenant to try cases without a jury . The judgment of the court must be unanimous . Appeal can be made to the Supreme Court , the judgment of the latter to be given by a majority of the Judges . The Supreme Court may diminish , but can not increase , the severity of the sentences . Parliament will be asked to provide special remuneration for the special Judges . The bill also contains the following provisions : It gives power to search for secret apparatus of murder , such as arms , threatening letters , ttc . ; Power to enter houses by day or night under a warrant of the Lord Lieutenant ; power to arrest persons prowling about at night and unable to give an account of themselves , who are to be dealt with summarily ; power to arrest strangers , as crimes are generally committed by foreign emissaries , the hospitality of England not being for such persons as the agents of O'Donovan Rossa ; and power to remove foreigners who are considered dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revive the Alien act . Secret societies are to be dealt with summarily , and membership thereof will constitute an offense under this act . Cases of aggravated assault are to be treated in a summary manner . Power is given to repress intimidation and unlawful meeting , the latter to be dealt with summarily . Newspapers containing seditious and inflammatory matter are to be suppressed and the proprietors required to enter into recognizances not to repeat the offense . Justices can compel the attendance of witnesses about to abscond . The Lord Lieutenant can appoint additional Police , where necessary , at the cost of the districts concerned . Compensation for murder and outrage will be required of the districts where they occur . Outrages are to be dealt with summarily by courts which are to consist of two stipendiary magistrates . The Lord Lieutenant is to have power to proclaim districts to which this act may be applied . " Sir William Harcourt announced that the Government intended to reserve for consideration any further alteration of the jury system . Ile admitted that this bill was extraordinary . but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The operation of the bill would be limited to three years . The Government would do all in their power to prevent innocent persons suffering from its action . He added that the bill placed almost unlimited authority in the hands of the Lord Lieutenant , and concluded by stating that this measure would soon be followed by one dealing with arrears of rent . Sir Stafford Northcote followed Sir William . Ile said the Opposition desired to give the Government all the assistance m their power . but held them responsible for the way in which they discharged their duty . Mr. W. E. Forster said that in his belief force was no remedy , but it was often necessary , and was never more necessary than now . Mr. John Bright said the bill was not aimed at political  --  opponents , but against crime . He declared that if he were an Irishman he should rather welcome a measure which would enable the people to pursue their daily duties in the confidence that protection would be afforded by the law . Mr. Parnell said he wished to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by England during the past few days ; but he declared that spirit was not displayed in the proposed bill , which he regarded as the most stringent ever proposed , and which , he said , would result in a hundredfold greater failure than what had gone before . Mr. John Dillon characterized Mr. Forster 's speech as bloodthirsty , but withdrew the words on the demand of the Speaker . He afterward fiercely denounced the bill . Mr. Dillon pointed out that the assassination of Saturday was the first that had tested Ireland . Ile warned the Government that it might be renewed . He had not denounced outrage . No man could effectually denounce crime in Ireland until he was able to go among the people and say justice had been done to Ireland . The present bill , he declared , would bring disaster and destroy all faith in ultimate justice . To carry out the present policy would be merely to play into the hands of assassins . The only way to deal with Ireland was to accept the aid of himself and his friends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and watch the result of the conflict between two nations  --  one , England with repression , and the other , Ireland with retaliation . Mr. Mitchell Henry followed . Mr. Goschen made a vigorous speech , in which he repudiated the notion that the kingdom was to look to members steeped in treason for protection of life and property in Ireland . The phrase " members steeped in treason " being challenged , Mr. Goschen substituted therefor " members who have signed the ? no rent ' manifest . " The House , by a vote of 327 to 22 , passed the Repression bill to its first reading . The minority was composed entirely of Home Rulers . The feeling in the lobby of the House is that the Repression bill fairly meets the grave issues raised by the crime of Saturday , but it is thought certain that . the stringency of the provisions will alienate the Irish vote . A meeting of the Irish party will be held to-day to consider the subject . Sir William Harcourt , replying to a question early in the session , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government had no intention of advising the Queen to grant a full pardon to Michael Devitt . LONDON , May ** Standard says the peace which had been patched up between the Government and the Irish members of Parliament is entirely broken by the introduction of the Repression bill . The Irish members complain bitterly of the abandonment of the new policy of conciliation and intend to offer strenuous opposition to the passing of the bill . The Times says it regards the Repression bill as a proof that the Government have measured the nature and extent of the hostile forces with which they are confronted in Ireland . 