@@744765

txt Saturday night and Sunday morning was fraught with bloodshed in this usually quiet community . During the evening Thomas Gallagher eallediat the house No. 3 Trenton-street , in part occupied by Edward Gavin , a painter , to make a complaint regarding the disposition of a certain quantity of lumber which Gavin had just deposited in the yard against a favorite grapevine at Gallagher 's , the latter being part owner of the house . A dispute arose between the two men , which quickly waxed warm . Suddenly Gallagher whipped out a jackknife , keen edged and sharp pointed , from his pocket and plunged it into Gavin 's cheek , laying it open to the hone . He again made a lunge with the weapon just as ' Gavin turned to get away and plunged it into the latter 's body beneath the shoulder blade with such force that it entered the lung of the unfortunate man . The point of the blade was broken off in the wound . Gavin is in a very precarious condition and may die . Gallagher was arrested to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to arrest James O'Hare in Weeden-street , when the prisoner made a determined resistance , se that the officer was compelled to use his club . This action on the part of the officer drew three other men to the prisoner 's rescue . They set upon Officer Tyler , . knocking him down , and kicking him violently . The officer seemed in danger of his life . and to protebt himself he drew his revolver and Bred . The ball took effect in the body of O'Hare , striking him in the breast , a little to the left of the breast bone . Dr. Whitford was hastily summoned and found that the Pullet , which is of 32-calibre , had passed nearly through O'Hare 's body and had lodged against the spinal . column . His injuries are likely to prove fatal . O'Hare is 2 years of age . unmarried , ' and has been in this country 11 months . The friends of O'Hare assert that the shooting was entirely unnecessary , and that O'Hare was running away from the officer when he was shot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is off duty to-day nursing his wounds . James Sullivan , during a quarrel on Saturday night , bit a piece out of John Russell 's lip , Mary MeRhaley was assaulted by three men on Barton-street , on Saturday . night , and knocked down , with the probable intention of outrage . Tne woman received only a black eye , however , as her assailants became alarmed and fled .                     