@@744198

txt Mr. F. M. Nichols , one of the most active and intelligent members of the Executive Committee of the Wolfe Independent Ritublican Party of Pennsylvania , has severed his connection with that organization , and gives his reasons for so doing in an open letter to the Secretary , Mr. Frank W. Leach , of Philadelphia , which will be published hero to-morrow . Mr. Nichols takes pride in the part he took last year toward the overthrow of boss rule in this State , and says the evils which called for that powerful protest still exist , but while he is ready to go as far as any man to reform , he is not yet ready to contribute to the ruin of the Republican Party . He says the leaders of the independent movement have set up a new party , hostile to the continued supremacy of Republicanism in Pennsylvania ; that they have deserted the Republican Party and entered into a combination which , if successful , will contribute to the restoration of Democratic rule . He believes in the honesty of the Independents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to renounce forever all allegiance to the Republican Party and pledge their exertions and influence to the promotion of another party of their own creation . Nor does he approve , of the sentiment of their leaders , who declare that they " have burned the bridges behind them . " This could result only in a transfer of power to the Democratic bosses . He thinks if the Independents will remain in the regular ranks of the Republican Party and devote the . same zeal to reform which they purpose carrying into the new organization , the patriotic people of the State will rally to their support in hurling the bosses and corrupt politicians from : power . This declaration from Mr. Nichols , who enjoys the confidence of the Wolfe Independents , shows that it is their intention to create a new party and carry the war into the campaign with a full ticket . Mr. Nichols is an eloquent young lawyer , whose defection will damage the Wolfe Independents in this region , where they polled a heavy vote last year . 