@@745090

txt The panic in the Clarksville school has naturally cast a gloom over playground and dormitory , and it will probably be long before the game of marbles recovers its former standing as a reputable though risky game . The panic was distinctly due to overtrading in marbles . An immense business was done with insufficient capital ; and a shrinkage in the value of rabbits or other securities would have precipitated a panic at any time during the last three months . The failure of James Smith was , of course , the immediate origin of the panic , but the firm could not , in any event , have kept itself above water more than a week or two longer . Master James Smith is not only a skillful marble-player , but he is a financial genius . At the beginning of the present school term he conceived a grand scheme for enriching himself and all the boys who had confidence in him . He proposed that he should borrow marbles at a high rate of interest , and pay both this interest and large dividends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy who should lend him six marbles he offered to repay nine marbles within two days , and in case the lender should reinvest both principal and profits he undertook to repay him at any moment with profits at the rate of 50 per cent . every two days . The offer was so tempting that , there was a general anxiety on the part of the boys to lend their marbles to James Smith , and in the course of the week every boy in the school had invested in the , marble pool . It was understood that James Smith was to win marbles from boys unconnected with the school ; but , curiously enough , no one inquired where these boys were to be found , or at what hour in the night James Smith was in the habit of secretly getting out of bed and going off to play with his unknown adversaries . The boys were , however , perfectly satisfied with his method of conducting business . He never failed to tender large quantities of marbles to his patrons whenever , by the terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they never failed to reinvest the whole amount with him . ? Each of them had decided to make at least a million of marbles before closing their accounts with James Smith , and they were eager not to draw marbles but to add to their investments . The local storekeeper who sold marbles consented , after the boys had spent all their money , to sell them marbles on credit , provided they would place securities in his hands . Most of the boys kept rabbits , and they pledged their rabbits . their tops , their jack-knives , and other negotiable securities with the , utmost recklessness . Last Thursday night the books of James Smith showed that twenty-eight , millions of marbles in round numbers were due to the sixty-four boys of the Clarksville school . On Friday night James Smith announced his insolvency , and assigned two hundred and three marbles to the Greek Professor in trust for his creditors . The disaster was precipitated by a shrinkage in the value of rabbits , caused by the breaking out of a distemper among the rabbits hypothecated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment all the rabbits might die , demanded that they should be redeemed . In order to redeem them their owners were compelled to call in the marbles that they had invested with James Smith . The latter was unable to respond to the call ; a panic followed , and the unfortunate boys lost both their marbles and their hypothecated securities . The Principal of the school investigated the affairs of James Smith on Saturday afternoon with three consecutive appletree switches of the largest size . He found no assets worth mentioning . James Smith had played marbles with the son of the janitor of the female seminary on two or three occasions and had lost heavily . The dividends which he tendered to his victims were simply the investmenta Made by other victims . He had not won a single legitimate marble during his entire career as a marble financier , and , as the Principal coldly remarked whenever he stopped to select a new switch , his con- duct had been no better than that of a professional pickpocket . At present the Clarksville school boys have neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiable property . No one can palliate their folly or feel much sympathy with them in their losses . Nevertheless , although no grown person would for an instant be guilty of like folly , it should be ? mentioned that James Smith informed the boys that he conducted his business strictly in accordance with Wallstreet methods , and that they actually believed that he spoke the truth .                     