@@744701

txt The people of the southern half of Dakota have undertaken to form a Constitu- , tion and to prepare for the establishment of a State Government without the permission of their ruler , Gov . ORDWAY . The Territorial Legislature at its last session passed a bill providing that a Constitutional Convention should be held in October next for the , purpose of framing a Constitution and forming a State Government for that part of the Territory that lies south of the forty-sixth parallel , but the Governor , - who was offended by this action of his misguided subjects , would neither veto nor approve it . He seems to have pocketed it , as the saying is , for the purpose of preventing the enactment of the lawover his veto . Bat the people were not discouraged . They have held a large and harmonious convention , and they propose to do by common consent what they had intended to do under the sanction of a Territorial law . The marvelous growth of Dakota must excite the wonder of all who have studied the movements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago there were only a few hundreds of whites in the south-east corner of the Territory ; in 1870 the population was only 14,000 ; but in 1880 the number had grown to 135,000 , and now it is believed that there are 250,000 persons in Southern Dakota alone . Railway companies are rapidly pushing their lines through from north to south and from east to west . Settlements are springing up as if by magic , and they are not mushroom mining camps that die soon after birth . In one settlement which recently came into being there were , only two weeks after the receipt of the first load of lumber , a bank , a newspaper office , a church , two hotels , seven stores , a market , five saloons , a telegraph office , a Post Office with 280 call-boxes and 80 lock-boxes , and three lumber-yards . The soil is yielding enormous crops , immigrants are coming in by thousands , and Congressmen who have been repudiated by their constituents elsewhere arrive by almost every train . An attempt was made last Winter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The repudiated Yankton bonds were a stumbling-block , but the old indebtedness has since been refunded to the satisfaction of bondholders . The applicants will come before the Forty-eighth Congress with a much stronger case than was presented last Winter ; their opponents will not be able to make objection with reference to population , and it seems clear that the people represented will be practically unanimous in support of the demand . The convention recently held at Huron was the result of a spontaneous movement . More than 400 delegates were present , and elaborate provisions were made for a Constitutional Convention of 150 delegates , to be held at Sioux Falls on Sept. 9 . The delegates are to be elected on Aug. 1 , and the machinery of election is to be controlled by an Executive Committee . From beginning to end the action will be voluntary and without legal sanction , but its effect may be as powerful as the effect of a convention held under Territorial authority would be , for the movement seems to be warmly supported by the people , and nothing but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority which the Legislature attempted to grant . The Governor , who was spoken of in the convention as " a foreign power " and an " unhallowed yoke which must be shaken off forever , " is probably unwilling that his province should be shorn of its fair proportions . It is generally assumed . that the application for admission that will probably be made next Winter will be coldly received . A Democratic House of Representatives , it is said , will not listen to the petition , because a majority of the inhabitants of Dakota are Republicans , who will send , in the course of time , two Republicans to the Senate . If the applicants come , however , supported by a strong . unanimous . and intelli- gent public sentiment , and prove , that the population of SouthernDakota - is . not only stifticidalY large , but . is very ** increasing , it will be unwise for Democrats to exclude them on , partisan grounds . It is tolerably clear that the admission of the new State can not be long delayed . 