@@672283

txt At the opening of court to-day Henry Lawrence was further cross-examined , and strengthened materially the testimony for the Gentiles . He said the general teaching of the Churoh was in the direction of disloyalty to the Government , and gave one very impressive incident . In 1847 , as the saints were coming westward to Utah , the Mexican war was in progress . The Government had asked the Mormons to enlist 500 men from their ranks . Brigham Young and others taught for years afterward that this was done by the national authorities in order to weaken the strength of the Mormons . The witness and thousands of others were led to hate the Government for this reason , and they grew to manhood with most intense hatred for this Nation . Years afterward , on searching the records , witness ascertained what the facts were . Instead of the Government asking the leaders of the Mormon Church to araft men for the Mexican war , the Mormons had proffered 500 men and got two months ' pay in advance . With this money the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus swindled the Government . When witness first heard of the embezzlement his eyes began to bo opened , and he then knew why the Church had for years prejudiced the minds of the people against this Government . He said there are to-day a great many Mormons just as hostile to the Government as ever Mormons had been . Five or six reputable witnesses swore to the fact that they saw the United States flag trailed in the dust ten years aso at the time Daniel H. Wells , one of the Twelve Apostles of the Mormon Church , was released from the penitentiary. where he had been confined tor contempt of the United States court in refusing to answer a question lb a polygamy ease . The procession escorting him was a mile long , and contained ten thousand or thirteen thousand Mormon men , women , and children . The banners they carried bore these and similar inscriptions : " We Will Uphold Polygamy " and " We Will Obey the Priesthood . " Thirty City Councilmen headed the procession , and the people hissed and hooted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who swore to seeing this incident was Judge , who Is a member of the bar , an ex-Delegate to Congress , and a warm personal friend of James G. Blaine . Other testimony of similar nature was introduced to shots the disloyalty of the Mormon people . The halt-masting of the flag over all the Mormon public buildings on the Fourth of July three sears ago was clearly proved , and tho witness who testified to this fact related fully the incidents of that day . He told how some old Danites made threats when he insisted that the flag should be placed at the masthead . Evidence was introduced tending to show how the Mormons control even to-day in temporal affairs . A man named Van Nostrand testified that yesterday he received a notification from the Mormon Bishop of his ward in this city to appear at a trial to be held to-night The matter for which he had been cited to appear had already been decided in a civil court and judgment rendered for Van Nostrand . It was in relation to real estate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both parties to the contest being Mormons , the defendant had asked the Bishop to interfere to prevent execution by the exertion of his ecclesiastical influence on Van Nostrand . The citation from the Bishops court stated that It Van Nostrand did not appear his rights would be adjudicated upon the same as though he were present . The reading of this document , which was sent to Van Nostrand but yesterday , created quite a sensation , and made the chain of evidence to prove that this was a theocracy almost complete . he court sat , till t o'clock this afternoon listening to a mass of documentary evinence introduce ( ' by the Gentiles , and then adjourned for several hours . Court assembled at 7:30 o'clock this evening . Unned ' states Deputy Marshal Arthur Pratt. , an apostate from the Mormon Church , whose father was at one time one of the Twelve Apostles , testified that in 1874 , while he was acting under United States Marshal Maxwell . he was directed to nerve a subpoena on Brigham Young . Ho went to Brigham 's residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A guard met the witness and told him he would serve the subpoena . This oiler Mr. Pratt refused , and called in the aId of the United States Marshal himself . The Marshal , who had a wooden leg , was knocked down , and Mr. Pratt had a scuffle with the two men guarding Brigham . There were present quite a number of the city police force to protect Brigham . Finally Daniel H. Wells , an apostle , served the subpoena . The witness testified that ho was once employed as clerk by the Zion Co-operative Mercantile Institution , a church corporation . Ho was discharged because he refused to sign a paper stipulating that he would donate onetenth or all his waves to his Church . The object in introducing this evidence was to show how contemptuously the Church treated United States officials and how the Church attempted to control men in their temporal entire . The Gentile counsel then read an article from the Dcseret hetes , in which it is shown that officers of the Church are chosen by revelation instead of by election by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court records were then introduced showing that in 1885 George Q. Cannon , ? President : John Taylor , and Joseph F. Smith , one of the first Presidents , were under indictment for a violation of the Edmunds law passed in 1882 . William G. Phillips , the ex-City Marshal , who half-masted the flag four years ago on the City Hall , testified that he was not removed for that offense and that he is now Sanitary Inspector for the city . Tho United States Attorney asked permission to take parr in the final argument of the ease and his request was granted . Court adjourned until to-morrow morning . 