@@781609

txt The call for the International Conference , which met at Washington yesterday , specified no particular meridian or meridians as having claims to selection as the universal prime . Nevertheless , it has from the first been obvious that the arguments were overwhelming in favor of selecting the Greenwich meridian . The question involved is in no respect one of national pride , but simply of scientific and commercial convenience . For this reason it is evident , in the first place , that inasmuch as theoretically one place is as good as another for the zero of longitude , some meridian already in use shuold be fixed upon . It is equally evident that , other things being equal , the meridian selected for the common prime should be the one which can be adopted on all hands with the fewest changes in existing charts and systems of navigation . We find the British Empire , which takes in portions of the . globe as widespread and extensive as Canada , India , and Australia , using the Greenwich meridian exclusively , and the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nautical purposes . Certainly Americans would not expect the Greenwich . zero . to be displaced by that of Washington , nor the Germans by that of Berlin , nor the Russians by that of St. Petersburg , merely because their respective national capitals are made nominal prime meridians in certain of their topographical maps . Amsterdam , Copenhagen , and San Fernando are apparently still more out of the question as primes . The only serious competitor of Greenwich would seem to be Paris ; and the use of that meridian by France , with a secondary employment of it by Russia , which gives Greenwich the preference , can constitute only a minor claim compared with that of Greenwich . Although on some of our maps longitude is reckoned from Washington as well as from Greenwich , yet in practice not one man in a thousand would think of the longitude of New-York or any other city of the Union in its relation to the national capital . Still less would the Washington prime be considered in navigation . We may therefore conclude that the Englishspeaking people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these deleted paragraph In short , the reasons which dictate the selection of Greenwich as the universal prime are so strong that the selection by the Conference of any other now in use would need to be supported by the production of very weighty arguments , now not at all obvious or even suspected .                     