@@780806

txt The people of this city are much excited over the death , recently , of a young lady of high social position , the melancholy and peculiar circumstances attending which have only now leaked out . On Wednesday , June 21 last , Mrs. Loten Reed died suddenly at the residence of her husband in Logan-street , une of the most fashionable localities in the city . Her death was so unexpected ' that her husband did not know she was sick until summoned from his business by the shocking announcement that she was dead . It was supposed at the time that she had died from natural causes , and this supposition was apparently justified by the fact that she was buried a day or-two later without an inquest . It now transpires , however , that she died from the careless use of chloroform while under treatment by one of the most prominent physicians of this City , and in the presence of two other physicians of almost equal prominence . The facts of the case are as follows : Mrs. Reed , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by her physician , Dr. R. A. Kinlock , that she stood in need of a simple , and by no means dangerous . operation for a uterine trouble , appointed the date above mentioned for its performance . Dr. Multi &; invited Drs . T. Grange Simons and Anthony Pelzer to be present at the operation and assist him in performing it . and requested them to meet him at Mr. Reed 's house at 11 A. M. Drs . Simons and Pelzer arrived at the house before Dr. Klulock , and were admitted , but on being informed of the object of their visit Mrs. Reed peremptorily refused to allow them to witness the operation , saying that she would allow no one but her family physician , Dr. Kinlock to be present . The two doctors , however , awaited in the parlor the arrival of Dr. Kinlook . When that gentleman appeased Mrs. Reed renewed her protestations and Dr. Kinlook quickly told his professional brethren to wait in the parlor until he had put her under the influence of chloroform , when they could come into her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few minutes later called out to the other doctors , " Come in 1 " As they entered the room Dr. Kinlock said to Dr. Simons , " You had better look after the chloroforming , " or words to that effect . Dr. Simons immediately went to the bedside and placing his finger on the patient 's pulse found that it had ceased to beat . Restoratives were at once and vigorously applied , but all to no purpose , the unfortunate lady was . actually dead . Mr. Reed was at once sent for and acquainted with the circumstances of his wife 's death , but every effort was made to keep the affair from obtaining publicity . It is probable that Mr. Reed seconded these efforts as much from dread of an inquest , which is held in peouliar abhorrence by fashionable people here , as from a desire to shield the reputation of the physicians . Mr. Reed is a member of a highly respectable family , a son of George Reed , who was for many Years Cashier of the South-western Railroad Bank of this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. Kinlook has long enjoyed a high reputation for skill both as a physician and surgeon , and since the death , a few years ago , of Dr. Eli Geddings has been generally acknowledged to hold the front rank in his Profession here . Dr. Simons is a young physician of much promise , and be enjoys a growing practice among the best people othe city . Dr. Pelzer is a man about CO , who has for many years had a lucrative practice , and has always been regarded as a safe and careful physician . He is a brother of Francis J. Pelzer , a large cotton factor , and one of the wealthiest men in Charleston .                     