@@781575

txt There is pending in the Senate a bill to define the routes of steam railroads in the District of Columbia . It relates to the continued occupation of one of the public parks by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company . In every Congress for many years past there have been at least a few members who have urged that this park should be reclaimed . On the 2d. inst. , in the course of a long speech , Senator MORRILL of Vermont made the following significant re-mark : " No one appreciates more than I do the power of the gigantic Pennsylvania Railroad Company , or more fully comprehends the difficulty that Congress must meet in doing anything in relation to the interests of that company to which it does not freely consent . " The Senator had declared that the company had been " grabbing like a freebooter whatever it could get hold . of " in Washington , and had been permitted to " strangle with an iron garrote a public park of much promise to the city , and to overrun and practically swallow up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets , which have often been stained with human blood by railroad homicides . " But the experience of more than thirty years in Congress had taught him how difficult it was for the people to reclaim their own against the will of , this company . His description of the power of this corporation in Congress must have reminded him of the power of other railroad corporations with respect to legislation , and also in the field of politics . He must have recalled , also , many exhibitions of the power of manufacturing corporations and . rings of such corporations , with respect to tariff legislation .. If this veteran had freely laid before the Senate the fruits of his observation concerning the influence of all kinds of corporations in Congress and in politics , what an address we should have in place of the five pages relating to the encroaching railroad tracks in Washington ! Ho might have found a teat in the proceedings of the convention at Chicago . We have already spoken of the manner in which the influence of great railroad corporations was exerted there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial article published by the Chicago Tribune , the foremost Republican paper of the West , on the day following the final adjournment of the convention . The Tribune said : " Some of the most powerful forces in the convention might be enumerated thus : " 1 . JAY Gotrup and the Wabash wrecking crow , thirsting Per revenge against GRESHAM for removing from control of the ' system ' GouLD 's right-hand man , Gen. G. M. Donor , formerly of Iowa , who was on the ground early and was deep in the secrets of every anti-Gresham caucus . Little seen by the public , no man exercised a more potent influence on the result than GouLD 's most efficient and capable lieutenant . Gouldism as arrayed against GRESHAM represented two hundred millions of dollars of capital . " 2 . The Central Pacific **26;113;TOOLONG ring , with its able , plausible attorney . CREED HAYMOND , at the head of the California delegation . This firm has in its possession $150,000,000 of railroad plunder which a President of the Gresham stamp might compel it to disgorge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such man . " 3 . The Union Pacific Credit Mobilier crowd . represented by Lawyer THURSTON , who is shrewd , brainy , and nervy , and a packed delegation grossly misrepresenting the Granger State of Nebraska . This ring has $150,000,000 worth of railroad Credit Mobilier and other boodle to protect . It is deeply in debt to the Government , draws dividends on debts which it never intends to pay darn= the lifetime of any human being now in existence . " 4 . CHAUNCEY M. DErsow , the railroad attorney and official head of the great Vanderbilt railroad syndicate , with its $300,000,000 of capital and its doctrine of ' the public be d  --  d. ' " 5 . The great Wisconsin railroads wore represented by Senator JOHN C. SroosErt , the well , trained railroad attorney who manipulated the Wisconsin delegation and put its votes where they would do the most good . ' These were the leading representatives of corporate railroad monopoly . but with two or three exceptions there was hardly a delegation without a sprinkling of railroad attorneys and lobbyists . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has stated in an authorized interview that he exerted his influence against ALLISON in the NeW-York delegation because Awsox lives in a State which has enacted severe laws for the regulation of railroads , and therefore would be in danger of losing the support of railroad interests . Mr. WILLIAM WALTER PHELPS Says : " What really destroyed the hopes of ALLIsoN 'S friends was the conviction ' that since the extreme Granger sentiment had taken New-York 's candidate oat of the run , it was not policy to select a Granger candidate . " Before the convention there had been published in the North : American Review , in the course of an article describing Mr. DEPEW 'S qualifications as a candidate ? an article which is said to have been written with his approval  --  the following interesting statements : " This railroad vote is quite as important , if its effect on State Legislatures be any criterion , as the labor vote . It elected President GARFIELD , although the Stalwarts of New-York claimed to have organized the victory . " Not until a few days before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroad lines , did the Garfield managers feel secure . When the secret history of that campaign comes to be written it will be seen that JAY GOULD had more influence upon the election than GRANT and Comcmico . " . It seems incredible that any intelligent man should have supposed that such an argument could help an aspirant , but it is not much worse than the arguments used at Chicago by Col. SHEPARD in behalf of Mr. DEPEW . One thing is certain  --  no one of the candidates obnoxious to the railroads was nominated by the Republican Convention . It was " difficult , " as Senator MORRILL says with reference to the Pennsylvania Road and its power at Washington , to do anything atChicago without the " free consent " of the great railroad corporations .                     