@@743388

txt Rhode Island and Delaware enjoy a distinction of which they will probably never be deprived . It is a heritage derived from their good fortune in belonging to the original band of thirteen British colonies . They are , and will doubtless always remain , the smallest of the sisterhood of States . Rhode Island has more United States Senators to the square mile than any other State can hope to have , and Delaware chooses her State officers with the smallest number of votes of any of the mature Commonwealths . While her population is to that of New-York very nearly as one to thirty-five , her Electoral vote is to that of the Empire State as three to thirty-five . In these little States , a small number of votes have a relatively great value . Rhode Island , as is well known , imposes a slight property qualification upon naturalized citizens . The Democratic Convention recently held at Providence was in a denunciatory mood , and it opened the bottles of its wrath with peculiar vehemence upon this restriction of the sacred right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth and the greenest arrivals from . other lands could not east their ballots on equal terms with the natives was represented as an outrage of enormous proportions , resulting in all manner of corruption and misgovernment . But in Rhode Island this restriction upon the suffrage has at least the sanction of the Constitution and the laws , and several times , when a proposition to remove it has been submitted to the legal voters of the State , it has been defeated by a decisive majority . In the little New-England State the presumption is that the disfranchised citizens yearn to vote the Democratic ticket . Hence these fierce denunciations . But the Democrats of Delaware have been engaged in an effort to disfranchise large numbers of citizens who are fully entitled to.the suffrage under the Constitution and the laws , but are guilty of a desire to vote for Republican candidates . This , of course , makes a vast difference , and no Democratic convention , solicitous for the rights of the people , will be found denouncing the outrage , though it involves actual trickery and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is evidently anxious about the three Electoral votes of the little State of Delaware , and pursuing the tactics , which appear to have been deliberately adopted , of securing every possible advantage by any disreputable means that may give promise of success , they set out early to make that State sure . Delaware has a goodly contingent of colored voters , and as the fifteenth amendment to the Federal Constitution stands in the way of their direct disfranchisement , her lawmakers some years ago resorted to a device foi circumventing its prohibitions . They made the exercise of the privilege of voting as difficult as they well could , especially for the poor and the ignorant , and put it in the power of ceitain officers to increase the difficulty almost at . will . In order to vote , the citizen must be assessed for a tax , must make payment thereof , and must take his receipt with him to the polls . Unless his name is on the assessment list by the 1st of April he can not vote in November , and unless he pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that year nor be assessed the next . This law was intended to discourage and diminish the colored vote , and in the hands of Democratic officers it has been found a very effective instrument of disfranchisement . This year it was intended to make it do yeoman 's service for the party . It is the business of Assessors ordinarily to see that citizens subject to taxation are duly assessed , and even in Delaware they are understood to take an oath to perform that duty faithfully ; but they really make it their business first to find out how citizens intend to vote , and . then , if they approve of their intentions , to place their names on the list , but otherwise to leave them off . They set out upon this game in January in lively style . Thousands of Republicans were allowed to go unassessed , and no appeal would induce the Assessors to subject them to the burden of taxation . There were certain days in February on which the assessment lists were subject to revision , and citizens could apply to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dut in the way , the work was done with vexatious delay , and many voters still lacked the evidence of their right required by the State . Still there was an appeal to the Levy Court of the County , but there , too , Democracy presided , and no time was given to this business that could be taken up in any other way , and then it was used as slowly and grudgingly as possible . If many Republicans do not remain disfranchised , it is due to an early discovery of the Democratic trick and the zealous activity of a few men , who have exerted themselves to make the assessment as complete as practicable . The Delaware Democrats counted on escaping Federal supervision on the plea that their assessment arrangement was not a registration of voters , but the matter was carried before the United States Circuit Court , and Judge BRADFORD decided that it was just that and nothing else , and supervisors were appointed to be present at the revisions of the lists , both by the Assessors and the Levy Courts . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is just possible that the registration of Republicans has been made somewhere near complete . Another anomaly in Delaware taxation is a difficulty in paying taxes as well as being assessed , for that , too , is a necessary preliminary to voting . The curious spectacle is presented of " dodging " on the part of the Collector instead of the taxpayer , and a poor colored Republican often finds it extremely difficult to get that officer to accept his poll-tax and give him a receipt for it . This whole miserable business is a game to keep the State in the hands of the Democrats , even though a majority of the voters might prove to be Republicans . It is of a piece with the trickery resorted to elsewhere for the same purpose , and it in the State where the courtly , the cultured , and the high-toned BAYARD exercises a controlling influence in the councils of his party .                     