@@672189

txt Chicago does not seem just at present the most favorable place from which a new and ambitious political project concerning the Irish race can emanate . The professional Irishmen of that town are either members of the interesting organization that now stands arraigned as a band . of murderers or at least seem to be seriously concerned . in concealing the truth about the murder of Dr. CRONIN . Nevertheless , Chicago is the scene of a movement in which " a number of prominent Irish-Americans " are said . to be taking part , and . which has for its object the establishment of an Irish republic in some country not yet designated , but which is neither Ireland nor the United States of America . The movement seems to be quite as much commercial as political , since it comprehends the buying up of large tracts of land and the obtaining of a large profit by the increase - in their value after they have been improved . by the settlement of virtuous and . hardy Irish-Americans . Politically , ' however , the results of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The capacity of the Irish race for self-government is still an open question . It has not been fairly tried in Ireland , all the experiments thus far having been interfered with by the disturbing element locally known as the hoof of the Saxon . The Saxon himself iniquitously takes advantage of his own wrong by denying to the Irish the faculty of the exercise of which he himself has deprived them . In this country the race has had a much fairer chance than on its native soil , but it is perhaps fair to say that its achievements , especially in municipal affairs , denote not so much the capacity of self-government as the capacity of governing Americans who are absorbed in other affairs . It has been . held that the existence and success of the modern Hebrew require and imply an environment of Christians , and that a community all . Hebrews would be impossible . It is upon this ground that some social philosophers , especially in Germany , have betrayed an interest bordering on impatience for the realization of the secular Jewish dream of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be subjected to a , practical test . However it may be with the Jews , the Irish have never within historical times been intrusted with the care of a society composed exclusively of themselves , in which the governors and . the governed , the tax-eaters and the taxpayers , were of the same race . The development of such a society would afford a most interesting study . It can scarcely be established in Ireland itself . for , after all allowance has been made for British . misrule , the fact remains that the island . can scarcely sustain its population , not to speak of accumulating such a surplus as will support the luxury of high politics . ' The earnings of Ireland , . after paying operating expenses , so to speak , would not suffice for a single good season of the New York Board of Aldermen . A new and exclusively Irish colony planted on a fertile soil and under a genial climate would alone suffice to show whether Hibernian statesmanship is capable , like the hibernating bear , of supporting existence on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside . Such a colony in Chili , Peru , or Lower California , if it could only be established , would settle this doubt in a permanent and . satisfactory way . The preference of the Irish-American visionaries seems to be for a more or less peaceful invasion of Canada and . an alliance with the French Canadians for the purpose of managing the affairs of the Dominion to the exclusion of the Saxon iu all his Canadian phases . This would not be a fair test of the question , even if the experiment succeeded and the political control of the Dominion were obtained by the allies . The conditions would then be very similar to those that prevailed in the Middle Ages throughout Europe , where an industrial and subject class provided sustenance for a militant and ruling class , or that prevail now in the United . States , where Irish statesmanship flourishes at the expense of American industrialism . The Chilian or the Peruvian or the Californian project would be much more interesting and conclusive , although there is no reason why any American should desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has for its object the concentration of the Irish race and the building up of an Irish nation elsewhere than on American soil .                     