@@781612

txt On Nov. 14 , 1885 , Mayor GRACE preferred charges against the Excise Commissioners of this city . He included Commissioner MORRIS apparently as a matter of form merely , and the case against him was promptly dismissed as soon as a hearing could be had . The other two Commissioners , MITCHELL and HAUGHTON , were accused of licensing " dives " and the like . There was a superfluity of evidence showing the unfitness of the two men and establishing the fact that they had grossly misused their official powers . The testimony was under oath , having been obtained by the Gibbs Senate committee , and Messrs . MITCHELL and HAUGHTON , when put on the stand before the same tribunal , were unable to explain away the damaging evidence . The Grand Jury also took cognizance of the matter by making a presentment against the Commissioners . The Mayor , in preferring the charges , performed what was his plain and obvious duty . Then Gov . HILL took the matter in hand : He disregarded the evidence already obtained , and appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testimony and report . It was in December that Mr. BECKLEY started in blithely . He came to this city , and had a hearing occasionally . He went over the same ground that had been previously traversed , and listened to the efforts of Messrs . MITCHELL and HAUGHTON to show that they were really too idiotic to understand that TOM GOULD 'S , the Cremorne , and similar resorts were disreputable . When this was concluded Mr. BECKLEY appointed days for counsel to sum up , and then allowed further time to them to nut in briefs . Since then BECKLEY has disappeared from the public view . In the meantime the terms of office of the Commissioners ran on , as such terms usually do . On Monday next the terms will expire by limitation , and all proceedings against the present Commissioners will be at an end . Looking at the whole of the proceedings from the time they came within the Governor 's authority , it is difficult to resist the inference that the dawdling and delay were intentional and that there was a fixed purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It does seem outrageous that two such persons should be allowed so long to remain in offices they have disgraced , and the case is one which brings forcibly to mind the need of having some legal method for displacing public officers of their stamp , which shall be more sure and speedy than those now available . The power that appoints should have the right to remove , even though it be left to the courts afterward to decide upon the propriety and justice of the removal .                     