@@781057

txt For a long time there has been a bitter fight between the shareholder 's and the bondholders of the Bessemer Iron Company of Upper Michigan . The amount involved runs into the millions , many men of national reputation being interested . The parties and corporations representing the bondholders were the Commercial National Bank of New-York , the People 's Bank of Charlotteville , Va. ; the American Loan and Trust Company of New-York , ano . Robert G. Ingersoll , George P. Sheldon , and others . Theobald Otjen , Receiver of the bondholders , has been displaced by Alfred A. Krause , representing the interests of the shareholders . For several months a contest been the two interests has been going on before Judge Sloan of Waukesha County . The bondholders have just withdrawn all suits pending in the above county , leaving the field to the shareholders , or rather to Adolph Docter , representing them . The latter will now move to restore the mines to the shareholders , and also proposes to make it warm for the former officers and Directors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was formerly President , and J. J. Gill of Steubenville was Secretary . The attorneys for the shareholders allege that the parties interested in the mines were ex-Senator Stephen W. Dorsey , Robert G. Ingersoll , the Ron . William Windom , Jesse R. Grant , and other persons of national reputation . These sentlpinen , with the above-named officers , are charged by the attorneys for the shareholders with having conspired to wreck the mine , appropriating the boots of the company , mak-ii ; g no amount of ore sold . and of the issue of fraudulent notes and bonds . It is further alleged that last June a majority of the Directors resigned and elected new officers , who , it is claimed , were eimply young clerks in the office . Prior to announcing these facts to the shareholders . the attorneys allege , there had been issued first mortgage bonds which were distributed to parties in New-York , Cleveland , and other cities . The old management , claiming that the rent of the mines had not been paid , then abandoned them , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners of the land . This , it is alleged , was simply a collusion between the fee owners and the retiring officers , for the purpose of freezing out the shareholders and obtaining . entire ownership of the mines . The mines are heavily , mortgaged and , the affairs of the company are so badly mixed up that Mr. Otjen says he saw no way out of the difficulty and bo resigned his receivership . The attorneys for the shareholders claim that he was forced out , and will now make a desperate fight against all attachment suits and endeavor to resume possession of the mines . This they propose to do by means of civil and oriminal snits against the above gentlemen . The amount involved is so large that It is evident the contest will be an extremely bitter one , during which , it is claimed , many sensational disclosures will be made .                     