@@744328

txt An idea has prevailed that , copyright , or no copyright , a person of exceptionally good memory may attend a representation or a play , carry away in mind the scenes and dialogue , write them out at leisure , and sell his version to an unscrupulous manager to be reproduced on the stage . And this has actually been done in some instances . In one or two lawsuits Judges have sustained the practice , for , they have said , we would not allow an auditor of a play to take notes ; that privilege is not included in the purchase of a ticket ; but surely , whoever buys a ticket buys the right to see and hear the play and to remember what lie can ; and if his memory is so uncommonly good that he can recollect the whole , why , that is his advantage and the manager 's risk and loss . Yet to playwrights the doctrine has seemed unjust that a rival manager may appropriate a popular play if only he can find an accomplice expert enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court of Massachusetts , a tribunal whose decisions are everywhere respected , has j list:pronounced strongly in favor of the playwrights on this question . The play was " The World . " It had never been printed or copyrighted , and while it was running at Wallack 's Theatre two persons attended night after night , writing out all they could remember , until , at length , they prepared a tolerably complete copy , which they sold to a Boston manager . He commenced performing it ; but the Supreme Court has shut him off by an injunction . The Massachusetts Judges argued the question thus : A play has two uses , or values , quite distinct ; it may be printed and sold as a book to be read , or it may he represented on the stage . Its use as a printed book is protected by the copyright law . If , however , the author does not copyright and publish , but only represents it , surely this is not giving it to the public . Whoever buys a ticket has the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember for any fair and proper purpose . lie may remember for his own pleasure , or to repeat to his friends , or to review and criticise . But when he uses his recollection in preparing a rival performance he exceeds his right and in effect appropriates unfairly the author 's property . The purpose for which he reconstructs what he hears , not the means by which he does so , is the test . Recall DICKENS 'S famous readings . If he had written and read a story without having published and copyrighted it , the audience would not have been at liberty to piece out their recollections into a complete copy and sell the tale to the magazines . Their right was only to hear and enjoy , and to recall for purposes of conversation or criticism , not for competition . So of the lectures of Professor in a school of law or medicine . The tickets which he sells entitle his pupils to attend , listen , remember , and even to take notes in aid of memory . They may reconstruct the lectures for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction they can preserve by either memory or notes , so long as their purpose is to increase personal qualifications for practice ; and they may combine the information with that derived from other sources in discourses more or less formal of their own . But they can not repeat in public or print and publish the lectures themselves . The right to do this is not involved in the privilege implied in selling a ticket . So of a play . A spectator may even take notes if his purpose be fair and proper , as when a newspaper critic makes memoranda to assist him in writing his article . But if the purpose be to reproduce the drama in evasion of the proprietor 's rights , then , no matter whether the means used be taking notes or memorizing , the law will interfere .                     