@@780921

txt The Times , in an editorial , says : " In view of information we have received from various quarters , we can not doubt that preparations for the protection of the Suez Canal are maturing on a considerable scale . We have reason to believe that the First Army Corps and a considerable part of the Second are at full strength , and , should it be necessary to strike a sudden blow , there would be no difficulty in dispatching 20,000 men to Egypt in a few days . " Egyptian unified stock has fallen 15 per cent . since the last Stock Exchange settlement . In the House of Commons this afternoon alarming rumors published to-day of attempts on the fleet at Alexandria were formally denied . Sir Charles Dine , Under Foreign Secretary , stated that he could not answer any questions concerning alleged warlike preparations by France . The correspondent of the Central News at Constantinople says it is reported that Lord Dufferin , the British Ambassador , has been instructed to ask the assent of the powers for British protection for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wood has been ordered to be ready to proceed to Egypt . A correspondent at Vienna says the prospects of an arrangement being come to between the conference and the Porte are more promising . Reuter 's Constantinople dispatch , ( semiofficial , ) says negotiations are proceeding to induce Turkey to take part in the deliberations of the conference . MALTA , June 27 . ? Preparations are making for the embarkation of troops in the event of necessity . PARIS , June 27 . ? The Libertd remarks that the diplomacy of England has produced an unpleasant impression in France . England , it says , is not to be blamed for following the policy of " each for himself . " It behooves France to adopt the same course in Egypt . CONSTANTINOPLE , June 27 . ? The conference held its third sitting to-day . After the sitting the Secretary of the Sultan had a long conference with Lord Dufferin , the British Ambassador . GIBRALTAR , June 27 . ? The British squadron , commanded by the Duke of Edinburgh , consisting of eight men-of-war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship Hecla arrived hero to-day and proceeded eastward . LONDON , June 28 . ? A dispatch from Alexandria says it is reported that France will cooperate with England in armed intervention it such intervention be determined on . If necessary France will send 10,000 men . A private telegram from Alexandria says : " There have been fresh murders of Christians in the Delta villages . An intention is expressed of seizing some Europeans as hostages . " A correspondent at Alexandria telegraphs that the state of the interior is becoming alarming . Several murders have occurred near Benha . The United States steamer Lancaster has arrived at Alexandria . The Times 's dispatch from Alexandria says : " The proposed departure of M. Sienkiewicz and Sir Edward Malet has caused a revival of the panic . The distress among the natives is increasing . CONSTANTINOPLE , June 27 . ? The sitting of the conference to-day lasted two hours . The conference again resolved to maintain secresy.                     