@@780707

txt The annual election of the Pennsylvania Natural Gas Company was held to-day at its office , 209 South Third-street , resulting in the choice of the following Directors : E. C. Markley , J. W. Moffley , W. H. Hurley , Charles J. Walton , John Donnaldson , and Henry Lewis , of Philadelphia ; J. W. Brown and L. Halsey Williams , of Pittsburg , and T. W. Tuckerman , of Boston . The election of this directory ends the career of the old management , and President W. S. Thomas , who was defeated for Director in the election , will be succeeded by one of the new board . The annual report of the company shows it to be in a good condition , and the new management , which has virtually been in control since last November , when General Manager B. F. Rafferty , of Pittsburg , was removed and succeeded by Charles P. Hurley , claims that it is capable of paying a dividend of 8 per cent . There have been internal troubles which led to the final change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubles date back to the time that the old management induced a Philadelphia syndicate , composed of L V. Williamson , Henry Lewis , Clayton French , William H. Hurley , E. C. Markley , and John Malley to invest largely in the stock of the company in order to absorb the United Natural Gas Company and increase the consolidated capita from $A00,000 to $1,000,000 . The Philadelphia syndicate allege that soon after the deal was consummated they discovered that they had paid for property that was not in the Company 's possession . This consisted chiefly of lands which they had been led to believe belonged to the Pennsylvania Natural Gas Company , but which in reality its officials had only been negotiating for . The result of this discovery was the removal of General Manager B. F. Rafferty and the Insti-tution of criminal and civil suits against him by the syndicate which claimed to have been defrauded . Two criminal suits were begun against ex-Manager Rafferty , one of which hasbeen tried and in which a verdict of not guilty was returned and the other is still nending . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father-in-law , William H. Ewing , are made defendants , and in which damages are laid . at $50,000 , is also in the courts . Members of " the syndicate said to-day at the close of the meeting that still other suits would be brought and that as they were now in complete possession of the records they would be able to thoroughly probe the affairs of the company and get at the true inwardness of the old management . They think that an investigation will reveal more crookedness than has yet beer discovered .                     