@@744315

txt The President of the Tariff Commission , Mr. JOHN L. HAYES , opened its proceedings yesterday with a carefully prepared speech , which was a model of fair phrasing capable of almost any construction that its hearers or readers may care to put upon it . He commenced by saying that he regarded his selection to be President of the commission as " a tribute to the oldest and most widely diffused of our industries , " in which he was perhaps correct , though the value of the tribute is lessened by the fact that the Executive first offered the Presidency of the commission to a lawyer and politician and then to an importer . These gentlemen not having , perchance , their ideas so distinctly formulated in advance as has Mr. HAYES , and recognizing that the task assigned the commission was one to which it would be impossible to do justice in the time allotted , declined the nomination . Mr. HAYES , however , is not only ready to " glance tentatively over the sphere of duties which , as a body , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " but he is quite prepared to sound what he says should be " the key-note " of its deliberations . This " key-note " Is that " the constitutional or theoretical scruples which might have existed as to the original propriety of the national tariff policy must be waived . A radical or subversive change in the present general economic policy of the country is virtually interdicted , and a judicious , not a revolutionary , tariff , a revision , not a destruction , of existing tariff laws is declared to be the object to which our their labors should conduce . " This is fine , but it does not happen to conform to the letter of the law creating the commission , which directly authorizes and commands its members to take into consideration " the establishment of a judicious tariff or the revision of the existing tariff laws upon a scale of justice to all interests . " The third section of the act reads : " It shall be the duty of the commission to take into consideration all the various questions relating to the agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial interests of the United States as far as the same may be necessary for the establishment of a judicious tariff or the revision of the existing tariff laws upon a scale of justice to all interests . " Under this clause , if the members of the commission find that any clause of the existing tariff , or the whole of it , is injurious to the interests of the people , they not only may , but they must in duty , recommend its complete repeal . We do not anticipate that any such conclusion will be reached . We do not incline to the opinion that the commission will or ought to report a completely new tariff . But there is nothing in the law to prevent it . It is left to them to say after investigation what in their opinion justice to all interests requires , and this discretion is absolute . There is no requirement that a syllable of the present tariff shall be left , and there is nothing in the law which justifies this making a fetich of the existing law . frhe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are informed , was " greeted with applause , " is unpleasantly familiar . It is precisely the tone adopted by the protectionist press and orators for a number of years past , and suggests the feeling that the protectionists honestly entertain that the tariff is something sacred , which it would be quite awful to seriously change . The talk of " justice and wisdom " is too vague . To the inveterate protectionist it is unjust and unwise to reduce any of the burdensome duties now imposed to any appreciable extent . These generalities , which it is so easy to frame and so difficult to apply , are meant to cover a revision that will not revise , but which will delay any actual , healthy , efilcleat revision . Of the same character is the reference to a " radical , " " subversive , " " revolutionary " tariff revision . The question is , What degree of reduction is it that deserves these alarming epithets ? That is the practical point which the com- mission should decide without fear or favor , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-protection . One thing is certain , the commission was brought into being by a public sentiment which demands a reduction of the tariff . " Wisdom and justice " undoubtedly require that the reduction should be gradual , but not necessarily that it should be slight . The original sentiment out of which the commission arose was simply that the tariff is too high . The commission , it is true , was a device to defeat that sentiment , and not an instrument to carry it out ; but that does not alter the duty of its members , which is to take up the laws from the beginning and to recommend any change in them which they may find to be just . Nor can the commission fairly ignore the fact that the tariff as it stands was not originally adopted as a protectionist measure in any such degree as that in which it now operates . Nearly every important duty now levied was originally offset by a heavy internal revenue tax , for which , in great part , it was intended to compensate . These revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing duties are in effect higher and more oppressive than they at first were , or were intended to be . That is a consideration which can not in justice be put aside . The first work of the commission should be to ascertain the extent of this indirect enhancement of duties , and to provide for its gradual removal . This single achievement would do more to show that they intend to be really " just and wise " than the daily delivery of such exceedingly unmeaning platitudes as those in which Mr. HAYES 'S address abounds . 