@@780813

txt The recent interview with the Ron . George Hoadly , in which he denies that he told Mr. J. H. Woodward that McLean had made his nomination cost him'too much , does not fully satisfy the demands of- the general public . That Mr. Hoadly allowed the statement of . Woodward to stand for four weeks befOiii-denouncing it a is looked upon as at least singular . Mr. Hoadly 's denial does not meet the expectation of - his friends , although a strong effort has been made by the Democratic organs to convince the public that the statement of Judge Hruldly is full and complete . A gentleman in this cityhas received from Woodward a letter in which he says : " I can only reiterate the statement contained in my letter to Gov . Foster , from Springfield , Ill. , as to what Judge Hoadly said to me . No one else was present at the interview ; but the charges which the Judge made to me that Mr. McLean made his nomination cost him more than it should have done he has repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As they happen to be men with whom I am not acquainted , and who are Judge Hoadly 's party friends , it can hardly be charged that there was a conspiracy . I would like to write cards for all the papers , but the Cincinnati Enquirer hires my entire time , and so long as I have the confidence of its owner , I am gabs-. fled with my duties . If McLean believed that I had made a false statement concerning Hoadly. or any other person , he would dismiss me . I am still in his employ . " It will be noted that Mr. Woodward makes he statement that Mr. Hoadly told others besides himself " that Mr. McLean had made the nomination cost him too much . " It is apparent that Mr. Woodward , in maintaining Ins position , knows whereof he sneaks , and in an indirect way refers to Mr. McLean as to the truthfulness of his formerrstatement . In the light of the above , the original charge that Judge Hoadly bought his nomination still stands , and his only safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire falsity of ever ; statement made in reference to the methods adopted and which resulted in his nomination . The Times , a Pendleton organ , referring to the work of the Cincinnati Convention yesterday , says : " The Democratic banner has been dragged down in the dust . " John G. Thompson says : " Our party has thrown the whole thing away , and tney have uo earthly show to elect their men . "                     