@@743371

txt The first propositions of the Joint Committee of the Legislature on Taxes and Assessments are not altogether reassuring . In the early part of the session there was an evident reluctance to grapple with the subject at all , showing itself in a disposition to turn it over to a commission . This was so familiar a device for postponing action that it awakened dissatisfaction at once . Now there is danger that practical action will be defeated by starting wrong and having no definite aim . We should say that the bills already reported were calculated to muddle the existing system still further , if it were not so full of incongruities already that it is well-nigh impossible to make it worse . Chapter thirteen of the first part of the Revised Statutes is perhaps as consistent a patchwork as could be made of the laws relating to taxation which had been passed from time to time during half a century , without any unity of design or the adoption of any definite principles . The plan of the committee appears to be to attack it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to displace it as a whole with a symmetrical fabric of law founded on ideas of equity . This method of proceeding is sometimes judicious , as in the case of a national tariff under which a variety of interests have been built up , whose united opposition is to be avoided . But in State taxation there is no pretense that anybody is to be protected at the expense of somebody else . The avowed object is to secure uniformity and an equitable adjustment of the general burden , the sole purpose of which is to furnish the necessary contributions for carrying on the Govern : ment . This object should be attained in the simplest , easiest , and most economical manner . A just distribution of necessary taxes and certainty in the assessment and collection are the main things . The notion that , in order to secure from all citizens their just share of contribution to the general revenue , it is necessary to lay tribute upon all sorts of property and all evidences of property , is wholly erroneous . The principle of diffusion must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was a comparatively easy matter to lay taxes on real estate , and the visible and tangible objects of possession which made up the bulk of personal property . Each man could be made to bear something near his proper share of taxation by this simple process . With the development of commerce , the growth of vast aggregations of capital with no visible evidences of individual possession , and the existence of wealth in a multitude of representative forms of which no inventory can be made except by the owner , the effort has been made to extend the crude methods of simpler times to the complex conditions of the present . Of course it has failed . The great bulk of purely personal property has found it easy to evade taxation , and the result has been that what is reached bears more than its just share of the burden . Nothing but inquisitorial methods , which are distasteful to the people and impossible of enforcement in such a country as ours , could bring to light all the evidences of personal wealth . In the effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have taxed possessions and taxed debts . We have resorted to elaborate devices to bring to light what constitutes the wealth of every man and to levy tribute upon it , but nothing save an elastic conscience is needed to make evasion easy . Among the recognized iniquities of the present system is the taxation of mortgages on real estate , when the property itself is assessed nominally at its full value . This is double taxation . Among the futile efforts to secure approximate equity has been the deduction of " just debts " from the amount of personalty . This has increased the opportunities of evasion enormously , but it is now proposed to remedy one evil with another . by taXing personal property without deduetion for debts owed , while debts due are still , included in the'obiects of assessment . This is double taxation in another form . It is proposed to tax a man for what he owns , no Matter where located . It must be hunted out in other States or in foreign climes , if , he himself is within the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property here which is owned in other States is assessed against the owner wherever he may be . If one of these processes is just , the other is not . But the fact is that the effort to lay a tax directly on all personal property can only produce a muddle in which the principles of equity are soon lost in the inextricable confusion that follows . It was long ago abandoned in all other civilized countries . A tax on real estate diffuses itself throughout the ranks of all who occupy real estate , which is substantially the whole living mass of the community . The owner puts upon the tenant his share of the burden in the form of rent . If the property is occupied for business purposes , the ? tenant gets from his customers their quota of the contribution to the nubile revenue , and in the price of board and lodging the tax on dwellings is further distributed . The diffusion is not only complete ; but it is equitable , for ability to hire or to buy is a fair measure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , the tax is easily assessed and collected , and the ultimate payment is unconsciously made . So , the taxation of corporations holding public franchises , and great accumulations of capital actively used in the operations of trade , diffuses itself among customers substantially in proportion to their ability to pay . It is not necessary to levy on wealth in detail , in all its forms , in order to distribute the burden equitably throughout the community , and the effort to do so is futile . If this obvious principle is once fully accepted , taxation may be vastly simplified , revenues increased , and the cost and difficulty of collection diminished , while complaints of inequality and injustice will be reduced to a minimum .                     