@@745945

txt RAILWAYS AND WAGON ROADS . All the recently submitted annual reports of State Boards of Railroad Commissioners my something about accidents at grade 3rossings on highways and . suggest legislaAnn for the prevention of such accidents . n this State 28 persons were killed . and 44 were injured at such crossings last year . seven persons suffered death and 22 were injured at crossings " protected by gates or flagmen , " and the Commissioners say that in nearly all of these cases the highway travelers were not sufficiently cautious . " Still , " they add , " the penalty of death for a slight want of caution is severe . " Li the State of Connecticut the number of grade crossings and the number of accidents occurring at such crossings have increased from year to year . Lithe last ten years 454 lives have been sacrificed at grade crossings in Hudson County , N. J. , and it is reported . that the number of fatal accidents there in 1886 exceeded 60 . It is not practicable to compel existing railroads to reconstruct all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but safe crossings can be substituted . gradually for those now in use if Legislatures will provide the laws that are needed . The companies and . the towns and . cities should at least be prevented by law from adding to the number of grade crossings . The Commissioners in this State have recommended for three successive years that new roads should . be required by law to pass over or under highways , as a rule , and should be allowed to pass at grade only by a special order of court . The bill embodying these reasonable provisions has failed in each year . Perhaps , if some energetic member should take charge of it , the needed legislation would be produced . But it is not only the railroad companies that make new grade crossings . Under existing law Highway Commissioners have power to open new highways across railroads at grade . They should be deprived of this power . They should be restrained from setting such traps for their fellew-men , and no new highway should be carried across the tracks at ' grade except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connecticut ' provides for a removal of grade crossings under certain conditions , but the efforts of the Commissioners are thwarted by the opposition of town authorities because the law requires a large part of the expense to ' be borne by the towns . Last year an attempt was made to amend the law , but the proposed amendments were defeated in the Senate after having been passed by the House . A bill embodying the same amendments has been introduced this Winter . It deserves consideration in other States , for its enactment and enforcement would in time remove all grade crossings without imposing an intolerable burden upon either the companies-or the people . It requires that from 2 to 5 per cent . of existing grade crossings on every road . in the State shall be ' changed each year by order of the Commissioners . In - the case of a company that has declared no dividend in the preceding year the expense of making the change shall be equally divided between the company and the town or city in which the work is done . A company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-fifths of the expense ; if the dividend is more than 5 per cent . and not more than 8 per cent . it must pay seven-tenths , and if the dividend is 8 per cent . or greater it is required to pay four-fifths . Such a law would compel the New-York , New-Haven and Hartford Road and its branches to pay fmir-fifths of the cost of such changes , and a company earning nearly 17 per cent . could well afford to do this . If grade crossings are ' to be replaced by safe crossings , there must ' be a beginning somewhere , and it seems to us that the beginning might well be made by forbidding new railroads and highway commissioners to build grade crossings except by order of ; court , and . by providing for the removal of a certain percentage of existing grade crossings , each year . No one will contend that grade crossings are a good thing and should be maintained . The cost of Making the changes gradually is a small matter when cempared with the value of the lives @ @ @ @ 