@@781584

txt The enormous growth of the trade in sham butter , notwithstanding the enactment of laws for the protection of consumers who would not knowingly buy or use a pound of the stuff , proves once more that we are a patient people . The manufacturers hiave known from the first that they could thrive only by means of deception , and the retail dealers have kept the oleomargarine and butterine factories in operation by persistently ignoring the plainest principles of what is called commercial morality . Boarding-house keepers , proprietors of restaurants , and landlords of hotels have joined hands with manufacturers and dealers in the contemptible work of deceiving and cheating the consumer . In this way 40,000,000 pounds of hog fat , cotton-seed oil , and other kinds of grease , preserved from decomposition and deprived of nauseating odors by means of nitric acid and other chemical agents , and containing only a trace of real butter , have been annually sold in the State of New-York . There are laws ron the statute-book providing that this dirty stuff shall be sold under its real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been enforced . Their enforcement would have driven sham butter out of our markets , or would at least have protected the consumer who buys for use in his own family . Where is the grocer who openly offers butterino fm sale to his patrons ? Where is the house . holder who wishes-to buy the stuff for his own table ? Yet 40,000,000 pounds are consumed each year in this State . Of thirty samples of " pure butter , " so-called , bought in New-York and . Brooklyn by the Senate Committee on Public Health , twenty were oleomargarine or butterine , containing hardly a trace of butter , The investigations made by the committee prove that consumers n this city have been swindled , and are being swindled to-day , by the tradesmen whom they trust . Ah old butter merchant , thoroughly familiar with the trade , asserted a few weeks ago that there were not in New-York City a score of grocers who did not sell butterine to their patrons . He declared that the wealthiest families of this city were deceived from day to day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . Where is the con= sumer in New-York , rich or poor , who can say that he has not eaten his share of the 40,000,000 pounds sent annually into the , State from the slaughter-houses of Chicago or produced at home ? It is very difficult to distinguish this sham butter from the natural product . Even experts are sometimes deceived by the spurious stuff . What are the consumers going to do about it ? They should make common cause with the suffering dairymen and protect themselves . The Senate committee declares that this protection can be secured and the dairy interest of the Empire State saved from ruin only by forbidding the manufacture or sale of the stuff within the State 's boundaries . The committee 's bill gives the Dairymen 's Association power to enforce the proposed law . The remedy may be a severe one , but the evil is great and can not be removed by milder measures . Do the manufacturers say that prohibition will deprive the poor man of his butter ? The stuff which they sell is not butter ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The poor man pays as much for it as he would pay for butter , and it is the poor man 's stomach , as well as ' the stomach of the rich man who can buy butter from the farmer , that should be protected by an effective law .                     