@@746055

txt The final report of the commission appointed some time ago to lay out new rapid transit routes is wholly in the interest of the monopoly which now controls the elevated railroad system . The commission appears to have been appointed at the instance of the Manhattan Railway Company , and the sole object of its existence was to enable that corporation to extend its lines along the water front on both sides of the city so as to reach the down-town ferries . There was not the least evidence of a public demand for these extensions , and the petition for the appointment of a commission emanated from those interested . in the present elevated railroads . As a result this commission has acted entirely in the interest of those roads . There was a pretense of making a provision for carrying passengers for a single fare from one side of the city to the other , from any part of the extended lines on either side to any part of the existing system on the other side . But in making this provision a portion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not only did . the public protest against this , as was tobe expected , but the officers of the Manhattan Company declared that they . did not want it . It was probably for the latter reason that it was abandoned , though the former and the fact that there was no legal authority for the appropriation , which was known in the first place , were the reasons alleged . The result is that no provision is made for the benefit of the public in the transfer of passengers from one side of the city to the other , though an encroachment upon the Battery Park was not necessary for the purpose . Any one wishing to go from one of the west side ferries to one of those on the east side would have to change trains and pay two fares , which would doubtless suit the Manhattan Company , though the accommodation of the public even at a loss to itself is what it pretends to seek . At the demand of the city authorities , backed by public sentiment , it was proposed to require the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percentage of its gross receipts into the public treasury . As first decided upon this was the very moderate compensation of 5 per cent. , though the whole system that was to have the final benefit of the extensions pays nothing at present . Even this was strenuously objected to by the counsel of the monopoly , which talks of doubling its present business at a very moderate expense , to increase the profits on its watered stock , and of course it was given up . The only reason given was that if it was insisted upon it would prevent the construction of the extensions . We respectfully submit that this is " gammon , " but if it had that result nobody but the Commissioners would grieve . They would receive no pay for all their rather discreditable work , which may be the cause of their anxiety . The law requires that any new franchises for railroads in the city shall be sold at public auction , but under the Rapid Transit act a company must be formed for the special purpose of constructing the proposed lines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover these new lines , being intended merely as extensions of the present system , would be of no value except to the Manhattan Company , with whose roads they must connect in order to serve their purpose . The result of the situation plainly is that it would be better for the public not to have these extensions made . They would only increase the power and profits of the monopoly and . would stand in the way of improvements that may be needed . There is strong ground for suspecting , that the chief object of the Manhattan Company in this scheme is to get possession of the best part of the water front in order to keep others off . But if there is to be a water front elevated road it should not be a mere feeder to the present lines . It should be a comprehensive system in itself , providing , not merely for the transit ? of passengers up and down town , but for the transfer of freight along the docks , for which adequate facilities are sorely needed . At all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the ground . It runs near enough to the ferries now , and until it is willing to make a proper return for its enormously valuable privileges no more should be accorded to it , It is in no position to ask for favor or consideration at the hands of the public . There should be no consent to these extensions , and the Rapid Transit Commissioners should be left to look to the master they have been trying to serve for their $10 a day . 