@@672239

txt The happiest man in Elmira to-night is Congressman Thomas S. Flood , whom Commissioner Tanner took occasion to belittle when he was in this city a few days ago . In speaking of Tanner 's resignation , or , as he characterized it , " bouncing , " Mr. Flood said : " Well , it is a good thing for the country that he has been compelled to resign . Personally I am not responsible for the action of the President . I did not lay , the interview with Tanner in this city before President Harrison and other officials , but it - was brought to the notice of the President and his Cabinet and it was given due consideration . No , I am not responsible for Tanner 's removal , and yet I would not have shirked the responsibility for the world . If i could have Gone anything that would have assisted in bouncing him out I should have gladly doue it and as cheerfully acknowledged it . I am not the man to shirk responsibility . But , after all , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my judgment , in bringing about the Commissioner 's removal . The whole country knew that I and several other Congressmen were opposed to Mr. Tanner 's policy . There were enough of us to successfully oppose all pension legislation that the Commissioner might suggest Secretary Noble knew this , and it was undoubtedly an argument that was strongly pressed in his interviews with the President upon the subject " " I have been all through Allegheny  --  and Steuben counties and down toward Williamsport since the publication of the Tanner interview , and I eau tell you frankly that I have not met a Republican who has not denounced Tanner bitterly and inaorsed my position : and every mail brings me letters of approval from all over the country . " The Congressman hero exhibited a great stack of letters from every part of the United . States . One was from one of Tanner 's own Clerks in the Pension LHu.mau at Washington. , Re Said : " I chafe every day over the way things are going on . Oh , how I would like to say what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another letter from Cincinnati begged the Congressman to continue the tight . A Grand Army man wrote : " It would not take a long time for a mosquito to absorb what little brain matter Tanner had , it the proboscis was well inserted . " " Yes , " continued Mr. Flood , a I am glad Tanner is fired . ' I could not do any business through him . The soldiers who had claims to be pushed understood my position , however , and they did n't ask me to embarrass myself . Now ' I can go and push my claims . ' The country is better oft ' without him . I should n't be surprised if Major Poole of Syracuse was appointed in his place . He is being strongly pushed by Senator Hiscook. "                     