@@745961

txt The excitement over the " burking case , " in which an old woman named Emily Brown was murdered in order that her body might be sold to a medical college for $15 , increases daily in spite of the fact that it occurred several weeks ago . The men arrested were Ross , Perry , and Hawkins , all colored . Ross was convicted , and Perry and Hawkins were declared not guilty . By their own request they remained in jail until today . Perry was the janitor of the medical university which purchased the body . Against him the feeling among the negroes ran especially high , because they thought he had made his living by killing people and then selling them . When his acquittal became known there was a great deal of bitter disappoinment . Judge Duffy received a note threatening his life for ? his action . Perry and Hawkins left the jail quietly at 11 o'clock this morning . They separated at once . Perry took a circuitous route and avoided any recognition . When at the corner of Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shouted , " There goes Perry ! " The pavements were thronged with colored people and workmen of the factories . The cry of the bootblack was passed around , and in a minute or two a crowd was at Perry 's heels . The old man was terribly frightened . He ran as fast as he could , and fortunately for him he found theRate leading to the Medical College open . Into this he rushed just in time to escape the mob , now very largely increased . The mob attacked the front entrance of the university , but the policemen that had been called arrived and drove the crowd back . To-night officers are guarding Perry from the anger of his race . To-morrow he will ask to be sent back to jail . He prefers a few years of life within prison walls to a day of liberty followed by a lynching . Since the " barking " case the ghost of the murdered woman has been frequently seen by the negroes , so they say , and the occupants of the house have all moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark . Most of those who do carry razors or revolvers . Last night a colored man when arrested showed up a big bulldog revolver . His excuse was that he was heeled for burkers . " A few nights ago a small boy saw two colored men coming toward him . He opened fire on them and wounded one of the men badly . He shot , ho said , because they looked like " burkers . " These incidents illustrate the excited condition of the negro race in Baltimore just now . 