@@745580

txt If DAVID B. HILL came before the people of this State as a candidate for Governor without a record in the Executive chair there would be enough in his character and political methods to condemn his selection for that high office . But . through an accident which was not foreseen when he was chosen to the office of Lieutenant-Governor he has already been tried and found altogether wanting in the qualities essential to the chief magistrate of this great State . Instead of showing himself anxious only to promote the best interests of the Commonwealth he began from the moment of his entrance upon the duties of Governor to subordinate his official action to party ends , with a view to securing a renomination , not by commanding the confidence and respect of the whole people , but by securing the support of active politicians through their own self-interest . The influence of his known attitude toward all questions of reform had a depressing effect upon the Legislature , and made it impossible to proceed with the completion of measures for the improvement of municipal administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts in this direction , and it was known that his sympathies were with the politicians who used local offices to strengthen their own power . As the position of Gov . CLEVELAND had largely inspired and encouraged the reform legislation of 1884 , so that of Gov . HILL in 1885 made further progress in that direction impossible . The only measures of the kind of any importance that were seriously attempted during the session of the Legislature were those which made the offices of Register and County Clerk of Kings County salaried positions and required their fees to be accounted for and turned into the public Treasury . Both parties in Brooklyn were virtually pledged to the support of these measures , and they were passed , but Gov . HILL vetoed them at the request of " Boss " MCLAUGHLIN and on the understanding that the Brooklyn delegation was to be secured for him in the State Convention . Another matter in which the politicians of that city interfered was the bill for the extension of the East River Bridge and for a much-needed change in its management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in certain defects not fatal to the purpose of the bill . It is plain that if Mr. HILL were to be re-elected the cause of municipal reform would have to wait at least three years before it could make any further progress . Gov . HILL dallied with the important measure for the preservation of the scenery at Niagara Falls until the last day allowed for its consideration , in the attempt to find some plausible pretext for refusing his approval , having the . notion that he might thus curry favor with the small taxpayers of the rural districts . That he finally signed it was due to his failure to find soy reasonable ground on which to base his objections and the belief at the last moment that he might lose more than he would gain by a veto . The bill for the protection of the Adirondack forests he signed , and then proceeded to defeat its purpose by his appointment of the Commissioners for which it provided . He named two gentlemen from this part of the State , one of whom could not accept because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whom had large business interests which prevented him from serving . The third Commissioner was . largely interested in destroying the forests by stripping the mountains of lumber , and had vigorously opposed all legislation for their protection . Nothing has been done toward arresting the destruction which threatens the sources of the most valuable streams in the State , on account of the obstructive action . of the Governor , who , in his desperate search for political support , feared to excite the opposition of the lumber vandals of the north . The failure to have the census of the State taken this year , as required by the Constitution and provided for by existing law , was entirely due to the Governor 's wrangle with the Legislature over that question , which was inspired by a desire to take the petty patronage involved in the appointment of enumerators away from the Secretary of State and secure some part of it for himself . He not only vetoed the bill providing for the expense of taking the census , but forced a special session of the Legislature at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield unless his dictation as to methods was submitted to . The result is that no census has been taken for the information of the people and as a basis for reapportioning representation in the Legislature . The inability of the Legislature to make any proper provision for the employment of convicts in the prisons of the State was due in no small part to the declared position of the Governor against any policy except the costly and inefficient one of industries established and conducted on State account , a policy that has been condemned by experience and by every investigation of the subject made in recent years . The consequence is a large and increasing deficiency in the revenues of the prisons and the certainty of a heavy increase of the burden of State taxes . In approving and disapproving items of appropriation the Governor was guided largely by the wishes of politicians having an interest in the expenditure of public money , whom he constantly consulted , and by a desire to make an appearance of regard for small economies where no political object was to be gained . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an end to that valuable work , thus forcing the resignation of its competent Superintendent ; he refused means to the Prison Association to collect criminal statistics to guide its beneficent efforts ; he denied the Emigration Commission funds for needed improvements , and crippled the State Board of Health so that it has no means with which to difficult to find in any of his acts indications of a broad and enlightened regard for public interests , while they constantly suggest a watchful attention for the favor of petty politicians who might be useful to him , and an effort by indirect means to promote his political purposes . By such methods the control of caucuses and conventions is sometimes secured , but they fail to command the confidence of the people , and beget distrust in the minds of all thinking men .                     