@@744815

txt The Federal and State officers in Hart County nave been in conflict . Several weeks ago two men named and Baker were charged with a serious conspiracy . It was charged that these men followed a witness named Harbin into South Carolina with the determination to kill him . They rode up to the residence of a preacher at whose house they thought Harbin was stopping and asked for him , but the preacher , designing their Intention , shouted to Harbin to run and get a gun and aefend himself . The men fired through the houSe and then went off . It was charged that while this act was committed in South Carolina the conspiracy was formed in Georgia , and that the men should be held to answer in this State . United States Marshal Carter swore out warrants against them , and was in Hartwell two dayt trying to arrest them . They both ran toward the Sheriff with the Intention of surrendering for offenses charged by the State ; and for which they wore under bonds . The Deputy Marshal caught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His bondsmen were also conveniently nigh , and likewise surrendered him . The Sheriff refused to surrender his prisoner to the Deputy , and thus a clash of authority was started . Judge Pottle , holding court in Hartwell , instructed the Sheriff to hold the two prisoners , and the Deputy Marshal telegraphed to Mr. Speer to know what to do . He replied by telling him to avoid a conflict if possible , but to quietly inform the Sheriff that prosecutions would be instituted against any person who obstructed the processes of the Federal court , Since then 311 .. Speer has received a telegram from the Sheriff stating that had been tried on both cases for which he had surrendered himself , and had been acquitted . The Sheriff stated that he would hold the prisoner for a reasonable time to allow a Government officer to come and get him . Mr. Speer received a letter from . Judge Pottle , statink that while he bad great respect for the Federal laws , he intended to enforce the jurisdiction of the State courts . The case has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a special Deputy Marshal had lately gotten himself into a serape in the village . He was indicted for carrying concealed weapons , and applied for a writ of habeas corpus to transfer the ease to the Federal courts . Judge Pottle refused to transfer the ease , and said that he had great contempt for the Federal courts . The Judge has now reconsidered the matter , and the ease will now be tried in the United States court .                     