@@672140

txt Capt . W. L. Couch , the Oklahoma boomer , is in the oily . He denies that hundreds of boomers are still hid in the timber south of the Cherokee strip . He said : " The old boomers , being familiar with the country and surveys , and having located their claims , took good . counsel ? and got out early . A lot of new-corners hung on to get  --  the lay of the land . The soldiers will tell you the men they are having trouble with now are those who hope to stay long enough to familiarize themselves with the country and to pick out claims and town sites . The old boomers have satisfatitory plans formed for getting on the ground among the first . " Lieut . Adair told me on Monday that he was satisfied there would be an order calling all the border troops to the line of Oklahoma proper on April 19. giving people with teams time to cross the strip . There is no justice in allowing people to stay on the southern line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the strip . I am satisfied such an outrage will not be allowed . " There will be plenty of saloons in Oklahoma . They will be in every town the first 24 hours . Every one of the keepers will be arrested , too . Any one can get a license to sell liquor in toe Territory , but this license only protects the seller so far as the internal " revenue laws are concerned , not from violations of special statutes relating to the Territory . You could always get a Government stamp to sell in the Territory , but it has n't been healthy to sell . I think the saloon business will hinge on a judicial decision as to whether the proclamation of the President making the country public domain relieves it from the special laws excluding whisky from the Indian country . Saloons , I know , will greatly augment the possibility of trouble . There will no doubt be hundreds of Deputy Marshals all over Oklahoma . The soldiers will have no authority . Lieut . Adair tells me after 12 o'clock noon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do any service in Oklahoma without a special Presidential order . The authority of the military without special order only applies under statute to country actually occupied by Indians or reserved for Government purposes ; so the United States Marshals will be the only dependence for peace . " The Captain says that some of the settlers who strike some of the old cattle ranges will strike a bonanza . " I know , " said he , " a elaim on Millwater , a few miles northeast of Gutnrie , with 200 acres surrounded by a hog-tight rail fence , well , log house , and some land cultivated , all fine bottom land and timber , just ready for the occupant to go in . There are a number like this , though some of the improvements have been destroyed in the three years since Cleveland ordered the cattlemen out of Oklahoma . The Santa F6 Company has issued an order prohibiting any of its employes from entering any lands in Oklahoma . This is in response to a charge that many men have entered its service in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ olaims ahead of those kept out of the country prior Is April 22 . WASHINGTON , April ** Commissioner of the General Land Office , in a letter to Senator Ingalls , says , in regard to the provision of the law which says that no one shall be permitted to enter or acquire any right to any of the Oklahoma lands , to be disposed of thereunder , who violates its provisions by entering . upon and occupying the same prior to 12 o'clock noon of April 22 . " I am inclined to think , however , that when a person was already within these lands at the dare of the approval of the act by proper authority his presence there should not be regarded as a violation of this provision of the act . " Commissioner Stockslager to-day said that he was of the opinion that fully 100,000 persons would enter Oklahoma within a month after April 22 . For these 100,000 people , said the Commissioner , there are only soout 10,000 homesteads which may be entered under the President 's proclamation . The inevitable result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' a great many contests , and probably some personal conflicts . A further result , he feared , would be the spreading of this immense surplus over the adjoining Indian lands from which it would be difficult to . dislodge them without much trouble and possibly some bloodshed . If the Commission appointed to treat with the Cherokees for a cession of the Cherokee outlet could complete their labors within the next few months so that the new tract might be open to settlement before Congress again meets , this might , and probably would , relieve the pressure . Otherwise he feared matters would become complicated and the equilibrium restored with difficulty .                     