@@744100

txt Mr. THURLOW WEED has lately published over his well-known initials a letter against civil service reform which is so very candid and complete a statement of the objections to the reform on the part of the politicians that it is well worthy of attention . Like most of his class , Mr. WEED has neglected to inform himself of the character of the measures which he criticises , and bases his criticisms on error or misrepresentation or pure assumption . His criticisms none the less require consideration , because the class to which Mr. WEED belongs is numerous and has a good deal of influence , and among them none has more than Mr. WEED himself . Civil service reform is , not a mere theory , and there is no lack of ; authentic information regarding it . The , rules and reports of the Civil Service Commission , under both Mr. CURTIS and Mr. E vrox , the rules and practice at the New-York Customhouse and the New-York Post Office , the provisions of the bill now pending in the Senate , and the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the last session , these are all accessible and contain adequate and trustworthy information in regard to the nature , operation , and working of the reform . No one who has taken the trouble to ? seek this information where it can be had ' need be at a loss to correct the numerous and serious mistakes In regard to it into which Mr. WEED falls . He says , in the first place , that under Gen. GRANT 'S attempt at reform " there was a good deal said but nothing done . " On the contrary , the public records of the various departments at Washington , and particularly of the Treasury , the Interior , and the Post Office , show that in the brief period during which the reform system was applied under Gen. GRANT the service was decidedly improved , and.this is testified to by many bureau chiefs and others who were far from favoring the plan when adopted . At the present moment in several of the branches of the Treasury and in the money order branch of the Post ? Tice the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civil service rules . Mr. WEED objects to " life tenure , " but his objection may be disregarded , because such tenure forms no part of the reform . He objects to competitive examinations , because the questions asked " may , be answered without bearing in the slightest degree upon the candidate 's fitness for the duties he is called to discharge , and what is worse , after the conundrums have been answered they furnish no guarantee for industry , fidelity , or honesty . " As to the first of these statements , its correctness depends entirely on the nature of the questions asked . In regard to examinations for admission , the most that any questions can do is to test relative general intelligence , to point out who among the.competitors are the best informed and the brightest as to matters which persons of ordinary education would be likely to know . That they so far bear upon the candidate 's fitness is not a matter of inference . It is proved by extensive experience , of which the records are ample and conclusive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He cites the case of " a highly intelligent and industrious man of irreproachable character " who " lost an appointment as letter-carrier because he was unable to say how many feet above the sea a particular mountain measured , and on . what day of the month the city of Washington was captured by the British . " We do not doubt that Mr. WEED believes this to be a true statement , but , in the first place , it is very improbable that these minute . questions were asked in an examination for a letter-carrier , and , in the second place , it is. absolutely impossible that the failure to answer these two questions could have cost the : candidate his appointment . If he made correct answers to every other question . and failed only in these , he would stand higher , than any candidate is likely to stand ; if he failed in others , he can not know that these were the cause of his disappointment . This is a small matter , but it is the only specific instance that Mr. WEED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WEED 'S objection ; that the examinations afford no guarantee for industry , fidelity , and honesty , it should be said that they are not expected to do so ; that no advocate of reform claims that they will do so , and that the reform system furnishes another , an entirely different , and a perfectly practical test of these qualities . This test is probation  --  the appointment of the successful candidate on trial . The original rules of the Curtis commission , the rules now applied in the Custom-house and Post Office , the bill pending before the Senate  --  all these provide for and include the feature of actual trial to test the qualities which no man of sense ever supposed an examination could bring out . We are happy to say that Mr. WEED 'S conception of the cause of the evils of officehunting are much more clear and sensible than hik notion of a remedy . He says it lies in . the defective home education of our boys and in the neglect to teach them honest trades and industrious habits . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office could be compelled to show that he had worked as hard and faithfully as Mr. WEED did before he touched politics , we should gladly drop all question of competitive examinations . Until then we should like by a practical test to bar the public service to drones and incompetents , and that is all that the reform seeks or can accomplish .                     