@@743689

txt Spiritualism , which is represented by those who believe in it to be vastly superior to Christianity , differs , of course , from the latter in its revelations as to the state of music in the other world . The Chnrcli has always held that the angelic host sings and plays on the harp and the trumpet in a way altogether beyond the reach of criticism . Though a good deal can be done with harps and trumpets , we are not shut up to the conclusion that these are the only instruments used by the blessed ghosts in paradise . Probably the term trumpet is a general one , and includes trombones , sax-horns , and other instruments on which the chromatic scale can be played . However this may be , the Church has always taught that the angels are accomplished musicians , and has never thought it worth while to repel the blasphemous suggestion that accordions , banjos , and such like debasing reservoirs of vulgar noise are known beyond the bounds of this miserable earth . But Spiritualism , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among ghosts is no better than that which characterizes an Indiana country town . The average ghost plays on only the most execrable instruments , and sings only the most empty and aggravating songs . As for producing a decent tone with a trumpet , or playing the simplest melody with the harp , the ghosts of Spiritualism have never even ventured to make the attempt . When a " materializing seance " is held , the medium always requests the circle of believers to sing , alleging that under the influence of music ghosts materialize with comparative case . But what are the songs that are sung iu Spiritual circles ? The " Sweet By and By " is a fair sample of them . They are invariably the illiterate sentimental songs popular among people who know absolutely nothing about music . They are sung through the nose with the mechanical sameness of the barrel-organ , and with a dragging of the time that is simply maddening . One would think that if the singing of the " Sweet By and By " could induce any ghost to materialize , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a wild desire to brain the singers . Unfortunately , this is not what ordinarily happens . The singing is followed by the appearance of ghosts who are in the best of tempers , and apparently perfectly satisfied with the " musk " which has lured them from the other world . Of course , this is fatal to our respect for ghosts . If a ghost will deliberately come to earth to hear people whose voices are as cracked as their brains sing the " Sweet By and By " they are wholly unfit to be noticed by persons of any sort of musical culture . This being the kind of musical taste which prevails in the other world , we need not be surprised to find that not a single ghost has yet materialized who can play on any decent instrument . What is even worse is the fact that the entire ghostly world seems to be given over to the accordion . Occasionally a ghost will strike the strings of a guitar so as to produce a discordant noise , but the accordion is positively the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spiritualism is true , it is evident that the first thing a disembodied spirit does is to learn to play on the accordion . Men who in this world would have smitten to the earth the wretch who should have tried to place an accordion in their hands will , in their ghostly state , take up the instrument from the medium 's table , and proceed to encourage its asthmatic wheezing . It is certainly very strange that we should thus deteriorate after death . The late assN1EL WEBSTER was confessedly one of the greatest men of any age . He never played on any instrument , and , in fact , had no lilsing whatever for music , but his views of the accordion were such as became a statesman , a Christian , and a gentleman . Yet , now that he is dead , he has devoted himself with much assiduity to the accordion , and when he condescends to materialize for the benefit of a roomful of Spiritualists  --  as lie frequently does  --  he ' is pretty sure to say : " Gim me that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " whereupon he plays the " Sweet By and By , " " Mollie Darling , " or ' " Beautiful Spring . " GEORGE WASHINGTON is equally bad , and even SHAKESPEARE has repeatedly shown that he shares the ghostly fondness for accordions . Inevitably , this casts a gloom over the future world . If , when we are dead , we sink to the accordion , and find pleasure in the " Sweet By and By , " we arc decidedly better off here than we will be hereafter . So far as we can learn from materialized ghosts , there is not a harp nor a brass instrument in the other world , and if there were , there is not a ghost who could play on them . Were We to adopt the hypothesis that only the ghosts of bad men had the power to return to earth , and that their familiarity with the accordion is acquired while undergoing punishment , we might feel a little encouraged , but , in point of fact , the ghosts of the very best and noblest men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly untenable . Our best plan is to decide that Spiritualism can not be true . It is far more probable that mediums lie and that Spiritualists are deceived than it is that DANIEL WEBSTER and DANTE play the accordion . Let us Cherish our old belief in celestial harps and angelic trumpets , and hope that in the future life we shall be free from the sight and sound of the accordion . Perhaps the fallen angels , having dropped and broken their harps , torment miserable sinners by singing the " Sweet By and By " and accompanying themselves on the accordion , but surely iu any other part of the universe of ghosts that wretched instrument and revolting song must be unknown .                     