@@781770

txt The Boston Commercial Bulletin is one of the protectionist trade . journals that have for some time urged that the entire duty on carpet wool should be removed . Mr. TITUS SHEABD , Senator from the Twenty-third District of this State , reads the Commercial Bulletin , and he found in it two or three weeks ago the assertion that the duty " is a direct tax upon the consumer of from 9 to 13 cents a yard upon every yard of carpet consumed . " He was of the opinion that this statement was " wide of the mark " and " ca , /culated to mislead the people , " and he wrote to the editor of the paper about it , reminding him that there was " much foolish talk going on about free wool , " and giving him au opportunity to correct his figures . In reply the Commercial Bulletin courteously directs Mr. SHEARD 'S attention as follows to the testimony given before the Senate Committee on Finance during the Preparation of the so-called Allison Tariff bill , which was passed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the amount of wool used in carpets was presented there . prepared and indorsed by the Hartford Carpet Company , JOHN &; JAMES DOBSON , Bigelow Carpet Company , SCHOFIELD , MASON &; CO , DORNAN BROTHERS , Join BROMLEY &; SONS , and the  --  ioxbury Carpet Company . The amount of unwashed low-duty wool used in a yard of carpet ranges from 3 9-10 pounds in two-ply Ingrains to 558 pounds in treble Ingrains . At 212 cents , the amount of the duty , the cost of a yard of carpet is thereby enhanced from 934 to 12 7-10 cents . The amount of high-duty  --  mostly washed ? carpet wool entering into a yard of carpet ranges from 1 pound 11 ounces in tapestry brussels to 6 pounds in Wilton carpets . At 5 cents , the amount of duty , the extra cost thus imposed on the carpet consumer ranges from fP-s to 30 cents . These statements were made by protectionists to a protectionist committee . " The Commercial Bulletin might have added that in the bill prepared by the committee and passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carpet wool were increased by 60 per cent . More than half of the wool imported into this country is carpet wool having an average value of about 10 cents a pound . The duty on such wool is so unnecessary a tax that even the American Protective Tariff League scolds the wool growers for clinging to it , and tells them that a sufficient supply of this wool " could never be produced in this country except at a cost for production which would - require from 500 to 1,000 per cent , of protection . " It is a tax imposed ostensibly for the protection of American wool growers , but really for the oppression of American buyers of carpets and for the protection and benefit of foreign Manufacturers of carpets , for only 7,881 yards of American carpets were sold in foreign markets last year .                     