@@743505

txt Nominations to the House of Representatives have already been made in a number of districts by both parties , and during the next month or six weeks the list of candidates will be practically completed . On the Republican side there seems to be a disposition , which can not be too much approved , to keep in the House those members who have shown their fitness for the post , while it must be admitted that the Democrats have shown themselves even more eager to secure the continued service of their ablest men . The nominations by the Greenbackers are quite numerous , and some of their most prominent Representatives have entered on the struggle for re-election . Gen. WEAVER unites the characters of Presidential and Con - gressional candidate , and is probably a good deal more hopeful as to the Sixth Iowa District than as to his election by the House of Representatives . He ought not to have much chance for the former , however , and , if he succeeds in repeating the victory of two years since in- a district which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will show that his absurd ideas are far stronger with the Republicans of the North-west than they ought to be . His companion in the Greenback leadership , Mr. DE LA . MA TYR , of the Eighth Indiana District , is also renominated , and will probably be supported by the Democrats at the behest of the " hard-money " candidate for the Vice-Presidency , Mr. ENGLISH . In the Seventh Iowa District , Mr. GILLETTE , Greenbacker , has again taken the field , but he is opposed by Mr. Joint A. KASSON , who is all but sure of election . The activity of the Greenbackers , whatever may be their prospects , should warn the Republicans to put their strongest men in nomination , and those who can be explicitly relied upon in the matter of financial legislation . Our party hopes and expects to control the next House . Its majority should be so made up that there can be no possible chance for the Greenbackers to exercise any influence whatever . The term of the next Congress does not begin until the 4th of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called together until the following December . In this year and one-third , many events are possible , and some are nearly certain to occur which may require important changes in financial legislation . The constant accumulation of depreciated silver in the Treasury , ( at a rate beyond the minimum fixed by law , ) coupled with the existing prohibition of the retirement of any of the redeemed Government notes , makes it practically certain that the continuance of the present redemption in gold will be imperiled unless some radical change is made . It is of the most vital importance to the interests of the country that there should be as many Republicans as possible in the House who clearly understand what it will be necessary to do . Men who have coquetted with the silver movement , and , much worse , those who hav yielded in any degree to the errors of Greenbackism , should not be sent to the next Congress . On the other hand , every effort should be made to send men who by conviction , experience , and character , are fitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . It would he impossible to exaggerate the danger and folly of intrusting the finances for the two years during which the successful candidates of this Fall will hold their seats to weak hands . If , by hesitation , cowardice , or a disposition to evade the requirements of the time , the currency of the country is permitted to again lapse into confusion , it would . be a bold man who should undertake to set a limit to the evil consequences which would ensue . It is to be hoped , also , that in those districts where the state of public opinion admits of it , no effort will be spared on the part of Republicans to insure the nomination of men who have some conception of the need which exists for a reform in our Customstlaws . Legislation in this direction was prevented during the last session of Congress by the unscrupulous scheming of some , and the deplorable weakness and blindness- of other , Republican representatives , acting with the leaders of the Democratic side . Such a course was unstatesmanlike , demoralizing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most extended industries of the country . We do not want any more Republican representatives who are afraid to discuss the abuses of the tariff , or to vote for proper remedies for those abuses , nor do we want men who are capable of hiding themselves behind a discreditable , because unavowed , coalition in behalf of favored private interests . Such a coalition is in ev ery way to be condemned , and the Republican Party would be greatly hurt by its repetition . We do not propose any radical or extreme policy , but we urge on those who believe that the country is crippled in its commerce  --  foreign and domestic ? by the present tariff to use all their influence to secure candidates for the House who can be depended on to undertake with judgment and energy the needed modifications . Nor should it be forgotten that the platform of the Republican Party declares it to be the duty of Congress to undertake a reform of the civil service . We do not expect that this declaration will have any marked effect , for we doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who , unfortunately , usually control Congressional nominations . But we believe that in this regard there is a very respectable sentiment of the right sort , and it is very desirable that it should find competent representatives . A small number of intelligent and devoted men in the House could do a great deal for the reform . If they could not insure its adoption , they could bring the subject into prominence and compel such treatment of it as would promote the success of the movement in the near future . They could do a great deal to hold a Republican majority up to the standard announced by a Republican National Convention . There is no danger that any of the Republican candidates will not be faithful to the ordinary principles of the party , and it is important , therefore , that the considerations which we have suggested as to questions of great importance not prominent in the mind of the average partisan should receive attention .                     