@@780802

txt News reached St. Paul this afternoon of a fatal steamer explosion on the Mississippi River , near La Crosse . The first detailed advices say that a little after 6 o'clock this morning the boat Belle Mac , belonging to McDonald Brothers , blew up between La Crosse and Brownsville . Mx of the crew were killed and two others probably fatally wounded . One body has been recovered so far . Three or four others are more or less injured . The members of the crew were imprisoned in their berths by the explosion , and were held there by the settling of the upper works , and were taken out with ditliealty . The boat Alfred Toll arrived at 12:80 to day with the dead and dying . They are mostly residents of La Crosse . The bout was worth about $8,000 . The steamer was apparently a local heat , plying between La Crosse and points above , in the lumber trade . Another dispatch says the crew consisted of 17 persons . Five are missing and all are badly scalded . Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man named Morris had his to broken and his face , arms , and body badly scalded . C. M. Monahan was scalded on the face . S. Welfohn 's face and arms were scalded . The cook was scalded on the head . The second engineer was on watch at the time . The village People are doing all they can to assist the sufferers , who are attended by a doctor from Lansing . Tile following is a complete list of the killed and missing : BELL , Swift , deck-hand , missing . MARTIN , CUARLES R. , son of Mrs. C. B. Lambert , of Winona , 18 years old , a negro tender on watch at the time of the explosion . His body was found on the wreck about midships covered with darls , badly out about the face , and horribly scalded . This is the only body that has so far been recovered . McCAamisu . GPOROE and WILLIAM , brothers , supposed to be drowned . Slavrrag , Paella , second pilot . He was off duty at the time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NoLAN , Jottx , of New-Orleans , fireman ; missing . The Injured are as follows : Capt . W. W. Gar. don , first pilot ; tie was on watch at the wheel at the time of the accident ; he is badly out about the head and bruised about the body generally ; he will soon recover . James Tully , of Dubuque , bead engineer ; ho was off watch ; was scalded about the face and blown into the river . Charles Monahan , of Dubuque , recond engineer ; he was on duty and had his hand on the throttle at the time of the explosion , had his arm hurt and was scalded about the face . Morris Leseur , of La Crosse , fireman , on watch , had a log broken and was badly burned on the back ; his injuries are probably fatal . Tom Rice . of La Crosse , colored tender , off duty , had both leas badly burned . Amputation was necessary , and he can not recover . Henry Tully , of Dubuque , brother of James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dave MoCanish , of Cassville , was very badly scalded and otherwise injured ; he will probably die . Dick Wagoner , of La Crosse , fireman , off duty , was slightly burned . William Lachleider , of La Crosse , cook , was slightly Injured . Louis Suelflohn , of Sheboygan County , mate , was scalded and bruised ; he will recover . Lewis Johnson , of La Crosse , a boy , had an arm hurt .. The Bella Mae was a comparatively new boat , this being her third year of service , and has always been considered perfectly safe . It will require about $3.000 to rebuild her . The cause of the disaster can not be ascertained . The second engineer says that the boiler had plenty of water , and that at the time of the explosion he was oarrying about 135 pounds of steam .                     