@@780679

txt THE TIMES 'S report that the New-York and New-England Railroad has passed into the hands of Jay Gould . to become the eastern division of a great continental railroad , and private dispatches to a similar effect advanced the stock and bonds to-day . Regarding the report the Advertiser ascertains that if any plan of Gould is about to affect the road It is asserted that it does not appear in the books of the company . This afternoon the books were closed to all transfers of stock , as is always done before an annual meeting . An advertisement has already appeared for this annual meeting , which wilt be held Dec. 0 , a week from next Tuesday , in this city . On the books there is nothing to show that Gould , Field , Sage , or Dillon have secured any of the stock . An officer of the road said to-night that there was nothing to show that the Gould clique are possessors of the stock , nor have any negotiations for a lease been closed . but . it is impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , those who hold a majority of the stock will Dut ht their officers , and it is utterly impossible to tell how the V0103 will be cast . It is known that proxies have been secured from shareholders in small amounts , that their shares may be cast for the present management , and the vote of the State stock is counted upon for the seine side . The vote for the State is always cast by a member of the Council , according to a vote taken in Council , and the State has always had a voice in the selection of Directors , but the State and its allies can be outvoted , and it will not be surprisiug if there are marked changes by the next election . Whatever the result of an election , however . there is no reason to tear that the interests of the road will suffer , or of the State either . If there is no change , the road will continue under the management which has done so much to develop it . If there is a change , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the advantages aecruing . One of the officers who was seen tonight expressed himself positively that the interests of the road are safe , even should there be a change in the management . Certainly the road can not become a Vanderbilt road , ho says , and that is a reason for complacency . Another states that the recent . sharp railroad war grew from the attempt of Vanderbilt to crush the New-York and New-Eugiand and the Roston , Hoosae Tunnel and Western , because they are parts of through lines competing with his .                     