@@781608

txt When Gen. HAZEN was questioned , two or three days ago , about the terrible sufferings of the Greely colony and the shocking revelations which have since been made more appalling by the exhumation and examination of Lieut . KISLINGBURY 'S body , he remarked that the facts would probably become the subject of a Congressional investigation . Gen. HAZEN , an officer of the army , has no liking for military- investigations made by his brother officers . He prefers to deal with a committee of Congress . He has had some experience with Congressmen , and he appears to think that he would be safer in their hands . After his disgraceful lobbying had been exposed , one year and a half ago , he asked for an investigation by Congress and refused to demand the appointment of a military court of inquiry , although the Secretary of War pointed out to him his plain duty , and afterward tried in vain to secure the appointment of such a court for HAZEN 'S especial benefit . If Secretary LINCOLN had not failed to secure such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the departure of the Garlington expedition , GARLINGTON 'S instructions might have been prepared by a competent officer , and all of GREELY 'S companions might now be alive and well . It was proved , in February , 1883 , by the publication of letters written by HAZEN and his subordinates , that the selfish and ambitious Chief of the Signal Service had been engaged in an extensive scheme of lobbying for the purpose of causing members of Congress to vote for a bill then pending . His subordinates had gone from city to city at the expense of the Government , causing Chambers of Commerce and other similar bodies to adopt and to send to Representatives resolutions prepared by these subordinates . They had also been at work in newspaper offices , and in other ways had been striving to " reach " members indirectly . They reported to the central office in Washington , and their reports were amusing to many persons , but not to their dupes . The exposure of this scheme led to the exposure of HAZEN 'S tyrannical treatment of subordinates who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make no valid defense , but in trying to make one he became ridiculous . At last he wrote to Secretary LINCOLN , asking that the Senate should be requested to make an investigation . The Secretary was astounded . He refused to make such a request , and reminded HAZEN that an officer of the army , when accused , ought not to resort to tribunals other than those provided by the articles of war . HAZEN , then renewed his request , and exhibited his fear of military courts by saying that he wanted justice , and by insinuating that a board of eminent officers of the army would not give it to him . Secretary LINCOLN replied that if HAZEN should not ask for a military court he would do it himself . " I shall feel it my duty , " said he , " to advise the President to appoint a court . " HAZEN then repeated his request for a Senate investigation . It was then announced that the Secretary had asked for a court , and that the President had approved the request . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some mysterious influence HAZEN had defeated the Secretary . The subordinate was stronger than his superior officer . Secretary LINCOLN 'S request was made in March . GARLINGTON 'S instructions were prepared and signed by HAZEN on June 4 , and GARLINGTON sailed in the Proteus on June 29 . This selfish and incompetent officer had been allowed to defy investigation , to remain in office , and . to cause the deaths of nineteen brave men by his blunders . Even the Proteus court , that made an inquiry after GARLINGTON 'S return , refused to recommend a court-martial for HAZEN , although it subjected his . acts to a scathing review , and enumerated nine of his " grave errors and omissions " which had " directly led or largely contributed to the abortive issue of the expedition . " What the court would have said if it had known that these blunders had caused the deaths of nineteen men and the mutilation of their bodies we do not know . There is as much mystery about HAZEN 'S power in Washington as there was about HOWGATE 'S escape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's failure to find this rascal . How has HAZEN been able to defy his superior officer , Secretary LINCOLN , and to retain his office ? The people would like to know . Is he to escape now as he has escaped heretofore ? The people will await with deep interest an answer to this question .                     