@@744398

txt There are indications that the leaders in the present Republican canvass in this State are becoming impressed with the fact that something has been done which has alienated the sympathies of a large number of Republicans from the party cause and quenched the enthusiasm of the entire body . They are beginning to realize that the ' conduct of the canvass is to be up-hill work , in which the inspiration and encouragement of hearty popular support are wanting . A great risk was taken when the Stalwart leaders ventured to ignore the prevailing sentiment of the party , and undertook to force upon it , by machine methods , backed by the influence and power of the national Administration , a nomination which was distasteful to a large majority of its members . It was a risk which , according to the most degraded political ethics , could be justified by nothing short of final success . Having entered upon this daring enterprise , they found enlisted in their work a set of men to whom trickery and deceit were familiar weapons , and who felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meanest tactics to which they had become accustomed in their feats of local management . After using their utmost efforts to secure delegates to the convention who were not the choice of the voters , they found it necessary , in order to effect their purpose , to carry the methods which had been found safe in the comparative obscurity of caucus manipulation into the counsels of the State Committee and the convention itself . Having staked everything in the hazardous game they were playing , they resorted to the desperate devices of blacklegs in order to win . These leaders and managers know now that in controlling the convention in the way they . did they disregarded the wishes of the mass of the party for which they pretended to be acting , and they see that the result is wide-spread dissatisfaction . But the case should have been just as plain before the deed was committed as it is now . There was no room for doubt as to what the prevailing sentiment of the Republican Party in this State was . There was in the first place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the main faithful to his great trust , and deserved to be retained in it . This was strengthened when an effort was made to crush him for his very fidelity , which had stood in the way of the designs of the enemies of the public weal . So far as there was dissent it sprang from a desire to avoid a conflict between antagonistic forces struggling for the control of the party and to direct its support to a neutral candidate who , it was thought , might unite it in the present canvass . This was the chief animus of the ' Wadsworth movement . There was absolutely no popular wish to be met by the candidacy of Judge FOLGER . He was personally held in high esteem , but his place just then was not in State politics , and he was not summoned there by any demand of the party or the people . He was simply forced . in by COrtxLmo 's desire for revenge and JAY GOULD 'S determination to punish the temerity of CortNELL , and the President weakly and blindly lent his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the means now so familiar , nominations were imposed upon the party against its will , and Federal interference in State politics exhibited its potency . But the effect is becoming more clearly visible every day in unmistakable disaffection . Such an effect should have been foreseen . While this effect probably was not foreseen . it was known that the contest entered upon here was a contest against Itepubilean sentiment in the State and not for it . It was not a case of leadership and guidance , but of dictation and the brute force of machine management . That was clearly understood , for the tactics adopted and the methods pursued were based upon a full knowledge of that fact and the requirements which it involved ; but these so-called leaders presumed upon the force of party fealty to elect the ticket after it had been put in nomination , regardless of the means by which the nomination had been effected . They believed that Republicans would vote for Republican candidates , though they were not men of their own choice , especially if their personal character and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now that Republicans by the hundred and the thousand are resolutely making up their minds that they will not vote for the ticket forced upon the party , no matter how worthy may be some of the names which it bears . Party fealty is a strong sentiment , especially in a party that has glorious traditions and a high mission unfulfilled , but if it can be used by designing men to effect purposes contrary to the best principles of the party and inconsistent with its highest mission , it becomes a dangerous force . Fortunately , in these times there is every indication that it can not be prostituted to any such work . A party must first of all be true to itselt , and it can not then be false to any of its great purposes .                     