@@780727

txt The Senatorial contest that has been in progress for some ; time between the Secretary of the Treasury , Mr. Sherman , and Gov . Foster may now be regarded as closed by the withdrawal of the latter at the earnest solicitation of his friends , Who apprehended serious results to the party In Ohio should the contest continue . Hundreds of letters have been received ' by the Governor during the past week from . representative Republicans , not only in 1 Ohio but in other States , all of which ; showed . the nervous condition of prominent leaders over the situation of affairs here on the Senatorial . question . In withdrawing from the canvass , Gov . Foster regards the interest of the Republican Party in the of State as viewed by his friends and , while he does not share their apprehensions in reference to any unfavorable result of a heated contest , he desires to waive all personal considerations which might directly or indirectly affect the welfare of the party in the State . In conversation to-day the Governor said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sherman , letters ? received from friends who were laboring in his behalf were of the most encouraging character . He was strongly of the opinion that not over 25 members were pledged to . Mr. Sherman today , and that he knew of booked for the Secretary that were , on the contrary , doing all they could for him ( Foster . ) I Had the contest continued , he regarded his chances as good . The Governor received a letter from Speaker Cowgill , yesterday urging him to withdraw , together with a large number of others of similar import . He wrote his letter of withdrawal , but not until after a full consideration , of the subject in all its bearings did he decide act . To-night he gave the correspondence to the press . Gov . Foster had as his supporters the active , go-ahead workers of his party . He also had the support of many : who justly : reeard the methods of Secretary Sherman in using the Government ; officers in his own interest as questionable . Whether the withdrawal of Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains to be seen . One thing , however , is certain  --  the ' action of Gov . Foster Will be regarded as:generous and honorable , and can not fail to elevate him in the estimation of all just men . withdrawal has created a political sensation . The following is Gov . Foster 's letter of withdrawal : EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT , COLUMBUS , Ohio , Dec. 18 , 1880 . The Hon. Thomas A. Cowgill MY DEAR SIR : Your favor of the 17th inst. is at hand , and its contents are fully considered . I have received a number of letters . pf similar import within the past few days from personal friends and supporters of my candidacy for the United States Senate , and I am . also in receipt of communications from gentlemen of high standing in the party , all expressing apprehension that the bontest for . Senator is likely to engender antagonisms hurtful to the future welfare of the party , and appealing to know whether a way may not be found by which this may he averted . The " way " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not share the apprehension of yourself and others as to the dangers of a " heated struggle , " but perhaps I am not in a osition to entitle my judgment to much eight upon this point . You , no doubt , cor-redly estimate the present excellent condition of the party in Ohio . It is a source of per-Sonal gratification to me to know from you and other friends that in the public estimation I am conspicuously identified With the work of achieving this gratifying condition of the party . By no act of mine will I intentionally do anything that would in the least reduce the vigor and energy , of the party . I make no claim for any service I may have rendered the party . I have not rested my candidacy upon any claim I have upon the party for its support . I admit that the party has done more for me than I have done for it , and the same may be said of any other public man . I have simply performed my duty to the party us thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of our cause , to the energy of the people , well directed by the leaders , in trying to secure what they conceive to be the promotion of the best interests of the country . I became a candidate because I was ambitious to represent Ohio in the United States Senate-an ambition worthy of the efforts of any citizen of the State . I believe I could honorably and successfully discharge the duties of a Senator , and was of opinion that my fellow-citizens concurred in this opinion . Up to the present moment I have fairly and honorably done what . I could to promote my candidacy , and the information I have received lesils me to believe that if I continued the canvass to the end I am not without a fair prospect of success . Knowing that many of my friends feel the apprehension referred to , and wishing only to serve the best interests of the party , without . considering the future so far as it relates to me personally , I have concluded to yield to the judgment of friends , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am quite certain that some of my friends will unfavorably criticise ray action . To such , and to all my friends , from every county in the State , who have so generously labored for my success , and from whom I am in daily receipt of news of the encouraging condition of my canvass , tender my most grateful thanks . I beg to assure them that in declining further to be a candidate I am but obeying the wishes of many leading Republicans , among whom are those who hold high positions in the expressed confidence and esteem of the Republican Party . Very respectfully yours , CHARLES FOSTER .                     