@@745640

txt The sacrifice of life by the caving in of a mine at Nanticoke seems to have been needless . The story of this accident has not been told so clearly or in suchl detail as-to make it entirely intelligible . But it is so nearly a repetition of a storr which has been often told that it is fair to suppose no more precautions were taken in this case than in the other cases similar to it . In the Avondale disaster , the most extensively fatal mining accident that has occurredt'in this country , it was plain that the hundred or more lives that were taken might have been spared if another-shaft than the one that was disabled by fire had been sunk . In the present case it is announced that , as the only feasible method of getting at the bodies of the men whom it is now deemed impossible to rescue , another shaft shall be sunk from the surface to the point at which their bodies are sup-4 posed to lie . A " cave-in " is not the same form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miners depend not only for egress from the mine but for the air that keeps them alive while they are at work . Nevertheless a cave-in is a form of accident to which the mines near Wilkesbarre have been shown to be specially exposed . If the precautions shown to be ? necessary by the settlement of the earth 's surface over the mines had been taken , it is not conceivable that this collapse would have occurred without warning and without a chance of escape to the persons exposed to it . Exposure to Rerils of this kind is one of the necessary incidents of pioneer mining , and when in the early ' stages of working . a mine an accident occurs either from the disabling of the shaft or from a collapse of the soil there is nothing to be said , provided the ordinary precautions of which the case admits have been taken . But coal mining in Pennsylvania is by no means in this primitive condition . It is a lone established and a most extensive business . It has in some places been carried so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a system of galleries and tunnels , all belonging to a- single mine . At Nanticoke it is said that 8,000 feet in length of rubbish precipitated by the " cave-in " must be cleared away before the bodies of the imprisoned miners can be reached from below . Accordingly the sinking of a new . shaft has been resolved upon as a quicker and easier method of getting at the bodies , than excavation from below , and it is ex pected that this shaft can be sunk in four i days . If this be the fact it is evident that there can be no good reason why the shaft has not been sunk before . To keep men at work more than half a mile from the shaft which offers them their only chance of escape is a tempting of fate . Long before the mine reaches such dimensions a second outlet should be provided. : If it had been provided in this case the expense of time and money now incurred in order to get at the bodies of the miners t who were sacrificed to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might : , have saved their lives . It is strange that the men imperiled by , ' this negligence take no measures to prevent its mischievous consequences . The coal miners of Pennsylvania have one of the strongest and most remorseless trades unions in existence . In time past they have committed many murders in furtherance of the objects of their union , sometimes upon the most trivial points of class interest . But they have never taken any effectual steps toward making their own lives safer while they were at work . In fact , it is the ' testimony of the managers of mines that such precautions as they endeavor.to enforce for the benefit of miners are often nullified by the recklessness of the miners themselves . Nevertheless , it does not become a civilized community to permit its citizens to be massacred , even though they themselves offer no opposition to the sacrifice , and it is to be hoped the State of Pennsylvania may take such action as will render impossible the recurrence of disasters like that of Nanticoke. 