@@780736

txt At Reading to-day Lord Chief-Justice Coleridge charged the Grand Jury in the case of Roderick Maclean , who attempted to shoot Queen Victoria , at Windsor , on March 2 . His Lordship said that State trials in England had been rare , but the law bearing on the case , though over 500 years old , was undoubted . The facts as narrated in the depositions of the witnesses of the assault clearly supported the charge . Baron Huddleston was also on the bench . Sir George Bowyer is the foreman of the Grand Jury . A number of the persons in the court-room wore primroses , Lord Beaconsfield 's favorite flowers , in memory of the late Earl , to-day being the anniversary of his death . The Grand Jury returned a true bill for high treason against the prisoner , who was at once placed in the dock . He looked pale and haggard . He pleaded not guilty in a firna but low voice . Sir Henry James , the AttorneyGeneral , opened the case for the prosecution . He said it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility in determining the condition of the prisoner 's mind at the time he committed the crime . The evidence for the prosecution went simply to prove that Maclean fired the shot . The witnesses were not cross-examined . Mr. Montague Williams , opening for the prisoner , made insanity the ground of defense . He said it could be shown that Maclean had had the homicidal mania for years , and had imagined the English people were against him , and also that it could be proved that Maclean had been confined in an asylum . The Superintendents of the Salisbury and Broadmoor Asylums testified to Maclean 's insanity . They said they believed him incapable of appreciating the nature or quality of any of his acts . Mr. Williams asked for the acquittal of the prisoner on the ground of insanity . Lord Chief-Justice Coleridge summed up the . case and the jury returned a verdict of not guilty on the ground of insanity . LONDON , April 20 . ? Lord Chief-Justice Coleridge 's summing up was completely colorless , merely pointing out the law in such cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the jury the Lord ChiefJustice said that no head of any State was entirely free from the danger of regicidal attacks ? neither the chief of a military empire nor the President of a great republic .                     