@@781004

txt A disastrous explosion occurred this morning at South Vallejo , on the ferry steamer Julia , plying between SouthVallejo and Vallejo station . The steamer was about to leave her moorings a few mloutes after 6 o'clock , anti had about 70 persons on board , many of whom wore going across the strait to work in the lumber yards on the other side . Just as the deck hands were hauling in the lines there was a loud explosion and a sheet of flame shot into the air . Those who wore en deck at the time were hurled overboard by the force of the exploshin , and several of them were killed , outright by being struck by pieces of the debris , which wore sent flying In all directions . The explosion attracted the attention of per-sons living iu the vicinity , and men rushed to the assistance of the unfortunate passengers . In a few minutes all was confusion , for men , women , and children who had relatives on board the hi-fated Julia were wailing and wringing their hands us they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were anxious to aid , but there seemed to be but little for them to do , as most of the passengere were below the decks at the time of the explosion , and were either killed outright or drowned when the water poured in on them . It had been customary for all passengers to go below the decks in the morulug , as it was cold and foggy . A few who were on the deck and were not rendered insensible by the force of the shock wore quickly assisted ashore by the people on the wharf . To add to the terrors of the scene , large vats of petroleum stored on the wharf caught fire and the flumes spread rapilly . The tire companies were unable to accomplish anything , as there was nt. water , owing to the tidebeing out , and 15 minutes after the explosion about 600 feet of wharf , freight depot , and telegraph office were burning . When the title mum in they managed to get a supply of water , and at noon had the tire under control . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a largo number of boatmen were rowing around the wreck seeking to recover bodies . Soon after the explosion ooeurred the steamer had burned to the water 's edge , and sunk to the bottom , with a great number of the victims buried under the dltbris in the cabin . It is believed that between 30 and 40 lives were lust . Up to a late hour this afternoon 12 bodies had been recovered , two of which were burned beyond recognition . The names of the other 10 victims are as follows : Melvin Hodgkins , Joseph Fragas , Samara , Olef Nelson , Alfred Madison , Michael Branley , John Broviek . William Stark , Edward Rule , and a man named Higgins . The names of probably less than half of the passengers who were on the steamer at the time of the explosion are known , which makes tt impossible to tell how loony sunk with the wreck , but at least 15 who are known to have been on the steamer are 800 missing . Capt . Gedge of the Julia was severely In-jured , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others were also vary severely injured . The record of the Julia is a bad one , and this is not the first terrible accident on the steamer . In September , 1800 , the head of her holler blew out , instantly killing nine of the crew and scalding the clerk and another onset ' of the boat 80 badly that they lingered alive for only a few days . The cause of the disaster to-day is not known , though it is generally behoved taut the explosion occurred in the boiler ; but the linpreSS1011 also prevailed that the lire was iu some way communicated to the petroleum tank and that the explosion occurred in that quarter . The steamer burned petroleum for fuel . Valleio is 39 miles up the bay from San Francisco .                     