@@671991

txt OFF THE NATIONAL PLATFORM . The Republicans of Minnesota have taken a position on the tariff question which leaves them quite off thanational platform of the party . It is noteworthy that they fail to condemn the President 's message and the Mills bill , as the National Convention and so many State Conventions have done , and make no reference to the Democratic tariff policy . They say that they adhere " to the repeated . declaration of State and national platforms in favor of the modification , readjustment , and reduction of the tariff , " but they are the first to repeat that declaration this year . It has been repeated only in the platforms of the past . whose pledges have been persistently violated , and it has been distinctly repudiated for this campaign by the National Convention , numerous State Conventions , and . nearly all the party leaders . These Minnesota Republicans reiterate " the views of the Republican Presidents GARFIELD and . ARTHUR upon the same subject , as well as the recommendations of the commission appointed . under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been disregarded . by the party in Congress ever since they were expressed , and the party is conducting this canvass on a doctrine entirely inconsistent with them , while they are substantially in accord with the policy which the Democratic Party has adopted . The Minnesota Republicans in their platform utterances are- careful to say that they are " uncompromisingly in favor of the American system of protection , " but they outline ' a plan of revision of the present tariff which is substantially that of the Mills bill , is almost unanimously opposed . by Republicans in Congress and . has been repeatedly condemned by them in " State and national platforms . " They express their " belief that these measures can best be conducted . under the auspices of a Republican Administration in the future as in the past . " This is nonsense . No such measures have been " conducted " except to defeat under past Republican Administrations , and what hope would there be for them in the future , when the party has set itself against them , and its leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loudly denouncing them in their speeches ? The Minnesota Convention has accepted the absurdly inconsistent position announced by KNUTE NELSON in favor of electing HARRISON and MORTON , and then proceeding to reform the tariff . The two things are utterly inconsistent and mutually destructive . HARRISON and MORTON stand on a platform that is opposed . to tariff reform ; they depend for support on those who will not consent to it , and to elect them would make the reform impossible . Instead , we should see the surplus reduced . by extravagant appropriations and the abolition of the whisky tax , if the national platform means anything . We have no doubt that the strained partisanship of the Minnesota Convention represents the sentiment of many Republicans throughout the country . They are for tariff reform , but they are for party first and foremost , and cherish the desperate hope that if it were returned to power it would really address itself to a revision of the tariff . Doubtless it would pretend to do so , as it has several times already , but all efforts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have such a hold upon the party , as they always have been . It may be said that the tariff declarations of the Chicago platform do not truly represent the sentiment of the party . But they certainly represent the sentiment and purposes of those who made it and who controlled the action of the convention . The same power is now controlling the conduct of the party canvass and directing it against all tariff reform , with lying statements and fallacious arguments tending to show that what the Minnesota Convention demands would destroy our industries and impoverish our people .. It would control the action of the . party in legislation and administration , if it were put in power at Washington , whatever might be the sentiments and wishes of a large part of its voters , precisely as it has done in the past . It would certainly defeat any effort that might be made under a Republican Administration to reform the tariff . We can not serve GOD and mammon . We can not support a party and at the same time carry out principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is a simple way for tariff reformers in the Northwestern States or among Republicans elsewhere to promote the cause they have at heart , which is more important at this time than any other issue in our politics , and that is to give their support to the party which has adopted tariff reform as its policy , which has embodied it in a practical form , and which would surely give it effect if the opportunity were afforded . That is the course and the only course that sensible , consistent , and patriotic men can take .                     