@@780684

txt The Daily . News says that a rumor finds favor in Dublin that Earl Cowper , Lord Lieutenant of Ireland , is about to resign , and says it may be taken as proof that , in the opinion of well-informed persons in Ireland , some further step , if not some change of policy , must be made if order is to be re-established . Mr. Parnell took the early train for Dover this afternoon in order to avoid the demonstration that would have been made had he taken his departure on the Continental train from Charing Cross in the evening . Conversing in private with a friend , he said he had little to complain of in regard to his prison treatment . He hoped the other " suspects " were as well cared for , and said he had reason to doubt that they were . His imprisoned followers regarded the recent outrages with the greatest indignation . Mr. Parnell expressed belief that the state of things in Ireland would improve if the Government introduced a bill to relieve poor tenants of arrears of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase so as practically to assist tenants to become owners of their farms , a result which he thought would go a long way to restore peace and order . He said he would remain in Paris quietly until the latest moment consistent with his parole . Mr. Parnell refused to see a correspondent of the Irish iVorld . Prof. Goidwin Smith writes to the Times that if the British Legislature and people would handle the Irish question with vigor their determination would be applauded by nobody more than the great mass of the American people as distinguished from the politicians . Prof. Smith recommends the abolition of jury trial in agrarian cases , the collection of fair rents by summary process , the suspension of representation of rebel districts , the suppression of the murderous press , and special legislation concerning foreign emissaries , they and their Governments being given to understand their position and the liabilities they incur . Delius , April 11 . ? Mr. Smythe , the Westmeath landlord whose sister-in-law was recently shot and killed , has written to his tenants revoking an intended reduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct or indirect complicity in the murder . He announces that the rents will be collected by a non-resident agent , who can make no allowance and do nothing not strictly required by Jaw . All American " suspect " named White has been unconditionally released from Naas Jail . During illuminations at Roscommon lust night in honor of the release of Mr. Parnell , the windows of houses not illuminated were smashed . The house of Major Waring was attacked , and the windows were broken . Serious rioting ensued , and the military were called to assist the Police . Three of the rioters wore seriously injured .                     