@@780688

txt The Lakeville religions war has extended to this place , and the Protestant store-keeper is no longer patronized by the Catholic families . As East Canaan is one of the missions of which Father Lynch , who put up the obnoxious cross at Lakeville , is the Pastor , the Protestants here allege that he is. the fomenter of the hostility in this place between the belligerents in the two religions . Three-fourths of the attenuants at the public schools here are Catholics , and at the annual school meetings of previous years the Catholic parents were always in the majority . Only those Protestants who had children at the schools took sufficient interest In the matter to be present . For many years the committeeman chosen has been a Catholic . The committeeman has the power of choosingtne teachrs . The Catholics committeeman has heretofore consulted with the Rev. Father Lynch as to the best teachers procurable for the money offered by the State . Three years ago the teachers selected by this means were Miss Minnie Gorman. of Westville , Conn. , and Miss M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be capable teachers . and after the Protestants had swallowed their first aversion to the young ladies ' religion , they treated them very hospitably , and without a murmer agreed to have the same teachers re-engaged for the succeeding two years . Last year , however , the school was in need of repairs , and an appropriation of SIM  --  a large one for this village  --  was made from the town funds . This , of course , came neaviest noon the Protestants , who Pay the taxes . Many of the farmers resident here thought that it was only just that their money should go to Protestant and local teachers . and resolved that hereafter no out-of-town or Catholic teachers should teach in the East Caanan school . This spirit was nursed by a speech which a local minister made at the Memorial Day exercises . In recounting the manner in which several battles of the late rebellion were won by the party numerically the weaker , he said that his coreligionists should derive practical instruction from the flank movements of the war in their local struggles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel until the time for action . Everybody present understood the intended application of the clergyman 's remarks , and it was predicted that the next school meeting would be a warm one . Another fact made the Protestants anxious to obtain control of the school management . The teachers of last year , the Misses Gormon and Charters , announced their intention of leaving the school . The thought of having new Catholic teachers was doubly obnoxious to the Protestants . Toward the close of Spring a number of Italians were brought to East Canaan by the owners of the ore furnaces , and the Irish Catholics in numbers left the village . When the school meeting was called in August both the Catholics and the Protestants were out in force . Both parties had a nominee ' of their respective religious beliefs . The Catholics tried to challenge the right to vote of a number of Protestants on the - ground that they were boys . The Protestants , however . outvoted them . The Protestant nominee was chosen committee man , and the Proteitant teachers now occupy the pedagogues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lynch tried to induce the Catholic parents to send their children to his parochial school at Lakeville , but the distance is so great that the Catholics would not listen to him . The Catholic children will attend the public school , and are taught by Protestant teachers . Now the Catholics have wreaked their revenge by boycotting the town grocer , and they go to North Canaan. two miles distant , for dry goods and all necessaries.                     