@@780888

txt The Prohibition State Convention will convene in this city tomorrow . The Capitol House , which is the headquarters of the Executive Committee . is already packed with delegates , and every train during the night and morning will bring more . It is anticipated that there will be fully 400 in tomorrow 's convention . The large attendance is chiefly due to the Monona Lake Assembly , the Wisconsin " Chautauqua " - which opens here tomorrow , and a majority of the delegates are persons who are to go into camp there . The Executive Committee held a secret meeting of live hours ' duration this evening talking over the situation , making up a partial slate , and drafting the outline of the platform . It may be safely said that the committee have selected the following State ticket : For Governor  --  John M. Olin , of Madison ; for Secretary of State  --  C. M. Blackman , of Whitewater ; for Attorney-General ? E. W. Chaffin , of Waukesha ; for Superintendent of Public Instruction  --  Prof. Blaisdell , of Beloit College . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be left to the inspiration of the moment in convention . Two years ago the Wisconsin Prohibitionists polled 8,545 votes for Governor . The intervening time has been diligently spent in pushing the organization , especially in the northern counties , in the form of town clubs . Tne party organizer in town to-night claims to have had phenomenal success , especially in the past six months , and Chairman Richmond is talking confidently of a vote of 30,000 next Fall , of which he thinks 60 per cent . will come from Republicans and 40 from Democrats . He says the party is well equipped financially , town clubs responding with astonishing liberality to every call , showing their enthusiasm . The strength of the party is chiefly in the rural districts . The platform will cover the principal topics of current public discussion , and will take position against the Anarchists . Delegates and members of the Executive Committee are all very confident of the great growth of the third party in Wisconsin , and while not anticipating a great success this year seem to think they have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party organization this year , with tickets in the field in every county and Congressional and legislative district , in addition to the State ticket . A large number of outside speakers will be in the field , headed by St. John . of Kansas , and Finch , of Nebraska . in addition to about 30 Wisconsin men and women . Chairman Richmond will be reelected .                     