@@671909

txt Senator Eugene Hale of Maine and . 27 Democratic Senators are responsible for the formal defeat in secret session ? o-day of the Riddleberger resolution to discuss the fishery treaty with open doors . The long conferences of the last throe or four days finally convinced a majority of the Republican Senators that while it would be good politics to reject the treaty , it would not do to kill it in secret session . The Western Senators were chiefly responsible for this change of opinion , although the unanimous public disapproval of the cowardly course as first proposed had its influence . The ' Western Senators have heard from their constituents - that it is feared in that section that if the treaty is rejected and Canada shouldagain annoy American fishermen the Administration might avail itself of its power to retaliate upon Canadian commerce with the United States . If that should be done , the constituents write , it might do great harm to some of the big Western railroad and other business interests , and rather than have that happen they would accept the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West would not be satisfied with a rejection of the treaty unless strong reasons could be given for such a step , and no reason would be regarded as strong that ' had to be hidden in the privacy of a secret session , There are too many railroad and corporation Senators among the Republicans to permit that party needlessly to alarm the Western railroad people , and the appeals of the latter were very effective . When , therefore , the matter of considering the treaty in public was taken up in the secret session to-day all but three Republicans voted to open the doors . The three were Messrs . gdmunds , Hale , and Sherman . Mr. Edmunds and Mr. Sherman had so often cracked the party whip over the shoulders of their colleagues that they could not consistently stand out against the party , and they finally voted with Riddleberger . Mr. Hale , alone of the Republicans , refused to favor publicity . The result of the vote showed that if the Maine Senator had voted with his party the resolution for open debate would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans , the Democratic Senators voted to a man against publicity , and Mr. Hale 's ballot gave them a majority of 1 in a total rote of 55 . Amazement hardly expresses the feeling of the Republicans when the Democrats changed front . Ever since the treaty was first submitted to the Senate the Democrats have talked - with apparent earnestness in favor of opening the doors . The moment the Republicans came over to their views they hurried the other way . No explanation of this change of position was given by the Democrats , and none of - them has even a plausible explanation to offer to-night . It is given out that some of them were so surprised at the-Republican vote for publicity that they feared it covered some deep design that would hurt the Democrats , and concluded to investigate the matter before joining their opponents . Others . it is declared , were never . anxious for open sessions , but thought it would ? be smart to put the Republicans . in- the attitude of cowards afraid to , tell why they were against.the treaty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is possible that a few do not like the treaty and would- like to work against it in secret , although they will feel constrained to support it before the public . Whatever may have been the cause or causes of their action , it is declared to-night by Republicans that the treaty will after all be discussed in public . It is asserted that Mr. Hall has been induced to join his colleagues . and that the vote of to-day will be reconsidered and reversed . If this is done , it is expected that most if not all of the Democrats will vote the same way , as they will not care to be left in the " hole " in which they thought they had caught the Republicans . " Deacon " S. V. White of New-York has not had very much to say in the House of Representatives since he found it advisable to explain certain statements about his mixing of stock speculation and . statesmanship. but he evidently is willing to be talked about again . Some of his colleagues are talking about him now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Deacon yesterday , which is regarded as proof that he possesses the necessary " cheek " to be a , . successful broker . Mr. White 's resolution in effect authorizes . the President to declare war against the Venezuelan Government , if necessary , to collect indemnity for certain damages suffered by the Venezuelan Steam Transportation Company when some of their vessels were seized by Venezuelan belligerents in 1871 . Mr. White is quite familiar with the history and standing of the various claims ' against Venezuela , for Mr. White has a part interest in some of those claims . Secretary of State Bayard regards some of these claims . as of such character as to warrant him in declining to pay on them the money deposited for that purpose by Venezuela until further investigation . Mr White is so anxious to see the claims paid that he has appeared as his own counsel in the United States Supreme Court in an effort to obtain a mandamus to compel the Secretary to distribute the funds in his possession . The Deacon is also credited with some knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the payment of 6 per cent . interest on claims against the Government . The authority of Congress to declare war upon Venezuela would probably be regarded . by . Deacon White as an excellent whip with which to drive that Government into consenting to pay all claims presented by Americans without a too critical examination into their merits . The never-ending conferences and . consultations on the tariff situation are going on to-night among the leaders of both parties , but the formal caucus of the . Republican Representatives , which was to be held to-night , appears to be off . Some of the Republican leaders are holding a quiet confab together , but there is no necessity for a caucus . It was decided without waiting for formal party action that the proposal to come to a direct vote on the Tariff bill without debating the items could not be accepted that the tariff discussion will go on for no body knows how long , and the session , will last - until those who are serving their first term will learn what Summer weather is in Washington . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate bill for the relief of L. J. Warden was laid before the Senate . The bill directs the allowance of $625 to Mr. Warden , recently Postmaster at . Lawrence , Kan. ; - for extra clerk hire from . July 1 , 1882 , to Juno 30 , 1883 . The grounds of the veto  --  are that . the - allowances to Postmasters for clerk hire are fixed . by the Post Office . Department ; that in this case$3,100 was allowed ; that applications for additional allowance were twice declined. ; that the expenses were therefore incurred . at : the Postmaster 's own risk , and that " the passage of special acts in such cases would have a dangerous tendency to encourage Postmasters to substitute their own jndgment'for . that of the department and to-relaxwholesome ' discipline . The President adds that the time allowed by the Constitution for the approval of billnempited in this case on the 19th inst. ; that the Senate adjourned from May 17 till May 21 ; that the message was drawn and . engrossed on the ** ? that on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of the ' Senate , who " declined declined to receive them ; that they were then tendered to the President of the Senate , who also dedined to receive them on the ground that - they could only be presented to the Senate in actual session , and that they were therefore transmitted as soon as the Senate convened yesterday ) with this explanation . Mr. Hoar ' remarked that the communication raised a very important constitutional question , to which the Senate should give its . careful consideration . He therefore moved its reference to the Committee on Privileges and Elections , which was agreed to . Democratic members of the House Cora. mittee on Rivers and Harbors are dismay &; by the changes made in the bill by tin Senate committee , and express an intentior to oppose most of those of importance . is asserted that the New-England appropri ations have been in many cases increase ( even beyond the estimates made by th engineer officers and those submitted by till department , while Southern items hav4 been ruthlessly cut . 