@@746030

txt It is believed that the man found dying in Doyle 's lumber yard , at Cologne and Quarry streets , Sunday morning , with an ugly wound in his forehead , and who did die at the County Hospital a few hours later was James M. Howard , a lawyer , of Valparaiso , Ind . This fact would have been discovered at the inquest yesterday had ' not a peculiarly idiotic Coroner 's jury inveatigated the case and declared that he had come to his death from causes unknown . The body was discoverd by a watchman early Sunday morning . It was lying in a nool of blood which had trickled from the wound in the forehead , and only a spark of life remained . Yesterday morning Ed Kowhenski , a watchman at a foundry near the lumber yard , read a description of the man found dying , and told Lieut . Shea that he was positive he saw the man just before 12 o'clock Saturday night . He was then in company with another man , and very much under the influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watchman , but as he seemed to bo under the guidance of his companion , who kept in the shade and turned his face away from the ' watchman , the latter let them pass and they went toward the lumber yard . Detective Bonfield took hold of the case and began an investigation . In the pockets of the dead man 's clothes he found railroad passes made out to J. M. Howard , Valparaiso  --  one over the Nickel Plate and another over the Chicago and Atlantic . That over the latter road read : " J. M. Howard , Lodal Attorney for Porter County , Ind . " There was also a street car transfer ticket in the clothes which showed that Howard had traveled on the Halstead-street line between 11 and 12 o'clock Saturday night . A dispatch from Valparaiso , Ind. , says that Howard left his home in that city Saturday morning to further his interests as an applicant for a position in the Pension Office in Washington . He had held the position of local attorney for the two roads for some time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were it not for an appetite for liquor would have had a largo practice . He had little money on his person when he left home . There is little reason to doubt that the man found in the lumber yard was Howard . It is supposed that his companion was some stranger with whom he had become acquainted , and that the latter lured the lawyer into the yard , struck him on the head with one of the coupling pins lying along the numerous railroad tracks runfling through the yard , and when the victim had fallen robbed him of what valuables he had . A coupling pin was found near the spot where Howard lay . The police hope to get a description of Howard 's companion from somebody who saW them in the street car , the lawyer being so greatly intoxicated as to attract attention to himself as well as to anybody in his company .                     