@@780936

txt James G. Blaine failed to make connection with the morning train fOr Augusta , the Washington express arriving an hour and a half late , and so he was detained here until early afternoon . He breakfasted at Young 's Hotel , and , being quickly recognized in the corridors , he was the centre of a crowd . He refused to talk politics with any one . " I am only on my way home with some of Senator Frye 's folks , " he said to those who pressed him for an interview . " I have absolutely nothing to say regarding the proceedings at Chicago . " He chatted pleasantly about his Tourney over from Washington and his pleasure in getting back to Maine , but skillfully avoided every reference to politics . He was looking well , and admirably maintained his part of an entirely disinterested observer of political movements out of politics and unconcerned about the outcome at Chicago . While in town he made several calls , one on Mrs. Eugene Hale , who is stopping at the Revere House . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did not expect to be nominated , and that the candidate would be a dark horse . AuousTA , Me. , Juno 3 . ? Mr. Blaine reached his home at 8 o'clock this evening . 1313 friends here telegriiphed him early in the day , in Boston , tendering a public reception , which ho at once declined . On his arrival here ho drove quietly and promptly to his home , reaching the carriage through a large crowd which bad assembled at the station to greet him . At many of the railway stations on thejournev large numbers of people had assembled to cheer him , but he declined to make any response except to raise his hat as he stood on the platform . It was noted with some interest that the demonstrations in Massachusetts were especially enthusiastic . At Salem the greeting was very cordial , and at Newburyport there was a perfect ovation . There is no truth in the report that a special telegraph wire has been placed in Mr. Blaine 's house , nor has he sent a telegram of any kind whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agent that rumors had been received of interviews with 11 ra in some of the afternoon papers of Boston at ki New-York , he said they were totally unautriori7ed . During his homeward journ .. v lie mad. , no expression whatever as to his own prospects or the prospects of any other candidate before the Chicago Convention , but , on the contrary , pointedly and repeatedly declined to do so . Mr. Blaine appears to be in excellent health and in the best or spirits .                     