@@781552

txt The English press is somewhat perturbed over intimations that at the coming Autumn session of Parliament the Parnellites will join the Tories in opposition to the Franchise bill . It is well enouth known that the motive is not hostility to the measure but a determination to force the Government to give attention once more to the wrongs of Ireland . The immediate object is to get rid of Earl SPENCER , the present Lord Lieutenant , and Mr. TREVELYAN , the Under Secretary , and the inciting cause is the recent revelation of an outrageous miscarriage of justice in the Maamtrasna murder case . Nothing has occurred in Ireland in recent years so calculated to renew the exasperation of feeling against the Castle authorities and the spirit of British rule in that unhappy isle . There seems to be little room for doubt that the execution of MILES JOYCE was a judicial murder perpetrated for the purpose of terrorizing the Maamtrasna section into submission to law . While the murder of the JOYCE family was the result of a feud , there had been agrarian outrages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give an exhibition of the stern enforcement of the law which would strike terror into the hearts of the peasantry . If the results of the inquiries of Mr. HARRINGTON , member of Parliament for Westmeath , are to be relied on , BOLTON , the prosecuting officer , with the countenan ce and support of the Castle authorities , . forced the testimony by threats and coercion for the conviction of MILES JOYCE , who was hanged , . and of four other men who are now in prison . ' This is a serious accusation against ; the administration of justice in Ireland , but there is said to be evidence aside from the recent confession of CASEY and PHILBIN , two of the suborned . witnesses , to prove that JOYCE and the other convicts were known to be innocent . Mr. GLADSTONE in his recent Midlothian speech claimed that , the administration of the Land act had the effect of " inducing the people for the first time to place confidence in the courts of justice , " but an instance like that in Maamtrasna will undo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Government can frame or Parliament enact . The strongest kind of representations were made at the time to induce Lord SPENCER to interpose between MILES JOYCE and the execution of the sentence against him , and since the confession of CASEY he has been asked to investigate the facts . He refused to interpose and he has ? refused to make further inquiry on the ground that it is unnecessary . He has been compelled to make an explanation , the gist of which is that JOYCE was not con-victed as a result of CASEY and PHILBIN 'S testimony , . but though this is accepted as conclusive by the Tory press it . has no effect in satisfying or quieting the feelings of the Irish people or their leaders . They believe , and apparently with good reason , that a judicial outrage was committed at Galway , and they are determined that Lord SPENCER must go . This it is that leads the Parnellites to force a new Irish question upon Parliament in the face of the Franchise bill . They are apparently becoming more and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Government to give attention to their grievances . At a recent meeting of the Irish National League in Dublin a resolution was adopted characterizing the refusal of Earl SPENCER to hold an inquiry in the case of MILES JOYCE as a " breach of public faith , " and denouncing as a farce " the Castle system of investigating into charges against officials by the criminated parties themselves . " On that occasion Mr. HEALY , member of Parliament , made a very pointed speech , to the effect that GLADSTONE virtually admitted that nothing short of violence and outrage would secure attention to the wrongs of Ireland . They were given to understand , said Mr. HEALY , that the British Parliament was absolutely deaf to argument and logic , and that the best trumpet to reach its ear was the mouth of a blunderbuss . " They might argue , they might speechify , they might assemble in their thousands , they might pass resolutions , they might send their representatives to Parliament , but not till the rattle of the slugs was heard on the roadside would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common grievances of their native land . " There is much truth in this representation of English imperviousness to Irish appeals , and it goes far to explain the resort to violence . It affords ample explanation of what would otherwise appear as the irrational tactics of the Irish party in Parliament . So long as it peaceably supports the Government party it gets nothing . The Franchise bill is the great measure of the Autumn session , and the Gladstone Government practically stakes its existence upon it , with the House of Lords against it . It wants all the strength and support it can muster , but the Irish contingent determines to join the Opposition because it can not hope otherwise to force attention to the delinquencies of the authorities of Dublin Castle or secure even an inquiry into the alleged judicial outrage of Maamtrasna.                     