@@780880

txt The death rate of smallpox for the past week was only 208 , against 273 for the previous week . In the suburbs , however , there were lit deaths , an increase of 13 ou the number of the previous week . A warrant was issued to-day , at the instance of the Mayor . to arrest the Hon. Mr. de is Brure. of St. Hyacinthe . Speaker of the Legislative Council and proprietor of the Courrier de St. Hyacinthe , on a charge of criminal and seditious libel for repeating the article in Le Mande assailing the Mayor . Le Monde publishes another vile attack on the Mayor in the form of an open letter . It says : " If the coward who tilts in the City Hall surrounded by soldiers and gems d'armes thinks he can frighten us he is mistaken . We laugn at his threats . We have condemned the violation of a man 's home . We have avenged paternal authority , cruelly outraged by the tyranny of the Mayor . We have denounced his conduct as shameful , cruel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order the policeman to fire on the mother and the father of the children whom he had stolen . The Mayor of Montreal , the first magistrate of the free city of Montreal , orders them to tire on a woman , a mother who is defending her children . Mr. Mayor , you are a coward : " The article closes by defying the Mayor , whom it accuses of having exceeded his powers , and offers him peace or war , leaving him to make the choice . The Free Press takes a sensible view or the situation . It says : " Le Monde says that Mayor Beaugrand is responsible for the death of Gagnon 's ohild ; but le he responsible for the deaths of the 2,50U little Children , for the 3,000 deaths which at the end of this week will have occurred during the smallpox plague ? Here is a massacre of the innocents which for hOrror and revolting rivals that of Bethlehem , and who are the Herods ? None other than journals like Le Monde and people like Its editor . The city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which she will not recover for at least half a decade . " Certain parties have been spreading the most ridiculous reports among the French Canadians to stir them against the health authorities . One of the stories told is to the effect that two sanitary officers entered an infected house , and when the mother of the sick child refused to allow it to be sent to a hospital pulled it out of her arms so roughly that the child was torn in two . TORONTO , Ontario , Nov. 7 . ? Another case of smallpox was discovered in the east end of the city to-day , making the eighth case here since the outbreak of the disease in Montreal . The patient , an 6-year-old boy , was removed to the hospital . The Lieutenant-Governor has issued an order that every individual in the service of the Province of Ontario be vaccinated forthwith .                     