@@745032

txt The state.of things brought to light in the Sheriff 's office by the recent investigation is nothing new , nor , except in degree of official turpitude , is it exceptional . It shows a phase of looseness and corruption in public administration which is of long standing and which has characterized what is called the Government of the city in most of its departments . Men have been nominated for such offices as that of Sheriff , County Clerk , and Register by corrupt factions of politicians , and elected by a combination of their forces with a distinct understanding that those offices were very profitable and could be made to yield a large amount of funds for political uses . This consideration was the chief one in determining the selection of men for the offices . It was well understood that the candidates should pay liberally for their nominations and contribute generously from their gains to the treasury of the factions to which they belonged . It was expected that they would make the best use of their opportunities for lining their pockets . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object when called upon to fix the " reasonable compensation " of the Sheriff for certain services , as it Was only assisting to draw upon the public funds for party uses . Mr. DAVIDSON found the system in vogue which he continued to work as it had been worked by his predecessors . He took it with all its abuses , and ' considering the school of politics in which he had been trained it was hardly to be expected that he would set himself to working reforms . He was not the kind of man for that and he was not put into the office for that purpose . Evidently he made no study of the requirements of the law affecting his office , for he felt no need of doing so . He did not inquire closely into the action of his subordinates , because they had long been regarded as entitled to their black-mailing perquisites . Probably Mr. DAVIDSON is no better and no worse than the politicians who had held the office before him , but he has the misfortune to be exposed in his iniquity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running through the community , and he stands a startling chance of being brought under the penalties of wrong-doing from which others have escaped . It is an evidence of the utter demoralization into which the public affairs of this city have fallen that the Sheriff and his friends find it hard to understand that he should be treated as criminal . That he has appropriated to himself money that did not belong to him seems to be beyond doubt . He has made charges for services never performed and collected fees not authorized by law , and he has conducted Ludlow-Street Jail in a mariner that is a disgrace to a civilized community . And yet he apparently regards himself as an honest and well-meaning man , who never looked upon the transactions of his office in the light of theft or black-mail or even of official misdemeanor . Honest , prudent , and conscientious discharge of a public trust is something that probably never occurred to him in connection with the position he holds . But the ingrained lack of conscientious scruples and the callousness to every consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates have been trained have grown out of the conditions of politics in this city , and , unfortunately for them , find no recognition in the laws affecting the public service . That they are incapable of a sense of humiliation or shame does not lessen the ignominy of their conduct . Theft of public funds and misdemeanor in office are offenses not dependent on the sensitiveness of those charged with them and not extenuated by the fact that they have become common or customary . The case against the Sheriff as presented in charges before the Governor is much broader than that based on certain specific offenses in the indictment of the Grand Jury . If those charges are substantiated , and thus far there appears to be no chance even of mitigating them , he should be removed without delay . Apart from the results " of a trial in court , he has been shown unworthy of the trust confided to him , as any one of his recent predecessors might have been if brought to book- . There is no question that the case in court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future depends very largely on the manner in which the dereliction now exposed is dealt with .                     