@@743629

txt In the United States Court to-day the case of the United States against James A. Hedden , the Cashier of the suspended First National Bank of Newark , was resumed . In opening the proceedings Judge Nixon asked if ho was right in his interpretation of the ground on which the Government stands , namely , that the statement of April.23 does not correspond with the books of the bank , and that though some of the statements correspond with similar statements in the books , they are false owing to the falseness of these items in the books . Mr. Keasby resumed his argument for the prosecution . Ho wished to call the attention of the jury especially to the question whether or not the defendant was cognizant of , or acquainted with , the falseness of the statement made by him , and if he was so acquainted . then it would naturally follow that the defendant intended to defraud and deceive the Directors and stockholders . In a national bank a statement was made out daily , and it would be impossible for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cashier . For to the Cashier , and not to the Teller , did Donaldson every morning submit his statement of the business for the preceding day . If any errors occurred the cashier must recognize it , and , if recognizing it , he disapproved such errors and knew them to be intentional . ho had only to dismiss the dishonest book-keeper . But no he did not dismiss that book-keeper , because that man was acting in accordance with the wishes of the Cashier hi self . It had been asked why the prosecution did not bring Thomas , the Teller , before the court , who , it was alleged , was the guilty one . The evidence showed that the statements were explained , not by Thomas alone , but by Thomas and ? Hedden together . Mr. Neasby called attention to the law governing the case , but was interrupted by the court and Mr. Robeson , both of whom entered into a discussion of the various points and technicalities of the indictment about which both sides very positively agreed to disagree . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Roheson 's interruptions , which became frequent . Ho said the false report had injured the stockholders , the depositors , including the city of Newark , which had put in $50.000 . He then took up the letter which was written by Hedden to Thomas . and contended that it helped to establish the guilt of the defendant still more strongly . He contended that the abandonment of defense by Redden was a confession . Judge Nixon said that the law of this court was that the jury should not infer the guilt of the defendant because he did not go on the defense himself , but at the same time it was also the law that when counsel for the defense concluded to call no witnesses , then that was a subject of fair comment for the District Attorney . After the recess Judge Nixon charged the jury . He cautioned the jury against assuming the guilt of the prisoner from the fact that he did not appear as a witness . While the law allowed a person to be a competent witness in his own behalf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witness should not create any presumption against him . Nor should he be prejudiced if his counsel take the responsibility of going before the jury with the case as the witnesses for the Government made and left it . The prisoner was not on trial for embezzlement , but for making false entries in the report to the Controller , with intent to injure the bank . The first charge in the indictment , that the statement in the report was false , had been admitted by the defense . The main question for the jury to consider was whether the prisoner knew the falsity of the report , and signed it with guilty intent . If the jury concluded that he knew the report to be false , such guilty intent was , by law , to be inferred . After an absence of two hours the jury came in with a verdict of guilty . Hedden changed color , and his mother and wife burst into tears . it The court adjourned until to-morrow morning . 