@@744280

txt Among the most reprehensible of scientific practices is that of palming off miscellaneous animals upon a trusting cat under the false pretense that they are her private kittens . This sort of thing has been done many times , and always with the result of inflicting great mental distress upon the cat ; but the most recent instance of trifling with the holiest feelings of a family eat is , upon the whole , the most cruel of which we have any record . A cat residing in the family of Mr. B. H. Cutter , the distinguished zoologist of Dedham , Mass. , became the happy mother of six healthy kittens early last September . About the same time Mr. Cutter came into possession  --  presumably by kidnapping ? of two infant red squirrels . With true scientific malevolence , the zoologist drowned two of his cat 's helpless kittens , and substituted for them the two young squirrels , and then proceeded to chronicle in his note-book the result of this wicked meddling with his cat 's domestic relations . At first the cat appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played upon her . She treated the squirrels precisely like the rest of her family , and although she took pains to prevent them from being imposed upon by the larger and more greedy kittens , it evidently did not occur to her that they were not her own legitimate offspring . The first evidence that Mr. Cutter perceived of any mental distress on the part of the cat was obtained when the squirrels were about 3 months old . At that time the cat discovered that there was something wrong about their tails . Those appendages , being bushy , presented the appearance which a cat 's tail presents in moments of strong excitement . Mr. Cutter 's cat could not rid herself of the conviction that the state of the squirrels ' tails was due either to fright or anger , , and whenever she returned to the family cot in the garret , after a temporary absence , and noticed the two bushy tails , she instantly searched the garret for a supposed enemy , firmly convinced that some one had been frightening her kittens . She left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' tails , either by calming their minds or by operating directly upon the tails themselves , but her efforts were in vain , and the mental anxiety which she suffered preyed perceptibly upon her health . It appears that the rumor that Mr. Cutter 's cat possessed two extraordinary kittens had spread among the local cats , for the very first day that she took her young family into the back yard no less than six cats climbed over the fence and with derisive yells attacked the squirrels . The latter sought safety in a tree , and their indignant foster-mother fought the intruders with great fierceness . Even after the six cats were put to flight , they paused on the top of the fence , and in the most unfeeling manner ridiculed Mr. Cutter 's cat and her bushy tailed kittens . As the squirrels declined to come down from the tree , the cat was forced to ascend and bring them down in her mouth , and Mr. Cutter , who , with his heartless notebook and pencil , watched her from an upper window , remarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first attempt at weaning the squirrels was conspicuously unsuccessful . The excellent cat , having caught a plump young mouse , brought it to her family and explained that henceforth mice would take the place of milk as the steady diet of the kittens . The two young squirrels refused to touch the mouse , and looked on with surprise and disgust ; while their fellow-kittens devoured It . The same uncat-like want of interest in bones was shown by them a few hours later , and when , on the following day , the squirrels refused fish , the cat threw herself down on the floor and wept bitterly . If this much-suffering cat was pained by the refusal of the choicest delicacies of the table by her two squirrels , she was still more pained when she found them sitting on their respective hind legs and devouring hickory-nuts . She promptly knocked them over with a blow of her paw , and , requesting them never to let her see them eating in so improper a position again , demanded to know what they meant by ruining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food as hickory-huts . But in spite of the cat 's entreaties and commands ; the squirrels persisted in eating hickory-nuts and nothing else , and the cat , unable any longer to withstand the conviction that she was the mother of a pair of little monsters , lost all her spirits and gresV thin day by day . One moonlight night the squirrels were led out to the roof of the ' kitchen , where the cat undertook to give them a lesson in singing . They would not sing a note , and when they were cuffed for their obstinacy by their indignant foster-mother they chattered in a way that really frightened her . The climax of their misconduct was reached when they refused to return from the roof to the garret , but fled to the apple tree , where they took up their abode in a knothole the entrance to which was so small that the cat could only thrust one paw into it . In this tree the squirrels continued to live , utterly heedless of the cat , who would sit all day long at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tree and pour out the passionate sorrow of her broken heart in strains that elicited bottles and boot-jacks from the entire neighborhood . At the end of a month Mr. Cutter missed her voice in the early morning , and after breakfast he found her lying stiff and lifeless on the ground , the victim of the coldness and ingratitude of the squirrels . Mr. Cutter seems to think that in playing this despicable trick upon a respectable cat he has done something of which he has a right to be proud . Verily the tender mercies of the scientist are cruel , but when Mr. Cutter reads his paper on " Cats and Squirrels " before the Massachusetts Zoological Society , it is to be hoped that at least one zoologist will . be found who will characterize such heartless conduct as it deserves . 