@@743449

txt Now that the adjournment of Congress has been indefinitely postponed , the amateur legislators Of that body should contrive a penal statute to enforce the circulation of silver dollars . Nothing short of this will ever satisfy the gentlemen who are in despair over the failure of silver to circulate . Of course , Congressmen must be exempt from this tyranny . Congressmen , as a rule , have a happy faculty for binding heavy burdens for other men 's shoulders and escaping from all the labor of carrying any themselves . Members of Congress receive a salary of $41.6 per month . In silver this tidy sum would weigh about seven pounds and a half . Let us imagine Gen. EWING , or Mr. BLAND , or the Miltonic poet from Wyoming , Mr. DOWNEY ' , lugging home this burdensome amount of silver coin , once a month . No Congressman , however enthusiastic he may be in his advocacy of unlimited silver coinage , has ever manifested the least desire to take his salary in this kind of currency . The dear people must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House has just attached to the Sundry Civil bill , which appropriates more than $20,000,000 , a proviso commanding that all disbursements made under its authority shall be in standard silver dollars . The amateur legislators , doubtless , thought they had done a smart thing by their adoption of what may be called a compulsory law of circulation . To say that Congress may compel the people to take a species of money which they do not want is to say that Congress may legislate for a regulation of the laws of supply and demand . The amateur legislators insist that they know what the people want better than the people do . It is told of a frontier whisky-seller , whose primitive arrangements allowed but one sort of liquor at his bar , that a " tenderfoot " from the Eastern States drew near his fount and loftily inquired for a " sherry cobbler . " The dealer looked at him with wrath and contempt , and , reaching under the bar for his revolver , presented it full in the face of his customer , with the remark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is what you 'll get . " But some people never do know what they want . ? ... Congress should assume the attitude of the frontier caterer . The people timidly ask for gold , greenbacks , national bank notes , or silver certificates . Congress declares that what they really hanker after is silver in dollars . Singularly enough , this has never been followed up by a presentation of the pistol at the head of the citizen who prefers something else . Various compulsory devices have been resorted to ; but in vain . The silver accumulates in the Treasury vaults until the authorities are at their wits ' end to devise storage-room for it . Complaint is made that the Secretary of the Treasury does not make an earnest effort to put the silver dollars into circulation . Then , again , there are those who say ? that silver can not get into general circulation as long as there is a law authorizing holders thereof to change them into Certificates of deposit in sums of $20 or upward . At first blush this would seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coin which the amateur legislators have so long and vainly desired- - to see . It is plain that an intelligent American citizen , of average muscular strength , and with ordinary carrying . cairncity as to trouser pockets , would sooner put five pieces of paper , worth twenty silver dollars each into his wallet than burden himself with one hundred silver dollars . Never theless , Congress keeps on the books a statute allowing the citizen to take paper certificates in lieu of silver coins , and yet finds fault with him because he does not prefer the metal to the paper . It is a perverse generation .. Since Congress refuses to repeal the law giving the creditor of the Government option between silver and silvercertificates , and men persist in choosing the latter and refusing the former , rigorous measures must be adopted . Otherwise , silver will not get into general circulation . No amount of resolutions and expression of Congressional opinion will legislate the silver dollars out of the Treasury vaults . It is clear , therefore , that we must resort to compulsion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government ? as represented by the amateur legislators ? does know . And , as a wise and strong parent takes his child by the nose and pours down his reluctant throat the unpalatable medicine that is bound to do him good , so a paternal Government should force upon its reluctant citizens the silver which they have thus far steadily refused to take . The laws of the United States may be enforced by the Army and Navy . Shall it be said that the Republic , having invented a beautiful silver dollar , receivable for public dues , is unable to compel its citizens to accept and circulate this coin ? To be sure , the Government may be said to be inconsistent in forcing the silver dollar on the people while it allows them to change dollars for paper certificates . But Governments are not bound to be consistent . If the amateur legislators *ere to repeal the law authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to issue silver certificates and requiring him to keep the silver dollars ou hand to redeem the certificates , the creditors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether they liked it or riot . But this would be consistent , and consistency is objectionable , if not impossible . It remains , therefore , that silver must be forced upon the people , at the point of the bayonet if need be . Gen. EWING , in his large and generous way , says that if the Treasury persists in its high-handed course of hoarding silver there will be a rebellion . We have heard something like this before . But there is a wide-spread belief that rebellion is played out . If Gen. EWING and the amateur legislators really want to test the temper of the people , let them compel them to take unexchangeable silver dollars for currency and go to market with a hand-cart.                     