@@743692

txt One of the most daring attempts to break away from Sing Sing Prison was made at 4:30 o'clock thisafternoon . Frank Walsh , James Snyder , and Patrick Hallick , three convicts employed in the shoe shop , just as they were about to be formed in line by their keeper , H. a Roberts , to march to their cells , broke from the ranks and ran through the gate in the iron fence along the river front of the prison . They jumped off the pier into the ice , and made a dash for Croton Point , about two miles away . They were seen by Officer Edward Nolan , on guard on the pier , who ordered them to halt . They keeping on , he aimed at the foremost man and fired . The man dropped dead on tho ice , about 50 feet from the pier , with a bullet through his lungs . The other convicts , ' seeing their comrade fall , stopped , and running hack took their places in the ranks . Several guards then went out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prison . Frank Walsh was sentenced Sept. 21 , 1880 , for burglary in the first degree and i.etit larceny to 20 ' years ' imprisonment , from Kings County . He was 24 years old , and had served three terms in the Kings County Penitentiary . He is the brother of the man Walsh . who cut the throat of a woman in Brooklyn last week . Patrick Halleck was sentenced by Judge Sutherland June 12 , 1877 , to 15 years ' imprisonment for robbery in the first degree , from New York , and this is his second term . He is 28 years old . James Snyder was sentenced Feb. 22 , 1877 , to 10 years ' imprisonment , for burglary in the first degree , by Judge Ingalls , and is 28 years of age . Snyder and Hallick are the two convicts who last . August made an ingenious but unsuccessful attempt to escape from the prison by cutting a hole through 8 feet of solid stone masonry in the back of their cell to the ventilator , with the hopes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an easy road to liberty . They had been digging at this for eight months . Walsh , the convict who was killed , had been punished only once by being put in a davit cell , and was generally regarded as a good prisoner . Warden Brush thinks the guard entirely justified in shooting the man . Coroner Ackerman arrived at the prison this evening , impaneled a jury , and will hold an inquest Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock . Warden Brush says ho has known that these three convicts had formed a plan to make their escape from the prison , but could not  --  ascertain in what marine : ? nor when they intended to put it in operation , and therefore was not surprised when they made their break this afternoon .                     