@@745424

txt As Jesse Grant and his little daughter were coming down the steps for a walk yesterday , afternoon several men on the sidewalk , gathering opposite the General 's house , lifted their hats . There were 30 or 40 people in the gathering , and every face was upturned . The child watched them curiously until she reached the sidewalk , and then raising her head she followed the gaze of the crowd to the library window . " There 's grandpa , " she exclaimed , and breaking from her father 's hold she put both bands to her mouth and sent a kiss flying toward the occupant of ' the window . The General nodded and waved a hand to her . Several times within the next half hour the General turned his library walk toward the window . Probably altogether a hundred persons saw . him . He was dressed and looked as on Saturday afternoon . Word quickly spread about the neighborhood that be had been seen , and all the rest of the day a good-sized crowd ganed from the opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street only once more . Then it was from the wineow in his sleeping room that looks out on the park , and not 20 persons saw him . The family and doctors thought the day was one of improvement . It followed a fairly good night , in which there had not been ctftitinuous sleep , but the average mount in the aggregat.l . A mistake of the nurse in giving the General coffee at the wrong tune was assiaiicrl as a cause of much of his wakefulness . Morphia was injected to offset the effect . In the morning the General walked about as of late . talking at will and without special discorrifort . He said he felt his strength coming back , and he spent considerable time in reading his papers . About 3 o'clock in the afternoon , feeling weary , he lay on the bed and slept for an hour . This was the first time he had slept lying lint for a fortnight . He was well covered un and slept , soothed by the fresh air from an open window in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little , and then , going to the library table , signed his name to several copies of William Edgar Marshall 's engraving of him . The signature was made in each instance with the vigor and sweep of full health . In the matter of medical attendance the case returned yesterday to first principles . There was a full consultation of doctors in the afternoon . but it did not last long , and when it was over Dr. Shrady said he did not expect to return until Wednesday , Dr. Douglas remaining in sole charge . As in the eatlier months of the treatment , Dr. Shrady explained that he would bold himself in readiness for it sudden call , but that he expected none . This confidence in the present stability of the improvement had decided the doctors also to have no further consultation , unless in an emergency , for a week . Dr. Douglus said he would submit himself to the General 's wishes in respect to attendance . He would stay all night it the General wished it : if ! eft to act for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he would call two or three times a day , but go home at night . The General felt so easy last night that Dr. Douglas at first decided to go home , but be yielded to a request of Mrs. Grant that he should remain in the house . Cyrus W. Field was yesterday 's first caller . Sidney Dillon , Gen. McClellan . S. B. Elkins , Gen. Alexander S. Webb , and Isaac H. Bailey were among the other callers . The only bulletin yesterday was after the consultation and was as follows : 2P . M. -- At the consultation held* at this hour Drs . Barker , Sands , Slirady , and Douglas were Present . Gen. Grant was found to be in an improved condition , both general and local , as compared with the last statement . The physicians in attendance are and have been in entire agreement concerning the management of this case . The evening passed very quietly . Just before dark the General showed himself at the library window . The opposite sidewalk was pretty well packed , and there was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared Quite a demonstration occurred . bats coining off and women waving their handkerchiefs . The General was evidently much pleased and saluted frequently in response . Later , when the shades were drawn , the family gathered in the library for an hour or so . Dr. Newman and Senator Stanford called about 9 o'clock . They went into the parlor where some et the family were instead of going up stairs . In it few minutes the General entered the parlor . He had trudged down stairs under the impression that Mrs. Stanford was one of the caller : . Discovering his mistake he at once went up stairs in the elevator . The General had retired at 11 o'clock , when dim lights burned only in the library and in Col. Grant 's room .                     