@@781172

txt Congress should find time notwithstanding the great pressure of important business crowding its calendars , to give attention to such a measure as Mr. Hardenbergh 's bill to prevent the importation of adulterated teas . This bill was introduced on Dec. 19 and referred to the Committee on Ways and Means . It is short , its two pages and five sections providing that after July 1 , 1883 , it shall be unlawful to import or bring into the United States any adulterated tea . All tea is to be examined before passing the Custom-house , to ascertain its quality and purity , and with reference to its value and identity as specified iu the invoice . Teas found to be adulterated must be reshipped or de , troyed . When Mr. Hardenbergh introduced the bill he presented a petition or memorial ' with it . signed by many prominent importers of teas in New-York and elsewhere , A. A. Low &; Brother , John Caswell &; Co. , Hewlett &; Torrance , Carter , Hawley &; Co. , Busk &; Jevons , and other equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth that England , several years ago , enacted a law prohibiting the importation of all adulterated teas , the exclusion applying to all teas of inferior grades whose chemical properties are injurious to health . The markets of the United States are overnocked with this refuse and with tea dregs from China and Japan . Of the yearly Importation of tea , which is 80,000,000 pounds , 20 per cent . is too inferior for healthy consumption , and objectionable in every sense . . The yearly consumption of tea in the United States , say the petitioners , is about 65 , - 000,000 pounds , and . with the exclusion of the adulterated tea , there would be sufficient good tea to supply all the needs of the people . since England has prohibited the importation of this stuff , it has been dumped into the United States . In 1880 80,195 packages were refused clearance for home use in England , and 0,225 packages wore condemned es unfit for use . In - 1861 44,443 packages were forbidden entry , and wore exported , part . of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty ceased on Jan. 1 . 1883 , undoubtedly more of , if not all , this rubbish may be sent to America from China , where it may be ' treed into the country by auction sales and palmed off as good to the poorer people , For these reasons legislative prohibition is asked . The Ways and Means Committee , to whose attention the bill was yesterday directed by Representative Waldo Hutchins and Mr. James R. Davies for the tea merchants of New-York , referred the bill to Mr. Randall as a sub-committee . By direction of the committee the bill was sent to the Secretary of the Treasury , in order that he might have an opportunity to make suggest ions for perfecting it in harmony with existing regulations . Mr. Hutchins and Mr. Hardenbergh will look after the bill in the House , if the committee decide to report it .                     