@@781317

txt Ferry seems not to have been seriously wounded , despite last night 's pessimistic bulletins . All the same , the attempt on his life has made him , for the moment , a far bigger figure than Carnot , the new President . People to-night are saying that it is a great pity , if he had to be shot at , that the thing was not done a day or two before the congress , when his election would.have been certain . Although the Republique Frun guise and all the reactionary papers talk about the necessity or suspending the press laws and muzzling the lanterne , 1211ransigeanle , and the rest of the pack of Anarchist sheets , no such thing is likely to be seriously proposed . It is said late to-night that Tirana 's new Ministry will not last out the week . On Friday next painters , sculptors , and engravers are to meet at Versailles , just like their political elders , to select 90 members who are to enjoy for the next three years the doubtful pleasure.of taking charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a great noise in the studios . No painting will be done until after that date , and in the schools and studios the daily discussions almost degenerate to blows . It must be understood that these 90 to be elected vote for the Salon Jury , numbering 40 , who preside over the destinies of medal giving and the luck of Salon admission . Moreover , the 40 members of the Salon Jury usually belong to the 90 . M. Frappe  --  the name is significant  --  is going to take a strong hand at the meeting , representing , as he states , a large majority of the French artists , and he means to insist that all votes on Salon admission and all medal votes shall be signed ; that one-halt of the jury of 90 shall be reelected each year , and that all votes signed shall be officially published . It appears that several members of the actual Administration of Ninety have signed a petition on these points . Among them are Roll , Duer , and Gervex . The campaign is especially airected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Messrs . Bouguereau , Lefebvre , Sony , Robert , Fleury , and Boulanger . Universal suffrage rules the election of both the Ninety and the Forty , and every French man , woman , or child who has ever sent a pencil sketch or a porcelain plaque to the Salon has a right to his or her opinion and voice . Here lies the knot of the situation . As every one wants to get in - the Salon they write to a member of the Forty . The appeal is always replied to courteously , at the expense of the administration , and the Forty are reelected , in spite of the chagrin of the disappointed ones , who hope for better luck next time , and who dare not , anyway , lose a friend in power . It is here that is centred the great preponderating influence of Juliau 's studio . This brings the names and personalities of Bouguereau , Lefebvre , Fleury , and Boulanger into power . This group governs all things , including the medal of honor , which this year will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisest plan would be to give no medals or any sort of recompense at the exhibition . Once this effort was made , and it was defeated almost unanimously . The people say far too much encouragement is given to artists at these exhibitions . Half the hors contours and medals are never heard of outside the little artistic world , While dozens of artists are familiar to the art lovers of the universe who never exhibited and who could not be induced to do so , under the present jurisdiction at least . Patti 's concert gave 32,000f. to the French Hospital in London . She leaves to-day for Lisbon to appear in " Traviata . " Here her dresses were made by the same house patronized by Bernhardt . The white satin train , covered with eamellias , its fleecy soft tulle front with fringes of pearls and silver thread , for the first act of Verdi 's score , is superb . In the second act she will wear a Louis XVL house dress , made of satin , covered with gauze , embroidered in all colors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ green . The white dress in the third act is embroidered with forget-me-nots and velvet roses . The train is looped with clusters of the same , of artistical splendor . Her dress for " Lucia " is white and green satin , embroidered in pearls . Silver tulle is set aside for " Il Puritani ; " for " Crispino " yellow satin ; for " Rigoletto " pate blue corded silk ; for " The Barber of Seville " shrimp velvet , with black lace ; for " LaktnO " white embroidered cr  --  pe de chine . All the jewels were made here in heavy gold . For " Traviata " the diva had three sets of jewels reset . She is to slug in Madrid and Lisbon until April , when she goes to Rio Janeiro . A further set of home toilets Is to be exhibited this week by Morin , prior to being packed for South America .                     