@@744077

txt The Executive Committee of the Independent Republicans , better known as the Continental Conference Committee , from its organization at the Continental Hotel some time ago , will issue tomorrow a long address to the Republicans of Pennsylvania , which begins by saying : " We address you in the interest of this political organization to which we are alike attached , and whose continued supremacy in both State and Nation we alike desire . " The address calla attention to the party 's past achievements , and asserts that a great majority of the voters of Pennsylvania are thoroughly and earnestly Republican in their views and sympathies , but says : " While this is true , it is equally manifest that their party allegiance bas been weakened , and that discontent and dissatisfaction prevail . We need no other evidence of this than the fact than at the last general election over 40,000 Republicans refused their support to the party 's candidate , or gave it to another , while still asserting their devotion to Republican principles , and their earnest desire for the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to be disguised , nor indeed can it be . Repeated instances of our State Conventions violently disregarding the popular preference in candidates and assuming powers which did not rightfully belong to them , at the dictation of a few , are fresh in your recollection . This subserviency , it is true , was followed by your just indignation , but only to be repeated by sueeeding conventions . The result is before you in the last election . Whether the existing grievances and abuses justi ? fled such action , or.whether such action was the best method to correct them , it is no part of our purpose to inquire . It was the protest ? tithe men who madelt , and they alone are responsible for it . Others equally sincere in their condemnation preferred other remedies . It is not our business to approve or censure . All we desire and seek to accomplish is restored harmony , a united party , and better methods . These can be secured in no other way than by the removal of all just cause of complaint . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future must have , a sure and speedy deliverance front the tyranny of personal dictation . The policy of proscription and punishment for those who dare to oppose the rule of an oligarchy must be abandoned . The popular will must be consulted and respected , and the power of the party he used for higher purposes than the bestowal of offices upon unworthy favorites and dependents . That so much can be accomplished by proper effort , without resorting to revolutionary methods , we do not doubt . " The occasion is at hand for you to redeem your party or increase its peril . A State Convention will soon be called to place in nomination candidates for high and important offices . Shall that convention be composed of men who can and will , despite the solicitation and influence of centralized power , reflect your wishes and be true to the best interests of the party , or shall it be composed of those whose sense of political duty is obedience to personal rule and peaceful submission to its extravagant exaction ? It is for you to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and county conventions so it must be . Our only purpose in thi4 address is to call your attention to the magnitude of the evils which exist , the extreme danger in which they have placed our party , and to urge you to exert yourselves in the only way which promises relief or safety . We have no interest in the matter except tiutt which we share in common with all who desire the success of the party for the common good . In that cause we enjoin upon you the importance of making the next State Convention a thoroughly representative body of the Republicans of the Commonwealth . The just sense of the party demands , and has a right to demand , that the delegates shall come from the people through the legitimate local representative conventions , and that the State Convention shall be held at a time which will permit the fair , full , and deliberate expression of the party will . Without making any personal warfare , we are enlisted in a campaign against the arbitrary and debasing methods that have divided and weakened a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaking we appeal to you for your earnest and active co-operation . " This is signed by John Stewart , J. M. W. Geist , William , S. W. Pennypacker , William T. Davies , Thomas W. Phillips , Hugh S. Fleming , and J. W. Lee .                     