@@781695

txt The year now closing may very possibly be the last of more than one famous career in the Old World . In strong contrast to the Napoleonic period , when England had a Premier of 23 and France a ruler of 32 , Europe 's present chiefs are all on the very brink of the grave . Prince GORTSCHAKOFF , at S2 , has still a senior in the Emperor WILLIAM . Lord BEACONSFIELD is within a month of 75 , Mr. GLADSTONE barely five years younger . The Czar is in his sixty-third year , Prince BISMARCK in his sixty-second . FRANCIS JOSEPH of Austria and his ex-Premier , Count ANDRASSY , though the youngest of this group of veterans , have alreaay lived longer than the average of European sovereigns or statesmen . In a word , the only political leader of Europe who can fairly be called young is M. GAMBETTA . Under such circumstances it is only natural to speculate upon the possible consequences of the sudden removal of one or more of these veteran actors in the world 's drama . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect would be far slighter than many suppose . The days are past when the subtraction of one life , like that of GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS , in 1632 , or that of the Czarina ELIZABETH , in 1762 , could change the whole history of Europe . Wore the two great English partisans to carry out their long threatened retirement , others would be found to continua their warfare . Were FRANCIS JOSEPH and his former Minister swept from the scene together it would neither advance nor retard the progressive absorption by the Hungarian ivy of what little life still lingers in the decaying Austrian oak . Were the Czar to abdicate or the German Emperor to die to-morrow , Russia and Germany would probably remain substantially as they are , for the sufficient reason that both Czar and Kaiser are , so to speak , mere sleeping partners in the national firm . Ever since 1862 it is not ALEXANDER II . but GORTSCHAKOFF who has constituted Russia ; it is not WILLIAM I. but BISMARCK who has constituted Germany . The sudden death of either of the two great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , but of a diametrically opposite kind . Germany , like a released spring , would probably shoot up at once to the point whence she was forced in 1849 . Russia would be checked in her course of progress , and dragged back by those political garroters who call themselves " Russian Conservatives " into the obsolete barbarism of the days of NICHOLAS . But such a revulsion could not last . In the face . of Germany 's recent triumphs and Russia 's unparalleled misfortunes , few men would dare to pronounce the latter in the more promising condition of the two . Yet such is actually the case . Germany , while winning victories and overthrowing Empires , has been all the while paralyzing her inner life by restoring the military despotism of FREDERICK the Great . Russia , struggling against war without and treason within , scourged by famine and disease , devoured by official vampires , vacillating between free trade and protection , with a constant side glance at America to see which will prevail there , has advanced in spite of all . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear stationary , halts , breaks down , crushes her roadway , but advances nevertheless . Germany , again , like a stone rolling down hill , bounds , plunges , overleaps all obstacles , but only to fall lower and lower . For the last 15 years , in'short , Germany has brilliantly gone wrong and Russia clumsily gone right . It is the curse of successful despots to be blind to the fact that there are things which they can not do , and BISMARCK is no exception to the rule . Like his prototype , FREDERICK , he has trampled on the laws of national development and political economy , and the result is seen in Socialist meetings and overcrowded emigrant ships . Meanwhile , Gen. MELIKOFF , masking instead of obtruding his own personality , is quietly working his way through slander , intrigue , threatened murder , toward the attainment of popular freedom . At this moment Russia and Germany represent two different stages of military despotism . Germany is maintaining and strengthening her Army as an instrument of popular coercion , on the flimsy pretext @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same experiment , and tried it in vain . In both cases the very means employed by despotism to attain its end have been foremost in defeating it . By penning together in semi-idleness thousands of energetic men , the Government has favored that free interchange of ideas which is the dread of all absolute rulers . In the heat of warfare the soldier is a soldier and nothing else . But when cooped up in barracks with little to do , and hearing one comrade tell how he was snatched from a thriving business , and another how he was forced to leave his betrothed on the eve of their wedding-day , he begins to feel that he , too , is a man with sympathies and grievances like those whom he is trained to coerce . When once the Army and the people regain that sense of common interest which the creation of standing armies destroyed two centuries ago , the sword-sceptre will be broken forever .                     