@@744502

txt One of the schemes of the Democratic Party which are believed on good grounds to be in process with the present Legislature is the entire reconstruction of the present Board of Education of this City . Our readers will remember that we have always freely criticised the methods and manage , ment of the present Board of School Trus ' tees . We have thought , and still think , that they have made a serious mistake in throwing so much expenditure on " higher education " and neglecting the interests of the most ignorant classes . And yet we do not agree in the extreme view that the public authorities have no right to expend money raised by taxation on " higher education . " It is simply a question of expediency . In a population like ours , where there are such great extremes of condition , and an ever-increasing discontent among the very poor at the good fortune of the very rich , all wise and legitimate means of " distribution " of equalizing the advantages of the needy and ignorant with those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Who can say how much communism has been prevented in this country simply by the openings which our country schools and colleges have offered to the child of the laborer and the poor man ? Therefore , if this City could afford it , we would be glad to have the chance of a college education offered at public expense to the son of the poorest and most ignorant , provided he had the requisite intelligence to appreciate it . But the simple fact is , we cannot. afford it . We are weighted with debt . We can not afford luxuries in public education . For this reason we have , in company with many of our citizens , opposed the present policy of the Board of Education in regard to the City College and similar branches . But this does not mean that we would have the constitution of the board changed . - We believe , on the contrary , that this has been a remarkably faithful and efficient branch of our public service . Common sense would call on us not to change what has served us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a city like ours in any radical change of our educational leaders . It is an open secret that our school system is always in peril of falling at any moment into the hands of the most bigoted and ignorant portion of our community . For instance , suppose that the Legislature should enact that the members of the board should be elected by the people in each election district , and then that the Democratic and Irish Catholic politicians should conclude it would be for their interest to control the School Trustees and so the supplies of school material , the contracts for school buildings and the choice of teachers . There would be endless petty jobbery ; books bought and material ordered to fill the pockets of some pot-house politician ; Irish Catholic teachers appointed in each to gratify some ward leader , and possibly women of more doubtful character put over our children as teachers , to reward some notorious political leader . Then , under such a system , carried out by the most ignorant party hacks of the . City , we should soon see  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this City  --  a bitter excitement of religious bigotry aroused between Roman Catholics and Protestants in regard to popular education . Some schools would become papistical academies , and others as bigoted Qalvinistic seminaries . The Catho-. lic poor would become more ignorant and bigoted under their own religious teachers , and the Protestant children would grow as bitter in prejudice as are the Orangemen 's now against those of the opposite creed . This would be an extremely undesirable state of things In a city like New-York . It is very important in this motley population not to arouse sectarian controversies . It is Lir the highest public welfare that the children of Roman Catholics should be educated in the public schools , and that the schools should remain as unsectarian as they are at the present time . The Board of Education have managed this matter thus far with great discretion ; there are here and there Catholic teachers in the schools ; the Secretary of the board itself is a Catholic , yet , so far as we are aware , there has been no effort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Catholic masses are contented with the schools , and though the priests sometimes protest , on the whole the public schools of the City are extremely popular with all sects . The Trustees themselves , so far as we know , have never been accused of peculation or jobbery ; they do a great deal of important public service without pecuniary emolument ; many of them are men of high character and intelligence , and thus far they have deserved well of the City . The leading officials of the board , the Superintendent and Assistant Superintendents , are men of excellent ability and character , and it would be a public disaster if their places were filled by the favorites of ward politicians . The course of public instruction has been recently improved to meet the new demands of the time , and though our City schools may not be up , to the standard of the best New-England schools , they are certainly infinitely better than they would have been if under the control of party hacks . It will be seen that any great change in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things . We trust that the new bill to be presented to the Legislature will be vigorously opposed by the Republicans and Independent Democrats . We are quite sure that the new Governor would not approve of any measure tending in this direction . A change in our present school administration might do a great deal of harm , and could do but little good . It is far better to remain contented with what we have . 