@@744008

txt The King and Queen of Italy have returned home , having had , as the Queen herself remarked , a " perfectly splendid time " ? un tempo assOdantente splendido ? at Vienna . We are also told that the recent visits paid by the King of Portugal to the King of Spain and by the Czar to the Emperor WILLIAM were equally successful , and that the German Emperor actually burst into tears when he met the Czar , so glad was lie to meet a fellow-monarch with whom he could hold a little rational conversation . As will be frankly admitted by every retired King  --  who , being out of business , can talk freely  --  there is no more lonesome person than a reigning monarch . He has nobody to talk to except his wife , and he does not always have a wife . Everybody who calls to see him is his social inferior , toward whom he must behave with kingly dignity . How can a King be expected to enjoy conversing with a man who constantly calls him " Sire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself as if he were in con stant expectation of being knocked down and walked upon , and with what freedom can the King himself converse when he is obliged to speak of himself as " we , " and to assume the cold stateliness of a marble tombstone in an Arctic cemetery ? We need not wonder that King ALFONSO was wild with delight when the King of Portugal came to visit him . Until that eventful day his only companions had been the Cabinet Ministers , who called on him every morning , and after striking a few preliminary notes on their guitars and singing an opening chorus fell upon their faces and humbly begged his Majesty to communicate to them his wishes . What the King really wanted was some one whom he could address as " old fellow , " and with whom he could talk on terms of perfect equality . Such , however , is the painful position of reigning monarchs that natural and unrestrained conversation is something in which they scarcely ever have an opportunity to indulge . The success which has attended the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of humane people to the ordinarily desolate condition of Kings , and to lead to an organized effort to promote social intercourse among them . With the facilities for rapid traveling now at the command of the European monarchs it would be very easy for them to meet together once a week , or , at all events , once in a fortnight . Why should they not form a club or " sociable " and enjoy themselves like other people ? They might , for example , organize a nice li . e orchestra among themselves , for almost every King can play upon some instrument , even if it is only the hand-organ . Sonic of the Queens sing very nicely , and , with the exercise of a little toleration on the part of the King of Bavaria , who would naturally be inclined to play nothing , but WAGNER 'S music , and on the part of the King of Sweden and Norway , who writes operas himself , and would , of course , scorn all other music , a series of very delightful musical evenings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monarchs might even be able to give an occasional public concert which would be quite as interesting as the unmusical " European concert " of which statesmen have so much to say . At any rate , these musical meetings would be a pleasant relaxation and would vary the terrible monotony of kingly life . Or the ostensible object of the " Royal Social Club " might be the improvement of the minds of its members by reading and criticism . One of the Kings might be appointed to read smite entertaining and improving book , such as " Tupper 's Proverbial Philosophy , " or the " Wide , Wide World , " and after the reading the club could criticise the book in friendly conversation , or discuss the questions suggested by it . Arrangements might be made with some energetic American Sunday-school Superintendent to supply a series of evening entertainments . Among those would naturally be a magiclantern exhibition , a lecture by a returned missionary , ( care being taken not to introduce anything to which either a Greek , Roman , or Protestant monarch could Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtuoso , Entertainments of this kind , winding up with an informal supper of cake and lemonade , would give the monarchs innocent diversion , and perhaps even lead the Czar to temporarily forget the existence of dynamite . Cards and dancing might have their place in these social meetings , though it would he necessary to forbid any but merely nominal stakes , or else we should have excited Kings betting their fleets on four of a kind or their entire kingdoms on a straight flush . Of course , afternoon croquet parties would be quite impossible , for the Emperor of Austria could not hit the Czar over the head with a mallet , and the Queen of Spain could not throw down her mallet and call the King of Portugal a " mean , good-for-nothing cheat " without causing a subsequent effusion of blood on the part of the armies of the irate monarchs . Still , lawn-tennis would be comparatively unobjectionable , and quiet evening games , such as " charades , " or even " post office , " might meet the views of the younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once on behalf of the lonely and unhappy rulers of Europe . They are suffering from lack of society , and they must be made to see it . They can meet by turns at their respective palaces , and if they are only encouraged and assisted to do so they will not only enjoy themselves but they will be able to transact their daily business far more acceptably to their subjects than they can when in their usual gloomy and dissatisfied frame of mind .                     