@@781882

txt If Mr. BOORWALTER , late candidate for Governor in Ohio , reads the Democratic newspapers , he must be much more deeply chagrined and mortified by their comments than he possibly could have been by his defeat at the polls . Nothing can more strikingly illustrate the insincerity of politics than the attitude now assumed toward Mr. BOOKWALTER and the sudden fury with which Democratic journals turn upon the man who was so lately their candidate . There were two or three Democratic newspapers in Ohio which coldly accepted BOOKWALTER 'S nomination ; and one or two openly refused , . to support him . But the Democratic press of the country , outside of his own State , enthusiastically advocated his election and denounced as false and libelous all statements reflecting upon the manner in which . he obtained his nomination . It was repeatedly declared by Republican newspapers and correspondents that BOOKWALTER 'S free use of money in the Democratic convention , and nothing else , secured for him the votes by which he was finally nominated . Of the truth of this allegation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now that the contest is over , Democratic newspapers revive the charge , which , before the election , they denied with much indignation . But , among the offensive things now flung at the head of the defeated candidate , there is none so silly and ill-timed as the charge that BOOKWALTER is only a Republican , after all , and that his defeat is not the defeat of the party that nominated him . This is no new discovery . If BOOKWALTER 'S Republicanism , such as it is , did not stand in the way of his being nominated , it should have had no effect in the canvass . He was a good enough Democrat until after the election . His repudiation now by those who nominated him , and who threw up their caps for him while his money was flowing freely for the campaign expenses , is weak and childish . BOOKWALTER was not defeated as a Republican . If he had been elected , his success would have been claimed as a great Democratic victory . It is only fair that the Democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as BOOKWALTER , have been defeated at the polls . PLAISTED , of Maine , was never known as a Democrat before the Democracy of that State accepted him as their candidate for Governor . He was a Republican Greenbacker , seeking in the Democratic camp the honors denied him by his former associates . Yet his election was hailed as a triumph for the Democracy , and Gen. HANCOCK telegraphed to him a congratulatory message , glorifying the " Democratic victory . " If it is true that BOOKWALTER 'S Democracy is less than one year old ; nobody should have known this better than the Democratic managers in Ohio . If it is true , these gentlemen undoubtedly did know it , and they expected to gain votes by the device employed when he was made their candidate . It can not be expected that Republicans should go about the country warning all parties not to trust or harbor , on their account , any fugitive Republican who is presumed to have gone over into another camp . The schemers who receive and flatter the renegade are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for these , when defeat and disappointment have come upon them , to accuse their candidate and lament the folly of his nomination . The Democratic Party is so utterly destitute of moral ideas and principles that availability in any candidate is the only personal characteristic which they closely scan . GREELEY 'S nomination , in 1872 , was a good illustration of the truth of this remark . Never was there a more insincere political trick . And yet , the political antecedents of BOORWALTER were just as well known to the Democrats of Ohio as GREELEY 'S were to the Democrats of the United States . In each case the candidate was hailed with acclamations before election , and was covered with obloquy after the election . In this manner certain heathen are said to flatter their idols with praises and offerings before going to war , and to cast down the disgraced deities and deride them with kicks and abuse , when returning from a bootless and disastrous foray . BOOKWALTER may moralize sadly upon the fleeting character of political popularity . But yesterday he was praised as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Democratic faith , Mr. SAMUEL J. " TILDEN , took him into his confidence and lent him his cordial support . Now he is cast off as " only a Republican , " a private rin the ranks who has somehow managed to push himself into the place of a cora-mander . This is the state of man ? when he intrigues for a Democratic nomination . He may be nominated ( as BOOKWALTER was ) for his long purse and reputed liberality . No matter ; although he shall lavish his money like water , and enrich a hungry following with his pelf , his defeat is the signal for an assault upon him from his own political associates . Somehow , the Democrats , who had figured out a Democratic victory in Ohio , have failed to read the lesson of that election . It was the Democracy , not BOOKWALTER , that suffered a great defeat in Ohio .                     