@@743475

txt Mayor Edward Cooper was found by the TIMES reporter at his residence , in Washingtonsquare , struggling with the heat in one of the breeziest apartments which the City affords . To the question , " What effect is the reconciliation brought about in Cincinnati to have on your action as Mayor in making nominations and appointments , and on the relations between the Tammany and Anti-Tammany Democrats in the Board of Aldermen ? " Mayor Cooper , with a smile which had a world of meaning in it , answered : " I do n't know of any reconciliation , ' as you call it . I have had no communication , direct or indirect , with the Tammany people . As to what the Board of Aldermen will do I have no knowledge . I have not seen any of the Tammany Aldermen either at Cincinnati or since my return . So far as I am concerned , I shall adhere to the intentions expressed in my letter accepting the nomination for Mayor . In making nominations and appointments shall endeavor to select competent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be held by Republicans , I shall nominate and appoint Republicans . What I said at that time is a matter to be adhered to at all times and under all circumstances in entire good faith on my part , however others may have acted . In that letter I said that , when citizens of different political faiths on State and National issues united in a Municipal election , it was right and proper that the interests of neither party should suffer by such union . As you know , the combination between the Republican and Tammany Aldermen has confirmed nominations of Republicans for the offices held by Republicans at the time I took office , while my nominations for other offices have either been rejected or held in abeyance , so that most , if not all . of the Republican nominations expected of all , at the time of my election have been made . " " Has any movement been made looking toward a conference between the two , branches of the Democracy ? " asked the reporter . " I have not heard of anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their organizations as before the Convention . Tammany Hall was refused admittance to the Convention , and that was a determination by the National Convention as to who constitute the regular Democracy of the State . A natural desire to receive everybody 's accession induced the Chairman of the Convention , after the nomination for President had ** made , to permit Tammany Hall to give in its adherence and pledge its support to the candidate . I do n't see that there is any change in the situation , except that the regular Democracy occupy a stronger position than before . No one ever doubted that they would earnestly and cordially support the nominees of the Convention , whoever they might be , and as Tammany Hall will support Gen. Hancock and Mr. English , in that respect Tammany Hall will act in concert with the regular Democracy and make such reparation as they may for their treason to the Democratic Party in the State election of 1879. "                     