@@781822

txt There is something in the weakness of the Central American republics which appeals powerfully to the generosity of citizens of the United States . Like us , they are American republics . Unlike us , they have very little material or political influence among the nations . Consequently , when a representative of the American Government becomes . embroiled with a member of the Government of one of these feebler republics , as in the case of Mr. DIECHMAN , late Minister to the United States of Colombia , something should be done to correct the impression which may be left upon the minds of the citizens of the lesser republic by the Minister 's extraordinary conduct . As Mr. DIECHMAN is no longer the accredited representative at Bogota of our Government , it would hardly be in consonance with diplomatic usage for our Department of State to offer any expression of regret for the conduct of that person . It would be difficult to apologize for the ill-temper of an American citizen as displayed before an officer of a friendly nation , even although that citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . The facts in the Diechman case seem to be these : Mr. DIECRMAN had rendered himself objectionable to tile Government of the United States of Colombia , and his recall had been asked . Dr. BECERRA , Minister of Public Instruction , was acting as Secretary of State when this important and extreme step was taken , and in his official capacity signed the letter requesting the recall . For answer , Secretary BLAINE informed the Colombian Department of State that Mr. DIECHMAN 'S successor had been appointed . The ex-Minister was of the opinion that Dr. BECERRA , acting Secretary of State , was responsible for his recall , and that the matter was personal betwixt himself and the acting Secretary . Accordingly , he called upon Dr. BECERRA and overwhelmed him with reproaches . Shaking in the face of the astonished functionary a paper , he cried that that document contained evidence of " the corrupt conduct " of the acting Secretary of State and of the Colombian Government . It is also said that the irate diplomat stigmatized Dr. BECERRA as a viper who had tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ( DIECHMAN ) was " quite at the service " of Dr. BZCERRA , which mysterious announcement was understood to refer to a duel or a possible hostile meeting . The Colombian account of the affair , which may not be wholly impartial , represents Dr. BECERRA as maintaining a dignified attiiude and refusing to bandy words with the exMinister . The curious feature of this unpleasant episode is the guarded comment of the semiofficial newspaper organ of the Colombian Government . This journal , among other things , says that it can not be possible that a Government like that of the United States " should resort to means which it would be improper even for weak nations to put in practice . " The tone of the editorial comment to which we refer is tinged with suspicion . It suggests that there may be a lingering notion that the Government of the United States , after all , may have instructed Mr. DIECHMAN to make himself as obnoxious as possible to the Government of the Colombian Republic , although no sound reason for any such suspicion could possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if not the members of the Government , might be misled by the notion that the illconduct of Mr. DIECIMAN was to a certain extent representative and official , affords the very- reason why an incident like this is mortifying to thoughtful citizens of our own Republic . It may be said , without prejudice to the intelligence and patriotism of the citizens of the small republics of Central America that their respective Governments might be permitted , without open resentment , to do many things which would not be allowed to pass without grave remonstrance when coming from a powerful Government . For this reason , the representatives of a weak people are sometimes apt to make themselves disagreeable to the Governments to which they are accredited . And for this very reason , which seems to spring from the inherent feebleness of the nation , an influential Government can afford to be considerate , magnanimous , and disposed to overlook manifestations of bumptious. ness which , under other circumstances , would not to be tolerated . There was in all of LINCOLN 'S utterances concerning our relations with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly interest which have won for us friendship and esteem , and , while we do not assume any patronizing manners toward the people and Governments of the Central American and South American republics , we ought , as disciples of the truest democracy , to do everything in our power to strengthen the hands of those who are trying under many difficulties the problem of self-government among a people of largely Latin origin . And for this cause we regret the Diechman affair , for which the offending ex-Minister , it is hardly necessary to say , is personally and solely responsible .                     