@@743397

txt A dispatch to Reuter 's Telegram Company , from Berlin , says : " In Parliamentary circles it is considered certain that the Bundesrath will reconsider the bill passed by that body , imposing imperial stamp duties , and agree with the views of Prince Bismarck . The statement that Prince Bismarck tendered his resignation three days ago , and that , upon the Emperor 's refusal to accept it , he tendered it again on the ground of ill-health , is unfounded . Prince Bismarck only tendered his resignation yesterday , accompanying it with the explanations heretofore telegraphed in these dispatches . The decision of the Emperor regarding the resignation is not yet made known . " A. Berlin correspondent telegraphs as follows " It can readily be imagined that on the news of the Chancellor 's intended resignation spreading through political circles here , the English elections ceased to be the subject of conversation , and from speculating on the woes likely to befall the British Empire by the downfall of Lord Beaconsfield , men began to dilate on . the misfortunes certain to accrue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hands of Prince Bismarck . But though no small excitement , and even mild alarm , was at first produced by the publication of the momentous news , these feelings soon gave way , on more sober reflection . to conviction that the incident must not be looked at in its most serious light . No one can possibly believe either that the Chancellor earnestly desires to withdraw from office ? he has confessedly too much important unfinished work in hand for that  --  or that the Emperor , even if convinced of the serious intentions of his illustrious servant , would readily grant the liberty he demands . The present crisis has , therefore , doubtless , the very same meaning as all previous incidents of the kind , and those who remember how Prince Bismarck has , on several past occasions , achieved his purpose by appealing to the feelings of his patriotic countrymen , either by a threat to resign or by repairing to Varzin , will have little difficulty in perceiving the drift of the announce- ment now made . The Chancellor probably does not care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is adopted ; but in its rejection he discovers a convenient opportunity for altering a state of things in the Federal Council which has long annoyed him . Nor can it be doubted that a fundamental change of the Imperial Constitution , affecting the Bundosrath , is the real object he has at heart . Of the 58 votes distributed among the 25 members of this body , Prussia possesses 17 ? that is ' to say little less than a third of the legislative influence appertaining to it ? while her proportion of the imperial population is about five-eighths of the whole . Thus , what has now happened might very well occur again , and Prussia might find herself in the predicament of having been out-voted on some much more momentous question than the present one by petty Principalities and Dukedoms , even when seconded by one or two of the Kingdoms . To obviate , therefore , such an untoward contingency is unquestionably the aim of the Chancellor , and it can scarcely be doubted that , rather than part with their altogether indispensable Prince , the States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council more accurately in , accordance with the principle by which the popular Deputies are sent up to the Reichstag , to wit , in proportion to the number of inhabitants in the respective States . " LONDON , April 8 . ? A dispatch from Berlin says : " On all hands it is not for a moment doubted that Prince Bismarck will succeed in carrying his point , and in the interview to which he was summoned by the Emperor he doubtless heard enough to Induce him to withdraw his resignation . The rules applying to voting by proxy in the Bundesrath may be modified , though there seems to be no intention of otherwise changing the Constitution . In view of the determined attitude of Prince Bismarck , the Bundesrath will probably recall or correct its vote , while it is said the wrath of Prince Bismarck will not be wholly appeased without the sacrifice of certain high officers . " A correspondent at Berlin reports that Prince Bismarck is so ill that he has not slept several nights , and walks or stands with difficulty . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says the Emperor has had a long conference with the Crown Prince , at which it was determined that Prince Bismarck should remain in office .                     