@@745435

txt The unofficial news concerning the relations of Russia and England is so contradictory that it will be well for readers , to limit their credulity to the official dispatches . The rumor which comes from Paris - that Russia has made counter-proposals to England which England " will probably accept " is entitled to neither more nor less credence than the rumor which comes from London that Russia " appears disposed to entertain England 's proposal to submit the questions in dispute to arbitration . " It would undoubtedly be a good thing for the peace of Europe that the dispute should be submitted to an arbitration . But the consent of Russia to an arbitration would be inconsistent with the conduct of Russia for the past month . The Boundary Commission was itself in fact , though not in form , an arbitration . If the Commissiondrs had failed to agree , it would have been easy for them to choose an arbitrator of a neutral nationality by whom their differences could be adjusted . But the discourteous neglect of Russia to send her representatives to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could secure her object much better by arms than by arbitration . Gen. KO3.T.A.ROFFIS attack while negotiations were still pending , and in advance of any complaint to the British Commissioners of - the " threatening " movements and attitude of the Afghan troops , was an indication of the same belief . So was the curt refusal of the Russian Government to permit the discrepancies between Gen. KOMAIROFF 'S report and that of Sir PETER LUMSDEN to be made the subject of an investigation . All these things have concurred to produce in the minds of lookers-on the belief that Russia does not want peace . If she does , there is assuredly nothing to prevent her having it . Nobody except the official Russian press pretends that the intentions of the British Government are not pacific , and even the official Russian press could not make this pretense if its readers were in the habit of seeing any papers in which the news of the day was printed without passing an official censorship . Russia has only to withdraw her troops to the positions they occupied before KOMIROFF 'S advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of March 17 , and to let the Boundary . Commission go on and complete its work . If the claims of the two parties are then in conflict , as they no doubt will be , a disinterested Government could be asked to decide between them , and there is no Government in Europe or America which would not accept the grateful task of securing peace by rendering a decision , provided the assent of each party to the decision were given in advance . This mere statement of the case suffices to show how unlikely it is that the question will be submitted to arbitration , and why it is unlikely . Russia will not agree to arbitrate , because Russia wants much more than any arbitrator would think- of awarding her . She knows very well that she has no case pleadable before an impartial tribunal for the possession of territory which within three years she has conceded to Afghanistan . The ? faith of Russia is not in the justice of her cause but in the bigness of her battalions . Such is the impression that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , and so many facts have concurred to produce this impression that it can not be removed by unauthorized re ; ports of Russian intentions .                     