@@744164

txt The Italian Parliament , after having adoptea the law giving the right of suffrage to all male adult citizens who can read and write , showed little hesitation in adopting the measure popularly known as the scrutin de We . The legislators seem to have felt that , after having accomplished so tremendous a revolution as that which substituted what is practically universal suffrage for the old system under which only some six hundred thousand men had the right to vote , it would be folly to make a serious stand against the serutin de lisle . Certainly , by yielding to all the so-called reforms proposed by the Liberal Ministry , the Conservatives have placed their opponents in a position where they can not claim that the completeness of these reforms has been interfered with , and where they must assume the entire responsibility for whatever political changes may result from the new revolution . No one in Italy ventures to prophesy what will be the results of the measures which have just been adopted , but each party professes to hope that it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originally made by the Republicans , who fancied that their clique  --  for it is hardly large enough to be called a party ? would be strengthened by the votes of the workmen . Republicanism , however , has suffered by the growing ill-feeling between Italy and France . The Italian Republicans can no longer count on the sympathy of their French fellow-radicals ; and as the occupation of Tunis and the massacre of Marseilles were the work of French Republicans the very name republic is in especially bad odor in Italy at present . What strength Italian Republicanism might gain were an unpopular King to succeed HUMBERT is a question too remote to be worthy of present discussion , but it is very certain that for some years to come the Italian Republicans will be too insignificant to create any alarm . Undoubtedly the Liberals believe that the extension of the suffrage will strengthen them in the large towns . On the other hand , the system of electing Deputies by the scrutin de lists will increase the influence of the smaller towns , where the chief strength of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of the greatest importance whether the increase of the Liberal vote in the cities will overpower the Conservative vote in the small towns , and thus secure in any given department an unbroken Liberal delegation to Parliament , or whether , under the operation of the scrutin de lisle , the cities will be overpowered and the Conservatives will triumph . Neither party dares do more than hope that it will triumph in the next election , and it is evident that the ablest Italian politicians are entirely at sea as to what the result of that election will be . Whether the new measures will bring the Conservatives back to power or will increase the Liberal majority in Parliament is a comparatively unimportant question . The real danger to Italy of the extension of the suffrage and the adoption of the scrutin de lzste lies in the possibility that the next Chamber of Deputies will contain a Clerical Party so strong as to hold the balance of , power , or even to constitute a majority . There can be little doubt that the Clericals propose to take an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although he has not formally withdrawn the prohibition which forbids the faithful to be either electors or elected , has addressed an encyclical letter to the Italian Bishops directing them to use every means to strengthen the power of the Church throughout the peninsula and to form Catholic societies for promoting the restoration of the complete freedom of the Church . At almost the same time Duke SALVIATI sent a circular to the local committees of the Catholic congress of Italy directing them to see that every Catholic who , under the new law , is entitled to vote is registered on the voting list . Those two letters should be understood together , for unquestionably Duke SALVIATI acted in concert with the Pope . We may construe them as the expression of the purpose on the part of the directors of the Clerical Party to take part in the next election if they can do so with a prospect of success . The registration of the Catholic voters is intended , as Duke SALVIATI does not hesitate to announce , to ascertain precisely the voting strength at the disposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ne elettori eletti " will depend on the result of this census of Catholic voters . The strength of the Clerical Party , like that of the Conservative Party , will be chiefly in the small towns and villages , and notably in the inland towns of the south . If there proves to be anything like an equality in the number of the Conservative and Liberal voters , the Clerical candidates may very likely succeed in districts where the Clericals constitute little more than a third of the voters . In other districts , the temptation to form a coalition with the Conservatives , whereby the local delegation can be divided between the two parties , will be very strong , while , as has been said , in many districts in the south the Clericals will have a clear majority . It may thus turn out that the real gainers by the extension and change in the suffrage will be the bitter enemies of popular government , and the measures first demanded by the Republicans may prove to be the means of bringing back those who regard suffrage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republicanism as the worst of the plagues mentioned in the Apocalypse . 