@@780570

txt During the past two months bogus magazine canvassers , patent right skins , and note swindlers , who had been successful in " working " a number of coun-ties along the Hudson Valley , have been shown up in the columns of THE TIMES . The publication of their methods caused people in small towns and villages to be on their guard , though many were fleeced before the expose oc-curred . Two new games are now . under way . operations being conducted on both sides of the Hudson River . The dead beat who has been and now is on his travels on the Put-nam , Dutchess , Columbia , and Rensselaer side is described as being a sanctimonious looking scoundrel , who is credited with having a winning way with aged unmarried ladies and with others benevolently inclined . His " mission " consists in collecting money for Young Men 's Christian Associations in financial straits . and for securing funds to start new associations for hard-working young girls of irreproachable character . During the past week the missionary has been successful to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of places are anxious to find him . From reports received this evening , it appears he played his game in various localities in Putnam County . In Dutchess he made a harvest of dollars at Fishkill , Poughkeepsie , and elsewhere . In Columbia County . Hudson and Greenbush citizens were numbered among his victims . At present his mission lies at a point near Albany . The fraud who is " doing " the inland tier of counties back from the west bank of the Hudson River is described as being a cadaverous looking individual , whose aliases are J. Carmel , J. Smith . R. Robertson , and Montague Dean . His calling consists in being the mythical advance and contracting agent of Somebody 's Four Great United States Shows . He is a bright , smart fellow , with a bustling go-ahead business way with him . This swindler makes advertising contracts with the editors of country newspapers , and by them is introduced to business men . He buys the fodder for the horses in the great show that is coming and makes arrangements to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He pays for everything in aavance with a check , and there is always a balance coming to him . The Weekly Republican : of Monticello , Sullivan County , and sundry other newspapers and merchants in Delaware , Greene , and adjoining counties , are willing to pay a reward to le urn the exact whereabouts of the contracting and advance agent , and the time that Somebody 's Four Great " United States Shows will put in an appearance . This person is supposed to be plucking unsophisticated newspaper men and country storekeepers at present in Sehoharie County .                     