@@672122

txt INVESTIGATION AND VINDICATION . While official investigations , like those of the- construction of the Assembly Chamber ceiling and . the allotment of the stands in the new West Washington Market , have for their main object to ascertain whether the public has been defrauded or in any way wronged , and whether those who have been intrusted. with public duties or public work have been faithful or otherwise , it is as much the purpose to clear the innocent as to expose and . punish the wrongdoer . The work of vindication is as important as that of condemnation . The attitude of these who are involved . in charges of delinquency of any kind toward the investigation of such charges is a pretty sure indication of their guilt or innocence . A man conscious of integrity against whom charges are brought , has a perfectly clear course to steer . He will invite the most searching inquiry and do the utmost to promote it . He will not be Particular about the limitations of legal evidence , but anxious to . have the facts brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will cheerfully submit for inspection his books and . accounts , so far as they are connected with the subject matter of investigation , and will answer any and all questions calculated to throw light upon any transaction pertinent to the inquiry . He will not be afraid of false testimony or second-hand evidence , for it is much easier to establish the truth than to sustain a falsehood . Exposure dissipates falsehood. and only makes the truth clearer . When members of the special committee which had charge of the construction of the ceiling sought to limit and obstruct the investigation they showed . a consciousness of their own delinquency . When the first investigating committee showed a disposition to restrict inquiry and . keep out evidence , it was a fair inference that its membershad some motive for wishing to shield the guilty and were not trying to - vindicate the innocent . When Contractor SNAITH tried to prevent the examination of his books and accounts and finally fled from the investigation , it was equivalent to a confession that he was implicated. in corruption and . jobbery and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against having the ceiling investigation , so far as it concerned . him , carried to his home in Schuyler County , and having his private bank accounts overhauled . This was no doubt annoying , but if he has nothing to conceal it could . only result in helping to clear his skirts . In the market inquiry there have been numerous efforts to shirk a full exposure of facts in relation to the allotment of stands . Controller MYERS has shown by his willingness to state . everything that Dame within his personal cognizance ' that whatever irregularity or corruption may have taken place was without his knowledge or sanction . But the case of Chief Clerk ' has . been made to look bad , mainly by ' his own conduct in regard to testifying before the Commissioners . This has done more to injure him than the testimony given . by others which seemed to implicate him in wrongdoing . Had his official action , been entirely upright he would have had nothing to fear , it seems to us , from a personal examination or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come forward . with a clear and straightforward statement of the facts within his knowledge . He could have denied every false statement and explained every ambiguous circumstance , and . would have invited the most searching cross-examination . He would . have sought vindication by such means , assured that the truth would prevail . When Mr. MCADAM refused to answer questions and finally evaded examination , he furnished prima facie evidence against himself . It may be that his personal intentions in the performance of his duties were honest , and that he participated in no corruption or wrongdoing on his own account , but . being surrounded by political influences and subject to various " pulls , " he may have given way to methods which he did not approve rather than take a firm stand and . run the risk of being crushed . by those more powerful than himself . Perhaps he saved , or thought he was saving , his place in the public service and his chances for the future by yielding to the force of his environment . But in that case it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposure came to " make a clean breast of it . " He might have lost his political hold , he might have been forced to make some humiliating admissions , and . his reputation and standing as a man might have been injured , but he would have been better off in character than he is to-day . He would have obtained such measure of vindication as he was entitled to , and helped to put the responsibility for such wrongdoing as there may have been where it belongs . The course he has thus far pursued leaves him in a bad plight , and we are afraid . it will be difficult for him to retrieve himself . His course has not been what was to be expected of a man conscious of integrity .                     