@@745819

txt Among the organizations included in the call for a national political convention of the discontented , to be held in Indianapolis on Sept. 1 , are the " Wheels , " which are now flourishing so perceptibly in some of the Southwestern States that their existence seems to be worth a word of comment . There are State Agricultural Wheels in Tennessee , Kentucky , and Arkansas , and a National Wheel was duly organized at Litchfield , in the last-named State , on the 28th of July . Delegates were present from the three State Wheels , officers were elected , and a constr. tutitm and by-laws adopted . The ostensible objects of the National ? Agricultural Wheel are to disseminate knowledge in regard to fanning , and to give " all possible moral and material aid in its power to members and those depending on its members by holding instructive lectures , by encouraging each other in business , and by assisting each other to obtain entployment . " The Wheel is a foe to all monopolists . All " acceptable Male persons " who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed in agricultural work or the mechanical trades , are eligible to membership . The constitution provides that there shall be separate organizations for white and colored men , and all proprietors of manufacturing establishments employing more than three hands are ineligible . Among the by-laws section 3 of Article II. , relating to committees , reads as follows : " The Committee on Secret Work shall examine all documents referring to the secret work of this order and such other duties as may be assigned them . " There is not another clause in the constitution or by-laws of the National Agricultural Wheel which would lead to the inference that the organization had in view any object other than those plainly set forth . Yet the appearance of its name in the call for a political convention proves that its field of usefulness is not to ' be limited exclusively to spreading . agricultural information and . scouring employment for artisans and . farm hands . The State Agricultural Wheel of Arkansas has nut in nomination candidates for the Governorship and other State offices . Politics is clearly the game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet become a power among political parties is , of course , possible ; but it is a hazardous undertaking to send a handful of delegates to Indianapolis to vie with Knights of Labor , wily Grangers , fiat money men , and professional anti-monopolists .. The ' Wheel may turn out to be the fifth wheel , and its organizers Will then be sorry that the early clays of its existence were not faithfully devoted : to the excellent purposes set forth in its constitution . 