@@745003

txt There is now in the House of Representatives a very small bill , comprising only seven lines , or less than seventy words , introduced by Representative BELMONT , which ought to be passed . The bill provides that no duties shall be levied or collected on works of art , ancient or modern , but the same shall be wholly exempt from duty , and that the term " works of art " shall be understood to include all paintings , drawings , and photographs , and statues of marble or other stone . This is all there is of the bill . It is simply to take off the tax on art and all objects of art in marble , plaster , pigment , crayon , photograph , water-color , or pencil . The scope and purpose of the bill are so simple that a child may understand them . If the tariff at present levied and collected on works of art serves any purpose besides that " for revenue only , " it protects the American artist who paints pictures , carves statues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of the various processes . of solar printing . The most strenuous supporters of the Belmont bill are the American artists . Why do American artists fly in the face of a protecting Providence , as it were , and demand that the tariff on works of art shall be removed ? Because they believe that the general circulation and diffusion of these works educate the taste , correct the judgment , and create new demands among buyers . - They believe that " art for art 's sake " will more permanently prosper among a people in which.no artificial restrictions are placed upon the marketing of the productions of artists of all lands . The education and elevation of the artistic taste of any people inevitably results in the enhanced prosperity of all art producers who dwell among that people . To be sure , we might say many pleasant things about the superiority of that form of civilization which imposes no conditions on the dissemination of the art ideas of the world , but welcomes to its home with generous hospitality , without let or hindrance , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are now addressing that practical body , the Congress of the United States , we prefer to say that it is desirable that this bill shall pass because American artists , a class neglected , struggling under many difficulties , and anxious for a betterment of the condition of art in the United States , ask that the bill shall pass .                     