@@744334

txt It is evident that Europe intends to permit England getting out of her Egyptian difficulty without any help . Russia has practically broken up the European conference by withdrawing from it ; France has a private Ministerial crisis of her own to attend to , and has finally decided to leave the protection of the Suez Canal to M. DE LUMPS ; and now Italy has declined the English invitation to aid in restoring order and knocking cities to pieces in Egypt . The conduct of Italy in this matter may at first sight seem rather unexpected . There were until recently so many Italians in Egypt that it might have been supposed that Italy had , if anything , more interests to protect in that country than has England . But it must be remembered that all the Italians have fled from Egypt . There were twenty thousand of them in Alexandria six months ago , but before the bombardment they abandoned their organs , their monkeys , and all their other possessions and fled to their native land . The Italian Government now holds that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as may have been the fate of the twenty thousand monkeys turned loose in a heartless and hungry city , it is now too late to interfere . Most of the organs have been carried off by ARABI Pasha , who proposes to use them for the purpose of discouraging the British troops , and it is probable that most of the monkeys will succeed in finding their way back to the wilds of Central Africa . At all events , it would now be an unprofitable as well as a costly proceeding for Italy to go to war with Egynt , and she therefore proposes " . to let England incur the entire expense of chastising the so-called rebels . There are precisely two European Governments which have expressed a willingness to join with England in restoring order in Egypt , but the offer of neither has been accepted . The Greeks , who have had a man-of-war mounting twelve burglar-proof safes in the harbor of Alexandria , said that they would gladly send an expedition to Egypt , but the offer was hastily declined . The expedition would , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval one , for the Greek navy is not adapted to strike terror even to a naked Arab . The Greek ships do not mount any cannon worth speaking of ? in fact , their guns are almost as preposterous as the guns of the American navy . The Greek Government has preferred to spend its money in providing its naval officers with burglar-proof safes , so that when a Lieutenant goes on deck he can lock up his other trousers in his safe and feel reasonably sure that neither the Captain , the other Lieutenants , nor the Chaplain will steal them . This plan has had the effect of making the service rather more popular among the officers than it formerly was , but it has not increased its efficiency for fighting purposes , and a first-rate Greek frigate with twelve safes is not much more dangerous to an enemy than is an American monitor . As to permitting the Greeks to send an army of occupation to Egypt it was felt by every intelligent Englishman that such an army would be altogether too closely occupied in collecting ransoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life-long habits , and their persistence in carrying off British Colonels and Majors and in demanding enormous ransoms for their surrender could not fail to create dissatisfaction . The Greek offer was therefore politely refused , and the Greek man-of-war , after ascertaining that the Arabs had stolen everything worth stealing in Alexandria , has shaken the water of the harbor from her screw and steered for the PirEeus . Another offer of help came from Spain . At least Spain intimated that she was ready to take part in re-establishing order in Egypt . About ten days ago the Spanish Government printed an advertisement setting forth that Spain had large interests in Africa generally and that she ought to be consulted before any action should be taken by England against ARABI Pasha . This was certainly entitled to some notice on the part of England , but no attention whatever seems to have been paid to it . Not even a postal card inscribed " Offer declined with thanks " was sent to the Spanish Government , and the latter is probably very justly indignant . Spain is by no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small , but it is admirably equipped with cigars , garlic , and guitars of the very latest pattern . She could send an army to Egypt that would powerfully impress the Egyptians . When a Spanish soldier , with his cloak thrown over his left shoulder , his guitar under his arm , and his cigar in his mouth , marches to serenade an enemy he is a formidable object in appearance . Were a strong Spanish force to creep up to ARABI 'S defenses in the middle of the night and to simultaneously serenade him by singing of the beauties of the Guadalquins , there is little doubt that the Egyptian leader and all his men would flee in a panic without firing a single chibauk or striking a single blow with their sharp-edged yashmaks . It must not be forgotten , however , that the Spanish soldier is nearly as dangerous to his allies as he is to his enemies , and it might have been rash for the English to accept the aid of Spain in Egypt . England having thus refused Greek and Spanish help , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war alone . She will probably regret before long that she did not try to make even Greeks and Spaniards useful to her . She could have sent the Greeks in disguise to Cairo to kidnap ARABI 'S principal supporters and hold them for ransoms , and she could have made the Spaniards patrol the banks of the Suez Canal and repel aggression with their guitars . As it is , England must fight her battle alone , and it is to be hoped she will find the task less difficult than it promises to be .                     