@@781899

txt Wiskinskie JOHN D. NEWMAN will save himself no little trouble and probable imprisonment and heavy fines if he will read and ponder sections 10 and 12 of chapter 354 of the Laws of 1883 , being a part of the civil service act of the State of New-York . Sections 2 and 7 of this act , which arc quoted by Mr. NEWMAN in his circular soliciting contributions from employes of the City and County , do not represent the intent of the authors of the bill . These sections , it will be remembered , were mutilated during their passage through the Legislature . But section 10 , which Mr. NEWMAN seems to have overlooked , has an important bearing on the assessment contemplated in aid of Tammany 's cause . It runs as follows : SEc. 10 . No person shall directly or indirectly solicit or receive , or be in any manner concerned in soliciting or receiving , any assessment , subscriotion , contribution . or pledge , for any political purpose whatever , from any officer or from any person receiving , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or from any county , city , town , village , or political division of the State , or fees for the discharge of any public ) duty , nor from any member of any public Police Department , or Fire or other department within this State , or any of the political divisions thereof , nor from any person officially connected with the system of public instruction in this State , or in any of the political divisions thereof . The consequences of violating this section of the act are extremely unpleasant . The offense is set down as a misdemeanor , and is punishable by a fine not less than $50 and not exceeding $1,000 , or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months , or by both . So far as the fines are concerned this penalty would probably be cumulative  --  that is , should Mr. NEWMAN be so unfortunate as to accept " voluntary " contributions of this kind from , say , 100 City and County employes , he would render himself liable to fines aggregating at least $5,000 , and perhaps as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEWMAN 'S circular of solicitation would become its victims in a double sense , since they would thus make themselves accessories to the misdemeanor . There is a peculiarly unfeeling organization in this City known as the Civil Service Reform Association of New , - York . The gentlemen composing this association make it their business to look after the enforcement of the laws forbidding political assessments . They prosecuted Gen. N. M. CURTIS not long ago under the United States law , and , after giving him a great deal of trouble , mulcted him in $1,000 ; We have reason to believe that this association is even now narrowly watching Wiskinskie NEWMAN . We mention the fact out of pure kindness to him . Let him take heed how he wiskinskieth.                     