@@672080

txt Forty years of reigning , during which he has watched great changes going on around him in the rival moves of Russia and England for the control of Asia , have rendered the Shah of Persia circumspect in his dealings with those two powers . Not long ago it was announced on the authority of Sir H. DRIJAINOND WOLFF , the British Minister at Teheran , that he had . arranged for the opening of the Karun River to general navigation . This was quite as striking and suggestive au evidence of progress as the building of the short experimental railroad which had been previously undertaken . The Karun , or Karoon , River is in the extreme western part of the country , rising in a chain of mountains , flowing through the provinces of Luriston and Khuzistan , and emptying its waters eventually into the head of the Persian Gulf . A canal connects it with the River Shat-elArab , below the junction of the Tigris and the Euphrates . It is accordingly near the border of Arabia and separated by the whole width of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rud , where ; the Shah 's domains offer an easy route to flank Herat . Nevertheless , Russia at once took the alarm over the prospective opening of even this part gbf Persia to British enterprise . Although it was intimated that the Karun was to be used for the commerce of all nations , the St. Petersburg authorities rightly considered that England . would have incomparably the best of the arrangement . Not only would . Russia be unable to compete with England in the field of commerce in any part of Persia , but the easy access of India by sea to the Persian Gulf made this particular concession one in which Russia would practically have no part . The Navosti complained that British enterprise had gained great advantage and was securing a foothold in Persia , and that while Russia was extending her railroad system eastward . in Central Asia England was increasing her influence in Southwestern ' Asia . Perhaps visions of stations granted to navigation companies and acquisitions of territory along the Karun added to this dissatisfaction . Russia , promptly began to find grievances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short time ago it was said that the relations between Russia and Persia had become greatly strained in consequence of the latter 's refusal properly to recognize the rights of a Russian consular representative . Now Russia has succeeded in partly checking England in this new enterprise . It is announced that the Shah has issued a decree restricting navigation on the Karun to below Ahwaz , limiting the stay of foreign vessels to twenty-four hours , prohibiting the sale or lease of land to foreigners , and forbidding the construction of works with foreign capital . This restrictive measure greatly contractslhe expected value of the concession . It still leaves several scores of miles open to navigation , but it shows that the Shah 's timidity has been aroused . He has also placated Russia in the matter of her representative , has appointed a strong pro-Russian as one of his Ministers , who had previously boon out of favor , and has given marks of special approval to the Minister who represents him at St. Petersburg . It is clear that from this time the struggle of Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all the more from its strategic position with regard to Afghanistan , whose entire western border Persia covers .                     