@@780877

txt LONDON , Dee . 11 . ? Mr. Adams and Miss Coleridge were married privately to-day . The Central Chamber of Commerce adopted a resolution to-day , asking for a Parliamentary inquiry into the causes of the present agricultural depression , with a view to protection . An amendment to the resolution in favor of free trade was rejected by a vote of 28 to 9 . Applications for shares of the newly established English Association of American Share and Bond Holders show that the list will be closed on the 10th inst . The Telegraph complains that the scheme has been ill-managed and urges a meeting of the persons interested in it for ' the purpose of explaining the doubts in regard to it which are now filling the public mind . VIENNA , Dec. 11 . ? A melee occurred here yesterday at the University , between the semitic and anti-semitic students . It came about because of the election of some Jewish students to the membership of the Mutual Aid Committee . The excited- wrangle terminated in a collision and several of the students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Moravia . He is charged with having attempted to blow up the jail with dynamite . so as to release his fellow anarchists . These anarchists received the funds which made their activity possible from Berne . This city was visited yesterday by a violent hurricane which lasted for three hours . Omnibuses , cabs , and even railway trains were overturned , with the result of seriously injuring many people . In several instances shop windows were blown out and the contents scattered far and wide . Buildings were unroofed and high walls succumbed before the blast . ST . PETERSBURG , Dee . 11 . ? Twelve Nihilists were captured in this city last night . They were holding a meeting in a restaurant under the guise of a ball . Important documents were found in their possession and fell into the hands of the police . At Retchitza , a town of 5,000 people , on the Dnieper , a subterranean passage has been discovered under the Tax Receiver 's office which contained 80,000 rubles. - Count Tolstoi , Minister of the Interior , has ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and other large cities with foreign passports , unless they also possess special Government permits of residence . Jewish firms doing business in these cities are dismayed at this order , and many will probably be obliged to go into liquidation . BERLIN , Dee . 11 . ? The Congo Conference , it is expected , will finish its deliberations by Dec. 20 . Herr Flegel , the African traveler , who will go to the Niger to establish factories and make treaties for the Berne Company , is at present prevented from setting out on this mission by inflammation of the lungs . ROME , Dee . 11 . ? Fifteen eases of cholera , five of which proved fatal , have occurred at Tegiano , in the Province of Salerno . THE HAGUE , Dee . 11 . ? Holland proposes to place an excise duty on tobacco .                     