@@780659

txt The President does not appear to be likely to get fair treatment at the hands of the St. Louis people , whether politically friendly or hostile , and it may be just as well that he should decline to visit them for general reasons . He was desirous that his letter to Mayor Francis declining the invitation to visit St. Louis as the guest of the city during the encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic should secure publication , so he gave a copy of it on Wednesday morning to the correspondent of the St. Louis Republican , a paper that kitfdly. labels its first page with the explanation that it is " Democratic in politics . " The letter was handed to the Republican 's correspondent with the understanding that it should be sent in time to be . transmitted by the Associated press to the whole country . The Associated Press was ' informed that it was to expect an important piece of news . In the meantime the " Republican people , stimulated by a desire to prevent the GlobeDemocrat from obtaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's letter , or at least to delay giving it out so that it would be impossible for the Globe-Democrat to ' get it back over the wire from any point . Having concluded to steal a dispatch intrusted to them by the President upon conditions clearly Understood and agreed to by the Republican 's correspondent here , the Republican communicated with the Associated Press , and the agent of that association sent out word to all points that the first notice was a " false alarm . " The Republican , having appropriated the President 's letterllowed it to be sold out of its office to one New-York paper , and permitted the Associated Press to use it as late morning matter for the afternoon papers . It does not appear , from all . that can be learned here , that the Republican people , who are carefully labeled " Democratic in politics , " began to think ' that there . ' was any offense to the PreSident in the course they , pursued until'pm , were reminded of it to-day by dispatches from Washington taxing them with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the Associated Associated Abundant time was afforded to the Republican , for its correspondent here received the letter on Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock . The idea that appears to have controlled the Republican ? " Democratio in politics " ? was that the President had written his letter principally to furnish the Republican with a " scoop . "                     