@@780718

txt Shortly after the audience at the Chicago Opera House , where the McCain comic opera troupe is playing Lorraine , " left the theatre this evening a calcium light in the top gallery in some way sot fire to the darpet beneath it . The flames quickly ' spread to the chairs and upholstery around it . An alarm of fire was instantly followed by a second . and in five minutes the block was surrounded by apparatus . The fire patrol began spreading covers over the seats , but before they could finish the work the deluge or water being poured into the house by the firemen had reached some of the seats on the lower floor . The Chicago Opera House is in the heart of a 12-story building , erected in 1885 at the southwest corner of Clark and Washington streets . The lease of the theatre was obtained by J. W. Norton &; Co. , of which firm Mr. David Henderson is the managing partner . The house was opened in the Fall of 1885 by Thomas Keene , and has been remarkably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two popular and profitable extravaganzas , The Arabian ' Nights " and " The Crystal Slipper , " the latter of which Is now at the Star Theatre in New-York . Since its first season the McCann company has played every Chicago engagement there and is now closing one of five weeks . Among the famous engagetnentls at the house have been Booth and Barrett , ( two seasons , ) Mme : Modjeska , and Judie . The cost of the building in which it Is situated was $600,000 . At 12:30 o'clock the fire was apparently under control and almost out , but there was no diminution in the torrents of water the firemen were pouring into the building . It is evident that the damage , which will reach $20,000 , all told . as nearly as can be ascertained , will he from the water , in the use of which the firemen have been regardless of damage . The ( weer:41one of the walls and ceiling are greatly lejurect , and the new drop curtain , hung a fortnight ago , is believed to be ruined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stage are damaged by water , and It is probable that much 4f the scenery used in the production of " Lorraine " will be ruined . Imre Kiralfy was to have produced his new spectacle " The Water Queen " at the house next Monday night . His costumes and probably most of the scenery now in tee house are ' thought to have escaped . Thu scenery already completed for next Summer 's extravaganza is thought to be safe . as it is rolled up near the roof at the rear of the stage . The office of the theatre ou the third floor is damaged by water , but the fire did not reach that nor any part of the building except the top gallery .                     