@@744660

txt A sense of the necessity of Republican unity in this City has somehow penetrated even the thickest heads among that class of public-spirited gentlemen who have so long and magnanimously subordinated their private interests to the nobler duty of managing the party . Not long ago these persons were in a sullen and vindictive mood . They talked of punishing the party for its somewhat open disobedience of their wishes last Fall . But as the time draws near for organizing another campaign they have visibly mellowed and are now fairly affectionate toward the members of what is sometimes called the anti-machine wing of the party . Hence the Committee of Eighteen and the new plan for reorganizing the party . Of this plan as presented in the report of the sub-committee on Monday night little need be said in praise and still less in criticism . Its terms are fair and honorable . Honestly applied , it would make the party and the party organization - identical . It would make a place on the Republican roll and at the Republican primaries for men whose self-respect is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed upon such membership and action by the public-spirited gentlemen to whom we have above referred . Without entire fairness and impartiality on the part of the enrolling officers , however , the plan would fail . These officers are given power , when the registration lists have been exposed for inspection and challenge , " to strike from the roll the names of any persons not entitled to be entered thereon . " The abuse of this power would perpetuate the evils of the present machine system . But we observe that this plan is to be submitted to the Executive Committee of the Central Committee , and is then to be considered by the Central Committee itself . This body created the Committee of Eighteen . It now proposes to judge of its work . As the supposed custodian , by virtue of a kind of apostolic succession , of the ark of the Republican covenant , the Central Committee  --  that is , the Johnnies , Jakes , and Mikes , and their advisers within and without the committee  --  assume the right to accept ' or reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us very much like putting a blue pencil into the hands of the Evil Person with a request that he revise the Ten Commandments accorrding to his taste , or like . asking a condemned criminal to edit his death warrant . What does the desire for harmony mean ? It means on the one side that the men of the machine are anxious to patch up a truce and get ready for next Fall 's fight ; on the other it means that the decent Republicans of the City want to get rid of these men altogether as managers . We commend to the machine men , therefore , if they are earnestly bent on harmony at any price and do n't want to take any risks , the shining example of Mr. Mrkk DADY , who did what he could to harmonize the Kings County Republican Committee by taking himself out of the way . Still , it must be borne in mind that the machine crushed to earth will rise again .. The selfish and offensive bosses of to-day may go out or be put out , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business , and thinking seriously of politics only once or twice a year , others will rise to take their places , and the o1d question will repeat itself . No plan for harmonizing a party can guard against this eviL for it resides in the nature of politics . It Will be permanently remedied only when every voter in the party goes to the primaries and works manfully and intelligently for good candidates and good principles . That political millennium , it is needless to say , is not yet in sight .                     