@@780944

txt The largest coal mines in the entire Union Pacific system are at Rock Springs , 250 miles west of Cheyenne . The company recently imported a large number of Chinese to take the . places of the white men employed . Yesterday afternoon the entire force of white miners , about 150 strong , organized , and , arming themselves with shotguns , marched to Chinatown . After firing a volley into the air they reloaded and ordered the Chinamen to leave . The order was-obeyed at once , the Chinamen fleeing to the hills like a drove of sheep , closely pursued by the miners . who fired several volleys at the fugitives with fatal effect . The Chinese quarter was then set . on fire and 39 houses owned by the company ' were destroyed , together with their contents . The miners next visited the various mines in the camp , unearthed all the Chinamen at work in them , and bade them flee for their lives . Of 400 Chinamen here yesterday morning not one remains . All are in the adjacent hills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . Seven were killed outright by the shots fired by the minors and many were wounded . It is said that several who were feeble and helpless from disease perished in the flames . Sheriff Young arrived from Green River on a special train yesterday afternoon with a posse of deputies , but they wore too late to prevent the mob from carrying out their plans . The miners quietly dispersed after baying made sure c4 the departure of the Celestials , and everything Is quiet at this time . Cnnes-Extcp , Wyoming , Sept. 3 . ? Advices received here from Rock Springs this afternoon indicate a worse state of affairs than was reported last night . All the Chinamen , over 500 in number , have been driven out of the town . Thus far 15 dead Chinamen have been discovered , and there are probably as many more dead bodies in the ruins . Fifty houses belonging to the railroad company and 50 more owned by ' Chinamen were burned . The Chinamen are yet , in the hills west of the town . They are without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? about 10 miles distant . Gov . Warren is now at . Rook Springs with General Superintendent Dickinson and Superintendent Wurtelef the Western Division of the Union Pacific Railroad . No more disturbance is anticipated . . Food be sent by the authorities to.the starving Chinamen in the hills . SAN FRANCISCO , Cal .. Sept. 3 . ? Col. Bee , the Chinese Consul , received the following dispatch from Evanston , Wyoming , to-day , relative to the massacre of Chinese t Rock Springs yesterday : " The number or Chinese killed outright was n . There are a large number of ' wounded still in the hills , many of whom will probably die . The Chinese dare not go out in search of them . " The dispatch concludes by stating that it was nothing but a massacre of defenseless people . CHEYENNE , Wyoming , Sept. worst has evidently not been told regarding the anti-Chinese outbreak in the western portion of Wyoming . According to adviees from Evanston , where the second largest coal mining camp of the Union PacificrItoad is situated . the outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first attack upon the Chinese was to be made in Carbon , a mining town about 150 miles east of Rock Springs , to be followed by a like movement in the latter place and Evanston . The Rock Springs miners , however , took the initiative , and the result there has been announced . The mob at that place looted the houses of the Chinese before setting them on fire . The outrages commenced in Mine No. 6 , where three Chinese miners were attacked and killed . Then the riot commenced all over the town , even women joining in it with loaded shotguns in their hands . Superintendent Evans , of the coal mines . had been warned to leave town , and he did so with alacrity , passing through hero to-day en route for Omaha . Nothing can ' be heard from Carbon , as the operator there is evidently afraid to send news from Evanston . The Sheriff of Uinta County telegraphed this evening to Gov . Warren as follows : " A large number of citizens , with myself , are satisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and are liable to break out at any time . We need trowel protect the lives:and property of our citizens . " Gov . Warren is at Green River , but he has " telegraphed to the commanding officers at Forts Steele and D. A. Russell , and the troops have been ordered to hold themselves in readiness to move at a moment 's notice .                     