@@744107

txt The New-York , Buffalo and West Shore Railroad Company is still at war with some of the property-owners along the route , at least in this county . The road passes along the river-front in the lower portion of this county , and there is always a wide difference of opinion as to the value of water-fronts along this river . In many cases owners have a large prospective value upon such property , thinking it may in time be worth a fabulous sum for an icehouse , dock , or factory . These facts have led to a disagreement between the company and land-owners in numerous cases , and a commission has been appointed by the court to adjust the matter , A noteworthy case'of this nature has just been settled in this way . It was what is generally known along the river as the Chestnut Grove property , situated at Highland . opposite Poughkeepsie . It covers the point where the western terminus of the great Poughkeepsie bridge would have been had It been built when proposed , or where the structure was commenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentlemen , including Homer A. Nelson , William A. Fanning . Robert E. Taylor , Oliver H. Booth . Hudson Taylor , Aaron Innis , and others , with a keen eye for gain , bought this Chestnut Grove property , paying $12,000 for 45 acres of land lying in a narrow strip 1.540 feet along the shore of the river and extending to a high bluff back . They , of course , considered that they had received the property for a song , and  --  the astute lawyers and bankers began to calculate upon its value when the great railway trains between the coal fields of the West and the factories of the East were whirling to and fro over that great Poughkeepsie bridge . But after about $500,000 had been sunk in the piers , still to be seen in the river at that point , work on the bridge ceased , and has not been resumed . Chestnut Grove has been a cool and shady resort for Summer picnics , but aside from that it brought no income to the investors . Now , this new railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the price of that privilege has been a matter of grave difference . A commission from this city has been down there , beard evidence and eminent lawyers pro and con , and has finally decided to allow the speculators 52,000 for the strip of land along the water 's edge required for the tracks of their railway . This amount is $500 less than the company offered to pay . Although it seems by the evidence that the entire property was down on the assessment roll for $1,700 after the Poughkeepsie gentlemen got it , they now claimed it to be very valuable for an icehouse site , but failed to establish that fact , because it was too far down the river to be relied upon for ice .                     