@@745708

txt This was a busy day to Knights of Labor and railroad circles in St. Louis . Secret meetings of the railroad men were held at the Gould headquarters , while the Knights also went into executive session . This morning the three regular passenger : rains which leave here on the Missouri Pacific did not go out . This was the first intimation given the railway officials that passenger traffic was to be interfered with . It appears that the call on the brakemen and switchmen was made too late last night to be acted on immediately . To-day , however , all went out , so that passenger traffic as well as freight is suspended on the 6,000 miles of mid of the Gould Southwestern system . Tne first to quit wurk on the passenger trains were the engineers and firemen , and the brakemen and switchmen followed . The brakemen abandoned their trains as they arrived in town , but not until they saw that the engineers and firemen had abandoned their engines . The engines were pushed into the roundhouses by the police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left covered with loaded freight cars . The bridge and tunnel employes refuse to handle Missouri Pacific cars , and as a result no freight from the Gould system is transferred to the east side . The same state of affairs exists in the Iron Mountain yards . From here to Carondelet 10 miles of double track are covered with loaded freight trains . At the Anheuser-Busch brewery 50 cars that were loaded yesferaay with beer were unloaded to-day and the beer put back in the vaults . The accommodation trains as well as the freight and passenger on the Greve Cmnr branch of the Missouri Pacific Railroad were abandoned this morning , and to-day people living along that route are isolated from the city . The St. Louis and San Franc sco Road is the only one that shows any activity . The Union Station tonight is crowded with passengers , unable , owing to lack of trains , to reach their destination . : Mail trains are run on all the lines , but besides the mail coach only one car is attached to each of these , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passengers who went out the strike was pretty generally discussed , but every one seemed to think that there was no danger in traveling alone the roads , as they felt that the strikers would not interfere with the passenger trains . None of the employes who had gone out appeared in the vicinity of the station , and little could be learned at that piece concerning the proceedings of the strikers . There was a rumor , entirely unfounded , that Strikers in the vicinity of the machine shoos at Summit-avenue bad stopped the Kirkwood train and detached it from the engine . The dispatches from that point disproved the story . The men bad cult , it was reported , but they had made no demonstration , simply stopping their work and marching out of the shops to their homes . The Missouri Pacific shops last night were guarded by 20 volunteers from among the strikers . The shops were closed , but although the wipers and hostlers had struck , there were men on hand to attend to the United States mail trains . There were no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gould headquarters today there was an air of anxiety , indicating that the condition of affairs was far from satisfactory . and the future something to be dreaded . The Missouri Pacific officials seem undecided as to what course it is best for them to pursue . During the day Vice-President and General Manager Hoxie were in consultation with the heads of the various departments , and every move of the strikers was promptly reported and watched . Master Mechanic Bartlett received his instructions to take matters coolly and do nothing to incense the men , who , in pursuance of orders from the Executive Committee of the Knights of Labor , had dropped their tools and walked out . It is understood that the policy of the Missouri Pacific will be entirely different from that usual in the event of a great strike . There will be no open opposition to the strikers , and if new men are employed they will be secured quietly , and everything tending to bring about a collision of any kind between the strikers and those opposed to them will be carefully avoided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to the strikers which has been prevalent in the past , but business will he shut down in preference to inviting a conflict with the laborers . No one wsuld tell what was done at to-day 's meeting of the Knights of La. or , but from members of the order remaining in the lodge room after the adjournment it was learned that the strike extended then over the entire southwestern system , and embraced every employe on the line excepting engineers and conductors . While it was not stated in so many words that the bridge men had joined the strike , the impression was nevertheless given out that they had already joined the movement , as had all the switchmen in the Missouri Pacific yards . The Knights were asked whether the strike extended to the Wabash west , and a somewhat evasive reply indicated that there was to be no interference with this line . The freight yards of the iron Mountain Road , which extend from Poplar-street to the arsenal presented a death-like appearance this afternoon . The switch engines . 10 in number , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road during the night and day , did nothing at all after word was received at the yardmaster 's office that no freight trains would leave tor the South over the Iron Mountain track . The engines that had been engaged in making up trains at once went down , and were immediately taken in charge and run into the roundhouse . Very little is generally known as to the backing of the Knights of Labor concerned in the strike here . It is ascertained from the most reliable sources that District Assembly No. 17 , with headquarters in this city , has a membership of from 12,000 to 15.000 , and within a radius of 300 miles are about 50,000 Knights of Labor . Altogether in the country there are , counting some newly organized assemblies , about 160 District Assemblies , some of which are very strong numerically considered . Some of the District Assemblies in the manufacturing districts of the East count up fully 50,000 members , and of the total membership of the oroer various estimates are given , ranging from 500,000 to 1.500,000 . In close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the International Working People 's Association , which will give the Knights of Labor its moral support , and , if necessary , material aid . Both organizations are said to be in close communication , and will act in concert in any emergency that may arise . The numerical strength of the International Working People 's Association has been greatly underestimated from the fact that they do not care to let their exact numbers be known . In the various groups of the order are included something like 10,000 members in this State and Illinois alone . In this city and close vicinity are probably 20.000 men who are members of organizations directly upholding the strikers of District Assembly No. 101 . Grain receivers here are very much alarmed about the railroad situation , and fear a shutting off of the receipts that will paralyze business . Considerable corn has beer . purchased along the Gould lines for shipment this week , but the purchasers say they do not believe they will be able to move it . On the present urgent demand for export corn they say this will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation at Fort Worth . Texas , last night , showed that the Missouri Pacific Road was completely blocked on all but passenger trains . The few men who had gone to work were not interfered with , but the boarding houses and some hotels refused them food or lodging . In fact , they had no place to lay their heads , The company 's officials talked about renting a house for them to sleep and board in . The community generally expressed themselves strongly in favor of the strikers on the points of the demand for an increase of wages for the common laborers and the hostility recently evinced toward the Chinese . ' one Knights of Labor in other lines of work were standing by their brethren , and money and provisions were guaranteed to support the strikers for months . The Knights felt that they must win in this fight on the principle of self-preservation , and expressed no fear whatever or losing . The railroad officials were taciturn , but firm in their stand . At Denison , Dallas . Texarkana , Weatherford , Abilene , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Pacific points the moil had joined the strike and freight trsfile ra par- ' alyzed . The strikers kept sober and n Wet : and acted firmly and enthusiastically . The opinion is general that the strike will be successful . 