@@744709

txt It is evident that the people of Grand County , Col. , do not have any right notion of the resources of politics under , a democratic form of government . They have been , for several years past , quarreling about the location of their county seat , and-. have finally . come to = murderous blows over the business . There is nothing , one would suppose , in the situation of , a. county seat that should be so important to the people of a town as to provoke riot and bloodshed . In the far West , where every ' town is a predestined " metropolis " in its own right , the possession of a few county buildings and the place of residence of a half-dozen small officials should , not . greatly concern the inhabitants of a town which is to be a city next year or the year after . But the municipalities of Grand Lake and Hot Sulphur Springs ' have not only been involved in a long and acrimonious ' feud over the struggle for the seat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight over the matter , and several officials have been killed . There are only about 335 votes cast in Grand County , and a majority of these votes were thrown in favor of re- , moving the county seat frOm . Hot Sulphur Springs to Grand Lake , at ' an election in 1880 . The people of Hot Sulphur Springs Were so angry at this that they began a suit to have the election declared invalid . They succeeded , and the Grand Lake people appealed to the Supreme Court . The decision of the court below was reversed , and the cause was remanded for a rehearing . At this point the case naturally becomes involved in a maze of legal difficulties ' with which the outside public have no concern . Strange to relate , nobody seems to have thought of killing any of the Judges whose decisions on both sides of the question have prolonged the war . Suffice it to say , the feud betwixt ( , rand Lake and Hot Sulphur Springs divided - the Board of County Commissioners into two hostile camps , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On Independence Day , two of the Commissioners , with the County Clerk , all of whom were , of the same way of thinking as to the burning question of removing the county seat , were waylaid by a party of masked men , while passing through a piece of woods , and were fired upon . They were not - wholly surprised . however , for one of the attacked party , being armed as fully as every County Commissioner in Colorado should be , promptly returned the fire and killed one of the masked assailants . The net result of the encounter was the killing of three County Commissioners and one County Clerk . , The masked man who was killed proved to be one of the Commissioners who represented that side of the removal question which had been opposed by the Commissioners assailed . His associate in the Board of County Commissioners had proved to be too handy with his weapons for his official assailant . The slaughter al - though great and indiscriminate , does not appear have- permanently affected the main question . This rude way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be characteristic of the . free and untrammeled West . There is a certain rough promptness about an arbitration by rifle and shot-gun which is eminently characteristic of the breezy communities of the frontier . - But in the older and more nearly effete cities of the Atlantic States the rival claimants would have made , , what we call " a deal " for the just and equitable distribution of the plunder .. The official body charged with a final disposition of the matter in dispute , ( whatever . it might be , ) being unevenly divided , would have resolved itself into a private conference in which the matter would have been adjusted without a murmur being heard outside . Although in the Colorado case the thing in dispute could not be divided , no New-York politician ( for example ) would have been dismayed by a difficulty so trivial . A Tammany manager , or a Tammany-Republican manager , would have found something to offset the coveted prize , and would have made up a " boodle , " the division of which could not fail to satisfy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax-payers , who would not count for anything . And , if every other expedient had failed , the warring Commissioners , if they were educated up to the New-York standard , would have got a bill through the Legislature giving them absolute power over the whole matter , and then they would have put the county seat on a town site of their own , leaving the rival towns to their discomfiture . But the brutal and unreasoning Commissioners of Grant County , Col. , ignorant of the fine . art of politics , actually shot at and killed each other precisely as if they were so many ruffians . All this good political material was wasted , so to speak , instead of being utilized as our New-York Aldermen would have used it . It , is melancholy to think how slowly , after all , the art of polit : ical finesse moves from the East to the crude and impatient West . 