@@744426

txt If the object of the Republicans , who on Sunday set on foot the holding of a conference of district leaders , was to make suro that a citizens ' ticket would be supported by the Republican convention to be held on Wednesday , that object appears to have been disregarded by the " leaders , " who yesterday afternoon declared it to be their opinion that the best interests of the party and the people of this City would be better subserved by the nomination of a straight Republican City ticket than by any combination with any organization or association of outsiders . The invitations to the conference were sent out on Sunday to the Presidents of all the Republican district associations , and few other persons knew of the proposed conference any more than the fact announced in yesterday 's TIMES that it would be held . At 4 o'clock 22 of the 25 Presidents gathered at the Victoria Hotel , in Fifth-avenue , and with closed doors they held a meeting that lasted nearly two hours and a half . Dr. Pierre C. Van @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chair he called upon the assembled district Presidents to exprees their minions freely about the course to be adopted by the Republican Party in the matter of City nominations . The invitation was accepted in turn by nearly every person in the meeting , and some of the speakers were hoard several times , Police Commissioner Mason rising three times to state his views . The participators in the conference were not disposed last night to repeat in detail the remarks made . It is understood , however , that most of the speal:ers advanced reasons why the Republicans should go on with their convention on Wednesday night just as if no talk had been heard about a combination with any other body of voters . It was argued that , by declining to act , the Republicans would belittle their importance as a party in this City . It was further maintained that the Republican delegates to the County Convention were as competent to select a ticket that will command approval as any unauthorized committee , and that it would bo much better at this time to make a clean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise approval of any ticket the Citizens ' Committee might nominate would , it was maintained , be an injudicious thing , as there was no assurance that the Republican Party would be consulted as to the choice of candidates , and it might be belittled by being tacked on to the tail of a movement started by men politically irresponsible . Reasons were advanced with some warmth to show why it would be better for the Republicans to go their own way , depending upon the character of the candidates they would present to secure the full vote of the party , and to let the Citizens ' Committee name its candidates and make its canvass for as many independent votes as it can secure . The great vote for William Dowd for Mayor , in 18S0 , was referred to as showing how much support could be secured for a good Republican candidate , and it was urged that there was ground for believing that , with a candidate of equally high character , the same vote might be approximated . At the close of the proceedings a motion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The motion having been offered that the President vote to say whether it would be expedient to nominate a straight Republican ticket , it was carried by a vote of 19 to ** Jacob Hess , of the Twentieth ; Justice Solon B. Smith , of the Twenty-first , and Mr. Henry C. Perley , of the Twenty-second , voting no . Commissioner Van Cott , who was not present , afterward said that he favored support of the citizens ' ticket . During the meeting there was some talk about candidates , and the friends of Mr. John J. O'Brien urged that he he nominated for County Clerk . Mr. Levi M. Bates appeared to be the preferred candidate for Mayor , and Judge Horace Russell a decided favorite for one of the Supreme Court Judgeships . The conference adjourned to meet again this afternoon .                     