@@744623

txt The decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa on the validity of the constitutional amendment prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors involves questions of far more importance than t1 policy of the State regarding the liquor traffic . There is no denial of the right of the majority to change the Constitution in any way that may suit its convictions , provided it proceeds in the orderly manner prescribed by the Constitution itself . But it is denied in the most emphatic terms that any majority , however strong and determined , can modify a State Constitution without complying fully with the conditions prescribed for making changes in the organic law . The other question raised on the petition for a rehearing of the case is settled with . equal clearness and emphasis , to the effect that the judicial power of the State has authority to pass upon the action of the Legislature in providing for the submission of constitutional amendments to a vote of the people . It is evident that these are questions of far-reaching importance , which might arise in any State in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibitory amendment in question originated with the Eighteenth General Assembly of Iowa . It was approved by the Nineteenth General Assembly and submitted to a vote of the people at a special election in June of last year , when it was ratified by a majority of about thirty thousand . Last Fall the validity of the amendment was called in question , a buyer of liquor having refused to pay for it on the ground that its sale was prohibited by the Constitution , and the seller having brought suit to recover the amount due . In behalf of the plaintiff the plea was set up that the constitutional amendment was not properly adopted , inasmuch as the Journal of the House of Representatives in the Eighteenth General Assembly did not show that it had passed that body at all , and the form in which it was considered in that branch differed from that in which it passed the Senate . The fact was established that the joint resolution embodying the amendment was not set forth in the Journals , and it did not appear upon them whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two houses . Neither did it appear that it had been adopted in any form in the lower house . On this state of facts it was decided by the lower court in November that the amendment was null and void . This view was upheld by the Supreme Court on appeal in January of the present year , and is confirmed in the decision just rendered denying the petition for a rehearing in the case . There was no dispute as to the action of the Nineteenth General Assembly or the vote of the people , and it was claimed on the part of the petitioner that whatever defect there may have been in the inception of the amendment it was cured by the action of the second Legislature , and by the ratification of the people . This claim in effect set up the doctrine that a Constitution may be amended or changed in any way and to any extent without a strict regard for the method prescribed by the instrument itself , provided the result is approved by the people at a popular election . On the petition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denial of the jurisdiction of the court to review and decide upon the action of the Legislature in proposing constitutional changes . Much stress was laid upon the political character of the legislative branch of the Government . and its right to deter- mine political questions without interference from the judicial branch . Apart from the merits of the practical question in Iowa politics touching the prohibition of the liquor traffic , it is not to be wondered at that the Judges regarded the controversy as one of great moment , not only to the State of Iowa , but to all the States and to the Nation itself . It involved the authority of Constitutions and the prerogatives of the judiciary when in times of excitement a political majority might regard them as standing in the way of its purposes . If a popular majority may change a Constitution by a single vote , without a strict regard for the methods prescribed by the fundamental law itself , and if the judicial authority can not pronounce upon the validity of its action and have its decision respected , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere paper and nothing but the popular will , subject to excitement and inflammatory agitation , stands between order and anarchy . It is one of the main purposes of written Constitutions to serve as a bulwark against violent and ill-considered changes in the polity of a State . To prevent hasty changes under the influence of political agitation is the solo object of provisions requiring that amendments shall be proposed by one Legislature and approved by another before being submitted to the people ; and it is of the essence of the judicial function to determine when the established principles and conditions of the fundamental law have been complied with . If there is any subject that calls for a strict conservatism it is this of making constitutional changes , and if once the clearly defined line of orderly action is departed from there is no barrier against a confusion of all conservative safeguards . There is no reason to doubt that from the time the Legislature first took action in this matter to the present moment the people of Iowa have been in favor of the prohibition amendment or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method prescribed in their own Constitution ; but they must , as a law-abiding and law-respecting people , recognize the importance of complying with that method in every particular and of sustaining the authority of the judiciary to say whether it has been complied with or not . They can cure the effects of legislative negligence by renewed action , but they would find it hard to reestablish a constitutional safeguard once overthrown . 