@@744846

txt The politicians appear to be taking much more interest in nominations for the Senate than in those for the lower branch of the Legislature . This is due to the fact that the Senate to be chosen this Fall will take part in the election of a United States Senator in 1885 . There is to be no special political advantage in the control of the Legislature next Winter , but the contest for a successor to Mr. LAPHAM is beginning already . Those who are desirous of securing a better representation of the people 's interests at Albany may as well be on the lookout for " deals " and bargains in the Senatorial districts in which everything else will be sacrificed to promote partisan schemes . But if politicians are taking comparatively little interest in the Assembly nominations , there are indications that some of the great corporations whose head-quarters are in this City are quietly preparing to secure representatives of their own in the lower house . The chance for a peculiar kind of trading here is quite obvious . When these corporations set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite purpose to serve , and they use their funds liberally to attain their object . Polital assessments are under a legal ban , and covert efforts to collect them will encounter unusual difficulties . The interest of citizens in the campaign does not appear sufficient to make voluntary contributions a sure reliance for the needed funds . Under such circumstances the not over-scrupulous managers of district organizations will be under a sore temptation to accept the aid of the corporations , and in return for their help to turn over to them here and there an Assembly district . While their negotiations Ire carried on with all the secrecy they can maintain , the facts in certain cases are leaking out . Last year Mr. HENRY L. SPRAGUE was cheated out of his election in the Thirteenth District , and he naturally made tip his mind to seek the nomination again this year in order that the people of his district might express their feelings in regard to his treatment . No sooner did he begin to move in the matter than he encountered an unexpected opposition . It proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company . That corporation paid him the very high compliment of desiring to prevent his return to the Assembly , and it was even willing to help put him in the more exalted position of a candidate on the State ticket to get him out of the legislative field . Its ob ject , of course , was not simply to get rid of Mr. SPRAGUE , but to secure the nomination of a candidate of its own . Under the various discouragements of the situation it is understood that Mr. SPRAGUE has abandoned his purpose of running again for the Assembly . There is also evidence that the complication in the Seventh District is not altogether free from the designs of this same corporation . Mr. VAN ALLEN , who has served the district very creditably in the Assembly for two terms , desired the regular nomination for a re-election . Opposition was organized against him by what purported to be a force of anti-machine Republicans , but their candidate for the place has been in the service of the Western Union Telegraph Company and is still understood to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests . This young man is not a Republican , and now that Mr. VAN ALLEN has secured the Citizens ' nomination , he is quite willing to accept the support of the Tammany organization in the district . What is more astonishing , the zealous reformers who have taken him up are apparently quite willing that he should have that support in conjunction with their own . Behind this fact is pretty good evidence that the young man has sought the nomination in the interest of the Western Union Telegraph Company , and relies on its help to secure his election . These cases are indications of what that corporation is trying to do , and there is reason to suspect tlfat the elevated railroad companies are allied with it in an effort to secure representation which shall be useful in obtaining or preventing legislation at Albany . These are facts to which the people of the City ought to be alive . Legislation is needed to protect the rights of the people against the constant encroachments of these great corporations which are controlled by men absolutely devoid of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the caucus and corrupt the elective franchise to serve their own ends . Have the people sufficient spirit and sufficient care for their own rights to resist this shameless power of corruption ? We hope to see some effort made to nominate clean men against the mere tools of political cliques and corrupt corporations and to elect them regardless of the dictation of political machines .                     