@@744376

txt Never was the power of patronage to control masses of people so mistaken as the Federal Administration has mistaken that power as applied to St. Lawrence County in:the removal of Collector Daniels and the appointment of Mr. Harvey L. Jones to succeed him .. In the desire to make a change all political sense seems to have failed the men who prompted it , for in turning out a politician they have undertaken to accomplish their purpose by putting in a man who , if he has any political leanings whatever , are believed to be naturally toward what is called up here the " George William Curtis school . " Not that Mr. Jones is likely to be a reformer , for it is expected that he will permit the Custom-house to be run by somebody else than himself . His chief backer is Dr. S. T. Bridges , who was so far from being a Stalwart in 1880 that he went to the Utica Convention with a resolution against Grant in his pocket , and was only persuaded to . keep it there after he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends . If the Administration had put in a shrewd politician it is admitted that the office could have been so run as to gain for the Collector a considerable share of influence . As it is , the selection of Mr. Jones has not only offended the Garfield men , who regarded Major Daniels as a good officer , but it has disgusted and converted many Conkling men into friends of Cornell , and Jones 's adherents are now limited to the few men who are looking for appointments to the few places the Collector has to dispose of . Already there is a hitch in the Federal programme which is causing comment . Mr. Jones has perfected his bond , and was to have taken possession on Sept. 1 . Nothing has prevented his occupation of the office tut the non-arrival of his commission . The failure of the Government to furnish Jones with his commission was explained by a prominent Republican of this city as indicating a determination on the part of the national Administration to hold back the commission until after the caucuses . The only reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to understand that if they wish to take possession of the Custom-house they must see to it that the St. Lawrence delegates are not all for Cornell . If Mr. Jones 's success in his search for the Collectorship depends upon his getting an anti-Cornell delegation , Major Daniels will never be disturbed , for no efforts of Mr. Abel Godard or anybody else can accomplish that result . Mr. Abel Godard , it appears , is very anxious to be renominated and re-elected to the Assembly from the First District . To get the nomination he has curried favor with both sides , and has been writing letters to different people conveying tho impression , on a comparison of his notes , that ho is determined to imitate a celebrated Scriptural example and be " all things to all men . " He writes to one that he " is in no sense responsible for the removal of Maier Daniels . " Re regards the removal as a misfortune , but goes on to say he is for the party rather than any one man . To others he writes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he proposed that Major Daniels should be permitted to name the delegates to the State Convention , if he could only be assured that all opposition to his renomination was withdrawn . Major Daniels will name tha State Convention delegates , but it is evident that he will not control the Assembly convention , and it may be that feeling will be so high that another man may be nominated and Mr. Godard allowed to stay at home . The friends of Major Daniels have carried already 22 delegates , while the Godard men have not secured the other 19 . It is just possible that the Assembly convention may be mad enough when it meets on Sept. 15 at Gouverneur to choose State delegates and to nominate an Assemblyman and throw Godard over , and thus rebuke his tendency to play fast and loose with both sides . The Second Assembly District will hold a convention at Canton on Sept. 14 , to choose delegates to Albany and to nominate an Assemblyman in place of Worth Chamberlain . Mr. Chamberlain is not a candidate . Three other gentlemen strive for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; J. H. Robinson , of Madrid ; and James Redington , of Waddington , who was removed from Morrisburg to make a place Tor the alleged veteran journalist , Dr. Elliot . It is not improbable that there will be a dead-lock in the convention , and that it will be settled by a request to the incumbent , Mr. Chamberlain , to again take the place . There will be no contest in the Third District , whore Assemblyman George ' Z. Erwin will be renominated . St. Lawrence will therefore have at least one , perhaps two , and possibly all three of her representatives of - last Winter back in the Assembly of 1883 . As for Congressman , it is generally conceded that the Hon. Abram X. Parker , who represented the Nineteenth District in the Forty-seventh Congress , will he chosen to represent it again in the forty-eighth . St. Lawrence does not appear to be inclined to punish him for his vote for the River and Harbor bill or against the veto of the President . Frank- ? lin will support him , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man and a stanch Republican . A good deal of amusement has been afforded many Republicans in the repetition of a statement alleged to have been made by exState Senator Rockwell . Mr. Rockwell is bitterly opposed to ' Cornell , declares he can not be elected if nominated , and et presses his intention of withdrawing from politics and taking a rest if a result so horrible for him to contemplate should be reached by the convention . Unkind and unfeeling though it may seem to be , the only answer yet heard to this threat of Rockwell to drop politics is the hope that fortune may enable him to carry out his threat to take a rest , and allow Warren County Republicans to try the experiment of getting along for a time without a boss . Mr. Rockwell 's menace , by the way , is one that is used very frequently by opponents of Cornell . As if to frighten the friends of the Governor , they use the argument you can not elect him if nominated , giving it to be understood that they will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coining from so-called Stalwarts and their sympathizers . On the other side , I have yet to meet with the half-breed or Cornell man who is ready to say that he will not support the candPato of the convention , whether it be Folger , - Wadsworth , or sonic " dark horse " who may lie brought forward in the event of a failure to agree on Cornell.                     