@@745682

txt One of the many victims of the ridiculous dog ordinance of this city writes to know whether the Board of Aldermen can authorize the stealing of dogs from the very hands of their owners . They have undertaken to do so , but we have no doubt that they have transcended their legal power and that if any citizen would summon up resolution to have the official dog thieves arrested and prosecuted for larceny it would be so determined . No doubt the Board of Aldermen may require all dogs to be licensed , and authorize the taking in of all found astray or running at large . So much the safety of the community from a very rare and remote danger would justify . But any regulation of this kind must be justified by a purpose coming within the purview of the municipal authority for protecting the community . The requirement that every dog when on the street shall be muzzled or led by a chain not more than four feet long does not serve any such purpose . A city ordinance , after requiring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dog , can not reasonably , nor , as we believe , lawfully , go so far as to require the owner to use a muzzle or a leading string when having his dog with him on the street . This requirement serves no purpose whatever except to subject the dog to irritation and prevent natural and wholesome exercise . Nothing in the principle on which the ordinance is authorized can justify it . Much less can it justify a premium on stealing . Taking a man 's dog from his own possession on the street is highway robbery in the eye of the law , and no ordinance of the Board of Aldermen can make it anything else ; and any citizen who is thus robbed should have the thief arrested and brought to trial . Then the question would be tested , and we have no doubt that the right of the citizen to protection for his property would be sustained . This absurd dog ordinance was one of the results of the senseless scare which was wrought up some weeks ago over an imaginary case of rabies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what little head they possessed as to yield to the clamor of one sensational newspaper , which in no sense represented the sentiment of the community . it should be modified by the present board so as to ac- cord ' with common sense and the right of citizens to the protection of their prop erty . Licensed stealing should be stopped .                     