@@744286

txt A new list of crop reports from points in Northern Minnesota shows the favorable condition reported last week to be fully maintained and all kinds of grain making rapid progress under the influence of warm weather . A Glyndon dispatch says : " Crops showing six and seven inches and in fair condition ; an increase in yield being predicted of about onefifth over last season ; ground moist , weather fine . " Glyndon is the crossing of the Manitoba and Northern Pacific Roads in the Red River Valley . A dispatch from Litchfield , further south , says : " Crops looking well and have the appearance of a good harvest this season ; weather continues favorable ; cloudy and cool , moderate south-east wind . " Wadena , a little east of the valley proper . reports : " Wheat crop in this vicinity is doing finely ; about 25 per cent . more acreage than last year ; corn and buckwheat both doing well ; about 50 per cent . increase in acreage ; all other crops doing nicely ; weather cloudy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more to-night . " Some of the dispatches from the timber valley ground between the . Red and the Mississippi Rivers , report need of rain . A dispatch from Lake Park says : " Crops in this section are looking reasonably well and doing well , though wheat is about a week backward for the time in the season ; a good rain would be beneficial , especially to meadow lands , which need it badly . The weather for some time past has been warm and generally clear . with a nearly constant breeze from the north-north-west or north-east . " Belleplainet a new town , reports : " Wheat and oats in a promising condition and the indications favorable for an average yield per acre ; the acreage of these grains is somewhat larger than last year . Corn is more backward than usual on account of the cold which prevailed hitherto ; for the past six or seven days the weather , however , has been warm and remarkably favorable to the growth of all cereals ; a very large acreage of potatoes has been planted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The crops seem to be in a first rate condition , and the wheat promises as good a harvest as we have ever bad ; the weather this Spring has been a little cold and backward . but for the last week it has been quite warm . Although not very dry as yet a little rain would help the crops a good deal . "                     