@@746004

txt The indictments found by a Federal Grand Jury in San Francisco are the result of an inquiry concerning very extensive fraudulent surveys of public lands . Owing to investigations made by Commissioner MCFARLAND during the Administration of President Airrauu , and by his successor , Commissioner SPARKS , now in office , the people have become acquainted with the methods of those land thieves who do their work exclusively by means of fraudulent entry , but the ways of the survey jobber are not so well known , although the official reports have ' shown repeatedly the extent of his operations . Obviously , the jobber who controls the first surveys of public land has taken a long step toward acquiring this laud by fraud . The practice of the Government has been to order surveys to be made in response to the requests of settlers , so that their holdings may be defined . The act of 1862 authorized . surveys to be made at the expense of settlers , who were required to deposit money to meet the cost of the same , the amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment for their lands . In 1579 deposit certificates were made negotiable and receivable for any public lauds that were subject to entry . This change , the reports say , " opened the public lands to new and indefinite schemes of spoliation . " In seventeen years the survey deposits had amounted to only $368,625 , but in the five years following 1870 they reached $5,813,368 . Combinations were made whose business was to supply money for the deposits , to control and manipulate surveys , and to acquire fraudulently the lands in question , These combinations are said to have exerted great influence in the offices of the SurveyorsGeneral of several , States and Territories . One result of this jobbery is that the Government has paid very large sums for surveys that were never made . It is now paying for actual surveys in the smile districts . In 24 townships in Colorado recently examined there - was found no evidence that any surveys had been made , although surveys had been paid for . Even under a contract for surveying the Ute Indian lands in Colorado no work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes were furnished . In Nevada of 57 township surveys inspected all except one were condemned . As the work of examination proceeds the condition of the surveys becomes more discouraging . But the Government 's loss by reason of payments for work that has not been done is a small matter by the side of the loss of land stolen by means of fraudulent surveys made by agents of rings . In his report for 1885 the Commissioner said : " Nearly the whole of the Territory of Wyoming and . large portions of Montana have been surveyed under the deposit system and the lands on the streams fraudulently taken up under the Desert Land act , to the exclusion of future settlers desiring homes in those Territories . " The following extract from the same report shows how the work has been done on the Pacific coast : " Wealthy speculators and powerful syndicates covet the public domain ; and a survey is the first step toward the accomplishment of this desire . The bulk of deposit surveys has been made in timber districts and grazing regions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land , Preemption , Commuted Homestead , Timber Culture , and Desert Land acts . So thoroughly organized has been the entire system of procuring the survey and making illegal entry of lands that agents and attorneys engaged in this business have been advised of every official proceeding andenabled to present entry applications for the lands at the very moment of the filing of the plats of survey in the local land offices . Prospectors employed by lumber firms and corporations seek out and report the most valuable timber tracts in California , Oregon , Washington Territory , or elsewhere ; settlers ' applications are manufactured as a basis for survey ; contracts are entered into and pushed through the General Land Office in hot haste ; a skeleton survey is made and full field notes improvised for platting ; the final acts of approval and acceptance are officially expedited ; entry papers , made perfect in. form by competent attorneys , are filed in bulk , and the manipulators enter into possession of the land and exploit its timber , which is shipped to foreign ports or sold to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private lands , or , as the case may be , the lands are retained for the advance in price which is to come from forest monopoly . In a single case reported by special agents in California it was discovered that an English firm had obtained 100,000 acres of the choicest redwood lands of the State , worth perhaps $100 per acre , while the coal deposits are acquired in mass through expedited surveys , followed by fraudulent pre-emption . A still broader field of illegal appropriation is opened through the premature survey of vast bodies of land monopolized by cattle ranges . " Some years ago the rings were satisfied with the profits of contracts for surveying that was not done , but in late years they have ieally made surveys  --  to suit their own plans  --  and have stolen the timber and land covered by them . The plans of the jobbers could not be carried out without the sympathy and assistance of Federal officers . It will be noticed that among the San Francisco indictments are three against the present Surveyor-General of California . It ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has refused to honor the recommendations of the Interior Department relating to new legislation for the prevention of such frauds , and has persistently withheld from the department the money required for a careful examination of worthless or fraudulent surveys . 