@@745010

txt Attorney-General O'Brien this afternoon rendered a decision granting the application of Charles J. Ryan , Charles Peterson , and James R. Young , creditors of the ? North River Construction Company , that he ( the Attorney-General ) make a motion in the Supreme Court to remove Ashbel Green , Receiver of said company , or to appoint an associate with him , and for other relief . The application was made mainly on the ground that the provisions in chapter 378 of the Laws of 1883 ? " An act in relation to the Receiver of corporations " ? had not been complied with in the proceedings . On behalf of the Receiver it was urged that the Attorney-General should not intervene , because the act of 1883 , known as the Haggerty act , has no application to corporations incorporated under the laws of another State . and because no facts were shown to enable the Attorney-General to decide that such a motion would be in the interest of the creditors of the corporation . The opinion of the Attorney-General carefully considers the provisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfair , if not unjust , to the creditors of the construction company in this State to arbitrarily hold that they were not within the protection of the statute . The commission of Mr. Green , so far as he has authority in this State , rests upon the order of the Supreme Court of this State . Besides , the creditors , the stockholders , and the Directors of the corporation he represents are mostly residents of this State , and are entitled to the advantage and protection afforded by its laws . The Attorney-General does not think it an unreasonable request that he should present the case for adjudication to the court of competent . jurisdiction . While no specific fb , ct is stated in the papers showing that Mr. Green has done any act contrary to his duty , and while the Attorney-General does no intend to imply anything of the kind in making the motion asked for , it is alleged and admitted on all sides that the Receiver had acted as counsel , not only for the construction company , but also for corporations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and obligations exist which form the bulk of the assets on which the Receiver is to administer , and it is claimed that by reason of his position heretofore and his relationship to these persons and corporations he may be embarrassed in the future and hampered in the administration of his trust against the interests of creditors in this State . The Attorney-General concludes as follows : " It is not for me to say how much or how little there is or may be in this contention . I will only observe that , assuming the Receivership to be within the terms and reason of the act of 181:313 , these persons had the right to be heard either in person or through the Attorney-General at the time the order appointing the Receiver was granted by the Supreme Court of this State ; and inasmuch as that act has not been complied with , and as it declares that by reason of such non-compliance the order of appointment is void , it is probable that they are entitled to such hearing and have the right to be present and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the court . It is not the duty of the Attorney-General to deter " mine what weight these matters are entitled to ; it is enough for me to say that the creditors and beneficiaries interested in the trust have the right to urge them before the court , and are entitled to the benefit of its judgment thereon , whatever that may be . I think the application should be granted and the motion made . " 