@@780632

txt Commissioner O'Donnell wits Present at the Railroad Commis-sioners ' meeting in this city to-day , The hearing In the Utica and Black River Railroad case was continued , Senator Roberts being present in behalf of the bill and President Thorn , of the Utica and Black River Railroad Company . appearing in the interest of the railroad . John Olvens , who lives in Boonville , on the line of the road , but who is a wealthy and prominent business man of this city , was called as a witness by Senator Roberts . He said the fare to Boonville was Si 40 , but in 1871 he had an arrangement with the company whereby he bought 50 tickets for $50 . The distance was 35 miles . When D. C. West was President he secured tickets foi any point on the road for 2 1/2 cents per mile . After President West 's death the company refused to sell tickets for less than 4 cents per mile . Since then he had not paid the company half the amount annually for travelins that he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others who did the same . There was a general feeling of hostility among merchants end cemmercial men toward the road . and travel would be much larger if the rate was reduced . Charles Millar , one of the stockholders of the road , made a mere 1St a t emen t in which , with much emphasis , he urged that the fare should be reduced , In the interest of the stockholders as well as the nubile generally . He was formerly a Director and Superintendent of the road , and knew some-thing of its working . He knew of the hostile feeling toward the road , and knew many avoided it on account of the high and discriminating rates . He believed travel on the road would be materially increased by a reduction . G. 8 . Sarvees , a wholesale dniggist , had heard many merchants and traveling men express dissatisfaction at the rates , and they avoided the road as much as possible . He believed the fare should be reduced in the interest both of the public and the company . No witnesses were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided that they did not care to have further testimony in laver of the bill . President Thorn was sworn at the request of Commissioner O'Donnell , and examined at length by him , with a view to showing that the stock was watered . Mr. Thorn denied this . and said the construction of the road cost 52.900,000. while the capital stook was 51,772,000 . Mr. Thorn argued the case before the Commissioners , and was replied to by Senator Roberts . Tile arguments were of no interest , weight , or effect , consisting chiefly In personal abuse of each other , except as it displayed a remarkable ignorance of the English language and its construction on the part of both . The case was taken by the Commission-I ere for further consideration , and the Commissicar ore returned to Albany .                     