@@781812

txt Five years ago PASTEUR began the work of finding a cure for hydrophobia . His experiments have been crowned with success . The cure has been found and it has already saved the lives of human beings . The great chemist 's process of inoculation was described by himself at the recent meeting of the French Academy of Sciences . More than four months ago a boy named MEISTER , who had been bitten fourteen times by a mad dog , was brought to Paris from Alsace by his mother , who hoped that PASTEUR could save him . Two eminent physicians of Paris agreed that the boy was doomed to die a painful death unless some remedy should be found , and they advised that PASTEUR should be allowed to inoculate him . MEISTER was under treatment for thirteen days . He was inoculated with pieces of spinal marrow taken from rabbits . Each succeeding inoculation was made with marrow containing virus of greater strength , and the marrow last used was taken from a rabbit that had died on the preceding day . The boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When PASTEUR announced to the Academy that a cure had been found one hundred days had passed since the last inoculation in this case and MEISTER was in perfect health . A shepherd bey , who was bitten about three weeks ago , has been subjected to similar treatment , and it is believed that he will be cured . Three little girls and a servant , who were bitten at Versailles , have decided to put themselves in PASTEUR 'S hands . Two persons died last week of hydrophobia in London , and nineteen have died there of the terrible disease in the last twelve months . Now that the efficacy of the great chemist 's remedy seems to have been established , he and his assistants will have many opportunities to show its value . The perfection of his process was made possible by the result of his experiments with reference to fowl cholera . While engaged in investigating the nature of a deadly disease known as splenic fever or anthrax , which was decimating the herds and flocks of Europe , he paid some attention to fowl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was at first unable by cultivation to weaken its virulence . The last culture of the germ was as deadly as the first , and of course no good could be accomplished by inoculating with the poison . In the course of time , however , he learned that if each successive generation of the microbes were exposed to the air for several weeks , the virulence . of the contagion was softened by the agency of oxygen . In this way he at last secured a modified or attenuated contagion that did not kill and that protected fowls from inoculation with the most virulent form of the disease . Using the same method with the microbe of splenic fever , he developed a vaccine virus that was effective . The value of this discovery was exhibited by some remarkable experiments upon sheep and cows in May , 1881 . Two years later more than 400,000 animals had been vaccinated for this deadly fever . It now appears that PASTEUR was not able to attenuate the virus or microbe of hydrophobia by successive cultivations unless each cultivation was exposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he observed that the virus increased in strength , so that while at the beginning the period of incubation was fifteen days , at the end of the series it was only seven days . But by exposing each specimen to the action of dried air a virus was at length produced that would not cause death . The patient is first inoculated with the virus of greatest attenuation , and then with virus of gradually increasing power , until at last a specimen is introduced whose period of incubation does not exceed one week . After that inoculation the patient is proof against the dis-ease.                     