@@780769

txt No disturbances have been reported in any part of London to-day or to-night . Public confidence is restored . The Government has caused circulars to be sent to officials throughout the country , inquiring into the extent of the distress existing among the Working people out of employment and inviting suggestions as to the best measures for their relief . Three hundred unemployed workingmen called upon the Lord Mayor to-day to urge upon him the necessity of doing something to relieve the distress among the unemployed in London . The LOro Mayor courteously received the deputation and promised personally to assist the distressed people so far as his means would permit . He added that the Lore Mayor 's fund for the relief of the distressed poor of the city , which had been started ' on Tuesday , already amounted to ? 6,000 . A man named Murray , who carried a red flag In Monday 's procession , has been arrested . He will be tried en the charge of inciting the mob at Hyde Park . The Crown lawyers have advised the Government that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who took part in the proceedings of Monday . Such conviction would entail two years ' penal servitude for each defendant . ; ; ix hundred police recruits have been engaged by the Government for service in London . The new men will go on duty at once , and , while waiting for their uniforms , will wear plain clothes , with a badge on the left arm . Mr. Hugh C. Childers. the Home Secretary , assured a deputation of tradesmen who waited upon him to-day that efficient measures would be taken to secure order and restore public confideuce . The movement for the relief of unemployed workingmen stimulated by the success in London , is spreading to the provincial towns . Two thousand rations and a large quantity of clothing are distributed in Glasgow daily . That the existence of the distress is owing to the severity of the Winter is undisputed TheParliamentary election in the north division of Monaghan to fill the vacancy caused b3 the determination of Mr. T. M. Healy , who was chosen for both Monaghan and Londonderry , to sit for Londonderry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who received 4,032 votes , against 2,534 for Mr. Hall , the Conservative candidate . Michael Devitt delivered a speech at Flint , Wales , this evening . Re said that Mr. Parnell was ready to help the Welsh farmers against the landlords . and that manna the Government granted home rule to Ireland Mr. Parnell would retaliate by presenting in Parliament 30 bills dealing solely with England , Wales , and Scotland . Mr. Gladstone is preparing a bill providing for the expropriation of land in Ireland by means of State funds . This bill will precede the other Irish measures which the Government Intends to present to Parliament . The discussion of the home rule question has been postponed until next session . The appointments of Ladies of the Bedchamber of the royal household have been fflled . The Duchess of Roxburgh becomes Lady in Waiting and the Dowager Duchess of Athote and the other Ladies of the Bedchamber retain their posts . The Coroner 's inquest in the case of the late Mr. Bartlett , a merchant of Pimlico , who , it is alleged , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to marry Mr. Dyson , a Wesleyan minister , was resumed to-day . Mr. Dyson in his testimony declared that Mrs. Bartlett asked him to buy chloroform , with which to quiet her husband , who was restless at night ; that he bought pure chloroform in small quantities at three different shops , pretending that he wished to remove stains from clothing with it ; that he asked Mrs. Bartlett after her husband 's death what sae bad done with the chloroform , and . sbe answered with an oath that she bad never used it . Mr. Bartlett 's will left his property to Mrs. Bartlett and appointed Mr. Dyson Executor . Mrs. Bartlett was arrested this evening . Mr. Dyson has been bound over to appear as a witness . LONDON , Feb. 12 . ? A dispatch from Leicester says : " The hosiery operatives here are out on strike . They are parading the streets and smashing factory windows . The police are endeavoring to disperse them and are meeting with some personal violence . " A later dispatch from Leicester says the Police charged upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Four arrests were made , Placards have been posted in Birmingham calling a meeting-of unemployed workmen for Monday next . The placards are headed " Come , you thousands ! Why starve amidst plenty ? Justice to the starving poor ! " A large meeting of unemployed workmen was held at Norwich last night for the purpose of urging the authorities to give to unemployed laborers and mechanics work on new barracks , schools , and jails , Instead of employing convicts . The meeting was orderly . Similar meetings were held at Jarrow and elsewhere . Attorney-General Russell has been re-elected to Parliament for Hackney . Mr. O'Mara has been nominated by the Parnell Party to represent the Ossory division of Queen 's County . He will be elected without opposition . John Morley , the Chief Secretary for Ireland , speaking at Newcastle last night , said that he would never propose that the military garrisons be removed from Ireland , nor allow the Interests of the minority to be placed at the mercy of the majority . Whatever the Government proposed to do would be submitted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Chronicle says that Director Hahn , of the Lanaerbank , and King Leopold of Belgium , to-day signed a contract at Brussels for the first loan of 25,000.000 to an international syndicate to colonize the Congo State .                     