@@743597

txt The impending and inevitable ruin of London is , of course , an extremely painful thing to contemplate . It is true that the conduct of Londoners in regard to the letter " h " has been of the most indefensible character , and that , as Americans , we can not but sent the constant bribery of a large part of our population with British gold merely in order to bring about the repeal of the laws which have placed our carrying trade in the hands of British merchants . Nevertheless , the prospect of the destruction of the city of London and its four millions of inhabitants is so awful that it can not but appall even the most virulent enemies of England . London has always been addicted to fogs in the early Autumn and Spring . These fogs have been thicker than any other European fogs , and have interfered to a considerable extent with the business and comfort of the Londoners . In France it has always been believed that in the month of November about two-thirds of all Englishmen living in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while their wives and daughters simultaneously jump off London Bridge . This is , of course , a mistake , but there is no doubt that London in a fog is a gloomy place , and that occasionally a befogged Londoner has been driven to death in search of something more lively and amusing than the fog . Of late years the Loudon fogs have grown steadily thicker and more frequent . They now last for days at a time , and are liable to occur at any time during the Autumn , Winter , and Spring . Not only have they seriously interfered with business , but they have proved fatal to thousands of persons with weak and asthmatic lungs , while even the healthiest men have suffered from the poisonous gases which are now known to permeate a London fog . Scientific persons became alarmed at the density and duration of the fogs of last Winter , and , selecting specimens of fog taken from different parts of London , analyzed them . They found that while the chief ingredient of London fog is moisture , an enormous quantity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its peculiar density and its unwholesome quality . A London fog is thus something very different from the pure fog of country places . The vast aggregate of chimneys wherein the fires of four millions of people are smoking are responsible for the mixed quality of the metropolitan fogs . The weight of the moisture-laden air presses down to the surface of the earth the products of combustion as they issue from these countless chimneys , and thus London is smothered in its own smoke , concealed under the disguise of a simple and innocent fog . The fact that the London fogs grow more frequent and more oppressive every year is due to the rapid growth of population and the consequent increase in chimneys . Every year the quantity of coal burned in London is vastly larger than it was during the preceding year . Each successive fog is thus mixed with an ever-increasing quantity of the products of combustion . Already the poisonous gases of these impure fogs are fatal to the sick and weak . Already the density of the soot-laden fogs is so great as to compel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can be readily perceived that if the population of London continues to grow at the rate that it has been growing during the last ten years , the time will finally come when the inhabitants of London will be suffocated and the city will become utterly uninhabitable . This terrible calamity will , of course , give due warning of its approach . The fogs which now frequently render it impossible for vehicles to be used in the streets for three or four consecutive days will become so frequent and will last so long that the business of London will be totally destroyed . No ships will approach or leave its docks . No goods will be carried through its streets , . and the inhabitants will be confined to their houses . Food will then begin to grow scarce . Butchers ' meat will be brought to the city by railway trains , but it will be sold only at the railway stations , for in the absence of carts it can not be distributed , and each customer will be obliged to carry his meat home in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fog . The distress will become so great that the poor will not be able to live in London , and there will be a universal emigration of the poorer classes from the city . The conservative and wealthy Briton will continue to live in London in spite of the fog , and will doubtless assert that it is a peculiarly British institution , and is therefore to be greatly admired , but he will live in a silent and tradeless city , surrounded by the crumbling walls of thousands of empty houses from which the tenants have fled to escape starvation . Meanwhile the poisonous qualities of the fog will have slain all but the most robust men and matrons . These will probably survive to witness the gradual disappearance of the fogs . London , when nearly depopulated will use but few of its chimneys , and the fogs will assume a normal character . They will become comparatively infrequent , and will lose their present density and their poisonous gases . The sun will once more shine in London , and it will become a tolerably healthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those who have fled from it will not dare to return , for they will be aware that as soon as the chimneys of London begin to smoke again the pestilential fog will return . This is no overdrawn picture . The fate of London is obvious and inevitable . It will be smothered in its poisonous and sooty fogs , while New-York , which burns anthracite coal and never indulges in mixed fogs , will become the chief city of the earth .                     