@@745544

txt The letter of Mr. JOHN E. RUSSELL declining to preside over the Democratic Convention of Massachusetts is worthy of more than a passing notice , for it points the way , not only for the Democrats of his own State , but for the party generally , to the only ground on which they can hope to retain the confidence of the country . He recalls the fact that three years ago the Massachusetts Democrats pledged themselves distinctly to the support of the Civil Service act and adopted its principles in their full extent and . meaning . While other Democratic Conventions in the last three years have been less explicit in their declarations they have very generally endeavored to convey the impression that the party would sustain the policy of reform . But platform declarations , State and national ; have been less significant than the nomination made last year for the office of President . That nomination was made with a full knowledge of what it implied , and it was made with the intent of securing for the national ticket the support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been elected . In that act was a pledge stronger than any words could express that the Administration would carry out in good faith the reform policy . There is no disguising the fact that the position taken by the Democratic Party last year , mainly through the nomination which it made , did not have the sympathy of a considerable portion of the party . They were willing to accept it for the sake of success , but many of them counted on being able to prevent a strict adherence to it when the party was once in control of the National Administration . The same class of Democrats have been striving with all their power to swerve the Administration from the course which it was pledged to pursue and to undermine its position . How many are far-sighted enough to see , as Mr. RUSSELL does , that this course , if successful , would undermine the party itself and sap it of the strength which raised it to power and which alone can sustain it , remains to be proved . Which of the conflicting elements is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party depends upon their relative strength in the counsels of the organization , which has not yet been measured . We share in Mr. RUSSELL 'S confidence in the fidelity and firmness of the President and believe that the Administration will hold its ground , which makes it all the more a matter of prudence for the party to take the same ground . The Massachusetts reformer very pertinently points out the advantage which his party has gained as a thing not lightly to be sacrificed . For years it was distrusted and a change was dreaded on account of the ground it had given for distrust . Many people believed that a change of party control at Washington would be a national calamity , subverting the results of years of progress . The change has come and a thousand fears have been dispelled . There is no evidence of retrogression or even Of a check upon progress , and in some respects there axe indications of a substantial gain in the exposure and correction of abuses which were the inevitable result of a long lease of power in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nation depends on keeping one party in perpetual control is not a salutary one , and it is well for the country that it has been dissipated . The chance of a change , and the conviction that a change will involve nothing more serious than a difference of policy in matters clearly understood , and upon which there are well defined and legitimate ? differences of opinion , are necessary to the beneficent working of free institutions . The Democratic Party has gained much in dispelling the idea that its ascendency would imperil the security of what has been achieved by a quarter of a century of progress and be destructive to good government . It owes this to the character of the Administration which the events of last year impelled it to place in power and to the policy that Administration has adopted . From the narrowest view of party expediency it is called upon to sustain the Administration and its policy clearly , fully , and without equivocation . Whether it is to prove equal to its opportunities remains to be seen , and every occasion on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any State will be watched with interest by its friends and its enemies alike .                     