@@743891

txt The apparent purpose of Mr. CoNKLING and his supple servitors at Albany now is to force an adjournment of the Legislature without electing Senators , in the hope that the contest may be renewed next Fall with more chance of success . They seem to presume on the forgetful and forgiving spirit of the public and of the party to which they owe all that they are . The blindest of them must be entirely conscious of the fact that the public and the party have felt a sense of outrage and of insult which stirred them to a fierce opposition to the return of Mr. CONKLING to the Senate . They have been aware of this for weeks , and have only hoped , by holding obstinately together and . resorting to every means that ingenuity could devise , to carry their point in spite of public sentiment and the demand of the party . Being forced to give up this hope , they go a step further in their presumption , and join the Democrats in securing an adjournment , on the desperate chance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can . by and by revive - the contest and gain the end which they now find unattainable . Fatuity could not go further , for this course 16 simply calculated to keep alive resentment and intensify opposition whenever and however the contest is brought up again . Its renewal will never be tolerated . The patience of the people and of Republicans has been abused beyond the point of endurance . Their capacity for forgetting and forgiving has been subjected to too severe a test . Even had Mr. CONICLING succeeded in carrying his point , and so relegated the conflict , with all its bitterness and indignation , to the category of accomplished facts , the resentment would have lasted with sufficient force to have destroyed the political future of his supporters . It would certainly have defeated the Republican Party at the next election . Had Mr. CONKLING acknowledged defeat and permitted his supporters to obey the wishes of their constituents , - then , and then only , would there have been a chance that the bitter feelings aroused would be . mollified and that oblivion would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of defeat , to defy public sentiment and spurn the demands of party , and with Democratic help to force an adjournment with a view to renewing the contest , that surely is not the way to secure forgetfulness or forgiveness . . It will keep alive public indignation , and party resentment , and intensify their force when again their . slumbering fires are stirred . It is of a ' piece with the infatuation that has characterized the course of Mr. CONKLUTG and his followers from the day the Senator amazed the State by the folly of resigning . He and his Captains , those who boast the ownership of Senators and Assemblymen at Albany , will find that they have presumed too far on the forgetfulness of the public and of Republicans , and they can neither accomplish next Fall what is impossible now nor save the miserable instruments of their baffled power from the political death which they have so richly merited . The Conklingites who voted with the Democrats in the Assembly yesterday in favor of adjourning the session to-morrow were fifteen in number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who voted with the Republicans are deserving of little credit , because it is evident that it was intended to give the Democratic resolution the bare majority necessary to carry it , and to hold on . the other side as many votes as could be spared . This appears from the fact that at the end of the roll-call there had been a miscalculation , and it was necessary for two votes to be Changed in order to carry the resolution . Probably whatever number might have been found necessary would have been changed . To-day the resolution will come before the Senate for concurrence . Of the 32 members of that body 15 are consistent Administration and anti-Conkling men , 7 are Democrats , 9 are Conklingites , and Mr. FORSTER has the unique distinction of having been everything by - turns and nothing long . What his action will be on the adjournment resolution no man can surmise until his vote has been cast . If the resolution is concurred in , and it is decided to adjourn sine die at 3 o'clock to-morrow afternoon , there is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature as may honestly . appeal to the public for forgetfulness and forgiveness . There is time for enough Republicans to vote for the Republican candidates for the United States Senate to elect them . There will be a ballot in joint convention to-day . No member of that body who persists to the end in voting against the Republican candidates will be entitled hereafter to any favors at the hands of Republicans , and they may be perfectly sure that the public and the party will not forget it .                     