@@743590

txt The intense interest felt in the present canvass , and the important consequences involved , in its issue , givb a peculiar significance to every indication of the drift of popular sentiment . The results of the State elections in Indiana and Ohio are awaited with a solicitude which has not been equaled in recent years , because it is expected that they will show the direction and momentum , of the current of feeling in a way to foreshadow the popular verdict in November . The division that can be calculated in advance is so close that the position of one or two important States may determine the result . This fact not only gives great interest to anything indicating the attitude of the people of those States , but it brings the considerations involved in the national canvass to bear upon them with such force as to make their action in a State election much the same as it is likely to be in the Presidential election . Indiana has for some years been a Democratic State . The margin of advantage at the opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Republicans can carry the State on Tuesday next it will be a decided gain , showing that the general current is in their favor . Such a result would not only be of great significance as indicating the general drift of sentiment in the country , but it would exert a very effective ' influence upon the wavering and halting I-vote . Some of the more candid organs'of Democratic opinion admit that it would be the precursor of Republican success in the national contest . If , on the other hand , the Democrats should carry the State by a small majority , they would no more than hold their own , and the contest would continue:to be close and uncertain , with the result largely dependent on the vote of New York. : The union and enthusiasm of the Republicans and the suppressed discord of the , Democrats in Indiana , and the evidence of , a conservative sentiment among the business men of the State and the industrial ' Classes , who fear the consequences of a change , give good ground for hopeful anticipations . Political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canvass are on the whole encouraging . The Vermont election early in September showed that in that State the Republicans had become aroused , and , that popular feeling was with them to an extent unknown for several years . There were no local divisions or side issues to vitiate the significance of the vote . It was a confirmation of the surface indications which were previously apparent in regard to the general course of popular feeling . Then came the Maine election , with its dubious result . The Republicans having come short of a triumph over the Fusion forces their opponents interpreted it as an indication of weakness in the party not limited by the borders of the Pine Tree State , while the Republicans were themselves inclined to accept it as a set-back . While it undoubtedly produced some effect upon the shifting sentiment , there are many reasons why it ought not to be taken as a real indication of the general drift of feeling . The Democrats won no victory , and the Greenback diversion , which had assumed such proportions there , was something outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in it . We have already given our reasons for regardinn its stregnth as due , in no small meas- ure , to dissatisfaction in the Republican ranks arising out of local causes merely . At all events , the Maine election did not have that intimate association with the national contest that is acknowledged to exist in the case of the October States , and he would be a bold Democrat who should predicate upon it a probability of success for the mixed Electoral ticket in that State in November . The moral effect of the Maine election is pretty completely spent , and it is doubtful if it will be felt in Indiana , where influences similar to those which produced the result are not at work . While the net result of the September voting must needs make us cautious in our anticipations , it would not be surprising if next Tuesday should prove that the current which was apparently checked in the East is flowing with full force in the West . Recent indications are not wanting to justify the belief that the movement of which Vermont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided Republican gains in the town elections of Connecticut are not without significance . Occurring at a time when feeling was aroused by considerations involved in the national canvass , they could not fail to be affected by them . Connecticut is a State largely concerned in manufactures and trade . The material interests of her people require stability and certainty in the policy of the Government which touches these interests , and it is doubtful whether they will be found in favor of a change . The preliminary election for Inspectors and Assessors in Delaware is another indication of the general drift of sentiment . In 1876 the Democrats had a majority of over 2,600 in a total vote of about 24,000 . At the " little election " this year the total vote for Inspectors was 18,202 , and the Democratic majority only 856 , while the city of Wilmington , in which the industrial and commercial interests of the State are almost wholly concentrated , was carried by the Republicans . This result has been obtained in spite of the fact that for some years the Democrats have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was wholly in their hands . These indications from Connecticut and Delaware , as well as those which appear in the various party demonstrations in Indiana and Ohio , show the prominent place which business interests occupy in this contest . While the underlying principles and tendencies of parties are of great importance , they do not have such a hold upon the popular mind as do the material interests upon which their prosperity and welfare are more immediately dependent . There is a very general feeling that the country has entered upon an era of commercial and industrial success in which all are concerned and which is likely to be imperiled by a change of Administration . The apprehension of peril is well founded , and it is likely to have an important influence in determining the result of coming elections .                     