@@743599

txt When the present national canvass opened the Democrats believed that if they could elect their candidate for President they would control both of the political departments of the Government , and they intended in that case to control the Judiciary as well before many months had passed . The Republicans , on the other hand , hardly expected to do more than retain their hold on the Executive , with a possible narrow majority in the House of Representatives . The Senate was freely conceded to the Democrats for at least one-half of the next Presidential term . The elections of Tuesday put a very different face on affairs . They show that it is quite possible for the Republicans to resume control of . the Government on the 4th of March next in both houses of Congress as well as in the Executive branch . This is not only possible , but with prudence and energy on the part of the Republicans , and with a resolute determination to reap the full advantage of the tide which has set in in their favor , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 130 straight votes . A majority of the House is 147 . Leaving aside those Greenback members who are ordinarily counted on the Republican side , and of whom there are 9 in all , we may say that the Republicans lack 17 votes of a majority . They gained 3 of these in Indiana and 6 in Ohio on Tuesday , and had previously gained 1 in Vermont and 1 in Oregon , or 11 in all . This leaves ' only 6 seats to be acquired in November . There can be little doubt that these can be had , as follows : One in Illinois , 2 in Iowa , 1 in Massachusetts , 1 in Minnesota , 2 in Pennsylvania , which leaves one seat to make up a possible loss of 1 in the Albany district in this State . This is a very close and moderate calculation , and is more likely to err in the direction of caution than in the opposite . The situation with reference to the Senate was very fully explained in our Washington dispatches yesterday morning . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter is that if the Republicans elect a Senator from New-Jersey , 1 from Connecticut , and 1 from Nevada , the Senate will be tied on all party questions and the casting vote would be with the Vice-President . Should the Democrats elect a Senator from Nevada , which is not impossible , Senator DAVID DAVIS , of Illinois , would hold the balance of power , unless Senator MAIroxE , of Virginia , should act independently of the Democrats , in which case that party would be in a distinct minority . Under these circumstances , there is not the slightest doubt that the Democrats will resort to every possible device to retain their Senators from NewJersey and from Connecticut . For this purpose they will be found trying to trade votes for the Republican Electoral ticket for votes for the Legislature . No such proposition should be listened to . Trading votes is , at best , but a scurvy trick in politics , and in this case would be a gratuitous throwing away of available force . With proper effort we may afford to disregard all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are reasonably sure of electing the next President . Let them see now that no undue haste , to make assurance doubly sure , tempts them into trading away the prospect  --  which also they possess ? of obtaining a . Congress Republican in both branches to sustain the Republican President . Very much more than mere completeness of partisan success depends upon the possession of both Congress and Executive from next March . The rule of a Government divided between two parties is never wholesome . Neither has sufficient power to enable the country to fix upon it the responsibility also . Such a division of the Government is sure to be fruitful in schemes of extravagance or worse , such as the Arrears of Pensions bill in the present Congress , while it enables each party to shirk the initiative in matters at once important and delicate . Such , for instance , as the funding propositions of the last session . Had Congress and the Executive been both Republican or both Democratic , those measures could not have been shelved as they were . Matters of even graver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next Congress or in its successor . The financial situation , flattering as it now is , can not be expected to last . It ? contains the germs of inevitable change , in the laws compelling the reissue of redeemed notes and the coinage of silver dollars . The time will come , and is very likely to come within the term of the next President , when a choice will have to be made between the repeal of these laws and the depreciation of the currency , and at that time it is of the last importance that the power and responsibility should both rest with the Republicans . Under that condition alone is it probable that this problem , one of the most serious that is likely to present itself to our Government in a long time , can be solved as it should be solved ? In many other directions the immediate future will find questions of the greatest interest arising . The revision of our tax laws , the preparation for the time when the charters of the national banks will expire , the removal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of inter-State commerce , and , above all , the systematic and enduring reform of the civil service  --  these are matters which the national Government will have to consider , and with which it can deal far more wisely and effectually if it is , in all its branches , under the consistent guidance of one party than it can if it be divided between two . Every consideration , therefore , impels the Republicans to use all honorable means to secure the control of the next Congress . 