@@672096

txt THE LAW AND THE TRUSTS . Since the beginning of the year there has been in the Legislatures of several States a movement toward the enactment of laws for the overthrow of Trusts and all similar combinations . Many of the bills introduced have been drawn hastily and without due regard to all phases of the problem to be solved , but even if none of them shall be enacted the public discussion of the subject in the Legislatures and elsewhere will enlighten the people as to the nature and operations of the organizations in question . In Ohio the demand for legislation has caused an investigation to be made by a joint committee of the two legislative bodies , and it is stated that upon the evidence thus procured the Attorney-General of the State will ask the courts to revoke the charter of a certain corporation controlled by the Standard Oil Trust . The decision of Judge BARRETT in one of the suits against the Sugar Trust points out the way in which the people may move successfully against corporations that have abused the powers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are those that are composed of corporations , for the most ingenious and successful plan thus far devised for cementing a combination is that of collecting the shares of corporations in the hands of a Beard of Trustees . The laws of this State forbid a corporation to go beyond the powers granted in its charter , or to abuse those powers , and the Attorney-General is empowered to sue for a revocation of its charter whenever a corporation shall have broken these laws . This is what the Attorney-General has done in the case of one of the corporations taken in by the Sugar Trust . In several other States the statutes relating lo corporations closely resemble those of New-York , and for this reason it is possible for the law officers of the people in those States to sue for a revocation of the charters of corporations that have gone into Trusts , just as the Attorney-General of this State has done . But it does not appear that such action has yet been taken in any other State , except in the case of the Chicago Gas Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cottonseed Oil Trust in Louisiana , although it is said . that one of the Standard Oil Trust 's corporations is soon to be mad# a defendant in Ohio . The Chicago Gas Trust is itself a corporation which has absorbed all the other gas companies of the city , and : the suits in which the Attorney-General of Illinois recently appeared for the people have for their object the revocation of its charter and also the charters of one or two companies that willingly surrendered to it . The corporation connected with the Standard Oil Trust against which the Attorney-General of Ohio intends , it is said , to proceed , is the Standard Oil Company of Ohio , and it is interesting to recall that the great oil combination was built up on this company . The projectors of the Trust were refiners of oil in Cleveland , and their first corporation was this one . It is now one of many , all of which are controlled by the Trust . Its capital stock is $3,500,000 , every share of which the Trust holds . It may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in behalf of an independent oil refiner , GEORGE RICE , for the revocation of the charters of two railroad companies on the ground that they conspired with the Standard Oil Trust to ruin ' him by means of discrimination in freight rates . The people do not grant corporate charters tO be used for the suppresion of competition . If the refiners of - sugar in this State had applied directly to the people for charters , and at  --  the same time had said that they proposed to use them in making a Trust , the charters would have been withheld . By insisting upon obedience to the terms of the agreement under which corporate charters are procured , and by exacting the penalty when those terms have been broken , the people can break-up those combinations  --  the aotnal Trusts  --  that are made by a consolidation of the shares of several corporations in the hands of Trustees . But only a few of the combinations are actual Trusts , formed by the use of the ? stock of corporations , and the course to be pursued with respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts is not so clearly shown . The prosecutors in the Sugar Trust suit are of the opinion that such combinations are condemned under the common law and by the conspiracy sections of the Penal Code of this State . It does not appear that any attempt has been made in behalf of the people to prosecute such combinations upon these grounds . The most effective remedy that the people can use with respect to nine-tenths of these combinations is a reduction of the tariff duties that enable them to exact a high price . These combinations have for almost their sole object the raising of prices and the maintenance of prices after they have been raised . In some protected industries the price has been fixed for so many years ' by combination agreement that no one outside of the business can say what a fair competitive price would be . There are other evils connected with the suppression of competition , but the enhancement of prices is the greatest of all . In many a case the high ring price is maintained solely by the aid of the tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case the reduction of this duty would compel a reduction of price by the combination . Bnt'Mr . ALLISON and his associates in the Senate leave recently been fixing duties for the accommodation of such rings , By proposing rates far above the level required for a prohibitory duty they have even invited the formation of combinations and offered a premium for the establishment of them . There are duties in the Allison bill that can be accounted for only upon the assumption that an existing combination demanded them in order that its present ring price might safely be raised , or that they were procured by persons who intend to control certain industries by combinations . And the Republican Party proposes that this bill shall be the law a few months hence .                     