@@781759

txt A riparian and territorial conflict of no mean dimensions has broken out in the interior of Africa . There are at present two parties to the S11110 , Mr. HENRY 31 . STANLEY and M. DE BRAllA , an explorer of Italian birth , but now a French citizen . The bone of contention is the Congo River with its trading privileges . These are of great importance , for , with its tributaries , the Congo affords a means of communication with thousands of square miles in the interior of the Dark Continent not to be easily reached in any other way . The country thus opened up is the chief source of the world 's ivory supply , and it contains an incalculable array of heathen raw material for the missionaries . Mr. STANLEY was the first white man to visit the Upper Congo . This interesting region has been made the subject of special study and exploration by the Belgians , whose King , LEOPOLD II. , is President not only of the International African Society but of the Comite d'Etude du Haut Congo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went in August , 1879 , to establish stations along the Congo as places of refuge and hospitality for travelers and explorers , and to make further exploration of the upper river and its tributaries . He found M. DE BRAZZA at ? lsangila , some 200 miles from the Atlantic coast . M. DE BRAllA was also at work for the International African Society . But on pushing on to Stanley Pool , Mr. STANLEY found that the enterprising Italian had also been at work for France . He had , in fact , staked out a kind of small New France , some nine miles square , right in the heart of Africa . Having covered this new possession with the French flag , and a solemn treaty signed by its feudatory chiefs , M. DE BRAllA returned to Europe , where he and Mr. STANLEY now are , each engaged in explaining to geographers and statesmen that his own private and particular patent of discovery and occupation on the Congo is the only one consistent with the commercial interests of the world and the happiness of the native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave us any doubt about the character of the work he has done . It is a continuation of M. ROESTAN 'S Tunisian burglary , but accomplished with fine words instead of with the bayonet . M. DE BRAllA 'S treaty with the chiefs begins as follows : " In the name of France and in virtue of the rights conferred upon me by King MAKOKO , I have on this 8d of October , 1880 , taken possession of the territory extending between the Rivers Jove and Impila . As a symbol of taking possession thereof , I have planted the French flag at Okila , " &c.; A. Sergeant and two sailors remain to guard the flag , and flags have also been sent to each of the chiefs living in the territory . Several Paris newspapers have commented with efithusiastic approval upon M. DE BRAllA 'S peaceful conquest , and while expressing the hope that the French Chambers will speedily rat. - ify his treaty , they speak of Mr. STANLEY 'S station building as undertaken in the interests of " the commercial monopoly of a company . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hour in Paris . He has already secured the powerful backing of M. DE LESSEPS , who , in presenting him with the gold medal et ' the Topographical Society , complimented him upon his annexation of the Stanley Pool country , and also said that he approved the scheme for creating an internal sea in Africa by flooding the Sahara . When the waters are admitted to the great desert the southern boundary of Tunis , wherever it may be , will be brought within a reasonable distance of the country immediately north of the Congo , and France will have a short and nearly all water route to her new colony . Mr. STANLEY , in an interview published in the ' Jerald , admits that the objects of the Belgian expedition were " commercial , in a sense , " since the opening up of any new country is chiefly for purposes of trade . But he could have had no political aims or colonizing designs , since Belgium is a neutral country and can not plant colonies without the consent of the powers . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fill the minds of the native chiefs with the notion that his own men and any Europeans except Frenchmen who might come into their country were enemies bent on their destruction , and that they must look to the French and their flag for protection . This made it possible for Mr. STANLEY to erect station buildings on the north side of Stanley Pool , but a friendly chief from the south side gave him the needed permission and a fine site . Five stations were erected , three on the banks of the river at points below the Pool , one at Leopoldville , just opposite M. DE BRAllA 'S territory , and one on the Upper Congo . The Belgian committee have now seven steamers on the Congo , three of them on the navigable part of the river above Stanley Pool . One of these steamers was taken there by Mr. STANLEY himself , being carried around the cataracts of the lower stream by his men . He made a voyage of exploration in it for 150 miles up the Kwango , the chief southern tributary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he named for LEOPOLD II . His own plan is to carry the commercial products of the Congo region to the Atlantic in steamers , portages being made around the cataracts until the trade shall be large enough to make it profitable to cut canals . M. DE Buazze. does not propose to follow the stream , but to establish a road from Stanley Pool nearly due west across the country and the mountains to Banga , on the coast . The natives are eager to trade with the whites for the beads and brass trinkets and cloth which are given them in exchange for their ivory , but they have as yet seen very few white men , the French and Portuguese trading settlements on the coast having shown a singular lack of enterprise in the matter of interior exploration and conquest . Now that Mr. STANLEY has made Stanley Pool " a free port " and M. DE BRAllA has planted the French flag there , the simple black men will soon have the opportunity of forming a closer acquaintance with Europeans . Capitalists in Paris are said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new country , and even the English , who , according to the Manchester Guardian , have greater interests involved in the Congo country than all the rest of the world put together , are looking covetously upon it . Missionaries  --  Jesuit , Baptist , and others ? are already on the ground . The blessings of commerce , Christianity , and civilization will be simultaneously poured in upon the Omdoumbos , the Aombos , the Oubandjis , the Bateks , and the Banknuas . And if one of these degraded heathen , jealous of the intrusion of selfish foreigners upon his domain , shall venture to plunge a spear into European flesh , he will be promptly shot or hanged in the name of commerce , Christianity , and civilization .                     