@@780669

txt The action of the House of Commons on Premier Gladstone 's resolution permitting Mr. Bradlaugh to affirm , has given great satisfaction to the supporters of the Government The next critical division will be on Monday , on the Irish Compensation for Disturbance bill , which , though strongly opposed , will probably pass . The Irish members will vote for it . With a view to bring the conduct of Mr. Bradlaugh in Parliament before the Court of Queen 's Bench , witnesses were present in the House of Commons yesterday to note the fact that Mr. Bradlaugh was sitting and voting . His prosecution will be commenced forthwith . It is understood that Mr. Bradlaugh intends to fight the action , if necessary , to the House of Lords . The House of Commons went into Committee of the Whole this morning on the Irish Relief bill . Mr. Parnell moved to authorize the Commissioners of Public Works to advance money within their discretion to Boards of Guardians , in scheduled districts , for outdoor relief , the whole amount so advanced not to exceed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , accepted the motion , and the amendment was agreed to . Mr. E. J. Synan , ( Liberal , ) member for Limerick County , moved that the rate of interest on such loans shall not exceed 1 per cent . Mr. Parnell , supporting the motion , exclaimed against the shabby conduct of the Government , which , he said , had not , granted a penny from the Imperial exchequer for the relief of the Irish distress . Mr. Bradlaugh made his maiden speech in support of the motion , and said that this was either a matter of pure business or generosity . It would be unfortunate , he said , if ' the notion got abroad that the Government and people of England and Scotland intended to be generous only as far as it involved no cost to themselves . On behalf of many working men , for whom he was authorized to speak , he asked that some loss might fall upon them rather than that this measure of generosity should be misunderstood . He asked the House not to be generous with half a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His delivery was timid and hesitating , very different from that of his carefully-prepared speech at the bar of the House . In consequence of the recent murders and outrages in Ireland , there begins to be some talk of the renewal of the Peace Preservation act .                     