@@781767

txt We recently quoted extracts from the speeches of Mr. Monuna , and Mr. STRvENs in 1862 and a speech made by Mr. MORRILL in 1870 , showing how the tariff duties were raised durine the war to offset the extraordinary internal taxes then imposed upon home manufacturers , and pointed out that the additional compensatory duties were retained after the corresponding Internal taxes had been abolished . Mr. MORRILL said . in 1870 that " 50 per cent . in many instances " had been " added to the tariff daring the war to enable our home trade to bear the new but indispensable burdens of internal taxation , " andurged that the " percentage-of duties imposed . to cover internal taxation " should not be retained after the internal taxes had been repealed . To this testimony should be " added that of Mr. JOHN SHERMAN , who said in 1872 , in the Senate : " It must be remembered that the present duties , in 1872 the average ad valorem rate was only 41.35 per cont. , while now it is 47.10 , taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were before the war , and that they have been three times largely increased since the passage of the Morrill Tariff act of 1861 . If the present rates of duty were high enough during and since the war , when home industry was burdened with heavy internal taxes  --  with stamp duties , income taxes , and high rates on raw materials  --  then surety they are now too high , when all these taxes are removed . I have listened with patience , day by day , to the statements of gentlemen who are interested in our domestic productions . I am a firm believer in the general idea of protecting their industries , but I assure them , as I assure their representatives here , that if the present high rates of duties , unexampled in our country , and higher by nearly 50 per cent . than they were in 1861 , are maintained on metallic and textile fabrics after we have repealed the very internal taxes which , gave rise to them , and after we have substantially given them their raw materials free of duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests in the country that will overthrow the whole system , and do greater harm than can possibly be done by a moderate reduction of the present rates of duty . " These were the words of Senator SHERmix in 1872 , when the average rate was lower than it is now . And yet , when any one expresses the same opinions in these days he is denounced by the Senator and his party associates as a free trader and a miserable creature who longs to destroy the industries of his country . It may even be suggested that he has been hired by " British gold " t o sap the foundations of his Nation 's prosperity .                     