@@743652

txt Many of the official documents with which we are just now so abundantly favored lay stress upon the small proportion of the foreign trade of the country that is carried on in American vessels , and contain suggestions of the desirability of doing something to encourage the development of our shipping . None of them , however , ventures upon any explicit recommendation of a removal of the obstacles which our antiquated navigation laws put in the way of building up a commercial marine proportionate to our share in the commerce . of the world . The Secretary of the Treasury , in his report , shows that there was au actual decrease during the last fiscal year in the tonnage of American vessels , not only those engaged in foreign trade , but those engaged in the coasting trade as well , though the latter are secured against the competition of foreign shipping . The tonnage entering our ports from foreign countries , computed on the basis Oh the number of entries and not the number of vessels , shows an increase of 101- per cent. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 24-per cent. , while the foreign tonnage made a gain of 13 per cent . Calculating our foreign commerce on the basis of the value of merchandise imported and exported , only 17 per cent . of it was carried on in American vessels . This shows that the disproportion between the share which ( ir vessels take in the trade between our own ports and the rest of the world and that of foreign shipping is on the increase , as our share was 5 per cent . less than in 1879 . Five-sixths of the freightage of merchandise , valued at about $1,200,000,000 per year , with all that it involves of profit for:capital and employment for men and of naval consequence in the eyes of the world , is secured by foreign shipping . Increase of commerce and of demand for tonnage in a trade in which we are au equal partner with the rest of the world only makes the case worse , for it draws in more foreign vessels , while those owned by Americans steadly drop out . The cause of this state of things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any study . Owing to a variety of causes , conspicuous among which are import duties on many things that enter into the construction and equipment of vessels or affect the cost thereof , we are not able to build iron ships so cheaply as they are made on the other side of the Atlantic , and our merchants and shipping companies are not permitted to purchase and register for the foreign or coastwise trade those that are built abroad . The consequence is inevitable . Foreign steam-ship companies are gradually monopolizing the carrying trade between our ports and every part of the world . Either we must accept this result as economical and desirable or we must remove the cause . It is useless to mourn the decline of our shipping and the monopoly of our foreign trade by European ships while we persist in the policy to which this effect is directly and clearly traceable . If it were forced upon us by any foreign nation it would be a justifiable cause of war , but it is deliberately pursued by our own Government , and we submit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This policy is said to have been adopted and maintained as a protection to American shipbuilding , but American ship-building has died under it . Its effect is not to protect or encourage anything American , but to enable foreigners , to whom the ship-building markets of the world are open , to do our ocean freighting for us cheaper than we are permitted to do it for ourselves . But what is the remedy suggested in official documents for the paralysis that affects American shipping 2 Secretary SHERMAN mildly suggests that the only course is to increase our registered shipping . That is to say , " the way to resume is to resume . " " The only method available , " he continues , " as a measure of public policy , of effecting such an increase , is either to allow American citizens the privilege of purchasing vessels of foreign build , to give a bounty for home-built vessels , or to await the increase of American-built vessels and their tardy substitution in foreign trade for those of other nationalities . " It needed little sagacity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give reasons for . or against any of these methods . His own figures give little encouragement for the " waiting policy , " but rather indicate thA we would have to wait but a few years before the American flag would disappear altogether from merchant vessels on the ocean . The alternative , then , is the privilege to buy foreign-built ships , or a " bounty on home-built vessels . " President HAYES and the Postmaster-General do not hesitate to recommend the bounty system disguised as " adequate compensation " for carrying the mails . The President , after expressing a confidence which is hardly justified , that " the wisdom of Congress " will be " ready to supply " whatever modifications of our regulations of trade and navigation may be necessary or useful , speaks of this as au " initial measure " which seems to him " so clearly useful and efficient " that he ventures to press it upon the attention of the national legislators . The idea of regarding a contract for carrying the mails as an " initial measure " for . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be in the highest degree preposterous . Such a service must be carried on by something that is established . and can not be carried on until it is established . Then it should be paid for according to its value to the Government , everything legitimate to it being considered . But if the communication proposed would be made unprofitable by " our regulations of trade and navigation , " the mail contract must be sufficiently lucrative to overcome the disadvantage or it would be of no use . The amount to be paid would depend upon the needs of the steam-ship lines favored , and the payment would be virtually a bounty on home-built vessels . Now , if such a bounty is to be paid why disguise and conceal it under the pretense of " adequate compensation " for car-. rying the United States mails ? The bounty system itself , open and undisguised , is one which even the President would hesitate to press upon the attention of Congress . We cling to a policy which makes it expensive to build ships in this country . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be built at less cost , and thus we drive the carrying trade into the hands of foreigners . Then we attempt to get back some share of it by taxing out of the people certain sums of money to pay to steam-ship companies over and above the legitimate charges for carrying freight . That is , we compel the people indirectly to pay.the high rates necessary to make American shipping profitable which they refuse to pay voluntarily . As a public policy this would be a step further in absurdity than we have gone yet .                     