@@780549

txt A Berlin correspondent says : " It is generally believed here that if the Porte resists the powers the resistance will be chiefly the , result of fear that concessions would encourage the Pan-Slavist aspirations of the Bulgarians , which menace the existence of the Turkish Empire in Europe . The proceedings in Bulgaria , where Russian influence is becoming stronger , and where large military preparations are going on , are regarded with great mistrust . It is supposed that Russia intends profiting by the present situation in the Peninsula to carry out the programme of the treaty of San Stefano . It is interesting to know in what light Eastern affairs are viewed by public opinion in Russia , for thereby the real aim of Russian policy may be seen . The St. Petersburg Vedornosti declares that the aims of Russia are evident and certain , and offensive toward nobody , for they consist only in the constitution of independent Slav States on the Peninsula , and in opening the Dardanelles . No power can ? have more moderato wishes , but it is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great trouble , for no other flag than the Russian ought to be allowed to wave over the Bosphorus . Should that not be possible , it would be better not to make any change in. the affairs of the Peninsula for the present . " The semi-official Bereg says : " No intrigues or secret conspiracies are necessary to accelerate the collapse of the Turkish Empire . The situation has now come to a point where it is only desirable to give a free hand to the Christians in the Peninsula . A general insurrection might follow , and streams of blood be - shed ; but the struggle would certainly not last long , in consequence of the political and moral decadence of the Porte . " The Bereg would prefer a pacific solution ; but at the same time , it says the interests of all the powers demand that their designs should be achieved , and that an end should be quickly made to the present insupportable situation . The Molva says : " We are convinced that all the powers except Austria and Germany agree in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be disinclined to share in such liquidation if she were allowed to take a part of the booty . For the moment Austria may wish peace preserved , in order to wait for a more favorable time for reopening the Eastern question ? but it must be regarded as a piece of good luck for the different nationalities of the Peninsula , that Austria is now much occupied with home difficulties , and is therefore not able to hinder the natural development of the affairs of the East . " A dispatch from Berlin says : " Austria does not appear to be inclined to support any radical measures against Turkey , and believes it will be quite sufficient to convince the Porte that no change in the resolutions of the conference will be made . The future development of the question may then be left entirely to the course of time and to accidental circumstances . The German Cabinet will , in its pol- icy , be united to its Austrian ally , and will do all in its power to save Turkey from complete destruction . The installation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very significant in this respect . The negotiations on this matter have been conducted very secretly , as neither the German Cabinet nor the Porte might have found it advantageous for their purpose that the arrangement should have been ? too early made known to the other Governments . " LONDON , July 20 . ? A Berlin correspondent telegraphs : The Russian and Austrian representatives at Cettinje have informed the Prince of Montenegro of the extreme probability that a European squadron will go soon to the Adriatic to compel the cessions of territory . " A dispatch from Bucharest says Eugene Schuyler , the American Consul-General , is expected there in a few days , from Rome . M. Zankoff , nephew of the Premier , has been appointed Bulgarian agent at Bucharest . The union of Bulgaria and Roumelia is believed to be imminent .                     