@@744770

txt We have received a communication from an officer in the Custom-house at this port , who was appointed upon competitive examination , protesting against competition for promotion . Our correspondent is laboring under certain misconceptions which are sufficiently general to warrant anexplans.tion of them . He expresses the opinion that competition for promotion " has proved a total failure . " The records of the office in which he is employed , and those of the departments at Washington during the time when competition for promotion was fairly enforced , are full of proof to the contrary . He says such competition is " not believed in by any honest and well-informed person in the service . " He is mistaken . Mr. E. 0 . GRA.VES , on whose expression of opinion our correspondent indirectly bases his comment , is one of many entirely honest and peculiarly well-informed officers in the service who firmly " believe in " competition for promotion as not only valuable but essential . He refers to examinations as " irresponsible , " by which ho means that they relieve the appointing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this effect , and enforced in the spirit of the law , they can not have it . In the first place , they are indispensable , but not conclusive . They leave the appointing power not merely free . but bound , to take into consideration the ? record of the persons examined for promotion during the term of their previous service . In the next place , they must turn out for the election of the appointing power several who stand highest on the list of those examined . Finally , there may be , and we think should be , a term of probation before an absolute appointment to a higher grade as well as before such an appointment on entrance into the service . Our correspondent assumes that the rules of the Civil Service ' Board will secure entrance to the service only after competitive examinations . On that point there seems to be some difference of opinion . We believe that that was the intention of the law and of the rules , and we trust that it will be carried out . But if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every rea ? son why competition should be employed as an indispensable condition to promotion , and no sound reason why it should not , in the manner required by the spirit of the law , be so employed . We are confident that a failure to insist unon it is desired mainly by those only who do not wish the service thoroughly reformed , and that it would be to the last degree to be regretted .                     