@@743734

txt The Senate is considering what is commonly known as the Japanese Indemnity bill , and there is some hope that it may get through both houses before the ! end of the present Congress . It is a great shame that there should have been any delay in the passage of this measure . As long ago as 1872 the House Committee on Foreign Affairs , of which Mr. N. P. Bemis was then the Chairman , reported a bill for the restitution of this so-called indemnity , and from that date until now the proposition has been taken up with a feebleness and lack of interest which was a certain augury of its ultimate failure . In an interview with a reporter the other day , Gen. GRANT , while expressing himself very warmly in favor of the motion to give back this money , said that what is everybody 's business is nobody 's , and that , therefore , nobody cared to press a bill in which he had no personal interest . Members of Congress seem to think that they can not waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern them or their constituents . There is no political backing and no lobby behind the bill to restore the Japanese indemnity . Therefore , it is not restored , and the credit of the Government suffers . The events which gave rise . to a foundation on which rested a claim of the United States against Japan occurred in 1863 . This was during the existence of the dual system of Government in Japan , and while the native barons , or daimios , were fighting against the introduction of foreigners . Prince CHOSEIII , ruler of the Province of Nagato , fortified the entrance to the Straits of Shimonoseki , leading into the inland sea . He fired into several foreign vessels , ) among which was the American steamer Pembroke . When this resistance to the enlargement of foreign commerce had resulted in an assault upon an American vessel , the United States steamer Wyoming was dispatched to the Straits of Shimonoseki to retaliate . This vessel sunk a Japanese brig , blew up a steamer , and inflicted large loss upon the Japanese , losing five of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a French dispatchboat and a Dutch man-of-war were fired upon , the latter having four men killed and five wounded . It should be noticed that no English vessel was fired upon , and that English commerce escaped molestation . Notwithstanding these facts , the English were the most active in arranging for an armed expedition against the Prince of Nagato , and in the subsequent demand for indemnity . The expeditionary force consisted of British , French , Dutch , and American vessels , our own country being represented , by a small chartered steamer , the Takiang . The belligerent Prince was soundly thrashed , his fleet sunk , his batteries demolished , and his guns carried away by the attacking force . In the meantime , however , the Japanese Government had apologized to the United States Government , deploring the outrages which had been committed and disavowing them as beink the performances of a rebel- - lious Prince . It had been , estimated by the Navy Department of the United States that the loss to the Pembroke was $10,000 . The Japanese Government paid $12,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered ample reparation for the insult offered to the American flag . But , after the fight at Shimonoseki , the British Minister led in an insolent demand upon the Imperial Government , the cost of the expedition , damages to associated national honor , &c.,; being set at $3,000,000 . This ' was paid , much to the surprise of the British Minister , Sir HARRY PARKES , who was at that time bringing a heavy pressure upon the Japanese Government , with the expectation of being able to extort other concessions from the Government , then struggling with a civil war and with a depleted Treasury . Our share of that indemnity was ' $750,000 , and this is the sum which . it is now proposed to return to Japan . This sum of money was never deposited in the Treasury , but was invested in United States bonds by the State Department , in whose custody it still remains , and now , with principal and accrued interest , has reached the sum of $1,463,224 . On this amount there is a certain demand made by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wyoming , for prize-money . It is proposed to pay on this account $248,000 . Some Senators oppose paying Japan anything more than the original amount of the indemnity , and one objection made is that we can not return any portion of the indemnity without first obtaining the consent of the powers with whom we engaged in the proceedings which led to its payment . The result of all this has been to delay any settlement of the business . The United States Government to-day holds in its possession a large sum of money which was most unjustly extorted from the Japanese Government . There is not a shadow of reason in our retaining this money , and it should burn in the national pocket until restitution has been made . Other nations may settle their quarrels in ' their own way . We should not hesitate to I liquidate our own obligations , without regard to what other people may do or say .                     