@@744086

txt Within a short time the star route contracts for the Territories will be awarded for another term of four years . The current term extends from July 1 , 1878 , to June 20 , 1882 .. The advertisement of these routes was published some time ago , and the bids will soon be received by the department . In the advertisement published in November , 1877 , the arrangement of the service was of such a nature that the way was made plain and easy for those who afterward committed the great frauds which have been exposed . On many of the routes the speed called for was from one to two miles per hour , so that there seemed to be some excuse for the fraudulent expedition which was afterward ordered . The advertisement for the coming term has been carefully prepared . by Mr. Sweeney , the clerk in charge of the greater part of the territory , under the direction of Second Assistant PostmasterGeneral Elmer , and earnest efforts have been made to adapt the amount of service and the rate of speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . The intention has been to leave no excuse for socalled expedition , and to advertise for the number of trips which the population demands . It is expected , of course , that in some instances the rapid growth of settlements will make it necessary to readjust the service , but it is believed that these instances will be rare . Dir . Sweeney has been placed in charge of this service since Mr. James ' became Postmaster-General . The bids will be received by the department until Jan. 7 , and the awards will be made in March . The reception of these bids in great numbers will throw a great deal of extra work upon the Contract Office . It is expected that among the thousands of proposals will be some accompanied by worthless bonds , but it is believed that the department has a remedy in such eases , although the tune is short between the acceptance of the bids and the award of the contracts , and , perhaps , too short to admit of the discovery of such bonds by examination . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides that any Postmaster who shall knowingly make any false or illusory certificate shall be dismissed from office , and be punished by fine or imprisonment , or both . At the beginning of the current term 23 contracts were awarded to the so-called Philadelphia dummies . The amount of bonds on these contracts was $205,000 , and the alleged value of the real estate security was more than $1,000,000 . The sureties were Henry Arbuckle . W. R. Cason , T. Gannon , J. K. Gamble , Christian Price , Legrand Ensign , W. L. Price , J. G. Clark , Robert Campbell , James Kee , and W. H. Crawford . The property , according to the bonds , consisted of mineral lands in Pennsylvania , city lots in Philadelphia , and farms in New-Jersey . The soundness of these bondsmen was certified by a Postmaster . The story of the combination 's achievements is told in Mr. Gibson 's report . A rigid enforcement of the law against Postmasters who lend their influence to such schemes would accomplish a great deal toward preventing any similar frauds in the @ @ 