@@780857

txt It is altogether probable that before many days the Hon. Burl Van Horn , Collector of Internal Revenue for the Twenty-eighth New-York District , will be superseded either by Major Edward E. Sill , of Canandaigua , ex-Bank Superintendent De Witt C. Ellis , or Mr. Pierce , of Ontario . The applications of the seekers for the office have been pressed and backed with a great deal of perstency , and it is understood that no matter how excellent the reasons given for Mr. Van Horn 's retention , he will be constrained to go , and will be succeeded by one of the three men named . It is learned that he was marked fox displacement during last Spring , the memIsere of Congress from the four districts . in the collection district having then substantially united upon Major Sill . Since that time , when it is represented that President Garfield 's attention had been directed to the subject , and his opinion ob . tamed to the effect that a change would be proper , complications have arisen . Mr. Van Horn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the office , Being in this city in the Summer of 1b77 on business for another person , he made the office of Gen. Raum a sort of head-quarters , as the General and himself were warm personal friends . During one of his frequent visits to the office of the C'ommis-sioner of Internal Revenue Gen. Raum spoke to Mr. Van Horn about the confused state of the internal revenue business in the Twenty-eighth District , and suggested that he should take the place . Mr. Van Horn said that he did not see how he could , as he lived at Lockport , in another district . Mr. Van Horn returned to Lockport , and in about 10 days President Hayes issued an executive order detaching Niagara County from the Thirtieth District and adding it to the Twenty-eighth . On Aug. 1 , 1877 , Mr. Van Horn was appointed Collector of the Twenty-eighth District , and his name having been sent to the Senate in De . cember following , his nomination was con. firmed . In the first year of his term of office Mr. Van Dorn added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been collected by his predecessor , most ' of the additional amount being back and neglected taxes . When he took the office the taxes for the last year under his predecessor amounted to $774,000 . Mr. Van Horn increased the revenue during the second and third years of his term , although there was no revival of business , and in the last year the collections were more than $1.000,000 . It is said by Mr. Van Horn 's friends that the proposed change can scarcely be made upon the ground of public policy , for papers are alluded to as having been sent to him conveying the unqualified approval of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of his administration . In March last , when there was an effort made to get the place for Major Sill , whose chief backers are found in Rochester , Commissioner Raum wrote to Sec. retary Windom giving him the record of Mr. Van Horn as Collector . In this letter he is re ? ported to have stated that while Mr. Van Horn found the district in an'unsatisfactory condition , the records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifth class , the efficiency and executive ability of Collector Van Horn and his subordinates , brought the district in a few months up to first class , or No. 1 , where by diligent and faithful service it has been maintained . Commissioner Raum closed this letter with this statement : " I think it is due to Mr. Van Horn to state that there are no official reasons , to my knowledge , why he should be retired . " Last Spring , according to custom , an expert examined Mr. Van Horn 's office , and on May 27 . Commissioner Raum sent Collector Van Horn a report , in which he said he was gratified to be able to state not only that the Office maintained the highest grade , but that the Revenue Agent reported that its condition and the manner of conducting the business " do not admit of criticism in any respect . No higher encomium than this could be passed upon any office , and coming from so experienced an officer as Mr. Hate it is doubly valuable . " Another examination was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported as remaining No. 1 , or first class . Since the new Congress came together Major Sill has found competitors , not only in Dewitt C. Ellis but in Mr. Pierce , of Ontario . Mr. Pierce is backed by Senator Lanham and Congressman Wadsworth . The appointment of Mr. Pierce would , it is said , be made after a restoration of the district to its old proportions , thus setting Niagara County , in which Mr. Van Horn lives , l'back with the Erie district . The district , as at present constituted , contains a United States Senator and four Congressmen ? Messrs . Van Voorhis , Richardson , Crowley , and Wadsworth . Mr. Van Voorhis is said to favor Major Sill . Mr. Van Horn is here , and to-day called upon Secretary Folger to protest against hit removal . One of his arguments against removal was that it has been the practice to retain Collectors during faithful performance of the duties of office . He says that he has been in office a shorter time than any of the other New-York Collectors , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances are given of Collector M. B. Ciake , of New-York , who has served 15 years ; Collector Max Weber , o1 New-York , 9 years ; Collector Moses D. Stivers. 13 years : Collector J , M. Johnson , 12 years ; Collector Ralph P. Lathrop , 9 years ; Collector James C. Kincaid. 9 Tears ; Collector John B. Strong , 9 years ; Collector Benjamin De Voe , 9 years . and Frederick Buell , 7 years . Mr. Van Horn says that the proposition to restore Niagara to the Thirtieth District would make is necessary not only to reappoint Mr. Buell , but for him to secure new bondsmen , and for the Col- lectors of both the Twenty-eighth and Thirtieth Districts to open new books , while the manufacturers would be compellod to go to the expense of procuring new dies and stamps . The matter will probably receive early attention .                     