@@781637

txt Senator INGALLS made a number of gentlemen very uncomfortable yesterday . Perhaps the most acute and immediate distress was among the Democratic Senators , to whom he recalled some passages in their records that they would wish to have the public forget . Mr. VOORHEES was the chief of these , and the one for whom the impartial observer will ? eel the least sympathy , since he deserves the least . It will be remembered that the Indiana Senator had been very emphatic in his rebuke of Mr. INGALLS 'S attack upon Gen. HANCOCK . The rebuke was justified , but Mr. VOORHEES was not exactly the man to administer it with the greatest effect or with the most - perfect safety for himself . Mr. INGALLS made natural haste to counter on Mr. VOORHEES with a recital of some of that gentleman 's speeches during the war . These were , as the country recognized at the time , simply shameful . The only mitigating circumstance in connection with them and with others like them that were made in that period of the country 's sore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North to a sense of the enormous danger involved . in a Democratic victory at the polls , and . made possible and certain that stern repression of the party that was then as necessary to a restoration of the Union as was the defeat of the rebel armies . It can not have been pleasant for Mr. VOORHEES to have these facts recalled in Mr. INGALLS 's very sharp and . definite fashion . Nor can the other Democratic Senators of the North have enjoyed the caustic review of MCCLELLAN 'S canvass for the Presidency on the Chicago platform of 1864 , with the incident of the atrocious Harrison 's Landing letter of 1862 . But if these gentlemen were disturbed by Mr. LNGALLS 'S speech , we suspect that the soberer Senators on the Republican side were made uncomfortable also by other portions of the address of the Kansas Senator . It is well enough in political warfare to rake over the past for all the weapons of offense that can fairly be used , but it is well also to remember that it is the past and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not those of a quarter of a century since . Unquestionably a very large part of the Democratic Party in war times were not in sympathy with the Union cause , and . unquestionably this fact rendered the party at the time wholly unable to maintain the relation to the Union that the more patriotic of its members would gladly have had it maintain . Undoubtedly , also , the Democratic Party opposed the war amendments to the Constitution and . the reconstruction legislation . But whatever influence this may or ought to have on men 's opinion of the Democratic Party 's conduct in the past , it will have very little influence in deciding their votes next November . Those who take it into consideration at all are only those who in any case will vote the Republican ticket , and . recent history shows that of these there are not enough to elect a President . When , therefore , Mr. INGALLS pushes to the front and makes a bitter and exciting speech on these matters , retracting not one word of his previous imprudent utterances , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them a very bad . mistake . So far as the squabble between Senators VOORHEES and INGALLS is concerned , - the country cares nothing . Both are men of quick temper and loose tongues , and the statement of neither upon a. question as to which he was excited would . receive any attention from the public . But Mr. INGALLS is a leader of his party. , He holds at pres-ent the highest position in its gift . When he declares that the question of the hour is the success of the Confederacy , ' its ideas , sentiments , purposes , he talks fatal nonsense , and the serious men in . his own Party recognize that fact . When he asks the people of the United States to choose between the two parties on the ground that one will sustain-and the other will reverse , through the Supreme Court , the war legislation , he asks , the tribunal of the people ; to throw the case out of court as impertinent and without justification or excuse . It is a pitiful thing.to see a brill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sery ice ' to his country and his party , wasting himself in such puerile , narrow , and pett3 demonstrations , and . no one can regret ii more than the sensible men of the party . These must feel that the party can not wit on the ground taken by Mr. INGALLS , ani that after all there is great difficulty in find ing any other .                     