@@781574

txt It is true that Lord WOLSELEY did not present a particularly edifying spectacle in virtually retracting in the House of Lords the indiscreet but accurate criticisms of the . British Army that he had permitted himself to make at a public dinner . When the Duke of CAMBRIDGE followed him , and in effect concurred with him , it seemed quite hopeless to expect any reform in the abuses of the British Army , because the Duke in his Own person presents . the most conspicuous abuse of the service . It seems , however , that Lord WOLSELEVS unguarded remarks out of doors have more or less fructified , for a member of the House of Commons has announced'his intention of moving to disallow the salary of the Duke of CAMBRIDGE as Commander-in-Chief . This action would bring the abuses of the British Army before Parliament in a tangible and debatable form . The amount of money paid to the Duke of CAMBRIDGE is larger , we believe , than that paid to the commander of any other army in Europe . His salary proper is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sympathy for a really great soldier and in gratitude for his services voted to allow Gen. SHERIDAN by raising his rank . But the salary . of the Duke of CAMBRIDGE is but a fraction of his emoluments . These are concealed under various pretenses. by antiquated devices introduced for the express purpose of making it difficult for the representative of the British taxpayer to ascertain just how much that heavy-laden creature contributes to the support of Court favorites . The Duke is Colonel of a regiment of infantry , of a regiment of cavalry , of a regiment of engineers , of a regiment of artillery , andnf a regiment of rifles , and all these capacities are made to yield him pay and perquisites . If he bad . saved his country , as the Duke of WELLINGTON did , there would be the reason in this case that TENNysoN expressed in that : " Let all , good , await Nita who cares not to be great - But as he serves or saves the State . " But in fact jJeDuke of CAMBRIDGE has never done-lint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called his country , except to be born , and to ' be born the Queen 's cousin . A considerable number of - persons , many of them neither useful nor ornamental , are , deriving what may be called immodest competencos from their relationship to the Queen , though it is not the-Queen out of her bounty , but the British taxpayer out of his fatuity , who supports them . The case of the Duke of CAMBRIDGE differs from the cases of the other Princes and Princesses and royal Dukes and Duchesses in that he occupies the place that might to belong to the most distinguished and successful of English soldiers , and . in which a dull or weak man can do a great deal of mischief and in fact can constitute a national calamity . The Duke is commonly believed to be very dull and very weak . It is quite absurd to expect any reform of the army under his administration , seeing that any such reform to amount - to anything must begin with him . Of course , incompetency in the higher ranks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' " the cankers of a calm world and a long peace . " It seems to be established that there is no test of military qualities that is in any way conclusive or satisfactory except that which is furnished by actual warfare . That is to say , there is no way of finding out how well an officer can handle troops in the field except by letting him try it in the presence of the enemy . The qualities of an office General do not generally shine in battle . Nevertheless , it is outrageous and dangerous that there should be no pretense of merit or fitness in the men who hold high rank in the army . In Germany a soldier to attain high rank in time of peace must be master of the theory of his profession , and the Germans seem to have secured a high degree of practical proficiency . It can not be said that MOLTKE had won his place by service in war when the campaign of 1870 began , but he certainly vindicated in that campaign the fitness-of , the selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no great wars for a whole generation when the Crimean war broke out , and the grotesque incompetency of her officers in all departments that was exhibited by that war showed that favoritism was no better a substitute for merit in the army than in any other calling . - It is in the last degree unlikely that the Duke of CAMBRIDGE will be displaced by a Tory House of Commons , and he is so hedged about by the snobbery of the British Nation that-it is not even probable that anybody wilt:have the courage to ' say in the House of Commons about his administration of the army what all Englishmen- believe and say in private . A disastrous war is the only event likely to create a public opinion that will demand such a reform in the military service of the country as the last generation has witnessed in its civil service .                     