@@781157

txt Much excitement was created here at noon to-day by a rumor that an attempt had been made to shoot Gov . Cornell . The particulars of the affair are as follows : At 11:30 o'clock an unknown man walked up the stoop of the old Capitol , and was about to enter the building , when the Superintendent , Thomas Hyde , noticing that his appearance was strange , and that he was carrying an old-fashioned gun on his shoulder , stopped him and asked where he was going . He replied , " I am Adjutant-General of this State . " Believing that the man was crazy and fearing that some harm to State officials was intended by him , Hyde asked him for the gun . The stranger declined to give it up ; thereupon a desperate struggle ensued for its possession . Hyde finally secured it . The gun proved to be unloaded . The stranger . who is evidently not yet recovered from the effects of a spree , was lodged in the Second District Stationhouse . He describes himself as Patrick McLane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . July 27 . ? A contractor named Goodale , a neighbor of Gov . Pillsbury , in Minneapolis . and a man whom the Governor has befriended on many occasions . has been lurking around the Executive Mansion for several days intent upon assassination . It seems that several persons knew of the man 's hallucination , but did not disclose the dangerous secret . The first knowledge the Governor had of the man 's mania was last night . Three policemen guarded the premises until today . when the madman was secured and lodged in the asylum at St. Peter . The maniac seems perfectly sane on every other subject . A prominent citizen learned of his deadly intent by calling upon Goodale for the plans of a house , when he wildly declared that he could do nothing until he had killed Gov . Pillsbury , and lie exhibited a musket and revolver as his murderous equipment . The citizen at once informed the authorities and lie was apprehended and found to be violently insane by a medical commission . His mania was developed by a sun-stroke some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends for some time . Why he had not carried his designs into execution is a mystery , as the Governor passes his house to reach his stables . No publication has yet been made of the affair , and very few know anything about it .                     