@@671959

txt THE IRISH DEBATE . It is evident that the Irish question is putting a great strain upon the manners of Parliament . The " tone " of the House of Commons is in great danger when an honorable member remarks of the statement of an honorable member that it is " not true , " when an honorable member accuses an honorable member of breaking his oath as Queen 's Minister , and when an honorable member describes an honorable member as " Judas Chamberlain . " These amenities were scarcely interrupted by the Speaker , and . though he did once resort to the dark and terrible threat of naming names , he did not execute the threat . The incidents show , at least , that the temper of the members is wrought to a very-high pitch , and this is not at all wonderful . There is every reason to believe  --  in fact , it is perfectly clear ? that the Government is oppressing one of the leaders of the Opposition by organizing a prejudiced and partial commission and by giving this commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of some investigating committees we have known nearer home and use its power to send for persons and papers for the purpose of constructing an effective campaign document The British case is much worse than any that this country has furnished , for the simple reason that everybody knows , when a Congressional or legislative committee of investigation is named , what kind of a report it will make . There is an . interest in the testimony , but none in the conclusions the committee will draw from it . But this Parnell commission is constructed with the view of making it , as much as possible , a partisan committee while pretending to make it a judicial body and trying to make its findings carry the weight with the public of the decisions of a really impartial court . This of itself would explain a high degree of irritation on the part of the Irish members and their English sympathizers . What seems to have been too much for their selfcontrol was the belief that a main motive of the investigation was not merely political , but private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges of the London Times for the benefit of that journal . Mr. SMITH , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , denied this , but he admitted that he had had an interview - with Mr. WALTER , the owner of the Times , on the day when the bill providing a tribunal to investigate the charges against Mr. PARNELL had been prepared . It was evidently very indiscreet of Mr. SMITH to hold an interview of such a kind at such a time , and his denial that the interview and the bill had . any relation to each other , except that of time , was received with hoots of incredulity , which , it appears , are not unparliamentary , as an articulate expression of disbelief would be . Mr. PARNELL 'S truculent assault upon Mr. CHAMBERLAIN was but the beginning of a series of like attacks which the member for Birmingham must expect to encounter from English Liberals as well as from Irish members . They regard him , with some show of justice , as a mercenary and a renegade . He was an extreme Radical upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became plain that there was a considerable section of the Liberal Party which Mr. GLADSTONE could not carry with him for home rule . Thereupon Mr. CHAMBERLAIN imagined that he could grasp at once the leadership of the Liberal Party , which would in the course of nature have come to him within a very few years . and appeared as 6 : Liberal Unionist . It became necessary for him in this character to break the Irish connections of which Mr. PARNELL has given the House an account , and of course to become an object of detestation to all the Irish members and to all the Gladstonians . He took the occasion of what seemed to him the political suicide of his chief to commit political suicide on his own account ; for nothing in the future of politics can be more certain than that he will never attain the leadership of the Liberal Party .                     