@@745135

txt Some of the ' Republicans of Ahe House are extremely indignant about the record just made by Mr. John C. Cook , of Iowa , on the contested election case of Chalmers against Manning . The committee decided to give the sent to Chalmers and directed Mr. Cook to . make the report . It was expected by the Republicans to ? be a merely formal statement of the . case . Thus the astonishment and indignation can be understood , after a perusal of the report , which is one of the most interesting that has come before the present Congress . Mr. Chalmers is resolved into a sent , but with such an introduction as no man in Congress , unless he might be Keifer , would be proud of . The report is substantially as follows : It appears that Mr. Chalmers a short time before the election was declared not elected to the seat which he occupied as a Democrat in the Forty-seventh Congress . Up to this time he had for years acted with the Democrats . After this he conferred with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration , arranging with them to aid him in securing the support of the Republicans of a district in which he did not then reside . It is fairly proved that he had the active aid of the departments at Washington and their subordinates in the district in the work of securing the import of the Republican Party organization in his canvass and the votes of its adherents , the great'mass of whom are of the colored race . While the evidence is not clear , yet it fairly covers facts that are a reproach to the civil service of the country . Not only was much time , for which some of the Federal officials were paid by the Government . devoted to canvassing for the contestant , but their accounts for expenses incurred in the canvass were rendered to the departments at Washington as incurred on the account of the Government , although it does not appear that they were paid . The committee appreciate the gravity of the issue thus presented . Elections should be free from all corrupt influences . The use of large sums of money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element of danger , even though It be not used directly upon the voters . That the Federal patronage and the influence of superiors may produce strong and corrupting effect among a voting population such as this district contains must be admitted . T e direct bribery of voters and corrupt use of money could not be much more banetul . Again , it is of the highest importance that Congress should be a body free as air , as may be , from Executive interference or domination . No member should feel that he is in any way indebted to the executive department for the seat which he holds . The use of the Executive patronage and power is a growing evil , the force and effect of which all good citisens realize only to regret and condemn . Nor can we close our eyes to the fact that this influence may be exercised with greater effect and more pernicionsly in one section of the country than another . Believing that it is the duty of the House . whenever it is shown that the election of a member is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ void : believing , further , that the testimony in a case is to betaken in connection with contemporaneous historical facts , your committee has given careful attention to the record and evidence in this case . We conclude that it can not fairly be said that the election of Mr. Chalmers was secured by such undue influence : that is to say , that without it he would not have been elected , especially in view of the large majority he received . It was , perhaps , more instrumental in making him the candidate of the Republican Party and suppressing other aspirants for party support , but with this we think the House has no concern . A large part of the evidence is calculated to show that the contestant was deceitful in his politics , treacherous to his political friends , and unworthy of so high an office . This , however , must address itself to the voters of his district , and the House has no right to render an unjust decision , because a man , lawfully elected , may be subject to this criticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chalmers , if legally elected , has , since his election , disqualified himself from holding this office by accepting another office from the United States and performing its duti:s within the term of office of a member of the Forty-eighth Congress , under the following provision of the Constitution : " And no person holding any office under the United States shall be a member of either house during his continuance in office : " because on the 9th of December , 1882 , Mr. Chalmers was , by the Attorney-General of the United States employed or appointed special assistant to the Distr ct Attorney for the Northern and Southern Districts of Mississippi , and that by retaining this position , he vacated his office as Representative . Your committee , however , passing the question of whether this is an office within the meaning of the Constitution , find that Mr. Chalmers was retained for a special purpose . and that prior to the time for the convening ot.Congressthe mutter for which he was appointed or employed had been disposed of , his aceount , had been rendered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made : none was necessary prac- tically : his connection with the office of District Attorney had ceased . We recommend to the House for adoption the following resolution : Bemired , That James R. Chalmers was duly elected as a Representative in the Forty-eighth Congress from the Second District of Mississippi , and is entitled to be sworn In as a member of this House . 