@@745184

txt One of the most phenomenal expeditions of a phenomenal age started for the Monongahela River 's upper pools this morning to use " moral suasion " upon the coal miners in the fourth pool and induce them to desert the mines until the standard price is paid . The price adopted by the Board of Arbitration is 3 cents per bushel , with the privilege of check weighmen for the third and fourth pools . This price Las not been adhered to and the miners are now working in the fourth pool for from 2 to 2k6 cents per bushel , and at a number of mines no check weighmen are employed . This is considered a great grievance to the miners of the other pools , who adhere to the arbitration award , and the fact that coal boats have been taken to the fourth pool to load because the second pool refuse to fill them for less than the established price has had a bad Influence upon the workings of the Amalgamated Association . Various attempts have been made to induce the fourth pool miners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the full price , but so far the efforts have been futile . For this reason a grand persuasive assault was determined upon , and a circular was issued calling upon the strikers to meet at Six-mile Ferry this morning for the purpose of taking a trip to the fourth pool and endeavoring to get the men out . In response several hundred miners gathered upon the Gumbert at Six-mile Ferry this morning , and at 11 o'clock , amid considerable activity , the boat proceded up the stream . The passengers are from the numerous river pits , and also a few from the railroad district . Each man carries his own provisions to last from three to six days , as well as his own blankets , or such bedding as they deem necessary . A number of tents are on the boat , and they will be set up at the different mining points in the fourth pool where delegations are dropped to persuade working miners to quit the pits . There are 20 mines in operation under the price in the upper pool , and between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gumbert 's missionaries will be dropped off at various points , and set up their tents , By association with the miners and using arguments and persuasions they hope to induce the men to quit . As the boat picked up other missionaries at and elsewhere , the mission hopes to have about 600 " persuaders " scattered among the fourth pool men by Wednesday . The first stop for active work will be at Wood 's Run mines to-morrow morning . The entire expedition is under the care of President Costello. 