@@746003

txt It is an odd thing that upon the same day there should be announced the calling up of a resolution in the State Senate for an investigation to ascertain whether the rates charged by fire insurance companies are not too high and the withdrawal of a fire insurance company from the association of such companies upon the ground that the rates are too low at the point to which they are cut by some of its competitors . The former announcement would be commonly taken to indicate a " strike . " We are quite willing , however , to acquit Senator Low , who called up the resolution , of any baser motive than a desire to please his constituents . We think he may rest assured , however , that his fears are unfounded , and that the competition of rival companies will reduce rates much more effectually than they can be reduced by an investigation , and at least as low as it is prudent to reduce them . ? The trouble with the business of fire insurance , , as at present conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are too many companies and they bid against each other for business with such recklessness that the rates actually received by the companies do not really cover the risks , although the rates actually paid by the insured are ample for that purpose . The eager competition not only diminishes the profits of the companies , but it induces a great recklessness with regard to the character of the risks . A recent instance of this , to which we have already adverted , is the hotel in Buffalo , which was described as a " first class risk , " and in which a number of the agents of the companies that had rated it as such were actually sleeping when it burned up like a tinder box , as it was , and put the lives of these agents in imminent peril . The fact is that there are companies which , under the pressure of an extreme necessity for business , have been in the habit of taking risks , both " moral " and material , on almost any building that would stand up long enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not burn down until their policies , had expired . There is an authentic story of the President of an insurance company in this city berating one of his subordinates for refusing to issue a policy upon a building that had been put up by a notorious " jerry " builder and violator of the building laws , and having the flow of his indignant eloquence suddenly checked by the production , on the part of the subordinate , of an account of the destruction by fire of the edifice in question , which had come in over the tape while the President was administering his rebuke . It has been doubted whether the suppression of the whole business of fire insurance would not be a public benefit by raising the standard of construction . If every owner were compelled to assume for himself the risk of the destruction of his building , which he now puts off upon the stockholders of an insurance company , we may be sure both that buildings would be more substantially constructed and that the appliances for putting out fires would be better provided and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important matter , as every one knows who has had occasion to consider the statistics of fires in the United States . The annual aggregate of loss is enormous , and it is a dead loss to the Nation , even though it be made up to the individual owners by insurance . If the scrutiny of risks could be carried to such a point that the builder of a rattle=trap could not insure it , rattletraps would cease to be built , and a hotel that burns up before its inmates can be warned and got out of it would no longer be accepted as a " first class risk . "                     