@@781451

txt The Democrats , having vainly attempted to get rid of all their tremendous blunders by merely crying " Fraud ! " are now engaged in trying the effect of fraud as a species of campaign ammunition . Not that we would intimate that this is a new line of tactics for the Democracy . They have never been so much at home as when engaged in forgery , counterfeiting , and invention . But they have deliberately entered upon a campaign of fraud . They said that BELTZHOOVER 'S letter , admitting that Union soldiers had no chance for consideration in the matter of pensions in the Democratic House , was a forgery . They declared that the report of the bloodthirsty HAMPTON 'S rebel speech was " bogus , " and that the Paterson Guardian 's " interview . " with HANCOCK on the subject of the tariff was an invention . The authenticity of BELTZUOOVER 'S letter has been attested by Democrats . Gen. HANCOCK has admitted the correctness of the report of his celebrated " views " concerning the tariff question , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Staunton has been verifi NI by innumerable witnesses , Republican and Democratic . Then the Democrats made up their minds that they would try their hands at forgeries and inventions . From a vast avalanche of fictions , big and little , we select a few of the later and more conspicuous . It is not necessary to refer to the absurd falsehoods published day after day in the newspapers which are more immediately under the control of JOAN KELLY , whose tricky disposition seems to have taken possession of two or three New-York journals . Most of these absurd inventions are forgotten in the ruck of stuff which immediately succeeds each publication . But , after portentous winks and mysterious suggestions from the Democratic head-quarters , the doom of the Republican Party being clearly foreshadowed , one or two stage thunderbolts were launched . A clumsy forgery of Gen. GARFIELD 'S handwriting was produced , the object being the manufacture of a letter which should commit him to the policy of encouraging Chinese immigration . Nobody in this part , of the world is very much concerned about a phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was thought that this might influence votes in California and Oregon . Thus the effect of the Democratic free-trade plank in the East would be offset . Unhappily for the inventors of this childish artifice , their little forgery was not well done . They professed to have found this dreadful letter among the effects of a dead man , one H. L. MoRmr , of Lynn , Mass . And to impart a realistic appearance to the whole , the mythical MOREY was represented to be , in some sort , a writing medium of the " Employers ' Union " of that city . Diligent search demonstrates that there has not been an H. L. MOREY , living or dead , in Lynn , during the past ten years , and that there never was an " Employers ' Union " in that city . Furthermore , the forged letter is dated Jan. 23 , and is postmarked " 1 , " or " Jan. 1 . " It is signed " J. A. GAIFIELD , " which is not GARFIELD ; and , although purporting to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Congressional stamp upon it , and is inclosed in an envelope which is fatally defective , so far as dimensions are concerned , as an imitation of the official envelope used by the members of Congress . This diaphanous forgery , moreover , bears internal evidence of the ignorance of its inventor . Does anybody suppose that Gen. GARFIELD does not know how to spell " companies ? " And yet this Democratic forger makes the mistake of putting " companys " to the credit of one of the best educated men in the United States . When the conspirators next undertake a job of this sort , let them send for one of their kind from the State Prison in Sing Sing . This is too absurd a blunder for any useful purpose . The next desperate trick of the Barnum committee is the fabrication of a story that Mr. MARSHALL JEWELL has been colonizing Florida with Republican voters . Where these voters could be spared from we are not told . Perhaps they were an overflow from the flood of " Vermont ruffians " which a ridiculous Tammany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The moon-struck Chairman of the Democratic National Committee issued an inflammatory and blood-curdling address in which were published two or three telegrams from ex-Gov . JEWELL , addressed to Republicans in Florida , informing them of the shipment by certain steamers of large numbers of men , presumably Republican voters , shipped by steamer for various points . These telegrams were the property of the Western Union Telegraph Company , or of the sender , Mr. MARSHALL JEWELL . Mr. BARNUM alleges that they came into his hands through a blunder of one of the telegraph company 's servants ; and Mr. BARNUM , with that fine sense of honor which always characterizes the professional Democratic politician , had them hawked around among the clubs and then published in his lunatic address . The truth follows the falsehood . Other telegrams of Mr. JEWELL which the over-zealous spy of the Democratic committee , in the employment of the Western Union Telegraph Company , neglected to make public , show that these pretended warnings from Mr. JEWELL to his friends in Florida related to a plan for colonizing Democratic voters in Florida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies of so-called " laborers , " sent down in what was thought to be the interest of Mr. W. H. BARNUM 'S party . We are accustomed to look for this sort of thing from the Democrats . From the time when STRINGFELLOW and PATE inundated the Territory of Kansas with Missouri border ruffians , until the day when TILDEN and TWEED asked how many votes the Democratic Party wanted outside of New York City , these tactics have been common to the Democracy . It was like BARNUM to distort stolen telegrams , innocent in themselves , to make them imply corruption and infamy . The mysterious " 150 , " " 200 , " and " 100 , " alleged to have been sent , did not go at all , as it happens . The books of the steam-ship company demonstrate this . But , if any such immigrants had been shipped at all , they were to have been sent by Mr. BARNUM 'S Democratic agency . Mr. BARNUM must try again . There never was any MOREY , and it is ridiculous for BARNUM to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no consequence whether the man is alive or dead . " There never was any " Employers ' Union , " and his forgery drops to pieces . Before Mr. BARNUM peddles out any more stolen dispatches , he should be sure that they do not refer to his own schemes for mule-buying.                     