@@743816

txt This is the time of year when hens leave their reservations and invade the gardens of peaceful people in order to hunt the wild earth-worm and the timid grub . During the Winter hens are rarely on the wormpath , but remain at home , and lazily fatten in their wigwams ; but the breath of Spring rouses in them all their predatory instincts . The amount of injury inflicted upon the vegetables and tempers of men by hens is enormous , and there is no doubt that it far exceeds the annual sum of injuries inflicted by Indians upon frontier settlers . It is a shameful fact that our Government has literally no hen policy . It simply ignores the existence of hens , and turns a deaf ear to their wild war-whoops and the indig. mint language of their victims . This lack of a hen policy is unquestionably due to a want of perception on the part of the Government of one of the finest opportunities ever offered to enterprising politicians . If we had a Hen Bureau what a wealth of new offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what splendid fortunes would be placed within the reach of true statesmen . Suppose the Government were to assume the management of all the hen tribes . There would be room for thousands of Hen Agents , whose duty it would be to supply the hens under their charge with corn , worms , and other necessaries of life . If every agent sold for his own benefit only two-thirds of the corn designed for the use of the hens , he could grow rich in two years and feel the proud satisfaction of having abstained from imitating the gross rapacity of Indian Agents . The Government could keep hens on their reservations with as much success as it has achieved in keeping Indians on the Indian reservations  --  that is to say , whenever a band of hens should leave their proper quarters they could ? be shot down by Government troops and afterward sold in the market . Contracts for building chicken-coops and putting up roostingpoles could be made a source of blessing to thousands of deserving men who are suffering for want of a few hundreds of thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian nor star route contracts . Let the Government establish a Hen Bureau and place it in charge of BRADY and DORSEY , and those eminent " workers " will not only aid the cause of civilization , but will consent to " harmonize " themselves with the Administration . As things now are , every man lives in a state of war with neighboring hens , and , unfortunately , this state of war is not recognized by the courts . When Smith 's hens make a raid into Brown 's garden , the latter can protect himself only by shooting them . This is an effective remedy , so far as the dead hens are concerned , but it is in some respects worse than the evil which it is intended to cure . When a hen is shot , an immediate quarrel follows between the shooter and the owner of the hen , and if the latter person happens to be a woman , the quarrel can never be made up . The owner of the hen sends in a bill charging for the deceased bird at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay it , is dragged before the courts , where he learns that shooting hens , unlike shooting Indians , is an offense of which the laws take cognizance . Sometimes he is compelled.to pay the full value of the hen , and at other times he is fined a merely nominal sum . This uncertainty of the law is even more trying to the temper than the certainty of severe punishment would be , for the man who wants to shoot a hen is harassed by the reflection that no one can possibly tell whether he will be punished or praised for his act . Such a state of things as this is intolerable , and it is marvelous that our reformers have not long since begun an earnest movement in favor of Governmental control of hens . A painful illustration of the demoralizing results of our present want of any hen policy occurred not long ago in Oshkosh . Mr. owned a large collection of hens , and as his yard was separated only by a ragged hedge from the garden of Mr. Schneider , his hens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Schneider finally bought a gun , and sent word to his neighbor that on and after the ensuing Monday he would shoot every hen that he might find in his yard . It was on a Thursday that Mr. received this ' message , and he instantly sent to a taxidermist and had half a dozen stuffed hens so prepared that their heads would nod under the influence of a gentle Spring breeze . Early Monday morning he shut up his live hens and carefully set out his dead hens , partially concealing them from Mr. Schneider 's view by placing them behind some thin bushes . After breakfast he saw Mr. Schneider issue from his house with his gun in his hand and take up a position near the hedge . Mr. Schneider is somewhat nearsighted , and he readily mistook the decoy hens for a party of live hens preparing for a raid on the Schneiderean garden . He resolved to Wait for them , and to shoot them the moment they should cross the boundary hedge . All day Mr. Schneider watched those hens , eager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigilance . Curiously enough , no hen came into his garden , although he watched from 8 o'clock in the morning till sunset . For more than a week he has kept at his post , neglecting his business , and using German language of a nature that will not admit of publication . Each day Mr. changes the position of his decoys , and rolls on the floor of his room in delight as he watches his angi y and persistent neighbor . Thus have deceit , bad temper , and German profanity resulted from the absence of any lien policy in Oshkosh , and results equally deplorable are constantly occurring in every part of our land .                     