@@743559

txt For several days North Adams has been rife with rumors concerning a scandal and elopement , the facts of which are just becoming known . The young lady in the case is a very prepossessing undergraduate of the Drury High School , in this town , and about 16 years old . The family is one of eminent respectability , the name being suppressed on account of its prominent social connections , and in order to save the family the mortification of public notoriety . The young lady- has borne an unblemished reputation , as far as her family was aware , was an excellent scholar , and a favorite with her classmates and teachers . There resides in this town the son of one of the pillars of a leading church , who , although married to a lady of high social standing and acknowledged beauty , formed the acquaintance of the young lady in question and , night after night , when the school girls were coming down the hill from the academy , has been seen to beckon the girl across the street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches . After remaining an hour or more together , the young lady has been seen to leave the chapel first , followed soon after by the young man , who sauntered off as though innocent of any evil intent , leaving the girl to pursue her homeward way alone . This state of affairs has existed for some time , though unknown to the young lady 's parents , but owing to the position of the two persons , and on account of the desire of the witnesses to avoid creating a scandal , it has never until to-day come prominently to light . This may be said to have been the beginning of what has proved one of the most scandalous affairs the town has had in years . Wednesday evening , during the temporary absence of her mother at a neighbor 's house , the young lady took advantage of her father being asleep to steal from the house undetected . Even when her absence was discovered , nothing strange was thought of it , the family believing that she had stepped out to a church dedication near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the girl failed to return , the family became alarmed . Search was made for her but was unsuccessful . It was feared she had fallen the victim of foul play , until the following note to her mother was found : " DEAR MOTHER : I am going away . When I return , I hope to be worthy being called your dutiful daughter . " On reading this note , it became clear to the mind of her friends that the misguided girl had eloped , though why she should have done so was to them a mystery . She was never known to receive gentlemen at her home , and her parents could not at first associate her disappearance with a romantic love affair , for to all appearance she was little given to sentiment . Investigation , however , showed that for some time she had frequented the Union Depot and had become quite intimate with e. certain railroad man , and that she had that night loft the place on a western-hound train , heavily veiled . Thursday morning the anxious father started for Troy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failing to find her , ordered the city Police to arrest her if found in the city , and a description of the wanderer was published in the leading Albany paper . All day Friday the search continued . Last evening the father received a telegram from a Saratoga detective to the effect that his daughter was then stopping at Congress Hall , in that city , and asking if he should detain her . The father telegraphed affirmatively , and at once started for Saratoga , where the daughter was found , and this morning was brought back to her home . To all appearance she was stopping alone at Congress Hall . The affair creates much excitement hero in social circles , where all the parties are well known . Another version of the case is that the girl had been ill-treated at home , but there is nothing to substantiate this charge , and the former story , is generally conceded as most probable . It is believed further developments will follow . 