@@780772

txt The America Challenge Cup has been struggled for seven times ; yesterday the seventh effort was fairly and squarely blocked by the Mayflower , of Boston , and the piece of plate is further than ever from the grasp of our cousins across the sea . The graceful sloop of Gen. Paine takes her place beside the America , 1851 ; the Magic , 1870 ; the Columbia and Sappho , 1871 ; the Madeleine , 1876 ; the Mischief , 1881 , and the Puritan , 1885 . The seven contests form a very pretty chapter in the history of yachting , owing to their international character , the improvements they have caused in boat building and the handling of sea-going yachts , and the fashion they have set the world . for one of the most manly and healthful as well as one of the most useful of sports . Interchange of Ideas concerning yachts between the builders and amateur sailors of two great nations has evolved two classes of vessels which combine speed and seaworthiness in a degree that no one believed possible 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American inventiveness directed toward the hull of the vessel ; the American sloop has vastly bettered its rig by adopting suggestions roused by seeing the rigging and sails of British cutters . Yesterday while the two elect , stripped for the fray , were moving about the Scotland Lightship before the signal to start it was easy for the uninitiated to mistake one boat for the other , so alike have cutters and . sloops grown in all that appears from the deck up . Close inspection revealed . the greater beam of the Mayflower and the higher counters of the Galatea , but even those differences are less than many people imagine . The Englishboat is much deeper than the American but the latteris not shallow for a sloop , neither does she lank entirelythe cutter 's method of disposing of ballast in the keel . The Mayflower has a centreboard , but she is no " skimming dish , " and . one might sail to Europe in her with quite as much comfort , taking one thing with another , as in the Galatea . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be worth all the expense they have occasioned for producing two such stanch and beautiful patterns of yachts . Perfection of yachting weather , so far as the spectators were concerned , was reserved for the second attempt to run the outside race . At times the blue water was as fiat as a prairie , and , at one time and . another a gentle ground swell caused the fleet to nod drowsily under the brilliant September sun . The Navesinks wore clear in outline behind the long fringe of the Hook and all the beaches where the Jerseymeu take their dips were looking on when the American sloop headed for the line mad suddenly blew out a great sail on her port bow like a Japanese conjurer performing a trick . The club topsail and mainsail balanced to starboard . this enormous piece of light cotton canvas , but some wind found its way past the mast and escaped the friendly clutches of staysail and jib . Whereupon the magician shook his wand again , and . presto , another spinnaker rose in great rolling wind-bag curves above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnificent curve.from the topmast to the tip of the bowsprit . The Mayflower had . set her balloon jibtopsail , and having discarded . the other two headsails was rushing out to sea before the westerly-breeze under four sails only . The Galatea delayed on purpose , and when she judged the distance right for the garaeainfinied her spinnaker just as she crossed the line , and with staysail , jib , and jibtopsail set endeavored to hold herself like a wall . of canvas between the Mayflower and thewind . In this she succeeded , bat the American sloop drew slowly , steadily away notwithstanding , and the last faint hope that there might be a close race vanished . Interest in the British boat fell from that moment , and two other opponents of the Mayflower took her place . These were the Time-limitwould she be able in so light a breeze to cover the 40 miles in seven hours 1 ? and the iron sloop Priscilla , would the latter be able to go over the course with the racers , carrying a jib-headed topsail as against their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mayflower . She had nearly a quarter of an hour to spare when she crossed the home line . and . the Priscilla , who had hovered on the skirts of the race , was distinctly in the mat . But it was noticed that with less sail the iron sloop went several miles more than the winner , and . was long in getting a good . bit of a land breeze near the finish , which reached the Mayflower first and sent her ahead of the Priscilla . The latter not only outpaced the Galatea , but made one suspect that if properly handled she might set the winner a very hard task , especially if there were a blow , and that the spectators were fully alive to the meaning of her performance was clear from the salutes she received from tugs and steamboate that came within hail . The Mayflower , Puritan and Priscilla , perhaps the Atlantic as - well , are yachts that can beat cutters of the Irex , Galatea , and Genesta. class three times out of four under the conditions that obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether they would do as welt in British waters is not certain , but the next step should bo the invasion of Cowes by one or more of our sloops and the recapture of the Brenton 's Reef and Cape May Challenge Cups which are now held . by the Irox , Mr , Jamieson 's famous cutter , having been taken from the Genesta by her without the trouble of crossing the sea , . not to speak of the risk of being soundly beaten by our yachts . There is little doubt that the Mayflower could retake them whenever she chose , and should she do so the last refuge of the cutter men would be forced , , seeing that the British seas are very ready to furnish the short waves and nasty weather in which the cutter is said . to thrive . The beat home was enlivened by comparatively few tacks or changes of canvas , the object of both yachts being to reach to the Jersey shore and come down to the Scotland Lightship on the land breeze near sundown . Just as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a round white wafer above the opposite horizon took on a yellowish tint the scattered flotilla drew near the finish to await the victor . The yachts were throe tall pencils of three different shades  --  yellowish for Mayflower , brownish for Priscilla , and white for Galatea , Who was hopelessly in the rear of the other two . The cotton sails of the American boat glowed yellow with the remains of sunset , but the linen of Galatea 's canvas remained dead white . Other differences besides color may be noted in these sails . On the run out the Galatea 's sails were always restless , always waving , often flapping at the leech ; they seemed light and unsubstantial . Little of this appeared in the Mavflo wer , whose sails drew finely , while the Priscilla 's spinnaker set better than that of the victor . Linen sails shrink and expand far more than cotton , so that their greater strength and lightness in comparison with our sails arc offset by serious defects . The breeze began to slack as the Mayflower stood on parallel with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on many faces lest there should be another failure to make the distance in the prescribed seven hours . Lovelier scene no yachtsman could wish than that finish close upon the hour , while the lights above and do Sandy Hook were lit and the shores of Staten Island , Long Island , and New-Jersey , the smooth ocean and the cloudless sky took on the swiftly following changes of approaching night . The roar of whistle and gun , the cheering of multitudes swaying on the steamers , and the frantic waving of hats set the customary seal on the great international race of 1886 . The quenchless quarrel of sloop and cutter men is far from settled , notwithstanding all those victories for the sloop . The approach in matters of rig and ballast envenoms the fight instead of allaying it , perhaps on the principle that near relations quarrel most . The early defenders of the America 's Cup were , like its winner , schooners , and some had no centreboard . For a true prototype of our present first-class sloops we must go back to 1852 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . learn something More about the Truant , a centreboard sloop of only three and a half tons , which took all the prises ' away from small cutters and sailboats in British waters with quite as much ease as the America showed when pitted against bigger craft . It would be interesting to learn something more definite about this little forerunner of the Mayflower and Puritan-yachts which have added glory to American seamanship and deserved well of the Republic .                     