@@780630

txt A dispatch from Muscogee , Indian Territory , says that the first open hostilities of the Creek Indian war occurred last Sunday , 15 miles west of Okmulkee . A band of Chieota 's men under Jim Larnev , were going West , when , about 7 o'clock in the evening , they were attacked by some 200 of Spieche 's patisans , under command of Mekarochee . The fight raged for an hour , when Chicota 's men fell back , but kept up a running fight for 10 miles . " Bob " Carr , " Dave " Barrett and wife , and a man named Walsh are reported to have been killed . The loss on the other side is not known . The whole country is rushing to arms . On receipt of the news here a detachment of 40 United States soldiers was ordered to the scene , and on Monday morning they overtook and disarmed 150 of Chicota 's men . The search will be continued until all the men engaged on both sides are disarmed . Spieche 's men say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want their rights and are anxious that United States Commissioners should Investigate the matter and decide between them and the opposing party . United States Agent Tuffts went to the scene of the trouble on Monday . George H. Davis , store-keeper , of Wiewaka . Indian Territory , and N. B. Jones , a full-blooded Creek , of Okmulkee , capital of Territory , who is a rich lauded and cattle proprietor , and came to St. Louis to escape the conflict now going on between rival parties of the Creek nation , are stopping at the Laclede Hotel . Interviewed as to the cause of the trouble , Mr. Davis said : " It is the old war question . North and South . During the rebellion part of the Creeks espoused the Northern cause . the remainder supported the Southerners . After the war the nation was reunited , but the political question has existed ever since , and has been a constant cause of quarrel . " " Do you mean to tell me that a mere sentimental question Is at the bottom of the present . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nas existed upon this subject ever since the war , and the nation has been divided into two parties , which have been constantly struggling for supremacy . They are the Constitutional Party , under Chief Chicopee , which is composed of the Southern sympathizers , and the Loyal Party , under Chief Spioczee , who represent the Northern sentiment . In all their elections each of these parties strive to secure the Government , but the Southerners have tho range , they numbering 700 to the Northerners ' 400 . " " Are the elections conducted squarely ? " " Yes , Sir ; there is no ballot-box stuffing there ; the noses are counted every time . " " Has there been any attempt made to harmonize the parties ? " Not by the Government hitherto , but now that I see Col. Tufts has interfered , which he promised me last Friday he Intended to do , I believe the trouble is at an end . They respect the Government 's authority more than anything else . " " Do the members of the different Parties live apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , of course , aggravates the trouble . At a moment 's notice , however , the houses will empty and the parties will organize separately . They all possess arms of some kind , from a double-barreled shotgun to a Winchester repeating rifle , and as they are dead shots and as brave as lions , there would he great carnage should a pitched battle ever take place between them . Mr. Jones hero belongs to the Constitutional Party , the one which rules by virtue of its majority , and he is one of several influential men who would like the issue laid aside forever , as there is nothing in it but mere sentiment . I believe myself , now that the United States has taken a hand in the matter , perfect harmony in the Creek nation will shortly be assured . "                     