@@744004

txt Dispatches have been sent from this city to many newspapers m which the writers have attempted to set forth Attorney-General 's reasons for declining to remain in the Cabinet . These caspatcnes have Oy no means agreed one with another , and quite an assortment of reasons has been given . Some correspondents have asserted that Mr. desired to retire in order to escape the burden of responsibility if the prosecution in the star route oases should chance to fail . Others have said that he was willing to remain upon certain conditions . Others declared that he had at times been inclined to abandon his original determination to retire . In conversation with THE TIMES 'S correspondent , a gentleman who has been fully acquainted with the Attorney-General 's position said to-day that Mr. had never wavered in his determination , reached immediately after President Garfield 's death , to leave the Cabinet at once . " The announcement of his decision , " said he , " was made during the journey from Elberon to Washington on the funeral train which bore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inclination to change that decision since . The sole reason which led Mr. to that conclusion was a political one . Neither personal feeling nor any question arising out of the star route prosecutions had anything to do with it . Mr. has never been in sympathy with that portion of the Republican Party which supported Gen. Grant at Chicago , and with which President Arthur has been identified . He was well known as an opponent of the third term , and was one of a number of men who signed a declaration that if Gen. Grant should be nominated they would not support him , and gave their reasons therefor . He represents that element in the Republican Party which advocates civil serviee reform and administrative reform . He is against the machine in politics . He was selected as a Cabinet officer by Gen. Garfield because of his political position , which I have briefly described , and this political position was the main reason which led ' him resolutely to decline to remain and become a member of the new President 's official family . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans and Senator Mahone and his followers in Virginia . He could not join in the support of what seemed to him to be repudiation , and he was unable to believe that the political advantages , local or national , which may be gained by that coalition cover up or counterbalance the financial heresy which was the original motive of the Mahone movement . As Attorney-General he would be called upon to take action in relation to that movement , for there are Marshals and District Attorneys to be appointed in Virginia , and concerning the appointees he might not be able to agree with the Administration . This reason may be added to the other as a political one . " As to the star route prosecution , this may be said : When the President , in asking him to remain in the Cabinet , spoke of the star route cases as a legacy left by the Garfield Administration , Mr. remarked that they were no more a legacy than the prosecution of Guiteau , or of any counterfeiter of United . States currency , or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He added that his retention in the Cabinet would not emphasize at all any declaration of the intention of the Administration to prosecute these cases , because the conduct of the investigation was in the hands of men who had been selected with reference to their knowledge of the subject of inquiry , and with reference to their known ability to do the work , and also because the legal proceedings were already in the hands of eminent counsel . When the investigation had reached a certain point , prominent lawyers had been retained , especially for the work of prosecution in the courts . One of these was Col. George Bliss , known to be one of the closest political and personal friends of the President . The other was Benjamin Harris Brewster , a personal friend of the Attorney-General , in politics a Stalwart , and a lawyer whose eminence in his profession was known throughout the country . Another was Col. W. A. Cook , an eminent lawyer of Washington . The evidence which had been prepared in the star route cases had been submitted to these distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pronounced it to be sufficient to justify the institution of criminal proceedings against the persons implicated . These men of acknowledged ability would have conducted the cases without anything more than very limited supervision on the part of the Attorney-General if President Garfield had lived . If he should remain in the Cabinet that action could possibly have no significance except as a declaration that the Administration was in earnest in the prosecution , and that earnestness could be made much more significant and emphatic by a simple declaration made by the President , in any way which might seem proper to him . President Grant had not thought it unbecoming in him to write a letter to Secretary Bristow , in which he said : Let no guilty man escape . ' It is only just to both the President and the Attorney-General , " continued this gentleman , " to say that Mr. has no doubt whatever of . the President 's determination to see these star route cases prosecuted , and I repeat that the sole reasons which led him to decide that he would not remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have briefly referred . It is no secret that the President offered to accept Mr. 's resignation and then to send in his name anew , with the remainder of the Cabinet to be chosen in November . The personal relations of the President and Mr. are of the most cordial character , and it can be truthfully said that the President did not agree with him that there could be political reasons of sufficient force to cause him to decline to be a member of the new Cabinet ; but , of course , he conceded that Mr. alone could be the judge of that . " 