@@744934

txt The London Times , with a suspicious promptness , suggests that while " the Powers " should collectively offer their mediation between France and China , " the right of initiative rests , in a very high degree , with the United States , which Government is bound , by the terms of the Burlingame treaty , to offer her good offices whenever China requests them . " It may be suggested that a pledge to use your good offices when they are asked for is a very different thing from a pledge to use your good offices when they are not asked for , and that the Burlingame treaty does not devolve upon the United States in a high degree , or in any degree , the duty of putting itself in a position to be told to mind its own business . France has sent in a very exorbitant bill to China , Which , if the Occidental notions of self-respect prevail at all in the Ea- t , China will not pay . If China and France agree that the liability of China shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , the United States will no doubt assume that judicial function . But it is entirely unlikely that the United States will do anything whatever except upon the motion of at least one of the disputants . At any rate , it is not to be expected that the United States will act upon an English suggestion of its duty toward China . The British monkey , if for - 1- 3ie sake of the metaphor we- may so dishonor a majestic beast , may find an American cat's-paw very useful to pull British chestnuts out of the fire . But the interests of British trade in the East , dear and sacred ' as they are in London , are not prime objects of regard in Washington . For nearly a generation the United States has had scarcely any interests of , its own in China and Japan . Its diplomatic representatives . being as a rule weak men:changed so often as not to have the chance of gaining ' any experience or any influence on their own account , have simply fallen in be- hind the British representatives and reinforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all cases to extend the market for British : manufactures . We have ' wiped to bully ' Japan into a tariff which is . eminently . injurious to her , according to all accounts ; and eminently advantageous to Great Britain , and which is of no value whatever to us . It Was understood when the present Minister to , Cliina was appointed that we were about to make a new departure in this respect , " anti that our . relations with China were to be Conducted in our own interest rather than in the interest of Great Britain . ? The appointment was credited to Gen. GRANT , who had views of his own , perhaps too sanguine , as to the possibilities of our commerce in the East . It is impossible to tell what . will be the results of the present agitation of the tariff , but if it has any results at all , nothing is likelier than that a very great extension of our.commerce with China and Japan will be one of them . In that case our interests Will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but will be diametrically opposed to them .. In the meantime ; it is highly desirable that nothing shall be done either at Pekin and Tokio or at Washington which shall hamper us in making separate commercial treaties when the time comes . It is especially to be hoped that we will break with our " traditional policy " of acting as cat 's paw to Great Britain , and turn a deaf ear to British suggestions that the right of initiative in promoting British interests rests in a high degree with the United States .                     