@@743961

txt There are very few financial Secretaries who can sympathize with the head of our own Treasury in the peculiar difficulty which besets him at the present moment . In most countries , with the notable exception of Great Britain and for the last few years the French Republic , the Finance Ministers have been troubled with the homely and common problem which vexes many an individual , how to make the revenue equal the expenditures , and even in England and France there has been much more question of lightening the burdens of taxation than of the disposition of the surplus , which , though it &; has actually accrued , has not been large . But Mr. WINDOM finds a revenue steadily flowing into his hands which is some eight millions a month more than the ordinary expenditures , and the question which presents itself to his mind is in what way he shall get rid of it . For the time being , at least , he is not required to pay much attention to the claims of the people to be relieved from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of three courses must ultimately be adopted . Either the money must be allowed to accumulate in the Treasury until Congress has given some definite direction as to its disposition , or an amount of the debt due at the pleasure of the Government equivalent to the surplus must be " called " for payment , or a similar amount of bonds must be purchased on the open market . The first of these alternatives is hardly open to consideration . It is not conceivable that the Government should take ' a hundred million of dollars a year from its citizens and lock it up , or even one or two months ' portion of it . Such a proceeding would produce confusion precisely in proportion to the extent to which it was carried . It has been suggested that the Government should go on collecting its revenues and let the money market take care of itself . But the act of collection of a revenue beyond current necessities is in itself an interference with the money market . The market can not take care of itself when the enormous and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it of such a sum . The Government might as well seize one or more of the trunk lines of railway , stop operations , and tell the commerce of the country to take care of itself . The scheme of taxation being so illadjusted and so extravagantly pushed that a hundred millions a year more than is needed is taken from the channels of commerce , it is the duty of the Treasury to restore the amount in such a form as will least disturb the regular and legitimate calculations of the business community . Of this there is no doubt that the Secretary of the Treasury is fully convinced . As to the particular method or combination of methods which he may select to pay out the accumulating surplus it is too early to express any opinion in one way ' or another there is , in our judgment , every reason to think that before the first of the year he will have canceled some thirty millions of the bonded debt . Whether he does so by " calling " a portion of the 3i per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . bonds , or partly by one and partly by the other process , is not ( if so great importance to the country as his undoubted intention to expend the current surplus . Each method referred to has some advantages , and each has some drawbacks , though probably purchases in the market will have to be resorted to to some extent in any case . The Secretary will unquestionably adopt the measure which , on careful consideration , he may find most likely to accomplish his object without undue disturbance . But whatever choice he may make , it is certain that his action will be regular , steady , and so guarded as to prevent any surprises . He has shown no disposition to lend himself , however remotely , to the theatrical in finance , and has no sympathy with those who would like to see the Treasury made the unknown quantity in every large calculation . in Wall-street or elsewhere . He has acted so far with singular directness , simplicity , and good sense , and these qualities are not likely to fail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he has in the past the expectations of conservative business men . Whatever he may do , however , the opening of Congress will bring that body face to face with the question of a reduction of taxation . Whether the Secretary of the Treasury shall see fit to present the question or not , it can not be evaded . There is no possible justification for continuing to collect so enormous a revenue as is now taken from the earnings of the people . It is in every sense a burden , and though the present prosperity of the country hinders it from being felt , it is none the less an unnecessary , objectionable , and inexcusable burden . This fact is generally recognized . Demands for the reduction of taxes are being everywhere made . Even the extreme protectionists , with a view to defending the taxes so profitable to themselves , are asking for an abolition of various internal revenue taxes . Mr. Senator CAMERON is said to look for the repeal of the tobacco tax ; another Pennsylvania publicist wishes the wiping out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet in New-York in November , on the eve of the opening of Congress , will urge a reduction of internal revenue . On the other hand , those who recognize the unfairness and impolitic character of many of the Customs dues will urge a reduction of these dues on machinery , on raw materials , and on the cruder forms of imports serving as raw materials for extensive branches of manufactures . At the same time , the repeal of the taxes on bank capital and on deposits of banks and bankers , the stamp tax on checks and matches , and several other like exactions will be urged with great earnestness . In one form or another Congress will be compelled to take up this question , and it is not likely to adjourn without some decisive action upon it . Reduction of taxes is the only rational and permanent solution of the problem of the application of the surplus revenue . 