@@745538

txt Neither public sentiment in general nor the sentiment that prevails in a political ? arty is to be judged by the expressions ) f those persons who make a business of politics . We get evidence of that fact ? very time the people have an opportunity ; o give expression to their convic ; ions . When a man sets out to make living in politics it becomes a necessity for him to hold office or in some way to divert the public revenues ; o his support . To him the most imporAnt object of party success is the posses'ion of offices and the use to which he thinks they ought to be put is the reward ) f active party workers . He is apt to for ; et or to care little for the principles of ais party , and to concern himself but slightly with questions of policy . In his view these are useful , not for their bearing MI the general welfare , but as a means of getting the offices . If when his party gets into power the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but appointments ire made solely or chiefly for fitness , the professional politician is sure to be disappointed . It seems to him that the object for which he has been hopefully toiling , and at which his party has been aiming , is not attained . The opportunity of shaping the policy of the Government and ; : arrying into effect the principles to which the party professes to be attached is to him a matter of less importance than securing the places in the public service which will give him and those like him the means of subsistence . Any system of appointments that stands in the way of that very practical result excites his aversion . It is not always easy for disappointed politicians to suppress or even disguise their feelings . They are apt to make their dissatisfaction known , and either from an inability to distinguish between their interests and those of the public or the party , or from the necessity of some respectable pretext for their complaints , they are much given to attempting to make it appear that the people are dissatisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people in their defeated aspirations . The fact is that their interests and those of the people in politics are not only not the same but altogether inconsistent . The people wish to see the affairs of the Government honestly and economically administered , and the policy pursued which will best promote the general welfare . They understand that it is best for them that men should be appointed to office because they are honest and well qualified for the duties to be performed , and any system calculated to secure that result will meet with their approval . Most of them do not care a rap about the disappointments of self-seeking political workers , and may even rejoice at their discomfiture . It is a theory of the politicians that it is not practicable to maintain a party organization and get its necessary work done without the prospect of reward by a distribution of official patronage among the men who devote their time and efforts to party service . But if all effort inspired by the hope of such reward on the part of men who constitute themselves political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance of a fair and full expression of the popular choice . One party is not entitled to use the power of official patronage against the other , and to take it away from both would leave them dependent for strength upon their principles and their fidelity to such trusts as are reposed in them . The people would find no difficulty in maintaining the organization necessary to give effect to their choice of representatives in party action and in official service . Reform in politics and in the public service is the cause of the people , and the dissatisfaction of the politicians with the efforts to carry it out is no evidence of a popular dissatisfaction . Politicians themselves are forced to recognize this fact . When delegates come fresh from the people to give expression to party sentiment in conventions , if they have been freely and fairly chosen they do not formulate into platforms the grumblings of office seekers , but the convictions of their constituents . Sagacious leaders themselves recognize the drift and force of popular sentiment , and yield to it , however reluctantly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrations of late , and are in a fair way to have more as time passes .                     