@@743966

txt It is doubtless true that the assassin can be tried in New-Jersey . The grounds of this position were shown in detail in THE TIMES of the 18th . But the question which was then " waived " now assumes practical importance : Does the fact that the President died in New-Jersey prevent a trial in the District of Columbia ? This question must , of course , receive the earnest attention of the authorities , and be deliberately decided in the negative before any steps will be taken to bring the prisoner away . At the time of writing it is understood that the doubt as to jurisdiction in the District is deemed serious , and that the inclination of opinion on the part of District Attorney CORRHILL and others is that a removal is necessary . By mousing in the law-books some halfdozen cases can be found intimating that , except where some statute has been passed to cure the defects of old English law , an assailant can not be tried for murder unless the death as well as the assault occurred within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and is more likely to be thought important from the fact that it occurred in the District of Columbia . From the meagre memorandum which has been preserved ( in 1 Cranch , C. Ct. , 548 , ) it appears that BLADEN committed a fatal assault in Alexandria , ( at that date within the District , ) but the injured person was removed to St. Mary 's County , in Maryland , where he died . BLADEN was put upon trial in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia for manslaughter , but the court considered that he could not be convicted there of any higher offense than the assault and battery , saying that , " although the fatal stroke was given here , the judgment must be for the prisoner , the offense not being complete within our jurisdiction . " This seems , indeed , to be precisely the case which would be presented upon an indictment of GUITEAII within the District , and it is not surprising that the authorities hesitate before disregarding it . Lawyers who may examine BLADEN 'S case will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the authorities cited are of very questionable application , and that the decision was made in 1809 ? seventytwo years ago  --  since which time the court has been abolished and new acts of Congress have been passed which seem to afford a new foundation . The Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia are the present guide . These say , ( sections 750 , 763 : ) " There shall be a Supreme Court of the District , which shall consist of a ChiefJustice and four Associate Justices , " &c.; ; and , again , " Any one of the Justices may hold a criminal court for the trial of all crimes and offenses arising within the District . " It does not seem too technical to say , in furtherance of obvious justice , that the offense arises when the wound is given ; that to inquire whether it was " completed " within the jurisdiction is no longer needful . Superior to such niceties is the general consideration that during the seventy-two years an important change in judicial opinion has developed ; the notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death of the wounded man is a part of the crime of murder , is now seen to be unsound . The death of GARFIELD determines the assassin 's punishment . It is not , when words are used in. a just sense , a part of his crime . When GUITEAU , on the memorable 2d of July , armed himself , lay in wait , took aim , and fired , and the bullet plunged into his victim 's body , his offense was complete . True , mankind could not at once know what loss the country was to sustain . True , the authorities could not say at once what punishment had been incurred ; could not at once even give the offense its legal name . Until the death it could not ? be known that the crime was murder or that the punishment would be death . But this does not require excusing the assassin from the jurisdiction of courts on the idea that the death was any part or element in the offense . The death determines the punishment ; that is all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court of Alabama . GREEN , in Colbert County , of that State , shot THOMPSON ; THOMPSON died in Georgia , and , GREEN being indicted in Alabama , his counsel urged the old English rule . There . was , indeed , a statute in Alabama passed to cure the defect , but the court disclaimed relying upon it ; they pronounced the idea erroneous that the shooting is only the commencement of the crime of murder and the death of the injured party the consummation of the offense . " Our view is , " said the Judges . " that the crime of murder con- sists in the infliction of a fatal wound , coupled with the requisite contemporaneous intent or design which legally renders it felonious . " Decisions are not wanting in other States embodying the same principle . There is ground in the law-books as well as in- common sense for saying that under the present facts the prosecuting authorities have their choice whether to bring the culprit to trial in the District of Columbia or in the State of New-Jersey . We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question be considered and the choice made in a full view of the progress of the law , and not in blind obedience to supposed decisions which , after all , may be found to have little but their antiquity to recommend them . There are obvious practical objections to a removal of the prisoner across the country . Legal authority to send United States soldiers as a guard may be doubtful . To attempt removal without military escort would be at present the height of folly . The apparent concession that under our form of government our President may be murdered and the Federal Government has not power to punish the assassin , but must remit him to a State for trial , would be humiliating . If removal be needless the expense may well be avoided . On many accounts the right , if there be one , to hold the trial at Washington should not be inconsiderately waived.                     