@@745322

txt The pastoral letter issued by the Plenary Council at Baltimore is in several respects a suggestive paper . It shows the high degree of practical shrewdness which the hierarchy seems to have always at its command . It is fifty years since MACAULAY wrote his famous panegyric upon the organization of the Roman Catholic Church . Although his predictions of the triumphs in store for the church on this side of the ocean have not been fully borne out by events , his praises of the organization have been fully justified . Certainly the means at the command of the Roman Catholic Church for raising funds ample for its ambitious purposes from congregations drawn for the most part from the poorer classes may well . excite the envy of Protestant ministers , the average wealth of whose congregations is considerably greater and whose plans are by no means so extensive . There are signs , however , that the Roman Catholic Church in this country is being insensibly modified from the European pattern . Although it is the boast of the church that her doctrine and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human nature that the influences of a democracy like our own should not be felt in ecclesiastical affairs . In fact , the church must be Americanized if it is not to remain an alien on our soil , chiefly sustained by the membership of persons of foreign birth . Even now a great part of the laymen and a considerable proportion even of the priesthood are not only native Americans , but are the products of the public school system against which the Bourbons of the church , if we may call them so without disrespect , vainly contend . That these upholders of the European form of Catholicism are as yet predominant in thepriesthood there is no denying . The letter of the Plenary Council does not formally denounce the common school system , as has been done in like cases before , but it exhorts Roman Catholics to build up effective rivals to it in their parochial schools , and lays great stress upon the value of home life in " counteracting the dangerous influences of the public schools . " On the other hand , ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subject of home reading and seminary study by the young . " The influence of American and Protestant religious ideas upon a body commonly supposed to be quite inaccessible to them is most strongly shown in that part of the pastoral letter which deplores the desecration of the Sabbath . " Even when , " say the prelates , " the pretense put forward is popular convenience or popular amusement , the clamor for larger liberty does not come so much from those who desire the convenience or the amusement as from those who hope to enrich themselves by supplying it , " and add that the tendency is to seek " an excuse for virtually ignoring the sacredness of the day altogether . " Now , ? the Sabbatarian observance of Sunday is not only a Protestant , as opposed to a Roman Catholic , doctrine , but it is in a special sense a doctrine of the English Puritans and their American descendants . It has no countenance in the theory or practice of Prolestanisra in Germany , nor in the practice of any countries exclusively Roman Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin on Sunday , just as a good Catholic may go on the same day to a bull fight in Madrid . The view taken by English Churchmen at the time of the Puritan schism and enforced by CHILLINOWORTH , that the strict observance of the Sabbath was a Jewish ordinance and not religiously binding upon Christians , has always been taken , or at least acted upon , in Roman Catholic countries . The Puritan view has , however , prevailed not only among English Dissenters but among English Churchmen , and has molded the habits and the laws of the United States . It seems that it has also influenced the Roman Catholic Church in this country , for we should be surprised to learn that the subject was discussed in a pastoral letter issued in any Roman Catholic country in the same tone in which it is discussed by the Plenary Council of Baltimore .                     