@@781786

txt The courteous custom of imputing good motives until bad ones are proved may he safely waived in discussing the doings of the New-York Board of Aldermen . We hardly need remind the 21 Aldermen who voted on Monday to give an obscure concern calling itself the New-York Electric Lines Uompany the privilege of digging up the streets to lay wires beneath their surface that neither their private character nor their public record mil exempt them from the very natural and entirely justifiable suspicion that the resolution adopted by their vote conceals a job . Several circumstances tend to create and confirm this suspicion . The public does not always demand or expect positive proof of " crookedness " in such transactions . It has a habit of " putting this and that together , " and on such inferential evidence forming its own conclusions . When it sees the Board of Aldermen conferring a valuable franchise upon an apparently worthless and irresponsible corporation , and doing this in an irregular way and with unusual haste , it may and does infer that the board had peculiar reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and received the censure of the people of New-York for its recklessness in handing the streets over to steam-heating companies to be torn up and blockaded . Its members know perfectly well that public opinion is strongly opposed to further concessions of that character except to responsible parties and under proper guarantees that the streets shall not be indefinitely obstructed or permanently injured , and that the privileges conferred shall not be abused . In all these particulars public opinion was openly defied by the passage of the resolution in favor of the Electric Lines Company . When the Committee on Ferries and Franchises reported to the board on Jan. 30 that the privilege asked for by this company should be granted , Aldermen O'CONNOR . WELLS , FiNck , and FLEISCHBEIN opposed the adoption of the report on the ground that the board ought to know something about the company before granting its application . It was urged that the company might be merely a speculative concern , seeking the franchise with a view to selling it out to the telegraph and telephone companies for a good round sum ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might charge such rates for their use as would compel the raising of telegraph tolls ; and that there was not a particle of evidence that the company would be found financially responsible in case the City or individuals should have occasion to proceed against it for violation of the conditions of its franchise . On motion of Alderman FITZPATRICK , the resolution was finally referred back to the Committee on Ferries and Franchises , with instructions to find out who the officers of the company were and inquire into its standing and responsibility . Pending the investigation of the committee THE TIMES made some inquiries on these points , the results of which were presented to its readers in its issues of Jan. 31 and Feb. ' 1 . It was discovered that the President of the New-York Electric Lines Company is a certain Mr. SIDNEY F. SHELBOURNE . His associates , Mr. WILLIAM FORCE SCOTT , Mr. GEORGE L. WEED , Mr. HERBERT P. BRUSH , and Mr. . EDWARD BARR , like himself , are not gentlemen of much prominence in the business life of the City . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mr. SHELBOURNE hold $4,870,000 , the remainder being distributed among his four associates . The office of the company is at No. 11 Gold-street , in a building which also contains the offices and warehouses of several other eompanies with which these corporators are connected . So far as the New-York Electric Lines Company is a tangible and visible affair , it has all those characteristics which would cause a prudent and honest Board of Aldermen to investigate diligently and hesitate long before granting it the privilege of removing so much as a single paving-stone in the City 's streets . To what degree the qualities of prudence and honesty are present or lacking in the composition of our Board of Aldermen is not a question to be determined here , but its course has been exactly opposite to that we have indicated . The Committee on Ferries and Franchises reported back the resolution with two amendments  --  one requiring the company to pay the City 2 per cent . of its gross annual receipts , and the other forbidding it to dispose of or transfer its franchise without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officers of the company and its standing the committee was dumb . The amended resolution was read at headlong speed by the Clerk , was instantly put on its passage by President REILLY , who refused to entertain , a motion made by Alderman WELLs until the calling of the roll was ordered . In spite of the energetic protest of Aldermen O'CONNOR and WELLS , the resolution was adopted by a vote of 21 to 3 , the only opposing votes being those of Alderman GRANT and the two gentlemen just named . The objections to giving this franchise to so flimsy and questionable a concern as the New-York Electric Lines Company , even for 2 per cent . of the gross receipts accruing from its operations , are obvious . The privilege of laying electric wires under the street is one which may be abused in many ways . Aside from the injury and obstruction of the streets , there is danger that the privilege may pass into the exclusive control of some monopoly corporation , like the Western Union Telegraph Company , and be converted into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needless to call attention to the points of resemblance between the Electric Lines Company and some sufficiently well-known corporations which have been organized in the City within the last few years solely to , sell themselves out to the highest bidder . And it may not he necessary to remark that if this company were of that character , if it had by some means acquired undue influence over the Committee on Ferries and Franchises and a majority of the other members of the Board of Aldermen , the knowledge of these facts would furnish about the only intelligible explanation of Tuesday 's proceeding in the board .                     