@@781158

txt Ex-Secretary Carl Schurz and Murat Halstead , of Cincinnati , drove out to the Elberon about noon to-day and called upon Col. Rockwell , in order to learn something definite regarding the condi-tion of the President . Col. Rockwell , in an-swer to their questions , said that President Garfield was doing nicely . He slept longer at a time than usual last night , and the beneficial effects of the change from the White House to the Francklyn cottage were very apparent . The wound and all the incisions in the Presi-dent 's body were healing well . Col. Rockwell said one of the best and most hopeful signs was the fact that the skin was turning over on the edges of each of the incisions . The old skin was being crowded off by the constant growth of new skin , showing that the system was being built up . Both Mr. Schurz and Mr. Halstead asked particularly about the condition of the President 's eyes . The latter , Mr. Garfield 's friends say , were always exceedingly sensitive to any disturbance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the story of his health to his acquaintances . Col. Rockwell assured his visitors that the President 's eyes were as full and bright and active as they ever had been , a piece of intelligence which was received with great pleasure . Then Mr. Halstead asked about the . President 's voice . The Colonel replied that of course the President was very weak and his voice was low ; it was , however , strong and distinct . It was the old Garfield voice , and any one hearing it , even if he did not see the speaker , would know it was the President who was speaking . Col. Rockwell was next asked about the President 's mind , and the stories that ? he has been out of his head recently . The Colonel replied that when the President first awakened from sleep he seemed for a moment unable to realize his surroundings . He was conscious of this himself , and always made an effort to shake it off . The Colonel was positive in declaring that the President was no worse off in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up slowly after sleeping . It was true , however , that the patient was not troubled in that way before be was shot . The Doctors said , Col. Rockwell added , that the food taken by the President was now well assimilated and was being taken into his system . His appetite , too , was improving , and with it the enjoyment of his food .                     