@@671763

txt The fight which the Gorman ring is making for life in Maryland is not unlike that which was waged in its last days by the Tweed ring in this city . There is much the same aesperation anu mere is some resemblance in methods . General blackguarding of every one , especially every Democrat , who dares to take up arms against the ring ; a deep solicitude through all ring circles , and particularly in the ring organs lest the " fair fame " of the city shall be injured and its business driven away ; close and unscrupulous organization to commit fraud upon the ballot box , either before or during the election , and especially the enlistment of ruffianly leaders from among the desperate members of the criminal classes to carry out the purposes of the ring and to overawe the citizens who venture to assert their rights  --  these are . the features of the contest in Maryland , which will recall the struggle made by the Tweed ring then backed by the Democratic organization . Nor is the position of parties unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Baltimore and in Maryland , as it was in the city and State of New-York , is the organization naturally relied on to lead in an attempt at reform , but there as here the Republicans have not been without some participation in the corruption of the ring . Every one who had to do with the fight here will remember that curious product of the time , the " Tammany Republican , " and how he was even more difficult to deal with than the undisguised and outspoken member or partisan of the Tweed gang . In the same way wo find in Maryland Gorman Republicans ready to aid the chiefs of the Democratic organization actively or indirectly , from sympathy as from gratitude , and this not very savory element of Republicanism is sustained and represented outside by those eminent star route persons , Messrs . ROBERT G. INGERSOLL and STEPHEN B. ELKINS . The Gorman men in Baltimore , who control the politics of the State , are very confident that they will win at least one more round in the long struggle . Some dozen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraudulent action , and nearly every reputable lawyer in the city has enlisted to watch the registration and expose violations of the law . The Reform League hopes to be able practically to clean the registration books of the names a illegal voters and to secure the registration of those legal voters whose names have been stricken off . But the Gorman men have absolute control of the ballot boxes and of the machinery of elections on the day of election and for the canvass . Herein lies their strength , and they have p erp e trated with impunity so many andso heinous crimes on the suffrage in the past , that they count on being able to pull through once more at least . It is very necessary for them to do so . Not only their control of the city and State patronage and of the Legislature depends on victory , but also their standing in the national organization . If they are overthrown this Fall on the plain issue of honesty against fraud , they can not expect to retain their influence with the National Administration or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledge of that influence , or the prestige they have enjoyed in the National Conventions . We confess that , deep as is our sympathy with the ring-ridden people of Maryland , we shall not rejoice the less in their success in overthrowing their oppressors , because in doing so they will rid the National Administration of one of the worst burdens it has chosen to assume . 