@@744432

txt The most striking , and perhaps the most important , fact in the business situation of the United States at the present moment is unquestionably the extraordinary extent to which railway building has been carried and is now going on . Ever since the country began to recover from the disastrous revulsion of 1873 nothing has proved so attractive to the possessors of the savings accumulated through the long period of economy which followed that revulsion as railroad ventures . Not only has a great amount of railroad building been carried on on new lines , but old lines have been extended , new combinations have been formed , involving considerable improvements , road-beds have been remodeled and regraded , new rails have replaced old ones , expensive and elaborate stations , freight-houses , and ele vators have been erected , rolling stock has been increased or changed , and in numerous channels capital has been absorbed , credit has been used , and labor employed . Had this restless activity proceeded upon a solid bacis and in accordance with sound business principles , there would still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would have been attended with some danger . But the process has not been confined to these limits . By the various devices of which the " construction company " is a type the enterprises thus begun or extended have been loaded down with fixed charges out of all proportion to the capital actually invested in them , while the evidences of indebtedness created have been made the instruments of reckless and often of unscrupulous speculation . The inevitable result is that the exchanges of the country have been flooded with " securities " that are far from secure , and a very considerable proportion of the capital which would otherwise have been at the service of ordinary business has been diverted toward the treacherous and greedy quicksands of stock gambling . That there.must come a reaction from this method of carrying on a portion of the business of the country so great and so important is plain . The reaction has , indeed , already set in . Many of the securities based not on actual investment , but on hopes of future profit rashly and heavily discounted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them by the over-confidence of the public . And not only are most of these bound to shrink still more , but others must shrink badly which have yet hardly begun to do so . This is obvious from the fact that the enormous rate of profit held out by the " construction company " mode of doing business has induced a great deal of work to be undertaken of which there was no real need , and for which there was no legitimate opening . The money was subscribed , not for the profits to be had from transporting freight and passengers , but for the profits to be got by selling at a great advance securities distributed at very low rates . The amount of work undertaken and the way in which it was performed were , therefore , not regulated by the requirements of probable traffic , but by the demand for the inflated . securities . The enterprises frequently ceased to be enterprises in any normal sense , and became mere speculative and gambling ventures . As in every such procedure , the most eager and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to , and the ventures were necessarily greatly overdone . Were the unfortunate consequences of this mistaken method confined to those who enter upon it from pure speculation , the public could regard it with equanimity , if not with indifference . But this is not the case . The consequences are wide-spread . Capital is turned from safer channels , labor is unduly employed , and its relations with capital are disturbed . Credit is extravagantly extended , and the secure and orderly operation of financial institutions is interrupted , perverted , and exposed to serious embarrassments . When the reaction comes the difficulties to which it gives rise are extensive and embrace all classes of the community . Labor suffers even more in proportion than commerce or capital . Enforced and ruinous idleness follows high wages , and prices which have been inflated by the flood of partly fictitious values shrink slowly , while habits of easy expenditure survive the means to indulge in them . All the elements of depression and of possible collapse and panic are produced , and it is only a question of time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and speculative activity with dullness and ' probable disaster are to a great extent unavoidable , and the more so in the United States , where rapid growth of population and development of resources invite to a hopeful view of the future . They can not be avoided by legislation , and any effort in that direction would only make matters worse . But in our own situation there are two things which the Government can control , and which it is bound to control , to moderate the mischief which the resort to these extravagant methods produces . It can remove all shackles from legitimate business and it can provide a perfectly sound currency . Each of these duties is imperative . At present the Federal Government imposes great and useless burdens on the commerce and industry of the country . It not only takes every year a large amount of money in taxes which it does not need , but it takes this money in ways which hamper both trade and manufactures , which impede those exchanges from which the legitimate business of the country in every branch must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing this it lessens the amount of capital available for useful enterprises and the safe and wholesome employment of labor , and beyond this it interferes with the free operation of the country 's energy and skill . In regard to the currency , it is also guilty of stimulating the mischievous tendencies , which are always strong enough , by its enforced inflation of the currency by certificates representing depreciated silver . These two lines of policy not only increase the evils of illegitimate and over-risky speculation , but they considerably augment the difficulty of recovering from them . The least that a sensible Congress could or should do is to cut down taxation , adjust that which remains so that it shall not interfere with legitimate business more than is unavoidable , and reverse the course of the Government with reference to the coinage of silver and the issue of silver certificates .                     