@@745905

txt The Government Directors of the Union Pacific Railroad Company strongly urge the settlement of the debt of the company to the Government on account of the subsidy bonds in accordance with the terms of the bill now pending in the House of Representatives . This bill , as originally introduced in the Senate by Mr. HOAR , provided . for a computation of the present worth of the principal and interest of this debt , the addition thereto of interest at 313 per cent . to the average time of falling due of a series of substitute bonds running over a period of sixty years , and the division of this sum into 120 equal parts , eae , n to be represented by a bond given by the company to the Government , one of these being payable every six months . In other words , the company would replace its obligation on account of the subsidy bonds of the Government , together with interest accrued and to accrue , by giving its own bonds to the Government of equal amounts , one to be paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill as reported to the Housethe period is extended to 70 years and the number of installments is 140 , and it is now proposed that a further extension of ten years be made . The bill applies not to the Union Pacific alone , but to all the subsidized lines , and contains provisions as to security , the enforcement of the lien , &c.; The principle of the proposed settlement is easily understood . It is based on a liberal extension of time and payment in equal semi-annual installments proportioned to the company 's presumed ability to pay without crippling it in its operations or sacrificing the interests of its stockholders . The advantage for the Government claimed for the plan is that it does away with all uncertainty and dispute in regard to this debt , and would take the matter finally out of the hands of Congress and set it on the road to a settlement which would work itself out quietly , provided the company regularly met its payments . The difficulty to be removed is due to the terms of the existing legislation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . According to the interpretation put upon the acts by which this debt was created , there was no way of enforcing the payment of interest by the companies until the bonds matured , or of compelling them to provide adequately by a sinking fund or otherwise for the liquidation of the debt at that time . The Union Pacific Company went on for years paying dividends out of its earnings to give value to stock which represented no investment of capital , inflating its securities , consolidating its original line with others , and acquiring branches and feeders , and utterly ignoring its obligation to the Government , which . it might easily have provided for . Attempts to get from its net earnings some adequate provision for the payment of this Government debt have proved futile . The bad record of the company and the unscrupulous conduct of its former managers has , indeed , been the chief obstacle to any plan of settlement involving a concession of the Government 's rights . The company has earned no right to special consideration . But the plea is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new hands in the last few years , that it is widely distributed and held as an investment by those who acquired it in good faith , that the management has also changed and is now honest and efficient and guided by the interests of the stockholders and the public . These honest stockholders and this honorable management lay claim now to considerations independent of the iniquitous history of the company . They sometimes go further and intimate that the company is unable to fulfill its obligations in their present form , and that the Government has not adequate security for the debt as it now exists . This may be doubted ; but it is a real question whether it would be for the best interest of the Government to leave the matter in its present shape and . endeavor to enforce its security on the maturity of the bonds . It is also a question whether it should not regard the claims of the present stockholders and take such a course as will allow the road to go on undisturbed in developing and securing all its interests , provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be accepted and carried out in good faith . Eighty years is a long time to be covered by such an assurance , but a security equal to that at present provided will be at all times available . These are questions to be carefully considered by Congress in dealing with this subject .                     