@@781452

txt Prince BISMARCK 'S epigram that " France can not hold out for ten years without sending an army somewhere " has been amply borne out by facts . The 34 years which have passed since ABD-EL-KADER 'S Surrender gave Algeria to the tricolor have witnessed the Urimean war , the anti-Austrian crusade in Italy , the Mexican expedition , and now the invasion of Tunis . This latter has long been a mere question of time . Progressive expansion is the law of African France . The conquerors of Algiers and Constantine , working either by open war or by skillful playing off against each other of the two factions into which every Arab tribe is divided , have advanced southward from Constantine to Biskra , 100 miles deep in the Sahara itself , and thence to Tuggurt , four days ' journey further into the great desert . In Tunis , again , the thin end of the wedge had been inserted in the traditional way described by NAPOLEON 'S assertion that CAMBACERES 'S dinners won him more thanks than his own victories . French cafes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have taken root in every part of the capital . Railways , built by French engineers and managed by French officials , traverse the surrounding country . On the green slope once crowned by the citadel of Carthage a memorial chapel dedicated to St. Louis of France looks down upon the smooth bright waters of Tunis Bay , and Arab boys come trooping to a school taught by French priests . The Bey himself , in his sixty-fifth year , still retains abundant traces of the Gallicizing influence that formerly led him to furnish his palace in the Parisian style , to surround himself with the novels of Du3rAs and the pictures of GEROME and MEISSONIER , and to forsake his harem for the society of a single wife . Ever since 1877 , the Algerian railway system has been steadily extending itself toward Tunis , while the French Consul , 31 . ROUSTAN , has for more than a year past been pressing upon the Bey the acceptance of France 's " protectorate , " e. , supremacy . The wary Prince 's persistent refusal has compelled France to seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow to present itself . On the 17th April a series of real or alleged outrages by the Kroumir nomads were supplemented by an insult offered to a French survey boat which was fired on from a Tunisian fort upon the Isle of Tabarca . A French iron-clad retaliated by bombarding the fort , and the troops sent to punish the Kroumirs were strongly reinforced . The Bey at once volunteered satisfaction , and the Kroumirs offered to submit to his award . But France was not to be thus balked of her purpose . Two columns , converging from Tabarca Island on the north and the border town of Beja on the south , enveloped the Kroumir district , while a third occupied Kef , lying southward from Beja . The concentric advance of the invaders has compelled the bloodless abandonment of the Kroumir intrenched camp at Sidi Abdallah , while a fresh force , landing near Tunis , has forced the Bey to sign a treaty which practically converts him from the semi-independent feudatory of Turkey into the vassal of France . Such an act is nothing less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sultan 's reclamations find no echo in Christian Europe . Austria and Russia are not directly interested . England has hitherto contented herself with a mild official shake of the head . Germany is , doubtless , well pleased to see France 's restless energy diverted from Alsace and Lorraine . Italy , indeed , is furious , openly accusing France of needless interference , for her own purposes , in a quarrel which the Bey could easily have put down alone . But whether this excitement will translate itself into action , or what will be its fortune should it do so , remains to be seen .                     