@@743857

txt To the State Board of Canvassers the Republicans then appealed , but that board decided that , so far as the vote for a member of Congress was concerned , they could do nothing , although the fraud was admitted . As the result of transforming the Haut Gap vote and the throwing out of the boxes already mentioned , a certificate of election was given to M. P. O'Connor , whose majority was declared to be 5,272 , in place of the 878 majority which had been returned for E. W. M. Mackey by the Managers of Election , of whom every one throughout the district was a Democrat . This is the seat which the Democratic Govtrnor of the State has declared vacant because A the death of Mr. O'Connor , and for which a special election has been ordered by him , to be held on Thursday next . Of course , the validity of that election depends entirely upon the decision of the House in the contest now pending . What that decision will be there can be do doubt in view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House . If Mr. O'Connor never was elected , as is shown by the evidence , then his death has caused no vacancy , And it is only in the event that the House should decide otherwise  --  that is , that Mr. O'Connor was legally elected last November , which is very improbable , that the person elected at the coming special election would be entitled to the seat . If by any possibility the special election could be conducted with a reasonable degree of fairness , there is no doubt that Mr. Mackey , although not a raudidate , would receive a large majority . Everything has shown , however , that the Democrats will commit as much fraud at the special election as they committed at the last general election and the one previous . The entire election machinery is in the hands of the Democrats , the Republicans being denied , as usual , any representation whatever among the election officers . The Managers of Election at every poll are Democrats and the News and Courier , the Democratic organ of this State , which always advocates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does not hesitate to give as one of the reasons why Democratic success is assured " the decided advantage " the Democrats have " in the judicious choice of Managers of Election . " Moreover , the Commissioners and Managers of Election , by whom the special election is to be conducted , are the Commissioners and Managers who conlucted the election last November , which was attended with such shameless frauds . Finally , the candidate nominated by the Democrats has already been twice elected to office by frauds of the character practiced in 1S7S and 1550. 