@@672132

txt INSTRUMENTS OF GREED . " The Tribune is still trying to convince its readers that it can honestly and consistently be the bitter enemy of all combinations and at the same time oppose a reduction of the tariff duties that enable many combinations to exact high prices , although a considerable reduction would still leave ample protection for the industries in question if prioes in the home market should be regulated by fair competition . The Tribune is getting into deep water , for recently , in an unguarded moment , it admitted that certain combinations are aided . by tariff duties and that their greed could be restrained by " sweeping away every cent of the duty . " On . the 20th ult. these remarks slipped into its editorial columns : " If it the tariff has defects , this is the time to cure them . If its benefits are taken from the people to whom they belong by any syndicates or combinations , this is the time to break down such monopolies , and if necessary to so modify the laws that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tariff by combinations of producers who are benefited by it is one which should be met without compromise . The people have not upheld the principles of protection for the purpose of giving great fortunes to a few favored individuals . " The Tribune returned to the subject yesterday and . strove to show that it had . not been " moved to denounce them Trusts and other combinations only . because convinced that they tend to render the protective system unpopular , " but was really denouncing them because they were the dangerous enemies of the protective policy . " The Trusts which have been aided by protective duties , " it said . " if any such exist , do injure the cause in the public estimation , and that is an additional and honorable reason for opposing them , but no such additional reason is needed . They kindle public indignation against the men who abuse opportunities granted for the public benefit and strive to turn them into instruments of private greed . " But if th ? Tribune and those whom it represents really believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protective policy , and if they admit that these combinations are aided by tariff duties and can be restrained or broken by a reduction of these duties , why do they refuse so to " modify " the tariff laws that these rings " can no longer be maintained " I So long as they refuse to reduce the duties in question they must not complain if some other opponents of combinations charge them with inconsistency and even hypocrisy . Let us take up the evidence . The opinions of the Tribune found expression in the Senate Tariff bill . The Tribune knows that the industry of making linseed oil is controlled by a Trust , and that this combination takes full advantage of the tariff duty of 25 cents a gallon . In the Senate bill this duty was not reduced , but the Mills bill cut it down to 15 cents . The Tribune knows that the envelope industry is controlled by a powerful combination , and it has published the evidence relating to this ring . The Senate bill did not reduce the duty of 25 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 cents per thousand envelopes . The Tribune has stated that . there is a combination of the manufacturers of spool thread . The present duty was retained in the Senate bill . The Tribune knows that the producers of borax have raised prices almost to the tariff limit by combination . The high duties on borax were not reduced . by the Senate . The Tribune has said that the manufacture and sale of slates are controlled by a combination , and has shown that the industry really needs no protection . The duty of 30 per cent . was not changed in the Senate bill . The Tribune knows that by measis ? of a very successful combination and . with the aid of a duty of 35 per cent . the makers of sheet copper have for some years exacted an extortionate price for their product . The Senate bill retained this duty . Other examples of the same kind might be cited . In some cases the Senate bill made a slight reduction of duties that are now or have been used by rings , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties as fixed in the bill are far above the limit that would afford prohibitory protection and may still be used by combinations as " instruments of private greed . " For example , the duty on steel rails was reduced from $17 to $15 68 , although the Tribune well ' knows that a duty of $6 or $7 would exclude foreign rails at the prices current hero and An - .. Itnginid during the last six months . Anything above the rate that is required for exclusion is certainly not needed for protection , but the excess is of great value to a combination , for it permits the combination to make a great addition to its ring price . We admit that the price of rails here at present is not such a price as is fixed by a ring , but the price was raised by combination to the extreme limit of the high duty in 1887 , and it may be so raised again . These examples will suffice for the present . They show that those who are in accord . with the Tribune are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by reducing the duties , and . that in the cases cited such reductions were not made by the Senate Tariff bill , which the Tribune supported . We submit that these facts deserve the Tribune 's attention , and that the sincerity of its denunciations of combinations in. protected industries can best be shown by a demand for a reduction of all duties that aid combinations to the point where they will afford nothing more than protection to the products when sold at , prices regulated by competition . And at the same time we remind the Tribune that those who have asked for such reductions are not necessarily free traders , for - many a duty can suffer . a very considerable reduction and still be protective if free competition in the home market be established . 