@@781391

txt Last evening the Rev. J. T. McCrory of the Third United Presbyte-rian Church preached on " The Roman Cath-olic ) methods of saving the soul contrasted with the simplicity of faith in Jesus Christ . " During the course of his sermon he made the assertion that Father Sheedy sold indulgences at prices ranging from $2 to $10 , and had spe-cial privileges from the Pope . The Rev. Father Morgan M. Sheedy is pastor of St. Mary 's Catholic Church , and , through his lead-ership of : the parochial school movement in op-position ' to public schools , has come to be about the most widely-known priest in the city . He was provoked at Mr. McCrory 's attack , and has written this reply : " It is sometimes difficult and always trying to bear patiently the base calumnies that are freely uttered by third-rate Luthers of the pulpit against Catholics . In doing so , however , we are following the teaching of the religion which we profess , which demands that we pray for those who persecute and calumniate us . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have a higher opinion of the intelligence of the readers of the daily press than these gentlemen seem to entertain , who pour out periodically their torrent of abase and misrepresentation of what Ciathotics hold most sacred . If these so-called Christian preachers regard it as a religious duty to heap wanton insalt upon the Catholic body , and , ignoring the command which says ' Thou shalt not bear " false witness against thy neighbor , ' willfully and grossly traduce us , We simply pity their blindness or moral oh . liqulty . Indeed , it is doubtful if such a course does not help rather than hurt us in the long run , however painful it may be to submit at times . " Now , for one specific statement iu a report of what is termed ' a characteristic harangue ' , that appears in this morning 's papers . ' But if you are pretty rich , or happen to live near Pittsburg , your friends might go to Father Sheedy , who has a special shrine and privileges allowed him by the Pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' Surely it is not necessary to say that every statement in this paragraph is a base falsehood I In St. Mary 's Church there is a shrine in honor of the Blessed Reiner of Christ . I would add that it is much easier for one who sins grievously by the violation of truth and charity to get into hell than to get out once within . The father of lies knows his own and holds last to them . " In conclusion , Father Sheedy says : " If the remarks made by the gentleman were true , the Catholic Church would not last a week . because it would contain no rellgiou or anything to attract people to its shrine other than the fact that it was simply a place for barter and sale . The price named by the gentleman as the figure at which indulgences are sold is very low , and the whole thing is nothing more or lees than simply ridiculous . "                     