@@743892

txt If there is one thing more than another over which Americans are complacent it is our system of education . One has to mere -- ly mention common schools to make an American feel that there the ground for a little glorification is safe and solid . As to colleges , there are hundreds of them , ranging from the Johns Hopkins , Harvard , and Yale down to those upon whose unfamiliar names the reader of statistics comes with surprise . For all that , it is a peculiar fact that in the United States teaching does not hold a high rank . The instructor wields a narrow authority in his school , but outside he is not ranked with the clergyman , doctor , or lawyer . In a democracy it is not always easy to see distinctions founded on professions ; but they exist , nevertheless , and are plain to close observers not only in the practical way of emoluments for the work performed , but in the less definable forms of social intercourse . Neither in the rewards of their labor nor the respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they to all appearance should . For a country whose commonplace it is that education is and has always been its corner-stone , it is not a little surprising to notice this fact . It may have something to do with another fact noted by the foreign Commissioners who , in 1876 , examined our school system . They were by no means unanimous in their approval . As regards primary schools outside the great towns , the French Commissioners reported that the system was as yet no system , that it was in the tentative stage , not to say chaos . American teachers of long service in different parts of the country have corroborated the statement in sufficient numbers and with sufficient fullness to warrant the belief that the system is defective where it should be most perfect . In truth , if we want to learn why our colleges of the best type have to teach . students what they should have learned in preparatory schools , and why these preparatory schools have to instruct in the rudiments rather than the well-advanced branches of learning , we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And it will not do to take a few favored centres and try to impose upon ourselves the belief that what is true of picked schools , under teachers with special gifts , is to be found true of schools at large throughout the length and breadth of the land . The struggle here , as it has been of late years in England and Scotland , is to raise the masses , not furnish training schools for picked scholars . The state of the primary country schools is , therefore , matter for serious consideration of every one , and , moreover , on the score of self-interest . It hardly needs to be repeated that the enemies of the public schools and of the enforced education of children are not slow to point out these weak spots as arguments against the American theory of education in its entirety . And they are quite right . The neglect of the primary schools is the most fatal imaginable , for it retards , often forever , the advance of young minds through the steps indispensable to their performance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genius who make up for want of early training are not wanting in the experience of every one , but these can not be reckoned with , since they are exceptional . It is the primary school that tells most on the average child . Indeed , when one reflects on the enormous rapidity with which , very young children absorb and arrange in their minds the facts of human existence and consider their exquisite sensitiveness one is ready to declare that the whole system of education is topsy-turvy , so far as teachers , their salaries , ' and relative ranks are concerned . So important does it seem to lead the very first steps aright that the best brains and highest salaries might seem to belong in the infant schools , leaving the doctrinaires , with their shabby pittances , to the students at college . Most students at college learn by rote and have little or no intercourse with their instructors on the topics of education ; they learn more of men and life than anything else , although necessarily in peculiar and sometimes one-sided forms . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the closest intercourse between teacher and pupil . Therefore , there is one reason more why the most skillful  --  whom we presume to be the Professors at colleges , since they are the best paid  --  ought to apply their learning and professional experience where it is most needed ? in the primary schools . That this is not a reductio ad absurdum was long ago shown by the Jesuits when they seized upon the youngest children to mold them into stanch Catholics while still at the most malleable age . The kindergarten system is based on the same idea , and tries to employ on primary education , even before the use of the alphabet , such minds as would fill professorial demands as well . It is hampered by the fact that parents can not or will not pay so much for young children as for college boys . Having themselves been brought up on the old methods , parents do not see the necessity of having the foundations laid by the best instructors . They hope that later , when the child is older , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the costlier teaching will come in play . In England they are trying to work out , under other conditions , problems very similar to our own . Their universities are extending their influence to different parts of the country by holding examinations at the large centres of population . Besides the schools founded by enthusiasts like Rumnr , there are other schools and associations which show evidences of a desire to systematize schools for working men on the general plan of our own system , but probably with the hope of better results . In this country , too , it is only just to say that the evil is understood by a few progressive teachers , and sometimes attacked with a fair measure of success . But the influence of such advanced teachers does not extend further than their own State , and generally must be limited to a school district . There is great need here of discussion and of final organization . One thing seems quite certain . ? More money must be spent on the teachers in primary schools , and by rewards substantial or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a level with the members of the three liberal professions . It is manifest folly to expect a body of men to lift the ignorance of the country , yearly weighted more and more by immigration of untaught foreigners , without making the task attractive in one way or another . And while the salaries of Professors at colleges are by no means what they should be , the greatest injustice , the most short-sighted policy , is that of leaving infants ' and children 's schools to the mercy of men and women who , without special bent toward instruction , have failed at everything else , and yet are held equal to the instruction of youth at the most impressionable age .                     