@@781187

txt President Arthur has made a mess of it in Pennsylvania by the nomination for Pension Agent at Philadelphia of Mr. John M. Vanderslice , the Cameron-Quay candidate for that office . The occupant of the office is Gen. Horatio G. Sickel . Sickel is a soldier , who rendered excellent service during the war for the Union , was wounded , and came home with an honorable name . When he was selected as Pension Agent his appointment was universally commended . He has held the office for 12 years , and during that long period has disbursed $37,000,000 . His integrity and business capacity have never been questioned . Coming of good family and having a good social standing , he has steadily grown in popularity among men of all political associations , and there was an almost universal request for his reappointment . The place has been regarded by Sickels 's friends as a business office , to which a man of admitted integrity and capacity rather than a mere politician should be appointed . Three of the four Republican members from Philadelphia  --  Messrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported him , and Mr. Keiley had several times urged the President to name him . Mr. Bingham was not for Sickels , nor for Vanderslice. but for Col. Norris . A majority of the State delegation was in favor of Sickels 's reappointment , among the rest being Senator Mitchell , who , as Chairman of the Committee on Pensions of the Senate , will be called upon to dispose of the nomination Made on the dictation of " Matt " Quay and Don Cameron , Quay being regarded as the administrator of the Cameron estate in Pennsylvania politics . His position is represented as being that of a dictator who says to Arthur : " If you want to get the delegates from Pennsylvania , you must take care of the ' boys . ' " Vanderslice is one of " the boys " and not a very nice " boy " either . A Philadelphia member says that his nomination for Sickels 's place would be paralleled in New-York if the Preside/It should remove Postmaster Pearson and put in " Barney " Biglin . Vanderslice is a ward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a very close shave . He is , in almost every important respect , precisely not the sort of man that Sickles is . A story circulated during the recent campaign , and only hushed up with great difficulty , was that he had borrowed money from a man named Phelps , who is in the penitentiary , and was obliged to compromise a debt of 51,000 by payment of half to the wife of Phelps on production of some forgotten " I 0 Ti 's . " Mr. Kelley is'in towering rage at what he regards as an uncalledfor insult to the people of the whole State . He says that the President has offended all decent Republicans , and that he can not avoid discovering that he has made a grievous mistake .                     