@@743324

txt The proposition to construct a Federal prison for the confinement of persons convicted of crime in the United States eoterts , has drawn attention to the penal system  --  or rather the utterlack of any such system ? in the Southern States . As the law now stands . the Attorney-General is authorized to place such convicts in " some suitable jail or penitentiary in a convenient State or Territory , " and , in case there is no such place which he may deem " suitable " in the judicial district in which the conviction occurs , he may designate a place of confinement elsewhere . The Federal Government bears the expense of transportation and maintenance for its prisoners , without exercising any control over the administration of the institutions in which they are confined . Experience has shown that there are very few places in the Southern States which are in any proper sense " suitable " for the proper treatment of persons taken in charge by a civilized Government for the pur- ? pose of correction or punishment , and persons convicted of offenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be transported at considerable expense and placed in Northern prisons . The penal institutions of the South are doubtless just as good for Federal prisoners as they are for State prisoners , and the action of the Attorney-General is a virtual condemnation of them for any purpose for which they are intended . The fact is that most of them are insecure , especially for violators of the Revenue laws and offenders against the rights of citizens derived from national authority , and those which keep their inmates at all , do so at the peril of their health and life , and for the destruction of what vestiges of moral sense may remain to them . The discussions on the subject of prison discipline and the improvements made in the treatment of convicts have not reached the official intellects of those States . This is a matter which directly concerns the Southern States themselves , and is wholly within the jurisdiction of their own Governments , but there is no surer index of the civilization of any community than its treatment of criminals , and what intimately concerns one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The State prisons of the South may be roughly classified as of three ? kinds : those in which prisoners are confined in complete idleness , and are a constant charge upon the public for their full maintenance ; those in which some effort is made to employ them and offset expenses with earnings ; and those in which they are not kept at all , but let out to contractors to work on railroads or in. other employments. ? In each and ' all of these there is a general lack of enlightened management and a complete disregard of any sound principle of penal administration . In South Carolina , for instance , convicts are merely shut , up , without any proper classification or separation , to live in idleness and be sUpOorted more or less sump- tuously according to the appropriations . A large percentage of them escape , but most of them pass their time in a condition of ignominious pauperism and listlessness which is sadly demoralizing . In the Kentucky Legislature , a year or two ago , there was a discussion in. regard to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its favor was that the penitentiary was overcrowded with inmates , a large proportion of whom had committed petty offenses . There were , indeed , about 1,000 convicts in less than SOO cells , and they were of all ages and both sexes , huddled together in. promiscuous fashion , with . little regard for physical , and none for moral , health . For the most part they were a burden on . the revenues of the State . The condition of things revealed was plainly a disgrace , but it was gravely proposed to remedy it , not by an enlightened reform of prison administration , but by disposing of the lesser offenders with the lash . The proposition was defeated only by the casting vote of the presiding officer in the Senate . In Georgia , in 1878 , there was an investigation of the penitentiary , which showed a condition of things quite as bad , and it was reported that the mortality in that hideous place of confinement sometimes amounted to 10 per cent . a month . Children of tender ago lived within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plantation work were chained together , and . treated , in some respects , worse than slaves . The plan of letting out convict labor by contract has been on the increase , and while in some cases profitable to the State , it disregards every consideration of penal reform . In Alabama , the State 's prisoners have been made to pay a revenue by being let out to work on railroads . The convicts are treated merely as so many laborers belonging to the State for the time being , whose services are to be sold to the highest bidders . They pass into the keeping of contractors , and live in camps for weeks and months , as much under the control and at the mercy of overseers as though they were slaves . It is , in. fact , a sort of penal servitude more closely resembling slavery than anything intended for the correction or punishment of crime . Mississippi has about .1,000 State convicts , nine-tenths of whom are negroes , convicted for the most part of petty offenses , and the whole penal establishment is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under contracts with the Superintendent , in the way most conducive to his own profit and that of the public Treasury . Florida at one time paid a contractor to take her prisoners off her hands and discharged the cost of transporting them wherever he had employment for them , but latterly their labor has paid all expenses , and the State , having no further use for its penitentiary , has transformed it into an insane asylum . This is merely a plan for getting rid of the care and responsibility of dealing with convicted criminals , and turning their labor to account in a disguised form of slavery . These cases fairly represent the prison system of the South , although - in one or two States some effort has been made to adopt a rational system of labor within the prison wails and under the supervision of public officers . Why the National Government can find no suitable place for its convicts in that section is sufficiently obvious , and it is not less so that . the men . who administer local affairs in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or at all events , no regard for it .                     