@@671732

txt The suggestion of the London Times that the British Government should . send a cruiser to Alaskan waters to secure proper treatment there for British sealers hardly comports with the talk of a permanent arbitration treaty between the United States and England and with the signing of a peace memorial by two hundred members of the House of Commons . The controversy is essentially one not to be settled by war ships . The reason why the Government at Washington , whether rightly or wrongly , gave its instructions to the commanders of the cutters Corwin , Rush , and Bear was not the absence of British cruisers in Behring Sea , but that it conceived those instructions to be based on its rights . Should a British war ship be sent to those waters it would be of little use unless it should undertake to cut out a prize already taken into custody by a United States Government vessel , and if it should attempt that , there would probably be lively times for John Bull at once . It is true that besides the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distant from land some other complaints have been made . Thus a dispatch sent by Lord LANSDOWNE last May to the British Government inclosed a declaration of Minister FOSTER that OGILVIE , the aged master of the , Caroline , while under detention in Alaska , was permitted to wander away and ( lie of exposure , and . that various crews were released in an utterly destitute condition to make their way back to civilization . But reports filed at the Treasury Department refute these allegations , and . show that the crews shipped on other vessels , that the vessels with their cargoes were carefully looked after , awaiting the President 's order of release , and that the one man who wandered away and perished was insane . No war vessel is needed to teach humanity to the United States authorities , and the chief purpose it could serve would be that of attempting an armed rescue of captured prizes . Perhaps , however , it might encourage the sealers of British Columbia to continue running the risk of capture by prosecuting their industry in waters which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprising if some concessions had to be made by both sides with regard to the Alaska and Nova Scotia fisheries . That the prevention of the Gloucester and Portland vessels from entering Canadian ports for even such purposes as the purchase of bait or tackle with which to continue their industries on the high seas is most inhospitable and contrary to the modern spirit of commerce can not bo questioned . On the other hand , it May not be free from doubt whether a body of water so vast as Behring Sea , having its , opposite shores occupied by two different nations , would be recognized as lawfully " closed " in the view of a competent arbiter . These are among the points which sensible nations should endeavor to settle with each other without resort to force . 