@@744309

txt The newspaper story recently published to the effect that Gen. William R. Lee , of this city , has now in his possession the piece of paper marked " death " which he drew when the selection of prisoners of war at Richmond to be held as hostages for certain Confederate naval officers convicted of piracy was made , and which Jefferson Davis has taken the pains to deny , Is now corrected by Gen. Lee himself . He authorizes the statement that the story , so far as the word " death " is concerned , is a fiction , and he is at a loss to understand how the story in this form came to be circulated . He gives the Advertiser the following narrative of the circumstances : On the 10th of November , 1861 , Gen. Winder , with his staff , visited the officers ' prison and read to the prisoners an order from Benjamin . the Confederate States Secretary of War , directing the selection of seven officers of highest rank to be held as hostages for the officers and crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been convicted of piracy in a United States court . Those selected were to be confined in a cell of the common jail , and to be exeouted if the officers of the privateer were executed by the United States Government . Slips of paper containing the names of all the officers were placed in a tin tobacco-box and the fated names were drawn from the box upon command of Gen. Winder by ex-Congressman Ely , who was captured at the first battle of Bull Run and was confined with the Union officers . Gen. Leo , then Col. Lee . was one of the " elected , " and the slip of paper drawn from the box designating him had on it only the words " Col. Lee . " The fate of the officers selected was not then determined , being contingent upon the action of the United States authorities with regard to the convicted crew of the Lady Jeff Davis . This slip of paper with his name upon it was given to Col. Lee , who indorsed upon the back of it that it was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and put it in a letter written to his family which was allowed to he forwarded . On the 14th of November the officers designated as hostages were removed to the county jail , where they were detained about three mouths under rather disagreeable conditions . About the middle of February , 1862 , the Confederate States Government having received information that the Lady Jeff Davis crew had been remolded as prisoners of war , the hostages were transferred from the jail to the prison assigned to prisoners of war , and on the 22d of that month they were put on board a flag of truce boat to be transferred to a United States steamer in neutral waters . 