@@746005

txt John Q. Faulk , a small , squarely built man , dressed in the garb of a Workingman , passed through Detroit last evening on his way to New-York , to look up evidence in support of his claim as an heir at law to the estate of A.T . Stewart . Mr.Fauik is a farmer , living in Byron Township , Shiawasseo County , and he traces his descent from the Stewart clan through his maternal grandmother , Mrs. , now deceased , who , it is claimed , was a niece of the dead millionaire , he having brought her with him when he landed at Castle Garden about 1820 . Faulk seems to be possessed of a fair degree of intelligence and common sense , and from his general appearance is not the sort of a man to . spend his time and money chasing a phantom fortune , without some reasonable grounds for doing so . By the death of Mrs. the strongest proof of relationship was lost , but enough remains to make the case a decidedly interesting one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Faulk is only one of several  --  and known events in the millionaire 's career , but they are of such a character as to strengthen rather than throw diseretit on their showing of kinship . According to his story , in 1818 or 1819 Mrs. , then Margaret Massey , a pretty child of 11 years , was left an orphan by the death of her father , a prosperous merchant at Belfast , Ireland . Her oldest brother , William , succeeded to the business and the estate , and took her to rear as his own child . Among the relatives of the Massey family were the Stewarts , In the County Tyrone , about 40 miles from Belfast . One of them , Alexander Thomas , frequently visited the Massey mansion at Belfast and took a great liking to little Margaret . The Masseys and the Stewarts were not on the most friendly terms , and Alexander Thomas was tolerated rather than welcomed . He was not , however , denied the hospitality of the house when in the city , for the elder Massey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who needed but a little encouragement to make his mark in the world . Early in the twenties young Stewart determined to emigrate to America and engaged passage several days ahead in an outward bound vessel from Glasgow , but he load become so attached to his favorite niece that he made strenuous efforts to persuade her brother to let her come with him to this new and faraway country , promising solemnly to care for her as a father . Her brother , however ' would not listen to young Stewart 's entreaties . Disappointed in this endeavor he still resolved to accomplish his purpose , and when the boat came from the vessel to take him and his baggage to the ship , he easily persuaded her to take a ride in the boat and thus practically abducted her , as she was taken with him to the vessel and borne away from her native land . When the ship landed at New-York he took her to his humble lodging . She witnessed his early struggles while seeking to get a start in the mercantile business . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back of the salesroom . His time was never so occupied that he neglected the wants of the orphan child , and to the day of his death , when over 60 years had elapsed since she had parted from him , she never forgot the tender care and attention that he lavished upon her in the days of his adversity . Two or three years after arriving in the country Margaret committed a mortal offense in the eyes of her protector by marrying an Irish Catholic named John . She was then but 16 or 17 years old . She was too high spirited to appear before him in the light of a supplicant for pardon , and her husband felt lodependent with the whole world before him , as herself . They removed shortly afterward to a suburban town on the Hudson . The estrangement between the city merchant and his former ward was partially healed , and he frequently sent her various articles of clothing for herself and her baby . His feeling toward her husband , however , never relented . In 1829 and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Northfield , Washtenaw County , Mich. , afterward locating at White Oak , Ingham County . Mrs. 's recollection of her selfconstituted guardian grew dim as years went by , and she came in time to think of him only when the scenes of her childhood reverted to her mind . There was no correspondence . As far as she was aware , he might be dead . She heard in later years of A. T. Stewart , of New-York , whose fame as a successful business man was known throughout the world , and she occasionally wondered in her declining days whether he was Alexander Thomas Stewart , her uncle . ( The name of the Millionaire merchant was Alexander Turner Stewart . ) " He spells his name the same way , " she would say , " and , according to the newspapers , he is the same stern . cold-natured man that the Stewart I knew was . " Her oft-expressed desire to meet him was never gratified , and she died in 1873 at her daughter 's home in Williamston three years before A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set forth by Faulk . The question of putting in a claim for a few hundred thousand of the estate , more or less , has been discussed at intervals for years . but nobody seemed inclined heretofore to go to the metropolis and make a demand on the Executors , but , as work is slow on the farm just now , Faulk made up his wind to take a few weeks and look into the matter . He says , cani didly , that he thinks he has small show of getting any of the estate , even if his grandmother 's relationship should be proved , but he would like the satisfaction of learning if such a relationship really did exist . Mrs. left a large family . among them ex-Sheriff Thomas , of Ingham County ; ex-Representative John Q. , of the Upper Peninsula , and Capt . Philip , recently deceased , who was formerly a well known lawyer at Mason . Faulk says the other heirs have contributed to pay the cost of investigating the claim . 