@@780832

txt This city has escaped disaster from ill-constructed buildingsBuddensiekeries , as they are called  --  until to-day . This morning at about 6 o'clock a fire broke out in the four-story brick building corner of Carondelet and Julia streets , known as the Southern Hotel . A fire alarm was sounded , but the flames burned so fiercely , although in the midst of a severe rainstorm , that in a little over half an hour the whole edifice bad crumbled to the ground , no two bricks bolding together . The building was occupied by T. M. &; W. B. Thornton , formerly of New-York , as a hotel , and bad about 50 inmates . The rumor was at first that several lives were lost , but later all the missing were accounted for except Louis Kissner , the flute player in the orchestra of the Academy Opera Company , now playing at the Grand Opera House . His companions did not see him after the alarm was given . His door was closed , and no response was given when they knocked at it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native of Baltimore , where his relatives reside . Signor J. Noretta and A. Kraus. musicians of the same company , jumped from the third story to the balcony , and fortunately escaped without injury . The musicians  --  there were eight of them in the hotel  --  saved their instruments , but lost everything else . All of the rest who escaped were compelled to leave behind the most of their effects . The hotel was built in 1871 as a spheulation , but in so flimsy a manner that it was condemned by the City Surveyor and Chief Engineer , and remained idle for many years . In 1876 a few companies of troops were quartered there , and still later it was used as an emigrant depot by a party of Hebrew Russian refugees . A year ago , in the Exposition boom , it was repaired and furnished for a hotel , and has been so occupied since . The walls were of second-hand material and only one length of brick in thickness , or about 9 inches . The fire originated from coal oil igniting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and debris . Atter the fire had obtained full control of the building cries were heard and a party of firemen rushed in to afford relief , but were driven out by the flames and hardly escaped when the walls collapsed and crumbled down in a heap . It is not presumed that this hotel was insured , as the underwriters had blacklisted It as unsafe from the start . The furniture was insured in a small amount in local companies . The building cost over $40,000 . The adjoining buildings were somewhat damaged , but were saved from destruction by the efforts of the Fire Department .                     