@@745964

txt The second . an  --  nual meeting of the Inter-State Association of Coal Operators and Miners will be held in this city to-morrow and Wednesday . Indications foreshadow a large gathering , and the result is looked forward to with the greatest interest . ? That the Ohio miners will come to Columbus with a demand for an anance of probably 10 cents per ton is generally admitted , but whether this will be conceded depends upon the action of the various districts embraced in the States of Indiana , Illinois , Pennsylvania , and West Virginia . It is stated that some of the-districts did not live up to the agreement made one year ago . In the Clearfield ' district , Pennsylvania , the miners bolted , and the operators introduced outside labor and defeated the miners . Coal was mined at from 10 to 15 cents below the price agreed upon last year , and the same operators have contracts for 300,000 tons of coal , to be furnished the Grand Trunk Railroad at from 10 to 15 cents less than last year 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reduced price . The Ohio operators now present the clang that in other States the prices are not being lived up to and they should not be expected to advance their present payment per ton for mining while others are mining coal at figures even lower than the stipulated price . The operators seem disposed to treat the miners fairly in the matter , and the opinion was advanced this morning that if the different districts would aaree to advance the price paid for mining the Ohio operators would be willing to do so , even at something of a sacrifice on contracts which would have to be filled on the present price . But on the other hand , if there is no agreement by which the other districts advanced the price they are paying , the Ohio operators will undoubtedly refuse to make any advance . The miners , it is understood , also want the price to be settled every six months by arbitration . This would make it rather bad for the operators . In making yearly contracts they would not know on what to base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the six months project will meet with success . The failure of Illinois and Pennsylvania to live up to the schedule price has made some of the operators a little dubious as to - whether any schedule price will be lived up to .                     