@@780955

txt The village of Cummings , Ill. , is pretty well flooded , the water having.risen eight inches since Thursday night , compelling the street cars on One Hundred and Fourth-street to stop running . The school houses have been closed , it being impossible for enough scholars to attend to warrant a continuance , besides the water was nearly up to the furnace fires and was expected soon to extinguish them . It was expected that the nail factory would shut down any time . Many of the tracks in the yards have disappeared . At South Chicago yesterday the water in the flooded ' Portions of the town had risen in some places 10 inches since the day previous . The water in the river had risen-a foot and the ditches leading to it were crowded to their utmost capacity . The greatest suffering was in the northern part of the town , where the state of water was such as to compel a number of families to leave their homes . LYONS , Mich. , Feb. 19 . ? The situation is becoming hourly more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gorge in different places . Despairing of opening the river channel , they are working ou the overflowed lands where the least opening can be found . Despite the most strenuous efforts to open the watercourse the river has risen rapidly , until at the bridge it is within 15 inches of the highest mark . Persons coming in from up the river say that the Lansing ice has nearly reached here , and that it is a tremendous body of water . Buildings are being anchored in expectation of the Lansing lee coming across the prairie . It is feared the water will yet reach five feet above the present limits . A cutting 20-mile west wind is blowing . Citizens anticipate the worst results . SYRACUSE , N. Y. , Feb. 19 . ? This morning another flood struck the village of Palmyra and the water is yet rising . Foster &; Sweeting 's malt houses are under water several feet , and at the West Shore Railroad bridge , two miles east of the village , the flood is nearly over the rails . No extensive damage is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. Y. , Feb. 19 . ? The floating ice in the Niagara River formed a jam at the docks of the Tonawanda Lumber Company at Gratwick , two miles from here this morning , and carried away about 100 feet of the dock . About 75,000 feet of lumber was precipitated into the river and was carried by the current down the stream , a large portion passing over the falls . Farmers along the bank are securing some of the floating boards . The luss will be considerable .                     