@@744043

txt A certain sectional character has been given to the contest for the Republican nomination for the Speakership by the claims put forward in behalf of the great West . Neither of the men from the Eastern States who are prominently mentioned in connection with the office have been supported on the ground that they are Eastern men and would favor or protect the interests of their section . In fact , it can hardly be said that the East has or claims to have any interests peculiar to itself which are likely to be materially affected by the choice of a Speaker of the House of Representatives or by the composition of the committees of that body . It has a large share in the great national interests which are more or less affected by Congressional action , but it is not different in kind from that of the people of other parts of the country . So far as the leading questions of public policy are concerned , those which relate to the material well-being of the country , there can be no real antagonism between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one will inevitably affect the others in a similar manner . If there is a difference , it is one of degree rather than of kind . Eastern members , therefore , can have no rational ground for making a sectional contest for the Speakership , and they have thus far shown no disposition to do so , although the candidates favored by most of them happen to be Eastern men . Western members , on the other hand , have strongly urged the claims of the West as a section , and have spoken of its great interests as entitled to special consideration . They favor certain candidates not so much because they have exceptional capacity or peculiar qualifications for the duties of the office as because they are more or less conspicuous among the Representatives of States west of the Ohio River . It is necessary that a candidate for the Speaker 's chair should come from one part of the country or another , and that mere fact would by no means give his nomination or election a sectional quality . That quality can be given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims of a section and advocating it in the interest of that section . Western members have hardly done wisely by trying to give such a character to the . contest , for if they have special interests different from those of the rest of the country the organization of the House should not be made up in their favor . Legislation should not be shaped in behalf of local claims or special interests , but should have in view the general well-being of the whole country . Those who are working for a Western candidate for the Speakership on the avowed ground that it will be in his power to favor the interests and purposes of a section are really furnishing reasons why he should not be chosen . The same would apply if Eastern men were working for a candidate of their own from similar motives . It is claimed that certain national interests placed in the immediate charge of some of the committees of the House necessarily concern the - West more than the East , such as those relating to Public Lands , Pacific Railroads , Territories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mining , and even Coinage and Post Offices ; and it is said that the ' West has been of late conspicuously neglected in the make-up of the committees having these in charge . It is rather difficult to admit the superiority of interest claimed in behalf of the West in connection with some of these matters . It is not clear that the possession of mines of gold and silver gives the section containing them a higher interest in the subject of coinage than belongs to the part of the country more largely concerned in the exchange of commodities , or that the possession of " star routes " and new towns claiming postal facilities entitles a section to peculiar . influence in the administration of postal affairs neither does the fact that the Pacific Railroads cross the Western country make it altogether evident that the Government 's relation to them is of less concern to the portions of the country which they connect ; nor has it been made plain that those who are brought into the closest proximity with the Indians are best qualified to deal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly the right to be fairly represented on the committees dealing with these and with all other matters of national concern , brit they have no exclusive or special rights in regard to them , and it is not seemly to claim them . Complaints of meagre representation on some of these committees in the last Congress are well founded , but it was not due to the fact that the Speaker was an Eastern man so much as the fact that he was a Democrat , and a bad practice has grown up of shaping committees according to political claims and influences . The Republican States of the West were slighted by Mr. RANDALL and his advisers for party and not for sectional reasons . It is to be hoped that the committees of the new House will be made up with due regard for the rightful claims of all States and all parts of the country and in the special interest of none . The Speaker should be a man of national breadth of mind , judicial fairness , and special qualifications for the task of presiding over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view on the questions of policy that are prominent is also important . But it ought not to matter what State or section he comes from . As Speaker he should be the special representative of none , and it is rather unfortunate that Western members should have rested the claims of any candidate on sectional considerations . 