@@780600

txt A big party of Frenchmen is about . starting from Chicago for Western Wyoming and Northern Colorado , where they will spend the next few months in a search for specimens of the game of North Arnerioa , which they propose to capture alive and transport to the museums and public gardens of Paris . They have engaged as guide Bans Fuller , an old Rooky Mountain . hunter , who passed through this city to-day en route to Chicago to meet the foreigners . He said they had sent to the First National Bank of Cheyenne a liberal sum with which to outfit , and the cavalcade would probably number 25 men and 50 horses . Fuller says that some French society , alarmed at the rapid disappearance of the American bison , and concluding that the other large genie were apt to go the same way . appro. priated a considerable sum for the purpose of perpetuating every species yet remaining , by obtaining a few good specimens of each . The character of such an undertaking may be imagined , even by a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely difficult to capture bear , elk. and deer alive , and much more so to transport . them for great distances . There are few menageries on the road which include specimens of the native wild animals . The reason is that they die in confinement . Fuller says the Frenchmen will be able to start plenty of game , but then the difficult part of the Job will be encountered . He says that in Northern and Western Colorado and Southern Wyoming there are still vast herds of elk and deer . The " great continental deer trail " passes through this region , following the rugged sides of " the divide " out as far as Hahn 's Peak . This trail leads to the salt licks and passes by some of the lineet.mountain springs in the world . Every Spring and Fait the trail is followed by thousands of ' deer and elk of every variety . Although less than a hundred miles from the Union Pacific Railroad but few huntert visited this region until within the last two or three years . This is chiefly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constant turmoil that was wept up so long with Colorow 's band . Of late many ' wealthy Englishmen have been corning over , who literally massacre the noble game , and for no purpose whatever except mere sport . Men who belong in Colorado or the Territories will not kill an animal unless they intend to use it , and will pass by whole herds without firing a shot . The guide has made every preparation for the receptiOn of the Frenchmen , and the big hunt is expected to begin very soon .                     