@@744222

txt There are a number of reasons for thinking that within the next year or two considerable progress will be made in the work of economizing force . In all human mechanical appliances there is a percentage of waste , more or less great . With the most approved devices , only about ono-tenth of tho potential power which rests in a pound of coal is converted into force in a steam boiler and engine . The remaining nine-tenths is wasted in the process of ' consumption . Even with water-wheels , where every drop of water would seem to be utilized , there is a waste in transferring the power of about one-fifth . The nearest approach toward the absolute conservation of force is made in the use of dynamo-electric machines . With some of these about 95 per cent . of the power generated by the machine is put upon the wire in the form of electricity , and then by connecting the wires with another dynamo machine the electricity can be reconverted into motion with a loss of only 5 per cent . In other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can bo transferred over a distance of one or two miles , and then used with a loss of about 10 per cent . or its volume . Such a close adaptation of means to ends is unparalleled in previous mechanical construction . It approaches nearly in the conservation of force to the methods of nature . The success that has been met with in the construction of force-saving electric machines seems to have stimulated inquiry in other directions . It is , indeed , an uncomfortable reflection on human ingenuity to be compelled to admit that nine-tenths of the value of every pound of coal burned under a steam boiler is wasted . Certainly , methods which are attended with such an extravagant leakage of force must sooner or later pass into disuse . In what way a change will be made it would be impossible to say . It may come by a better utilization of fuel or the substitution of some medium to take the place of steam , or by both of these combined . There seems to bo a growing belief that it is better to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use the gas for heat under a boiler , than it is to directly employ coal for the latter purpose . What is known as water-gas , which is formed by passing superheated steam over a bed of incandescent coal , can be made at a very low price ; under favorable circumstances at about twenty cents per 1,000 cubic feet . The heating power of water-gas is somewhat less than that of ordinary street gas , but the difference in this respect is by no means so great as the variation in price would apparently imply . There have been experiments made which seem to indicate that a pound of coal converted into water-gas and then burned under a boiler will produce twice the amount of force that can be obtained by the direct combustion of the coal . But there would be another gain in the fact that this gas to be used for heating purposes would , if its general use became desirable , be furnished by pipes from some central stations , and thus do away with the minor expenses attendant upon generating power from coal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is the use of steam power desirable ? It is asserted by inventors , both hero and in England , that it is not an economical method , and that at no distant day steam stationary engines will give place to caloric engines , which can be depended upon to do a given amount of work at 50 per cent . the volume of heat required by the best steam engines . So far this assertion rests upon experimental tests , for these lately devised methods have not yet been subjected to the trial of general application . Results attained in an inventor 's workshop often prove delusive when the attempt to secure them is made under different conditions . There is , however , one gain in the use of caloric engines which is of sufficient importance to make one wish that their employment might become general . This is their relative safety . The explosive power of steam is very well known by the numerous disasters that it has occasioned . With a caloric boiler an explosion is impossible . The pressure may be so great as to force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when subjected , for the purpose of trial , to a cold water pressure , but in one case , as in the other , the explosive force , which in a steam boiler shatters the iron and throws it with great violence in all directions , is wholly wanting . The chamber of a 20-horse power caloric engine might explode in the basement of a building and those on the floor above be wholly unaware of the mishap , while those who happened to bo employed near the engine would be in no danger . Why it is that steam has such arf immense explosive power is a problem which has never been satisfactorily solved . However , if hot air is free from this defect its employment as a motor might he advisable , even on the supposition that there was no great saving in the cost of running the different engines . But if it can be shown that by its use a saving in expense of 50 per cent . can be made , no other argument will be necessary . If the various methods referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long step would be taken in the conservation of farce . An electric power company at its central station might by the use of water-gas and caloric engines develop motive Dower at about one-quarter of the expense now required . It could then supply it by wires to dynamo machines placed in hundreds of different workshops at a loss of only about 10 per cent. , and from these the shafting and machinery of these various manufacturing establishments could be run . There is a wide margin for the display of economy in the use of the latent power of fuel , and the present outlook is that in the immediate future this undesirable waste will be largely diminished . 