@@744443

txt The days which precede the beginning of the first session of the Forty-eighth Congress will see a great contest for the Speakership of the House Letween exSpeaker Samuel J. Randall and Mr. Carlisle , of Kentucky . The tariff , with the doctrines of protection and free trade , will be the subject upon which the supporters of these two men will divide . During the long and tedious debate upon the Tariff Commission bill , Mr. Randall said : " I favor as speedily as possible a total abolition of our internal revenue system , and I am ready to join hands with any and all in this House in favor of an equalization of our duties on imports . " He admitted the necessity for a revision of the tariff , but he advocated first the abolition of all internal revenue taxes and then a reliance upon import duties for the revenue which is needed by the Government , He did not favor a tariff enacted upon the ground of protection simply for the sake of protection , and he regarded the discussion of free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a judicious tariff , and incidental protection . He supported the Tariff Commission bill . Mr. Carlisle opposed that bill for the reason that in his opinion Congress ought at once to revise the tariff in the ordinary way . He declared that it would he difficult , if not impossible , to revise a tariff system more unequal and unjust than the existing system . In the course of one of the most remarkable speeches of the session he exposed the in:Justice of the present tariff , and plainly expressed his views . " I sin one of those , " said he , " who believe that the power of taxation can be legitimately employed only for public purposes , or , in other words , that the object of all taxation should be revenue , revenue only , if you please ; but if with this primary object in view the taxes or duties can be so adjusted as to aid our industries without imposing any burdens upon the people beyond what otherwise would have been necessary , there is nothing in the policy advocated by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouragement or protection to that extent , and I think it can be demonstrate , I so far as facts and figures can demonstrate any proposition upon such a subject that such a policy would afford all the protection that any legitimate and well-conducted industry needs in this country . I do not recognize a principle that would impose a duty above the revenue point merely for the purpose of giving what is called protection . If we were called upon now for the first time to declare a principle or inaugurate a policy upon the subject I should not hesitate to announce my adherence to that creed which demands the largest liberty in trade , that doctrine which opens the channels of commerce in all parts of the world and invites the producer and consumer to meet on equal terms in a free market for the exchange of their commodities , for I sincerely believe that all commercial restrictions are in the end injurious to the interests of the people . " These statements represent the positions of the two men on this great question . The Ways and Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Speaker , and the course of tariff and internal revenue legislation will depend in great measure upon the views of its members . It is predicted that the contest between these two'candidates will be a remarkable one , and compromise candidates are already mentioned .                     