@@781706

txt The last Congressional election was unisually fatal to the reputation and standing if American statesmen . Of course , it caniot be otherwise when the politics of the House of Representatives is changed at one Jopular election . When the Speaker 's hammer falls next Sunday or Monday , ( at the end of the legislative day known as March 1 , ) and the Forty-seventh Congress comes to an end , a great number of men who have cut a considerable figure in politics will be out of business . For ex-Congressmen who do not care to return to their constituents and take up the ordinary tasks that they relinquished when they were sent to Washington there are two courses open . They may seek office at the hands of the President. , or they may become claim agents and lobbyists . The latter avocation is more congenial to them than any other ; it keeps them in Washington , and they hang around the Capitol , halfpersuading themselves that nothing has happened to them . They have the privilege of the floor , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session is called and this is not only valuable to the lobbyist , but it is a mark of distinction which can only be enjoyed in Washington , and which , so to speak , " lets down easy " the ex-member . The Executive branch of the Government , we have reason to believe , dreads a change in the politics of the lower house when that body has been in sympathy with the Administration . Not only is the President deprived of the undivided support of the Senate and the House , but he is expected to look after " the lame ducks , " as they are called who have been .. relegated by their constituents to private life . Having once tasted the sweets of office , a Congressman finds it difficult , if not painful , to take up the thread of existence once more among his fellow-citizens where it ' was broken off . How can the petty magnate of his " deestrick " return to tile people before whom he so lately masqueraded as a statesman , and sink into his original obscurity ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful rival receiving from toadies and sycophants the homage which he so lately inhaled as grateful incense ? How can the man who has worn the toga lay aside that classic garment and resume the occupations of ordinary men , to whom he has so long held himself superior ? It was thought a difficult problem to dispose of the combatants when the war of the rebellion was over and a vast army of soldiers were to be returned to civil life North and South . And it will long be told , to the glory of the Republic , how hundreds of thousands of fighters laid down their arms and returned to the peaceful vocations of life without a shock or jar to the framework of society . But a greater and more difficult problem is the disposition of a body of Congressmen who have failed of a re-election , and who must , in the language of the politicians , " be provided for . " Once an office-holder , always an.office-seeker , is more nearly true of Congressmen than of any other class of those who subsist at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a Western city who was removed for good reasons , and who , hurrying to Washington , secured a clerkship . During the remainder of his life he regarded each successive tenant of the office he once held as his natural enemy , and he , made it his business to defame innocent men whom he never knew , but who were guilty of , suc-ceeding him at long intervals . He died after twenty years of vain endeavor to get back into the place from which he had been justly removed . More impracticable , than this , because more accustomed to dispense patronage , is the Congressman from under whom the people have abruptly pulled his support . At the end of the present Congress there will be a brigade waiting for places : : : There is Mr. CHARLES G. Wrerwrs , of ' , Wisconsin , who is now Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs , ' and who is willing to be a Land Register in Dakota ; for , should that Territory become a State , he will be ready to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go back to their farms , merchandise , and law offices without ado and resume their occupations as if they were glad of the relief . " But , for the most part , the men who have been in Congress and have outlived their Congressional usefulness are forever spoiled . They can not get back into Congress , and they demand that the national Government shall find them a place and give them easy employment .                     