@@743363

txt Mr.-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS is reported as saying : " Looking at all the facts , the public considers tightly that the Grant demonstration , so far as it is a force in politics , is the work of a small clique of politicians who are not seeking the good of the country and the success of the Republican Party so : much as their own advantage . " Had Mr. CURTIS said that , so far as there are any elements of failure in the movement for the nomination of Gen. GRANT , they come from its management by the " small clique of politicians " in question , he would have stated the exact truth . Much as every conscientious Republican has reason to respect the honesty and intrepidity which have marked Mr. CURTIS 'S declarations of political faith . he will find . a most emphatic dissent among the class to which he habitually appeals from the statement that " there is no spontaneous popular demand for the Grant nomination . " ! But it is undoubtedly true that any chill which the popular enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been due , not to the fear of any danger to popular liberty from his election for a third time , but to apprehensions touching the character of an Administration which might be controlled by such men as are some of his most active partisans in this State . It is not the candidacy of Gen. GRANT which owes its vitality to the working of the " machine ; " it is the men who control the machine who are trying to maintain their influence by the potency of his name . The candidate has to carry the party managers , not to be sustained by them . Four of the seven Congressional districts of this City are represented on the Republican State Committee by MICHAEL W. BURNS , DE WITT C. WHEELER , JACOB M. PATTEILSON , and CHARLES BLACKIE . The first is  --  a gentleman whose record was unsavory enough to secure his defeat as Alderman last November ; the second is a Police Commissioner , whose personal character and official methods alike ' unfit him for the position he occupies , and who holds that position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Joint KELLY ; the third is a Police Justice , appointed by an obliging Mayor to relieve Gov . ConNzia. of the embarrassment of finding a place for a troublesome henchman , and the fourth is Clerk of the Court of Special Sessions , in virtue of a long and active career as a ward politician . All four are members of the City Central Committee , besides being prominent in district organizations , and the last three reappear as delegates to the National Convention , in company with other disinterested patriots like JOHN J. O'BRIEN and BERNARD BIGLIN . One and all belong to the class who follow polities RS a trade , and whose allegiance to principle or to party depends solely on their chances of pecuniary reward . A " machine " run with any degree of judgment would not permit the ubiquitous and rather offensive prominence of such men ; a " machine " which seems to be largely under their control is not likely to commend any candidate whatever to the thinking portion of the Republican Party . Were Gen. GRANT as closely identified with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he might fairly be held . responsible for the character of the men who are most prominent in its conduct . But it ill only fair to assume that Gen. GRANT is no more blind to the discredit reflected on his candidacy by men like JOHN F. SMYTH , at Albany , and the O'Briens , Wheelers , Pattersons , and Biglins , in New-York , than are the majority of his supporters . No candidate has ever kept more thoroughly aloof from the strife and intrigue which precede a Presidential campaign than has Gen. GRANT , and should he receive the nomination , it would certainly be with an absolute freedom from any obligations calculated to fetter his future action which is possessed by none of his rivals . It is equally absurd to suppose that Gen. GRANT has learned nothing by being able to contemplate from the stand-point of a private citizen the fruits of his two Administrations as it is to assume that he has no ambition to raise a third Administration to a higher level of statesmanship and administrative purity than its predecessors . The tricksters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectation of place or opportunities for - plunder are far more likely to be disappointed than those who. believe that the " old set " are about the last men whom Gen. GRANT would , as President , be likely to associate with him in public ad - ministration . It is difficult to follow the drift of Mr. CURTIS 'S argument when he says that the whole body of office-holders , with few exceptions , look upon the Hayes Administration as a disagreeable interregnum , which they will only have to tide over in order to enjoy a restoration of the Grant regime , and . when lie adds that the failure to enforce the civil service rules is to blame for this condition of affairs . The Federal office-holders who are interfering with caucuses and conventions are certainly not interfering in behalf of Gen. GRANT ; in fact , not a few of them have fallen victims to their refusal to do political work for another candidate . The most hardened of office holding politicians could hardly wish for more complete freedom to neglect the public business in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there never was a time when more brilliant rewards were offered for such work . We will concede to Mr. CURTIS that the office-holding class do not believe in the possibility of nominating Mr. SHERMAN or of electing him if nominated by their aid , while they certainly do believe in the election of Gen. GRANT . But that is merely equivalent to saying that GRANT is the people 's candidate first , and the office-holders ' %candidate because of his popularity . But if his cause is to be promoted in. other States by men and methods so well calculated to alienate public support as has been the case in this State , it is quite possible that the absence of popular enthusiasm in his favor will be as marked next June as its overwhelming power would have been had the convention been held a year ago .                     