@@744359

txt The Democratic State Committee finally met to-day and arranged for the State Convention of the party . Contrary to all expectation , it is called to meet in Boston instead of Worcester , the customary meeting-place , and on Sept. 19 , the day before the meeting of the Republican Convention . This early time of meeting is thought by some to indicate an aggressive campaign , with Gen. Butler at the head of the State ticket . But whether or not Butler will head the ticket and the campaign be any more spirited than in previous years depends entirely on the developments of the next three weeks of the Republican canvass . It remains with Butler to determine what the Democratic programme shall be , for ho still has his grip on the party machinery and is its recognized boss . Judge J. G. Abbott , representing the old line Democrats , was selected to preside at the convention , and Albert W. Palmer , representing the Butler converts , a former Republican Senator himself , who presided at Butler 's " Independent " convention in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mayor in the last city campaign , was chosen Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions . The committee appointed new committees in all the newly arranged Congressional districts . An interesting feature of the meeting was the reception of a petition from Mrs. Henrietta L. T. ' Wolcott , one of the prominent ladies of the Woman Suffrage Association , asking for a hearing before the Committee on Resolutions in behalf of a woman suffrage plank in the Democratic platform . Mrs. Wolcott says In her petition : - Once in a while some one at the State-house offers rho sage remark , ' When women want suffrage they will get it , ' and they claim that no one wants It because we do not come in battalions , with banners and music , and demand it . Possibly , if we do not ask in this case what we desire you will never know , and , there . fore , I am emboldened to ask that the Democratic State Committee , through its able Chairman , grant a hearing to my committee at such time as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious that some one whose ability and honesty as to purpose can not no questioned shall have the opportunity to appear In its behalf , I did not dare to even ask until I had laid my plan before the two gentlemen of my committee . I have their cordial concurrence . " The petition was granted , and the hearing will be given on the afternoon preceding the convention .                     