@@780646

txt Sir Arthur Sullivan will sail on Saturday next for New-York . He proposes making a tour of the United States . The Anglo-German Fiji Commission has agreed that Germany shall not establish a penal settlement in the southern Pacific . It is reported that Lord Edmund Fitzmaurice , Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , will resign in a few days on account of ill-health . It is rumored here that Col. French , who was on the Continent a short time ago , ostensibly in the interest of the African International Society , but really to watch the movements of the dynamiters , has given warning to Sir William Vernon Harcourt , the Home Secretary , that there are many dynamiters in Lausanne and Geneva . Some have recently arrived also in Paris . Two of the dynamiters are from New-York , and possess entirely new explosive machines . Each machine is provided with three springs , but it is only necessary that one should go off to cause an explosion . Henry Irving successfully revived " Olivia " to-night . Irving 's Primrose is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daily Tcier , Traph says : " Mr. Lowell 's farewell address will be read with no ordinary regret throughout England . There is not one Englishman but hopes that Mr. Lowell will soon be tempted to revisit our shores , where the welcome awaiting him will show that England always regards him as a most honored truest . " An official announcement is made this afternoon that there is an improvement in the condition of Emperor William and that the intestinal derangement from which he has been suffering has been checked , but that he is still confined to his apartments . The Technical Committee of the International Sanitary Conference rejected to-day , by a vote of 9 to 2 , the American proposal to authorize the sanitary condition of vessels to be verified by the countries to which the vessels are bound by the respective Consuls of those counties at the ports of departure . The vote by which this decision was reached may not be final , as nine members of the committee abstained from voting . M. Proust 's motion regarding means of cleansing vessels before sailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved that a subcommittee appointed to study the best means of ditinfecvain . The motion was adopted , and Messrs . Sternberg , Eck , Thorn , Koch , and Proust were teamed as members of the committee .                     