@@745004

txt The country will appreciate the congratulations of the President over the results which have thus far been achieved by the law for the reform of the civil service , and will share his confidence in the benefits to be derived from it in the future . The Commissioners are able to make a showing which fully justifies the view taken by Mr. ARTHUR . They have had a good many difficulties to contend with . Though their work has on the whole been aided in good faith by the superior officials in the various departments of the service , it was , not only to the latter , but to the Commissioners themselves , and still more to the thousands brought under the operation of the law , a new thing . A considerable portion of the first report is very properly taken up with a detailed explanation ' of the intent and the requirements of the law , in regard to which there was found to exist an almost incalculable ignorance and misapprehension . Unless Congress shall reject the advice of the President , and neglect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the law , it will be found that steady and valuable progress will be made . The principle of the law is sound and practical . Within the scope to which it is confined , it is quite capable of producing improvement even more marked and general than that which , has already been made . All that is necessary is experience on the part of the Commissioners and on that of those in the service to obtain from the law advantages . which the people will never consent to abandon when they once understand them . And the most valuable portion of the Commissioners ' report is that which shows the practical operation of the very limited work which they have been in a position to undertake . We invite the attention of our readers to the details , taken from the appendices of the-report , given in our Washington dispatches this morning . One thing will be noted . The average age of the successful applicants who have been examined under the reform law is , in Washington , 32 ; in the Customs Service it is 34 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This disposes of the purely fanciful objection that the reform would give the recently graduated college boy an advantage over older men . Two-thirds nearly of the applicants had had only a common school education . In the depat inents at Washington the Secretary of War , Mr. LINCOLN , has acted most cordially in harmony with the commission , to the advantage of the service and to the credit of his good sense . 