@@780584

txt Workmen are busily engaged in erecting a handsome mortuary chapel in the Island Cemetery for Mr. and Mrs. August BelMont , of New-York , who intend , when it is completed , to present it to the cemetery Trustees for any Christian mortuary services . It is given in memory of a deceased daughter , who is buried here and whose grave is annually strewn with flowers ou the anniversary of her birth . The edifice is being built in the most thorough manner , with strict regard to permanence and durability . No wood is being used in any part of the work , with the exception of the roof , domes , and staff heads holding window sashes . The exterior is built of a rich , warm , reddish , brown sandstone from the Carlisle . quarries in Springfield , Mass . The stone is laid up rock faced and random squared . The porch and bell stage tower will be of stone inside and out . It is intended to have some delicately and at the same time boldly carved details on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends of label moldings , mullions , Sc. , where the English ivy and other well known leafage will furnish the motifs of design . All the carving will be executed in place , and by this arrangement much better effects of shade and light , delicacy or boldness as may be required will be obtained than by carving the stone before it is placed in position . The pretty shaped roof is covered with yellow pine and dark blue slate . the trusses , resting on stone corbels , being of the same kind of wood . Copper is used for all exterior work , including gutters , leaders , finials . Sze . All the floors are formed of brick arches sprung between iron beams and leveled up with Neufchatel asphalt and Portland cement . The steps leading to the chancel will be of rubbed bluestone . The interior walls are to be wainscoted with brick , dark brown enameled , dull red , and peerless molded bricks from Philadelphia being used . The walls are hollow , and above the wainscot will be plastered directly on the brick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floated , " and will be delicately colored . The memorial windows will be filled with rich glass and will be very elaborate . The gift will add greatly to God 's Acre , and will be of great service to the public .. It is expected that it will be ready for use early in the Spring , when it will be dedicated by a memorial service in memory of the deceased daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Belmont . It is a gift which any city might be proud of .                     