@@744671

txt The Trustees of the bridge held yesterday their first meeting since the disaster of Wednesday . That disaster the newspapers declared . to be predictable and therefore avoidable . The managers of the bridge declared it to be unpredictable and therefore unavoidable . If the disaster had not . shown . any real weakness in the management of the bridge , there would have been no occasion to make any change in the management . Col. ROEBLING is said to have expressed the opinion that the disaster might have been avoided if people had kept off the bridge . This is merely another way of saying that the disaster could not have been avoided . It wits , in Col. BOBBLING ' S opinion , an accident Which had occurred , and which might recur , in spite of all the precautions that could be taken , and . there wet ' no reason to do anything inconsequence of it : : And yet the Trustees , , at their - meeting yesterday , made changes , and important and expensive changes , in . the management of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obviate the criticisms of the press . They directly meet the criticisms of THE TIMES . These were that the police force on the bridge was manifestly insufficient ; that a system of communication between the ends of the bridge and intermediate points was needed , and that it was a blunder to open the bridge to the public until all its parts were ready to take the several shares of the traffic which had been assigned to them in the plans . This last criticism can scarcely be met by action . The bridge being open , it is scarcely practicable to close it . The Trustees can do nothing to repair their blunder , and a mere unfruitful avowal that it was a blunder would mortify them without doing anybody any good . But in the defects which could be repaired the Trustees took measures which were certainly prompt and promise to be efficient . Telephonic communication is to be opened at once between the towers and the entrances , so that , in case of an accident or of a crush which threatens an accident , passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation until the danger is passed . The police force is to be tripled , so that there can never be less than twenty men on duty at a time , and this number is expected to be sufficient , with the details that can be drawn from the police of the two cities when there is reason to expect a crowd . These changes are sensible , and it is to be hoped that they may be sufficient . But the very fact that ' they are made vindicates the criticisms of the press , and explodes the assertion of the managers of the bridge that the disaster was in no degree due to any defect in the management of the bridge . If no changes had been made , the refusal of the Trustees to make them would have showed that they were incapable of learning prudence even from a frightful disaster . That they have made them now relieves the Trustees from the imputation or ' this extreme incompetency . It shows only that they were incapable of learning prudence except from a frightful disaster . They simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not due to any defect in their management . To charge them with having made a change involving an expense for police three times what they had originally estimated , not because they thought it was necessary , but simply to appease the clamor of the press , is to bring a graver accusation against them than any that has been preferred , and one to which they are not justly liable . The action of the Trustees is simply an admission that the press was justified in charging them with mismanagement , and that the disaster was due to mismanagement . 