@@745692

txt A congress of representatives from the various Governments south of us , under the auspices and on the invitation of our own Government , might have some beneficial results if it were arranged with Prudence and good sense . It has long been a favorite idea with statesmen of the United States , and was at one time , just after the close of the war , quite seriously considered by Mr. SEWARD . It would , however , be a delicate business at best , and hardly ever more so than at the present moment , when the relations between several . of . southern Governments are , to say the least , not cordial . And a congress on any such plan or with any such general purpose as that proposed by Mr. FRYE in the Senate would be a blunder - of the most unfortunate description . We have already alluded to some of the absurdities of Mr. FRYE 'S scheme . . To enumerate all of them would overtax the patience of our readers . But as this is plainly a renewal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth while k glancing at its prominent features . Mr. FRYE starts- out with a declaration to accompany the invitation " that the said congress is called to consider : First , measures that shall tend to preserve the peace and promote the prosperity of the American nations , and to present a united resistance against the encroachments of European monarchical power , and to preserve the integrity and . present territorial constitutions of each against forcible dismemberment . " This is foolish in several respects . In the first place it is offensive to the friendly nations of Europe in its bold assumption that they are plotting " encroachments " upon the rights of American Governments . Putting to one side the carelessness which ignores the fact that the only nation that has been even suspected of anything like encroachment on American soil is not " monarchical , " but is the French Republic , there is no ground for the embodiment in a proposed act of legislation of such an . insinuation toward any European Government . These Governments now maintain relations with all the important American Governments as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against which the Monroe doctrine was originally directed . is now as little likely to violate it as the United States are to invade Russian Asia . Mr. FRYE 'S proposition is one of those maladroit demonstrations that are the more to be condemned because they are inspired by an ignorant prejudice surviving from a condition of things that is wholly and forever changed . The declaration we =-have r cited .. , of the ' purposes of the congress is foolish ' also , because it proposes to submit to discussion in a general American delegated assembly questions that concern absolutely ' the several countries . It proposes a common guarantee of " the integrity and present territorial constitutions of each against forcible dismemberment . " To this guarantee we propose to ask the-consent of Mexico , which has an almost open- ly avowed intention of extending her borders to the isthmus , and ' taking in , in one way or another , the half dozen little States . to the south of her . Mr. BLAINE , when he tried to meddle with this design of Mexico : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his friends not to stir the matter again . We also propose to ask the ca-operation in this sweeping guarantee of Chili , which has just completed a very successful " forcible dismemberment " of the " territorial constitution " of Peru , and whose intentions with reference to that unfortunate country , as well as to its late ally , Bolivia , are by no means either definite or assuredly peaceful . If it were possible for the United States to induce these countries , with the group around the La Plata , and the United States of Colombia , and the States that fringe the northern edge of South America , to join with us in a common and mutual compact for the preservation of the integrity of the territory of each , it can easily be seen what a profitless job we should have undertaken . The enforcement of the compact would fall mainly and probably exclusively upon the United States , and would greatly overburden the resources that we should be able to devote to the task without a complete change in the whole foreign policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " entangling alliances " of the barren and mischievous ? sort that WASHINGTON warned us against it is the batch into which Mr. FRYE , following in the footsteps of Mr. BLAINE , would plunge DS . Hardly more practicable , though not so utterly reckless , is the Frye-Blaine idea of a " customs union " between our own and all the States south of us . If there are any legislative regulations of foreign commerce more confused , onerous , and uncivilized than our own , they are to be found among our southern neighbors . To combine , arrange , and harmonize these with our own would be about as easy as to provide by treaty a common language from all the Indian dialects from Mexico to Patagonia . That a customs union would be a good thing , rightly constructed , no one will deny , but that a nation that can not maintain one with a people on its northern ' border , of its own race and . language , between whom and it there are no obstacles but ignorance and prejudice , could successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continent is not consistent with common sense . The whole scheme , political and commercial , is obviously only the belated revival of the half-cunning , half-stupid idea which brought us dangerously near to trouble under the brief and inglorious reign of Mr. BLAINE in the State Department . 