@@743767

txt Collector Merritt , when asked his opinion of the nomination of Judge Robertson yesterday , answered : " He 's an excellent man  --  one of the best they could have selected . " To an inquiry as to the probability of his accepting the London Consulship-General the Collector replied , with a laugh : " Well , I generally like to take a day or two to think over a matter so new and unexpected as that . " Gen. Merritt seemed to take the nominations with great good humor . A gentleman present asked him whether he had ever been in London . He answered , no ; that the greater part of his younger manhoed had been spent in surveying in the Adirondacks , and this led him to narrate an adventure which he once had 20 years ago in that region . He started out with a single companion to prospect for lumber , taking eight days ' provisions along . The latter was not properly provided in the matter of shoes for the journey through the woods , and his feet gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tupper 's Lake he declared his inability to proceed further . The only dwelling within 30 miles was a hunter 's cabin on a small creek emptying out of the foot of the lake , which is seven miles long and three wide at its broadest part , and how to get the disabled man there was a problem , there being no boat to be had , and the only tools in the Prospector 's possession being a small wood-axe . With this the future Collector succeeded in hacking down a large dead tree and in chopping it into two parts . Boughs were fastened to it by wythes made of bark , and with much difficulty the improvised raft was floated . Then , after shaping two paddles out of round branches , the adventurers got aboard . Their weight sank the raft , which was only large enough to afford them seating room , so that the water just flowed back and forth over the top . It was their intention to creep along the edge of the lake , camping on its banks at night , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon , the wind died completely out and the water became perfectly calm . They therefore pushed boldly out into the middle of the lake . Their progress was necessarily slow , and it was 4 o'clock on the following morning when they reached the hunter 's cabin , cramped , chilled , and exhausted . Having made his comrade comfortable , Mr. Merritt proceeded alone , and , after a journey of 100 miles on foot , accomplished the purpose of the expedition . 