@@744906

txt Every new publication of statistics relat- I ing to our foreign commerce shows that our ocean ; carrying trade is slowly approaching the vanishing point . ' Mr. NntMO shows in his annual report that during the last fiscal year the tonnage of American vessels entering at our ports was less by nearly 134,000 tons than the year before . The Chamber of ; Commerce report shows that of our total foreign commerce only about one-sixth is ' carried on . by American vessels , while fully five-sixths-gives employment to the vessels of other countries . Since 1856 the proportion of tonnage of American vessels trading with American ports has dwindled from ' 71-1 per cent . to about 20 per cent. , while that of foreign vessels has increased to nearly 80 per cent . Of course the decay of ship-building has ' kept pace with the decline in the use of American ships . Last year we built only about 40,000 tons ' of iron ships , largely for the protected coast trade , while in Great Britain more than 650 , - 000 tons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their significance goes , are quite familiar . The only thing new about , them is that they show no sign of recovery , but rather indicate a continued decline . We have had investigations of causes and statements of remedies in abundance , but the one thing still . wanting is action which will afford relief . It is distinctly relief and not stimulation which our shipping interests need . They are so burdened that they can not flourish . There are men who advocate bounties and subsidies and say that our shipping can not ' revive without them . But we can not be sure of this until Lwe try , If a. strong man is bound hand and foot and loaded with weights , it is absurd to talk about administering stimulants to enable him to stand on his feet and run a race . Set him free and he may be weak at first , but he will ( have a chance to recover his strength . It is possible that with extravagant bounties on ship-building and generous subsidies for the carrying trade we might overcome the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but a more sensible Course would be to remove the disadvantages and see what they could do without other help . It is certain that the opportunity for a profitable use of ships must come before we can hope to make any headway in building ships for ourselves . Under our laws as they exist it is doubtful if our merchants could ' afford to use American vessels in foreign trade if they were given to them , to say nothing of liberty to buy them where they are cheapest . In. this State the local tax on vessels employed in foreign trade : has been abolished for a term of years , but it does no good , because the national burdens remain . The restrictions upon the employment and discharge of seamen , heavy tonnage dues , and a multiplicity of consular and other fees , make it impossible for American ships to compete with those of nations which have a more liberal policy . Moreover , the cost of building vessels in this country is greatly enhanced by duties on nearly all the materials used in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries while these remain. : Three general measures of relief are needed before our shipping interests will have a chance to revive . Antiquated retictions upon the carrying trade should be removed ; the taxing of materials for shipbuilding should cease , and those who desire to apply capital and enterprise to ocean transportation should be allowed to acquire vessels in any market and have them , registered here . We- should then find out whether or not Americans can compete successfully in the carrying trade of the world . Our distinguished represent ative , Mr. Cox , has given much though and effort to this . problem heretofore . As he is not to be burdened at the present se sion of Congress with the duties of Speaker 's chair , we may look to him to renew his efforts with better hope of success .                     