@@744896

txt The nomination of Mr. CARLISLE shows that there is more life in the Democratic Party than had been generally supposed , and of a healthier sort , which is a matter for congratulation all around . Mr. CARLISLE is by far  --  the best representative , among the candidates for the nomination of those Democrats who have convictions and con- science , and it is a good thing for the country that they are found to be in the majority ? and a considerable majority ? at Washington . Mr. CARLISLE has a definite and intelligent policy , which he has plainly set forth and lived up to with unusual fidelity . His opponents were what the late M. GAMBETTA described as " the column organized for an assault upon the offices . " Neither Mr. RANDALL nor , at the last , Mr. Cox stood for any principle whatever . The former was the embodiment of everything that is most dangerous and mischievous in politics . ? He openly avowed his policy to be the negation of all positive ideas . He sought the suffrages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the ground that he had no views to carry out , and would use the great power of the Speaker 's office to prevent his party from doing anything whatever . Every one knew that this was an unmanly , not to say a despicable , position , yet so rooted was the belief that the Democratic Party must succeed in this way if at all , and so powerful were the forces.of political intrigue and the influences of special interests , that the impression was general that at the last moment he would win . It is well that he did not win , and quite as well for the Republican as for the Democratic Party . Had he been chosen Speaker the element in the Republican Party corresponding to that which in the Democracy supported him would have been greatly strengthened . The preliminary canvass for next year would have tended to become a scramble between - the schemers and the representatives of selfish interests on one side and on the other . The voice of intelligence , of conviction , of honest purpose , would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition would have been demoralized by the demoralization of the majority . The immediate practical effect of the election of a moderate revenue reformer as the leader of the Democratic . Party in the House and the representative of the Democratic Party in the Nation will be something extremely interesting to watch . The opponents of the reform will jump to the conclusion that it must force the reopening of tariff agitation and make the tariff the chief issue in the next Presidential campaign . Whether it has that result or not will depend largely on the sagacity of the Republican minority . Mr. CARLISLE will undoubtedly form his committees so as to bring before the House the question of further reduction of the tariff . He can not help doing so . He will probably be urged to that course by the report of the Secretary of the Treasury , and possibly by the message of the President . He will certainly be sustained in it by the approval of a very large portion of the Republican voters . If the Republican Representatives on the committees and in the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then they will so far force the Republican organization to follow them , and it is not improbable that the canvass of next year may be one between the Democrats for rational revenue reform and the Republicans for extreme protection , and in such a canvass , with reference to this issue , the Republicans would obviously be weak , because they would be arrayed against the best interests and the strong tendency of the public . But , on the other hand , if the election of Mr. CARLISLE should bring up the question of a reasonable reduction of duties on raw materials and necessaries , if such a reduction should be supported by the liberal members of the Republican Party , and if it should be carried , then to a great extent the tariff would be taken out of the canvass of 1884 . There is no reason why this should not be done . There is no reason why this important matter , on which for a long time neither of the parties has had a policy generally accepted by its members , should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country demands that it should be , on its merits . The nomination of Mr. CARLISLE , in itself , shows a public opinion throughout wide sections of the country strong enough to overcome completely the tactics of the deleted 5 lines means confined to the Democrats , It is national . If it be respected and embodied in legislation , and if the Republicans contribute fairly to ' that result , the canvass of 1884 would be left to be decided principally upon . other issues , and on these the Republicans have nothing to fear , The problem presented to the Republicans ' in Congress by the nomination of Mr. CARLISLE is a very serious one , but it is also very simple . 