@@744090

txt Among the thousands of bills already pending in the Forty-seventh Congress , those relating to the military establishment represent a fair share , though they are less numerous than In some former Congresses . The larger part of them are strictly personal bills  --  for appointment to the Army ; reinstatement after dismissal ; restoration and placing on the retired list ; compensation for losses by fire or theft ; reimbursement of expenditures ; changing the date of appointment ; giving money for a useful military invention ; retirement with a specified grade ; correction of the official military record , and for promotion on the retired list . In this brief catalogue we may dismiss more than half the military bills . They call for no special comment , except that nine out of ten of the restorations after dismissal by court-martial thus asked for would be unwise and unjust . In saying this we do not forget the exceptional tenth cases . The restoration by Congress of officers out of service is concisely treated by Gen. Ditriit in the following language of his current official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become the custom for officers dismissed by sentence of court-martial and dropped from the rolls of the Army to importune Congress for restoration to the position they have forfeited by the verdict of a court of their peers , reviewed and approved by the department commander , and confirmed by the President of the United States . The bill for restoration is referred to the Committee on Military Affairs , and by it , in many cases , placed in the hands of a sub-committee , before whom the claimant appears either personally or by attorney . The pressure of other duties not un frequently prevents the sub-committee from giving the voluminous papers called for from the files of the War Department that careful and searching scrutiny such a case demands . having in view the baneful influence on the Army of the restoration to its rolls of a man unfit to hold a commission . As a check on such claims , it is suggested that applicants for restoration be required , by statutory enactment , to present their claims to a board of officers to be appointed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applicant has an equitable claim to a further hearing . " The second , less numerous but more important , class of military bills before Congress embraces the measures of a general character . These are all interesting , though of divers degrees of importance . A House bill forbids unnecessary military exercises on Sunday . That is right and wise , provided no disputes arise about the interpretation of what are necessary duties . There is no reason why the soldier should not enjoy in time of peace his seventh day of rest , recreation , and religion as well as anybody else . But Sabbatarianism should not interfere with military duties advisable for every day in the year . A broad-minded commanding officer would know what to do without the proposed law , but it is intended , probably , for those who are not broadminded . Another House bill provides for an Assistant Secretary of War . We have never been able to see the necessity of this proposed functionary in time of peace , with an Army of the size of ours . Besides the Secretary there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington to lighten his burden , and , in addition , the whose apparatus of the Army head-quarters , with the General-in-Chief and his accomplished staff , who are usually at a loss to find something to do . It seems to us that an Assistant Secretary just now would be like a fifth wheel to a coach , unless he supplanted the Secretary in his duties . There are two distinct propositions for the increase of the Army . One of them is a Senate bill providing for an addition of 2,500 one-year men , in a case of emergency . That is not wise . It is a makeshift policy . It might do on a large scale in a great war , but our so-called emergencies happen with a frequency worthy of giving them another name , and one-year soldiers are preposterous when we could as well have veterans . A better plan is the House bill to make the infantry regiments twelve companies each . The twelve-company organization , quite irrespective of questions of Army increase , is the one for our service , It fives lust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmonizes the foot with the other two arms and secures uniformity ? of organization throughout the line . This feature also gives the increase of enlisted men spoken of by Lieut. - Gen . SHERID.AN in his annual report , where he says : " The troops in this division are efficient , considering the smallness of the companies and the amount of hard work to be performed In fighting Indians , building posts , making roads , guarding settlements and railroads , and escorting parties engaged in surveying projected railroads , boundary lines , and public lands in the Territories . The rights and lands of Indians have also to be protected against encroachment , and I have to reiterate what I have said in former reports , that the Army is too small to efficiently and . economically perform the duties required of it . " The provision that the original vacancies thus created by the twelve-company organization should be filled by seniority is commendable , since the introduction of civilians , selected usually through political or social influence , to absorb the rare opportunities for extra promotion in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say nothing of the interests of the country . The weak feature of the pending bill is its proposition to leave unmanned the third battalion of ' each infantry regiment thus increased until the President orders it to be recruited full , in order to save expense . We need the enlisted men as much as the officers , and can pay the fraction of a million for any required increase of the executive military force . The Senate bill restores the old allowance of fuel , and its commutation . Secretary LINCOLN , in his annual report , well says that the law which abolished issues of fuel to officers causes great hardship to those who are stationed at military posts in inclement climates and on the prairies where fuel is scarce and costly . Last Winter Congress remedied an analogous injustice by repealing the law which had abolished the forage ration for officers living east of the Mississippi . The injustice done by the abolition of the former fuel issue is asserted to be still greater , and the pending bill would remedy it . The House bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 60 , or after 45 years of service , is also one whose passage would be of advantage to the Army , by increasing the flow of promotion . An example of the opposite policy , which is not to be commended , is the House bill increasing the age and length of service which now authorize the President to retire an officer , in his discretion , to 70 years and 50 years respectively . The bill of the last Congress , which sought to check the gambling in the Army , makes its reappearance this year in a Senate bill . No fewer than five measures have been introduced for extending the time for filing claims in reference to horses and equipments , four of them making the time two years and one making it three . Such are examples of the more important Army legislation initiated thus far . There will doubtless be additions as the session progresses .                     