@@780623

txt The argument of W. S. Johnson , attorney for Mrs. Frances Scoville , ou the motion to have a conservator appointed for the effects of Charles J. Guiteau , on the ground of the latter 's alleged insanity , was heard bj Judge Loomis , in the County Court , this morning . Mrs. Scoville accompanied her legal representative and her little daughter was also present . The courtroom was crowded with sensation-seekers , who waited impatiently while a half-dozen or more of dry motions of no general importance were argued . After an argument by Johnson on the question of jurisdiction , Judge ; Loomis asked if the motion was to have the summons issued , and Mr. Johnson answered that it was . The court then said that if it had jurisdiction in the appointment of conservators and other probate business , it would not have any right to refuse to hear the ease . He was free to say that it was a matter of grave doubt . There had been for some time in such matters a delightful uncertainty hovering over the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Klokke case , that the Probate Court was illegal , only four of the Judges concurred , three of them dissenting . If the Probate Court was legal , then the County Court has no jurisdiction in probate matters . On the decision of the Supreme Court , the Probate Court ceased to act and the County Court assumed Jurisdiction of probate matters . The case of Dodge against IClokke not being reversed , but standing for a hearing , the Judge said that he would be inclined to be governed by that decision , but following closely came the Knickerbocker case , in which the Supreme Court took back what it had said and in which five of the seven Judges held that the Probate Court was legal and constitutional . Pending this decision of the Klokke case , the court has refused to entertain jurisdiction over such matters . The decision would probably be reached before long , and if the petitioners desired , they could leave the petition in court and he Would simply not act upon it and would not dismiss It . However , if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so they could file the petition immediately in the Probate Court . Mr. Johnson said he could not tell at present what steps would be taken in the matter , and made a motion that an order of dismissal be entered , which the court granted , and the order was issued . The petitioner prayed an appeal , but has not yet decided whether or not to take it to the appellate court .                     