@@672044

txt The appointment of Representative Perry Belmont of New-York as United states Minister Ur Spain is not surprising to those who are familiar with Mr. Belmont 's relations with the Administration , and Is regarded here as a decided recognition of his services as a Representative particularly interested in diplomatic affairs . President Cleveland offered the Spanish mission to Mr. Beimont several weeks ago . not long after the resignation of Mr. Curry was received . Mr. Belmont was not able to accept the office unconditionally at the time , because he could not then tell whether he could arrange his personal affairs so as to permit him to go abroad . Ho now finds that he can go , and his acceptance has been received by the President , and his commission has been signed . The State Department Has been anxious to have a Minister at Madrid ever since Mr. Curry retired . The peculiar etiquette of the Spanish Court renders diplomatic intercourse virtually impossible through a Charge d'Affaires , and there are numerous matters pending between the Governments which make the presence of a Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of affairs in Cuba has given rise to several international questions which need to be settled and to numerous claims of American citizens against the Spanish Government , as well as of the Spaniards against the American Government . There are also pending some important questions regarding the imposition of customs duties upon American goods imported into Cuba , the adjustment of which can hardly be accomplished in the absence of a fully-accredited United States Minister . The State Department officers , therefore , are greatly pleased with Mr. Belmont 's acceptance of the mission , and only regret that he was not able to take the office several weeks ago . The new Minister will sail for his pest at the earliest possible day , and will bef joined at Madrid by his mother later in the season . Mr. Belmont 's office will , of course , clause his resignation as Congressman from the First District of New-York . It will be sent to Gov . Hill , who will issue a call for a special election in the district to fill the remainder of Mr. Belmont 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is taken for granted here that the Congressman-elect from that district , James W. Covert . will have the next three months added to his term . The Chairmanship of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , left vacant by Mr. Belmont 's promotion , will probably be filled by Mr. McCreary of Kentucky , who now stands second on the committee list . Mr. Belmont informed his family of his resignation from Congress and his acceptance of the mission to Spain Friday night . He spent most of yesterday out of town , and ? his return was not expected until to-morrow . It was said by ' Mr. Belmont 's friends that he has long desired an appointment to a foreign Court , that being his first political aspiration . Mr. W. W. Astor 's social success as Minister to Italy confirmed this desire on the part of the young Congressman , and when it was suggested to him a fortnight ago that he might go to Madrid as the United States Minister he at once signified his willingness to do so . His letter of resignation as member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Accompanying it was a letter to the President accepting the appointment to the Spanish Court . How soon Mr. Belmont will leave this city for Madrid was not known by his family . It is expected that he will sail within two weeks . The present Administration coming to an end in March , Mr. Belmont will have at least the opportunity of spending the Winter in a high official capacity in Madrid . The question of the succession to Mr. Belmont 's term as Representative involves only a few months , and politicians do not think that his district will demand representation in the final months of the present Congress . His elected successor to the next Congress can not take Mr. Belmont 's vacant seat . The Revised Statutes of this State concerning elections provides in Title II. , section 6 , that special elections shall be held when " the right of office of a person elected to the office of a Representative in Congress shall cease before the commencement of the term of service for which such officer shall have been elected . " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district to go to the expense of a special election .                     