@@780612

txt The nomination at John Nichols to be Postmaster at Raleigh , N. C. , was the result of a compromise on the part of several applicants . EX-Gov . Holden has held the office for several years , and his name was sent to the Senate for reappointment by President Hayes a short time before the end of his term . It was among the names which were not reached for action . After President Garfield 's inauguration there were several applicants for the place , and some fault was found with Holden 's administration . One of the applicants was Janies L. Harris , ( colored , ) who n scatted that Holden had refused to recognize his race in appointing subordinates . Another applicant was a gentleman named Shaffer . While the contest for the place was going on , the President sent in Holden 's name . Since that time , the three candidates named above and their supporters have waited on Nichols , and hence Holden 's name was withdrawn and Nichols 's substituted . Mr. Nichols is reported to be an active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is said to be acceptable to all sections of the party . He has been Grand Master of the State Lodge of Freemasons . An attempt has been made to displace Collector Wheeler , of the Fifth North Carolina District , and to put in his place one Evart , who was an active Sherman man in the canvass which preceded the Chicago Convention . Mr. Wheeler was a supporter of ex-President grant , and it is now believed that he will be aetainecL The nomination of W. N. Taft to be Postmaster at Charleston , S. C. , is acceptable to the Republicans and the better class of Democrats . Mr. Taft is a native of Rhode Island . but has lived in South Carolina since 1865 , having been about 20 years of age when he settled in that Stare . He hr. ' s always been an active Republican , and during the last eight years has represented the County of Charleston in the State Senate . He is said to represent the energetic element of the Republican Party , and enjoys an excellent reputation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at present a vacancy in the office of Postmaster at Charleston . B. A. Bosoman , the former Postmaster. having died in February last . These appointments , with those made yesterday for South Carolina and Alabama , seem to indicate that the Administration intends to stand by the active , working Republicans of the South .                     