@@744336

txt The defense of the star route thieves and of the river and harbor jobbers is identical . They all clamor for the protection of infant industries and infant States . In his bombastic speech yesterday Col. INGERsoLL , speaking for the gang who have robbed the Treasury and whose divisions of the " swag " among themselves are open and notorious , waved the American flag and indulgezi in the usual amount of fustian about extending the area of civilization by granting liberal mail facilities . This is precisely what the river and harbor men claim for their schemes . They assert that the digging out of creeks , the dredging of swamps , and the macadamizing of trout brooks is all done in the interests of infant commerce . To develop the resources of the country , and to make commerce flow where none was known to exist , and to induce people to settle on the frontiers of the Republic , it is thought wise to appropriate millions of money . It is not necessary now to inquire whether the advantages secured are commensurate with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would not be better to spend the money asked for in some downright fashion for the direct encouragement and emolument of those whose interests are supposed to be indirectly fostered by the lavish appropriations . for what are termed " public uses . " It is clear , however , that no public interest can be subserved by a policy which maintains fraud and theft . And it can not be denied that the money expended in the River and Harbor appropriations , and in the extension of the star route postal service has been largely diverted into the pockets of private individuals . In reference to the impudent proposition of the counsel for the defense in the star route cases yesterday , Judge WYLIE very clearly showed that the expediency of a " policy " had nothing whatever to do with the guilt or innocence of the accused . These men are charged with increasing the mail service in certain States and Territories , for corrupt purposes . It is alleged that they took hold of small and insignificant postal routes and made them large , important , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the profits were great and out of all proportion to the cost of the work done . To meet these charges the defendants call upon Senators , Representatives , and other public men to prove that the policy of granting liberal mail facilities to feeble communities is a wise and beneficent one . On this point Judge WYLIE says that the policy of a Government is to be found in its laws . The recommendations of Congressmen have nothing to do with the policy of the Government , nor with the alleged bribery of the Second Assistant Postmaster-General . The policy of that official may have been very commendable and praiseworthy in itself ; but suppose it shall be shown that he received bribes for carrying out that policy , what becomes of the pretense that he was not actuated by selfish and corrupt motives ? In a certain dispute relating . to racing . matters , it has been admitted ; that a , person accused of ' f : irregular : ? practices 1 . has been in tho. ' practice of hiring a horse jockey to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the jockey should use every endeavor to win ; the sum offered him would only be an extra inducement to do his duty . Granted that Mr. BRADY 'S desire to run a daily mail where only a semi-weekly mail heretofore supplied the " infant States " was wise and patriotic , how does this justify his receiving money for the execution of a policy so statesmanlike and wise ? Buncombe is of great value in all schemes for drawing money from the public Treasury . Three great jobs have disgraced the Republic during the past five years . These are the river and harbor job , the arrears of pensions job , and the star route job . About each one of these hangs a certain degree of plausibility , even a certain degree of merit . The artful men who have been engaged in inflating and pushing theso schemes have made the best ( or worst ) possible use of the attractive phase of the general question . The soldiers should be rewarded for services and sacri- fices , commerce should be encouraged and afforded all possible facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickened by extending over those distant regions means for cheap and ready communication with the older portions of the Union . No candid man can take exception to these general statements . But when the Pension bill becomes an extravagant measure for the benefit of Aim agents , when appropriations for the nominal improvement of water-ways are diverted into corrupt channels for the benefit of Congressmen , and the extension of mail facilities is used as a cover for the enrichment of officials and manipulators of contracts , the policy of the Government no longer cuts any figure in the case . Jobbery , pure and simple , jobbery that can not be defended by stump speeches about the duty of the Government , is found concealed behind the fair seeming of those who prate loudest of a wise , patriotic , and generous national policy .                     