@@745926

txt Early this morning masked men appeared almost simultaneously on the lines of the Sutter and Geary Street Cable Roads ready for mischief . It was about 6 o'clock , and the darkness was favorable to their operations . They acted in accordance with a plan which had been evidently prearranged , as the programme was the same on both roads . Accounts as to the number of men engaged differ , but there were between 15 and 25 . The Sutter and Geary street roads began to run at the usual time . Last evening cars were drawn off about dusk , according to custom since the strike was begun . It was quiet Sunday so far as any demonstration against the roads was concerned . A parade had been planned to take place , but the police were in readiness , and so it was abandoned . Early Sunday morning , however , a dynamite bomb was exploded on the Sutter-Street Road , blowing up a portion of the street , but doing little damage . Ten masked men to-day attacked a number of ears on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conductors . The policemen fired on them and made live arrests , all of whom turned out to be strikers . No one was hurt , so far as known , by the shots . Several ears were uncoupled and let run down the grade , wrecking them by the collision . The strike seems to be approaching a crisis , and it looks as if considerable blood would yet be shed . The entire police force of the city is concentrated on the lines of the striking roads , and has been so employed for over two weeks . The other roads are thus left unprotected , and there is much complaint in consequence . In addition a large force of militia is kept under arms at the armories day and night , and their pay and food allowance will consume many thousands of dollars . Neither side shows any signs of giving in , and it is generally conceded that as soon as the police are withdrawn from the striking roads there will be serious trouble . The explosion of the dynamite yesterday shows what may be expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traiu on the California-Street Road . whose employes are the best treated and most contented men in the city . The lawlessness thus manifested is ready to break out at any moment and every one is apprehensive as to what the outcome will be . A good many people think the police should be sent about their business , and then , if the mob attacks a road the militia and Getting batteries should be turned loose at them . Summary action of this kind would put an end to the violence which dilly-dallying so far has only encouraged . 