@@745171

txt The workingmen of this country are keenly alive to their own interests and have in general a very fair comprehension of the means of promoting them . They ought certainly to have intelligence enough to estimate at its real value the professed friendship of Gen. BUTLER for them and the am ounfof benefit they can secure by following his erratic leadership . No man of equal ability ever appeared in the politics of this country who was so thoroughly a demacrome in the most discreditable sense of 0 0 the word . His constant effort is to use the people for his own advancement . He has tried to use one party after another , and failing to make them subservient to his own purposes , he has resorted to an appeal to class feeling , to social prejudice , to special interests , to anything that would give him support and make him a conspicuous figure . His interest in laboring men has been exhibited only in professions , and his desire is not to benefit them but to use them . Nothing could be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to array them together as a class in politics . They are citizens equal in power with other citizens , interested in the same general objects and having the same stake in good government . If they would make their influence felt in general results they must act intelligently with their fellow-citizens in every effort to achieve those results . If they allow themselves to be diverted and divided by appeals to class interest , which have no definite purpose but to secure their support for some self-seeking demagogue , they will reduce their power as a factor in the body politic . It is their right to seek by all honorable means legislative action which shall secure their rights and promote their interests . But this can only be done by working for a fair representation in legislative bodies . What can the workingmen possibly gain by supporting Gen. BUTLER as a candidate for the Presidency ? If it were possible for him to be elected there is no reason for expecting anything from him in their interest ; but the only possible result of giving him their votes would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CLEVELAND , who has shown himself their friend by his straightforward and discriminating action . Have they any reason for desiring to help Mr. BLIINE , which would be the sole effect of following the leadership of BUTLER . They , in common with all honest people , must desire to have at the head of the Government a man in whom confidence can be placed , a man who clearly avows his purposes and acts at-all times from a sense of responsibility to the people . They can give full effect to their power as citizens only . by helping to choose between candidates one of whom must be elected . But- we have little faith in BUTLER 'S power to draw the votes of workingmen in a contest where it is plain that they can count for their full value as citizens only by voting with one political party or the other . Nor can we see what BUTLER himself is to gain by playing the part of a candidate doomed to defeat and certain to draw only a small fraction of the votes of the country . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it would only be by cutting himself off from the real forces that are to contend in the canvass . It would leave him a political Ishmaelite who had gained nothing for himself and nothing for those whose champion he professed to be . There is but one clearly defined issue in this campaign . The question is whether the people will elect as their Chief Magistrate a man who has been identified with jobbery and corruption and the abuse of public power for private gain and personal aggrandizement , or whether they will rebuke the presumption which nominated such a man for the office . Every honest workingman has as much interest in this as any other citizen can have , arid he has nothing to gain by following the fortunes of the Massachusetts demagogue.                     