@@745470

txt Edward R. Williams , living at Fifth and Lombard streets , was aroused soon after 2 o'clock this morning by a wild shriek . Rushing to the window , ho saw the figure of a woman apparently suspended by a rope from the roof of an addition in the rear of M. E. Donnelly 's saloon , on the opposite corner . The woman continued to hang at the end of the rope for a few minutes and then dropped to the navement below . Mr. Williams ran across the- street anc found a beautiful girl lying insensible . He summoned Officer Mooney , of the Third Police District , who in turn summoned a patrol wagon . When the wagon arrived the girl , who was without hat or shoes , recovered consciousness . She was asked if she had fallen from the roof and replied : " I jumped to get away from those fellows . " She again relapsed into unconsciousness and was taken to the Pennsylvania Hospital . It was learned that her name was Annie Simpson , or , at least , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital she gave the name of Jennie Knight . It is believed that both of these names are fictitious , and that she belongs to a respectable family and has fallen through a passion for liquor . For several weeks past the girl has occupied a room in Samuel Johnson 's lodging house , on Lombard-street . At about 1:30 o'clock this morning she staggered into Donnelly 's saloon . Thirty or 40 minutes later her screams aroused the neighbors , and at the same time Mr. Williains discovered her body hanging from the roof . The roof from which the young woman declares that she jumped is surmounted by a wooden fence or railing about three feet high . This circumstance led Officer Mooney to discredit her story , and he instituted an investigation . He learned that a young man named James Wilson was one of the men who had been seen with her , and was the most assiduous in his attentions to her . The officer took Wilson into custody , and charged him with having thrown the woman through the window . This morning Magistrate Lennon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl is unable to give any coherent account of her fall . She Is injured in the back , and Dr. Chrystie says that peritonitis may ensue , in which case her death is certain . She Is about 20 years old . Her face bears a stamp of refinement that has been but slightly marred by dissipation . 