@@743648

txt Recent conversations with many leading Democrats have revealed an almost general desire for a new departure in politics . They are utterly disgusted with the Northern Democracy , and express themselves ready to affiliate with any new movement that will secure them a perpete nation of white supremacy in the State . " Something must be done before we go into another election " is the universal cry , but what shape this change will take time alone can reveal . Many are in favor of organizing a Conservative Party , in no way connected with the national Democracy ; others advocate unity with the " respectable " portion of the Republican Party , which they then propose to reorganize , giving to the negro such representation as his intelligence and frugality entitle him to , " but he must never again expect to rule the State , " said one of these gentlemen . One of the foremost members of the Charleston Bar , who has the credit of being one of the most sagacious , influential leaders of the low-country Democracy , said to THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the last time you will have an opportunity to censure us unless you feel disposed to criticise the actions of your own party . " " Why so ? " was asked . " Because , " he replied , " in the next election you will find us within the lines of the national Republican Party . We naturally belong there . All our interests lie in that direction , and our claims to respectability and intelligence demand that we should become a part of it . We have long felt it a degradation to consort with a political body most of whom are our inferiors in everything that makes life endurable , and whose leaders only use us to accomplish their ends . A few years ago we sent a committee to New-York making certain overtures to the National Republican Committee , but they declined to accede to them . We have improved in wisdom since , and are less difficult to please at this time . We can never , of course , consent to a re-establishment of such Governments as we had under Scott and Moses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such imposition , and they should not expect us to tolerate it . Give the negro all the rights he is entitled to under the law , and allow him to hold such office as his education and intelligence qualify him to fill , and what more can he reasonably expect ? Negro domination in the South is dead , and the sooner the negro realizes this fact the better it will be for him and for the country . " immediately after the election , while experiencing the first pangs of disappointment , many ill-tempered remarks were hurled at the Northern Democrats . " Traitors , " " knaves , " " scoundrels , " were a few of the pet terms applied to them , but the largest vials of wrath were reserved for the head of " Boss " Kelly , for whom the disappointed politicians were unable to find epithets sufficiently strong in the English language . Thousands then vehemently declared that they would " never vote another Democratic ticket , " but the conversation above quoted took place nearly three weeks after the election , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is , therefore , entitled to thoughtful consideration . The only prominent leaders who still pin their faith to the Northern Democracy are Wade Hampton and the venerable " Sage of Sans Souci , ' ex-Gov . Perry , whose doleful whimperings and impracticable suggestions proclaim his entrance on a second childhood . He asserts that the South Carolina Democrats " owe the Republican Party nothing but scorn and hatred . " He claims that he who speaks of deserting the Democratic Party " is a traitor to Democratic principles and a recre ant to every honorable feeling of the human heart . " His advice is that " no merchant who loves the South should patronize or trade with Republican wholesale dealers in New-York , Boston , or Philadelphia . Let them purchase their goods only from the Democrats in those ' cities , or stop in Baltimore and purchase their supplies . Let no Democrat rent his land to a Radical , or hire or employ a Radical , unless he will promise to vote the Democratic ticket . This is the only way you can change a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to try it you are an unworthy son of your mother State . " This is the same heresy the old gentleman advocated before the election . Fortunately , his words have little weight , even in the region where he lives . Despite his expressed aversion to a public life , it is said he made several attempts since the war to re-enter the political arena as a , leader , and was most signally defeated each time . His latest mania is to thrust his unsought opinions upon the public through the newspapers . Wade Hampton sticks to the Northern Democracy because it is his only chance for preferment. - The fact that he has lost ground in his State , and could not now obtain the nomination for Governor , even if he so desired , can not be gainsaid . The rule of the aristocratic rings , of which ho is the figurehead , is rapidly passing away , and they are no longer in a position to aid him , while the Northern Democracy , which he mildly claims should not be deserted because they " were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they hoped for , " might remember him on some future occasion when the South 's claims may be considered in connection with the VicePresidency . Congressman D. Wyatt Aiken derides Hampton 's position , and says : " I know more about the rank and file of the Northern Democracy than all the editors in South Carolina , and never had any faith in them . I have long contended that the South should become more nationalized and lay less stress upon the principles for which Lee and Jackson fought . ' Suppose you and I believe in State rights , secession , strict construction , ' blood and thunder , ' and all else upon which we attempted to found a Southern Confederacy , what sense is there in ' kicking against the pricks ' " ?                     