@@743764

txt There is no doubt that the streets of New York are in a disgraceful condition . It is equally certain that the system of administration of which their condition is a result is defective in its constitution and ineffective in its working . There is , as for years there has been , need of thorough reform , and patience with the existing state of things is not likely to promote reform . But what we have upon our hands is a problem of no slight difficulty . It can not be solved by clamor . In the outburst of indignation and the howl of protest with which the apathetic citizen has started to his feet there is far more of unreasoning wrath than of cool common sense . The consequences of years of indifference and neglect can not be dissipated by a spasmodic show of anger or of energy . The subject should be looked at , if not calmly , at least rationally . The cleaning of the thoroughfares of this City is at all times a matter of difficulty , especially by the methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are ill-paved and swarm with a population that can not be made to observe the ordinances of GOD or man in the matter of cleanliness . The rubbish when collected has to be carried out to sea in all weathers , with very imperfect appliances for the purpose . The fact is familiar to every citizen that the difficulties of the task have been vastly multiplied this Winter . Snow-storm followed snow-storm and frost followed thaw until a combination of filth and ice covered the pavements which it was well-nigh impossible to remove . Should the snow have been taken away as fast as it fell ? It is not permitted to dump it in the public squares and parks or into the rivers to clog the docks . And even if there had been such convenient receptacles for it all the funds , forces , and appliances at the command of the bureau would have been ridiculously inadequate to the task of fighting the elements . It is to be remembered that the bureau has no autocratic power to use money and men , and no miraculous ability to multiply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got the start of it , should the accumulated mass have been cleared out before it thawed ? It would certainly have been well if it could have been done . But it would hive taken a force of men and an amount of funds which the bureau has not available for a whole year 's work . The Inspector professes to have done what he could with the money allowed him and the means at his disposal . Now , after an accumulation of filth for three months , the Spring thaw comes and an Augean task presents itself . Meantime , the same old street cleaning system , the same appliances and methods , the same limited means of accomplishing work , remain in vogue as before . If anybody expected they were going to develop a miraculous celerity and energy , a prodigious and superhuman efficiency all at once , and perform in a day the neglected work of three months , he must have been a very irrational being . But much of the outcry that has been made in the last week or ten days is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Severe Winter and the condition in which it has left the streets afford a test of our street-cleaning system , and not a demonstration of unusual neglect or inefficiency on the part of those who administer it . They have come as nearly up to the measure of their duty , considering its difficulties , as they ever do or ever have . They are guilty of no new outrage or sudden and flagrant dereliction . It is the system that has undergone a severe trial , and it has broken down utterly and deplorably . Capt . WILLIAMS , with his dilapidated scows , his ramshackle go-carts , and his army of brokendown sweepers and shovelers , appears to be doing what he can to get the filth out of the way . Now , if the awakened and indignant citizens and their Committee of Twenty-one expect to accomplish anything in the way of reform , they will have to leave cursing and objurgation and address themselves to the practical difficulties that are to be overcome . To ' destroy one system in anger and replace it with another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This job Is eminently a practical piece of work . There are sundry miles of streets to be cleaned and kept clean , an indefinite quantity of sweepings , of ashes , and of garbage to be taken from the pavements and doorways of the City , and disposed of somewhere and somehow . Shall the whole mass be mixed together and cast into the sea ? Can its constituents be kept apart and utilized so as to relieve the City of the cost of its removal from the dumps , or even lessen that cost. ? Whatever is done , appliances adequate to the purpose must be provided . A system of doing it must be devised and placed under the direction of some competent and efficient agency . Does the Committee of Twenty-one know precisely what it would be at ? ' Have its members entirely ' mastered this problem , and have they clear ideas as to the manner of its solution ? It is eminently desirable that anything they may accomplish through the Legislature shall be well considered and calculated to effect its purpose and to outlast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to know that they have a definite and promising plan and will pursue it to a successful issue . It is our belief that the streets of New-York can be cleaned by human agency and kept clean and wholesome at a less cost than is now bestowed upon them . How shall it be done is the question , and it can not be answered by protests and wrathful demands .                     