@@745465

txt Our esteemed contemporary the Evenng Post has a remarkably large and fine ault . This vault is built in part under Broadway , extending ten feet or more beond the curb line , and is of such genrous dimensions that , as we are informed , averal large job printing presses are laced in it and the business of printing is carried on there underneath the hurryaofeet of the crowd above . The occuants of this vault are so well pleased vith their quarters that they pay the owners of the Evening Post Building , as ye are further informed , a large sum annually as rent . Above this vault some ninety-five feet as he rocket flies are the airy and elegant editorial rooms of the Evening Post . So remote are the editorial rooms of our contemporary from the humble printers who toil in the depths below that their existence and the existence of the large and valuable vault which they occupy seem to have remained undiscovered by the omniscient editors above until about four weeks ago , for up to that time the Evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway would be a good thing . On March 7 it said : " The Broadway underground project seems to meet the requirement of rapid transit with no detriment to private interests , but with many advantages not attainable in. any other way . " And the Evening Post had for months and years spoken in similarly favoring terms of this method of giving the city really rapid transit . But on or about the 13th of May our esteemed contemporary seems to have become conscious of its vault , for on the date mentioned it expressed its solemn conviction that the Arcade Railway bill was " one of the most dangerous and indefensible measures by which public and private rights were ever sacrificed to corporate greed in this or any other State . " The bill is , of course , infamous . It authorizes the projectors of the Arcade railway to cut off and convert to their own use ten feet of the Post 's noble vault , and this threatened violence to its private domain has made the Post acutely sensitive to all the real and imaginary public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its perturbed condition of mind is its unwillingness that any other journal , not possessing a nice vault under Broadway , should favor the bill or discuss it at all save in wrathful opposition . The other day the Post attempted to show that THE TIMES had changed its attitude toward this bill ? or , as the Post put it , had " flopped . " This strikes us as a very foolish outbreak of the Post 's chronic desire to " run " its contemporaries . THE TIMES has for years heartily approved the proposal to build a Broadway tunnel railroad . It has openly favored the Arcade project . But it has often criticised the bill now in the Governor 's hands extending the privileges of the Arcade company . It said in an article quoted by the Post that the Governor would be justified in not signing it . In another article , also quoted by the Post , it referred to the fact that the grave defects of the bill may be remedied by subsequent legislation , and said that it was the duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect that this would be done ; and , finally , it remarked that if , after a conscientious weighing of the arguments pro and con , the Governor should sign the bill , he would confer a substantial benefit upon the city . We still think so . Yet , if the Governor does not believe there is a reasonable prospect of amending the bill , he will be justified in withholding his signature , and the city must wait for the promised benefits . We do not see any inconsistency in that , nor any sign of a " flop . " But perhaps that is because we look at the question from the point of view of public interest , and not through the skylights of a desirable vault .                     