@@780800

txt The partial exposure of the gigantic lobby organizing here to give value to the enormous claims against involving the country in war . Under President Grant , those interested in claims for the destruction of American Plantations in Cuba gained such influence ere that for a time war with Spain seemed almost unavoidable . The Cuban bond lobby proceeded so far that on one occasion a procLamation recognizing the beligerency of the insurgents was prepared at the White House and sent to the State Department to be issued . secretary Fish , however , even at that stage , succeeded in having it withheld . The scheme for obtaining the Northern States of Mexico , in which prominent I obby operators and public men were interested , is anAber illustration of a lobby which , in the end , narrowly eseaped involving the United States n war , though the final efforts did not culminate until after the Hayes Administration came in . The first step in the plan was the corking up of claims amounting to many millions for live stock and personal property de-itroyed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the novement carried forward that the stealing of more cattle was reported from the border counties than the latest statistics of the State of Texas showed to be owned in the three tiers of counties next north of the border . The same report claimed the destruction of more personal property in the border counties than was owned in the entire State , according to State statistics gathered the same year the astounding report was made . The plan was to run up claims against Mexico to such an amount that she could not pay , and then have the Government demand the cession of territory in settlement . Congress could not be induced to act on these claims in time , and this Mexican question was projected into the Hayes Administration . Within three months after it came in , the country was on the high road to war with Mexico , though little was known about it outside of Administra-tion circles and the military head-quarters along the border . The officers stationed there were fully aware that the policy of the Administration was to stir uu a war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To this end rains were organized and sent across into Mexico ostensibly to pursue cattle thieves , when no raid whatever from Mexico hail taken place . These things were several times repeated , and it was only through the prudence and good sense of Gen. Trevino , the Mexican commander of the border district . that a conflict between Mexican and United States troops was avoided . The main idea in exciting this trouble was that war with Mexico would bury the Southern question and those particular features of it which arose during the Electoral count by a union of the blue and the gray under the flag . Later on the power of a great lobby was shown . here in ow . Mexican affairs by causing the recognition of Diaz to turn upon the ratification of a railroad charter ha which a num-ber of heavy New-York capitalists were terested . They were able to control the acts of the State Department , and through it control the President for several mont The first enunciation of the Monroe doctr under the last Administration , if not made rectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influenced by those who w directly interested . These are all cases wh illustrate the influence exerted in Washings in international affairs by combinations capital .                     