@@780770

txt Mr. Henry Labisuchere , Radical , during this afternoon 's debate in the House of Commons on the Government 's civil service estimates , moved to reduce the grant for the maintenance of parks belonging to or used exclusively by royalty or members of the royal family . The motion caused a lively controversy , but it was finally carried against the Government by a vote of 131 to 114 . Mr. Chamberlain , President of the Local Government Board , replying to an address on the subject of temperance presented by a deputation of members of the House of Commons , said that more important questions had to be considered before the temperance question could be discussed . He would , however , introduce a bill on the subject as soon as possible . Re believed there was a general tendency to place the control of the liquor traffic in the bands of popularly elected bodies . The Earl of Kimberley , Secretary for India , moved in the House of Lords this afternoon for the appointment of a committee to inquire into and report upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to inquiries , the Earl stated that Lord Dufferin , the Indian Viceroy , did not consider the position of affairs at Yemethen , in Burmah , as seriously alarming , although it had been reported that the place was besieged by MO rebels , and Gen. Prendergast had been sent with 3i. ' 41 British troops to relieve it . The Earl of Kimberley 's motion was adopted . The meeting at the Mansion House , in Dublin , to-day , eaded to devise means for the relief of the distress prevalent among the poor of that city , was well attended by the distinguished people of the capital . Among those present were the Earl and Countess of Aberdeen , who drove in state from the Viceroy 's residence at Dublin Castle . They were loudly cheered along the route and received with enthusiasm by the assemblage at the Mansion House . The Lord Mayor presided over the meeting . The Lord Mayor received letters from Archbishop Walsh , Mr. Sexton , and others regretting their inability to be present and inclosing checks amounting to ? 400 as subscriptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an address , expressed his symnathy with the distressed people of Ireland . Archbishop Plunket , Bishop Donnelly , Michael Davitt , and otherk also spoke . A committee was appointed to receive donation:and a resolution cordially thanking the Lord Lieutenant for his attendance was adopted . The loyalists of Sligo County , Ireland , at a monster mass meeting held here to-day , adopted re oiutioas denouncing the granting of home rule to Ireland .                     