@@744026

txt The Richmond organ of the Virginia Bourbons insists that the result of the late election in that State was a victory , not of the men who would settle the State debt on the plan of readjustment or any other plan , but of the Republican Party and the negroes . It declares that the negroes care nothing for the debt question , and would vote against any settlement that would in their opinion " lead to a reunion of the white men of Virginia . " There were , it says , " more important issues " than readjustment involved in the election . The object of the Richmond journal is to appeal to the dying prejudice of race in the hope of reuniting the white men of the State on the color line , and its admissions are significant . The sympathy of the Northern Republicans for the Mahone movement was certainly based on a conviction that there were issues involved in the contest that were wider and more far-reaching , if not of greater immediate importance , than the debt question , for , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Readjusters or with any party that has yet announced definite purposes on the subject . They are perfectly willing that the victory should be credited to the principles of their party against which the Bourbons have always contended , and there is certainly nothing discreditable to the negroes in the fact that they do not wish to reunite the white men of Virginia against them . Their best hope is in the division of the whites , and it is an evidence of their intelligent comprehension of the situation that they understand this .. It is altogether gratifying that the Bourbons admit that it was not the cause of readjustment but the principles of the Repub .. bean Party which caused their defeat . Those principles demand equal rights for citizens , the protection of all in the exercise of those rights , and perfect safeguards for the ballot-box , and it is not to be wondered at that the negroes , who have been the chief sufferers from Bourbon injustice and proscription , should exhibit their attachment for those principles . That was natural and to be expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evidence which it furnished that the more enlightened and liberal whites have come to see that the interests of the State and of the whole people require that justice should be done to all classes and a policy should be adopted which will promote freedom of discussion and of political action : It indicates the presence of a sentiment strong enough to make itself felt and bold enough to find expression which is opposed to the narrow and intolerant rule of the Bourbon Democracy . That sentiment has gained sufficient strength in Virginia to obtain control of the legislation and administration of the State , and the results will be awaited with no small degree of interest . In Virginia the victory has been won , and there are indications of rejoicing in other Southern States which betoken the existence of a similar sentiment awaiting the occasion that shall develop its latent power . The Bourbons of South Carolina seem to find in the raRli ! t of the Virginia election premonitions of impending doom . They know that the negro vote of that State is of itself sufficient to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection which a division of the whites would furnish to be effectively used for that purpose . Difference of sentiment among the whites already exists , dissatisfaction with Bourbon domination is on the increase , and all that is needed is a sufficiently tangible issue and a sufficiently skillful leader to give cohesion and momentum to a liberal movement that would carry all before it . In that State the very size of the negro vote is a source of difficulty . There is no doubt that very many of ' the negroes are ignorant and pliable , easily deluded by demagogues , and apt to he misled to the damage of their own interests and those of the State . There is a certain dread of the control of a party that should be mainly dependent on their vote for its ascendency , and it would be a blessing if that vote could be legitimately and intelligently divided . But there are ele- ments of power in politics that are greater than mere numbers . Let the native ' whites of South Carolina be divided in such a way i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hip and the support of an intelligent public sentiment , and . the forces of the new party could be kept in control and guided to the execution of definite purposes . The colored vote in some of the States of the South of itself presents a difficult problem for the people to deal with . It needs enlightenment and guidance , and it needs protection . To curtail its power for harm and to turn it to beneficent uses it must be admitted into the political system of those States with entire candor and confidence , and placed under the protection of some strong element of the race whose dominance is established . The policy of the Bourbons is calculated to perpetuate the antagonism of races , and what is needed is to wipe it out . But Bourbonism has relations to white men as well as black . It represses freedom of opinion and interferes with the liberty of citizens to act according to their own convictions . It stands in the way of progress and the development of material interests . South Carolina and other Southern States are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to counteract the effects of a large proportion of enfranchised negroes in their population , but Bourbonism repels immigrants of the best character . It is a blight upon every State that it rules , and the people are beginning to see it . They will not be long deterred by the bugbear of " nigger domination " from throwing off the galling reality of Bourbon domination .                     