@@781460

txt The Albany Speakership contest has been settled unusually early and unusually well . It will not be unsetttled , we presume , although Mr. JAMES W. HUSTED , of Westchester , who still insists that Speakers are chosen in January and not in December , will do his best to reopen the question . Mr. FREMONT COLE , of Schuyler County , for whose candidacy the support of a majority of the Republican members of the Assembly has apparently been secured , will this Winter serve his fourth consecutive term in the lower branch of the Legislature . He is fitted for the post of Speaker of the Assembly alike by his ample experience , his unquestioned ability , and his excellent character . Mr. COLE is one of that rather small number of members of the Legislature who have never incurred the reproach of being swayed by unworthy motives or of yielding to improper influences . Throughout his years of service at Albany he has stood with men like Mr. HE:CDR and Mr. DALY in the Senate , and Mr. 1 I AMILTON , Mr. CROSBY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an honest and intelligent representative of the p , eople . He is not to be controlled by the party " boss " or influenced by the corporation lobbyists . The public interests and his own clear convictions have been his guide . He is a Republican partisan in the worthier and better sense . But he is too honorable a man and has too much self-respect , in our judgment , to be controlled in his official action by selfish party interests or to accept the mandate of mere machine managers . Mr. COLE was a candidate for the Speakership a year ago . Certain interests which would not have been advanced by his success took fright at the strength of his canvass , and a " deal " was somewhat hastily made which resulted in the election of Mr. HUSTED . Mr. COLE has frankly announced again this year his am:A.tion to be Speaker . The evident strength of the support which he could command , the desire to avoid the public scandal which would attend an attempt to place Mr. HUSTED again in the Speaker 's chair , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent election have led Mr. THOMAS C. PLATT and his associates to perceive the wisdom , and even the necessity , of putting forward an unimpeachable candidate for the Speakership . They have declared for Mr. COLE with a promptness and unanimity which have somewhat surprised that gentleman , we fancy , but should in nowise be allowed to prejudice his candidacy among more reputable men . Mr. COLE is not the Platt candidate for the Speakership . He is the Colo candidate . The distinction is somewhat important and worth remembering . In spite of Mr. PLATT 'S habit of demanding a quid pro quo for his political support , Mr. COLE can be trusted to make up his committees not in the Platt interest but in the public interest , and to hold the Speaker 's gavel with an even hand , unmoved by the threats and uninfluenced by the appeals which may be made to him by persons whose interests are not those of the public , Mr. RUSTED willbe surprised and grieved , but it will be just as well for him not to be Speaker at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretensions of good intentions , his increasing tendency to use his official powers at Albany for corporations with which he is more or less remotely connected , and his evident disposition as he grows older not to care very much what decent people say and think about him , make it seem on the whole the part of prudence for him . to avoid the temptations which beset the Speaker of the Assembly .                     