@@780611

txt The nominations sent to the Senate to-day by the President caused much more comment than those sent yesterday . The selections made yesterday for prominent offices in New-York and for the office of Marshal of the Chicago district , in Illinois , led the public to infer that the President had decided to be guided by the Senatorial delegations of the States concerned . It was seen that in nominating men for offices in NewYork he had consulted the wishes of Mr. Coaling , and probably those of Mr. Platt also , while in Illinois Gen. Logan had won a victory over the determined opposition of a part of the State 's Congressional delegation . To-day there is an inclination to regard the President 's action as an attempt to please all parts of the Republican Party in New-York , and those who have made the most intelligent comments upon the latest nominations see in them the work of Mr. Blaine . " If the nominations of yesterday were for the Grant wing , then those of to-day are for the Blaine wing , " said one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism here . The list of nominations sent in to-day is as follows : William H. Robertson , to be Collector of Customs for the port of New-York . William Walter Phelps , of New-Jersey , to be Minister to Austria . Edwin A. Merritt , of New-York , to be Consul-General at London . Adam Badeau , of New-York , to be Charg ? d'Affaires to Denmark . Lewis Wallace , of Indiana , to be Charg ? d'Affaires to Paraguay and Uruguay . Michael J. Cramer , of Kentucky , to be Charg ? d'Affaires to Switzerland . William E. Chandler , of New-Hampshire , to be Solicitor-General . Samuel F. Phillips , of North Carolina , to be Judge of the Court a Claims . L. A. Sheldon , of Ohio , to be Governor of New-Mexico . Thomas M. Nichol , of Wisconsin , to be Commissioner of Indian Affairs . Edward S. Meyer , to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio . George W. Atkinson , to be United States Marshal for West Virginia . Buan H. Langston , to be Collector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ellis G. Evans , to be Receiver of Public Moneys at Ironton , Mo . Postmasters. ? William F. Osborne , Pittsfield , Mass . ; Michael Piggott , Quincy , Ill . ; Daniel Sayre , Wabash , Ind . ; George K. Gilmer , Richmond , Va . ? T. Morgan , Pulaski , Tenn . Charles M. Wilder , Columbia , S. C. , and Hamilton Jay , Jacksonville , Fla . George B. Sawyer , Collector of Customs for the district of Wiscasset , Me . It must be said that the nomination of Judge Robertson was entirely unexpected to all who generally have some intimation of the intentions of the Administration . The Judge 's position in the politics of his State and of the Nation is well known , and the full political significance of his nomination is understood . Those who have no political preferences recognize the selection as an excellent one , and speak of the nominee in the highest tennis . It is believed , as might be expected , that the nomination is very unsatisfactory to the two Senators from New-York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wager something that the Judge will not be confirmed . His nomination must go to Mr. Conkling 's committee , in which it will be at the mercy of that gentleman . Thomas M. Nichol , who is nominated to be Commissioner of Indian Affairs , is the person who appeared in this city previous to the inauguration , while Mr. Garfield was at Mentor , and represented to Senators , Congressmen and others , that he was a sort of envoy plenipotentiary for the President-elect , sent out to feel the popular pulse , to discover the wishes of prominent gentlemen and to clear the way for the selection of a satisfactory Cabinet . Nichol is a queer looking man , who has been the head of the Western Hard Money League . Since the inauguration he has held the position of Chief Clerk in the Indian Bureau . The nominations of William E Chandler to be Solicitor-General and L. A. Sheldon to be Governor of New-Mexico have been predicted for some time , but that of Solicitor-General Samuel F , Phillips to be Judge of the Court of Claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is said that the transfer , with a reduction of salary from 87,000 to $4,500 , is hardly satisfactory to Mr. Phillips , and that he will decline the appointment . If Collector Merritt goes to London as Consul-General , in Gen. Badeau 's place , he will take up with a salary one-half as large as the one he now enjoys , Gen. Badeau is nominated to take Michael J. Cramer 's place at Copenhagen , and Cramer is sent to Switzerland in place of Nicholas Fish , of New-York . The Paraguay mission , for which Gen. Lew Wallace is nominated , has been held by John C. Caldwell , of Maine . William Walter Phelps is sent to fill Congressman Kasson 's place at Vienna .                     