@@746001

txt It is very surprising that the bold project for reviving the charter of the Metropolitan Transit Company and authorizing the construction of an elevated railroad in Broadway , with extensions through various other streets , . should receive any countenance from the Railroad Committee of the Senate , and yet it is understood that a favorable report is to be made on the pending bill . Mayor IlEwirr has written a second letter to the Chairman of that committee , in which he disclaims any intention of giving his approval directly or indirectly - to the scheme , but in declaring that he had no wish to oppose the desire of property owners in regard to- the matter , and , proceeding to state what compensation he thought the city ought to receive for the franchise , he seemed to assume that the property owners were or might be in favor of the project , and to accept its accomplishment as something to be looked forward to . It was certainly inadvisable for him to write letters which could be construed into favoring or giving any sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be exerted at all it should have been for the protection of the citydrom an elevated railroad which proposed to occupy and disfigure the greatest thoroughfare of the city , and . which neither the property owners nor the people desire . The job originates in no desire of the property owners , but in the ambition of the Manhattan Railway Company to monopolize the business of rapid transit in this city and to carry its lines wherever it may suit its greedy purposes . It is generally believed that the revival and extension of the Metropolitan Transit Company 's franchise is a mere cover for a scheme by which the Manhattan Company proposes to get possession of Broadway and to make numerous other extensions and connections for its existing system . At all events its familiar methods for getting indirectly - what it wants from the Legislature are being used . There is a report that a prominent lobbying politician has been at Albany some weeks prepared to obtain from the Senate Railroad Committee a favorable report by paying for each vote necessary the sum of $10.000 . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is not one which any Senator can afford to accept , and the corruption is likely to be effected in a less direct manner . It is said that the stodk of the defunct corporation which is to be resuscitated and then gobbled up has been largely distributed among politicians for the purpose of promoting the scheme . If a scandal is not to be produced compared with which the " boodle " Aldermen business will be thrown into the shade there must be a check upon the corrupt jobbery which seems already to have got a hold in the Legislature . There are intimations that the same gang of political jobbers who attempted last Winter to get control of the aqueduct work is concerned in carrying this scheme through the Legislature and obtaining the Executive approval . Not only are the Broadway property owners and the people of the city generally opposed to this project , notwithstanding the airy statements of Mr. ROBERT BLISS to the contrary , but there is a settled conviction in this community that there should be no more elevated railroads in our streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , and what this city wants is real rapid transit , such as is promised by underground railroads . This elevated roads are slow , they are dangerous , they are an injury to property along their lines , and they are a disfigurement of the city which ought not to be permanently Permitted . They came out of the stress of the city 's needs for moans of conveyance when nothing better was offered . and they have served and are serving a temporary purpose at the sacrifice of many private and public rights . When once a system of real rapid transit under ground , where it ought to be , has been provided they should be swept out of sight . This new project is not only conceived in corruption , but it is intended to prevent the accomplishment of plans for a rapid transit system immeasurably superior to the elevated roads , and the misguided action of certain powerful property owners in obstructing the arcade railway is an encouragement to just such designs upon the city 's noblest thoroughfare . The influences at work for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are the corrupt influences of a daring gang of jobbers who have secured the partnership of a number of unscrupulous and greedy Politicians . The means reported to be employed to promote the passage of the pending bill are those of bribery and corruption of the most flagrant kind , and it is somewhat alarming that their use is not resented and the whole job repudiated as a bare-faced attempt to impose upon this city by legislative authority a project from which it ought to be saved . It must astonish every honest man in the city that there is any likelihood of a favorable report from the Senate committee and any danger that this sch , eme may be got through the Legislature by iniquitous methods . But this unfortunately seems to be the case , unless the full force of exposure and public condemnation shall be brought to bear to prevent it .                     