@@744389

txt Told in the simplest way , this is the story of the collision in the Fourth-avenue tunnel yesterday morning : The breaking of a driving-wheel of the engine drawing the Montreal express train blocked the track over which through trains from the North or New-England ordinarily reach the Grand Central Depot . Approaching trains were ordered to ? stop . After a little delay , that is , shortly after 8 o'clock , all trains were ordered to come in over the Harlem line . This is a single track in the dark tunnel just west of the main tunnel . A train over the New York and New-Haven Road , called the Port Chester special train , due at the Grand Central Depot at 8:50 , entered the upper end of this side tunnel , at Ninety-eighth -- street , and had proceeded as far as Eightysixth-street when it came to a halt in response to signals from below . A brakeman , sent out with torpedoes from the rear of the train , had hardly time to go back 125 feet and place a single torpedo on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transit " train was upon him . He saved himself by jumping into a " man-hole , " while the Harlem train crashed into the Port Chester " special , " the locomotive " telescoping " with the rear car , and filling the tunnel with the wreck of the car and the locomotive and the escaping smoke and steam . Thus far two persons are reported to have died from the effects of the collision  --  Mme. ACBERT and Mr. WILLIAm HowE . Twenty or twenty-one were more or less seriously injured . One fact should be noted in explanation of the small number of casualties . The Port Chester " special " train had been obliged to stop several times before reaching Eighty-sixth-street , and a considerable number of its passengers , impatient at the delay , had left the train at stations above , taking the elevated railroad for the . remainder of the journey . Thus it happened that the rear car , which was shattered by the locomotive of the Harlem train , contained but four or five persons . When human life has been sacrificed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to count the victims . The loss of a single life is a sufficient basis for the arraignment and censure of the responsible officials if it appear that the mishap was due to preventable causes . Yesterday 's accident might have happened to a Boston express train , to a New-York Central train from Albany , loaded with passengers . In either case a repetition of the Spuyten Duyvil disaster would have ensued . And taking the most lenient view of the circumstances , making due allowance for the unavoidable character of the casualty which was the primary cause of it , the conclusion forces itself irresistibly upon the mind that this collision in the tunnel was due to the grossest negligence and inexcusable carelessness . If this be so , if it be true that the trains of three heavily patronized railroads are allowed to run through the dark and dangerous stretches'of the Fourth-avenue tunnels in a sort of happy-go-lucky way , avoiding collision only by the fortunate accident of getting out of each other 's way , it is a matter of vital concern to a vast number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred upon a piece of track which is supposed to be guarded by the employes of the New-York Central Railroad Company . What safeguards did this company adopt to prevent such mishaps ? what system of signals , warnings , cautions , had it in operation to notify the engineers of its Harlem " rapid transit " trains that other trains were in the western side tunnel ? Absolutely none . When the engineer of the Harlem train entered the tunnel at Ninety-eighth-street yesterday morning he had no means of knowing that the tunnel was not entirely clear . Superintendent Cranx , of the New-Haven Road , says the accident was caused by " the engineer of the Harlem train misunderstanding or disobeying a signal to stop at Ninety-eighthstreet , or by failure to give a proper signal at that point . " As the solo instruction received by the engineer of the Harlem train appears to have been the statement that the train in advance of his own had entered the tunnel some fourteen minutes before his own , and " ought to be through , " we can only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From this it appears that the New-York Central Railroad is accustomed to run trains in these tunnels on the somewhat unsafe theory that what goes in must coma out . That is to say , if it takes a train fifteen minutes to traverse the tunnel , an engineer who arrives at either end that number of minutes after the entrance of another train may fearlessly plunge into the impenetrable darkness before him , disregardinz altogether the chances that the areceding train may have come to an unexpected stop . This may be called running a railroad ou the fair weather principle . An elaborate mechanism is contrived , which performs its functions admirably so long as all goes smoothly . But a grain of sand throws it out of joint . The driving-wheel of a locomotive breaks , and trains are left to run into each other in dire and helpless confusion . This is not the sort . of railroad system to which people should be asked tointrust their lives . When a train at full speed goes off an embankment through the breaking of a rail or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ordinarily no blame attaches to the company . But when trains are run over a highly dangerous piece of track , under conditions known to be irregular , in the haphazard fashion which produced yesterday 's collision , it is time for the public to take warning for itself and for the Grand Jury to act . In view of the imminent and deadly risks involved in its present method of trusting to luck in running trains through the tunnel , it may be properly asked why the New-York Central road does not make the tunnel section a " block " upon which no train can enter until signaled that the preceding train has cleared the " block . " It may not be improper , moreover , to inquire what kind of a car it was upon the Port Chester " special " which a locomotive running not faster than ten miles an hour " telescoped " so completely as to convert it into " kindling-wood . " There are cars , so the public is informed , which are able to resist such shocks , but the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of using such improved cars only on through trains , setting aside their old and practically worthless rolling stock for the use of local travel . These and many other questions touching the responsibility for yesterday 's collision should be duly investigated .                     