@@744553

txt The story of another day of distress in the flooded city of Cincinnati is told in our dispatches this morning . The hopes kindled by a slight fall in the water yesterday morning were extinguished by noon , when the river again stood at 65 feet 1+ inches , with a heavy rain falling there and at points further up the valley , threatening a still further rise . The Police and local relief committees were at work all day distributing provisions and fuel among the unfortunate people who have been driven to the upper stories of their houses and are cut off from all ordinary sources of supplies . The imminent danger of death from starvation and cold has driven all thoughts of their water-soaked and ruined household goods from their minds . Along the streets where the water is deepest the relief boats are hailed at nearly every house by women and children begging for something to eat , while on the river-front the inmates of the tenements are reported to be " wild with hunger . " Fortunately , there is an abundance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its ovens to the stores of bread , and there is apparently no reason to fear the giving out of the meat supply . Considerable sums of money have been privately subscribed , and the Legislature has authorized the city to borrow $100,000 for the relief of the sufferers . Half a dozen relief committees are engaged in the work of Providing for their wants . One committee alone has means for the relief of 10,000 persons . It seems a trifle paradoxical that in a deluged city there should be any apprehension of a scarcity of water , but the reservoir supply will not last more than five days , it is said , and the high water interferes with the working of the Holly apparatus . There is no probability , however , that the Ohio can maintain its present altitude for five days more . Of the fortunes of Louisville during the past 24 hours less is known , owing to an interruption of the usual telegraphic communication . The wires were working with difficulty late last night . It is certain , however , that that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are undergoing afflictions similar to those of Cincinnati . The little city of Newport , Ky. , just over the river from Cincinnati , is one-half under water . Our dispatch tells of the philosophic readiness with which those of its inhabitants who remain in their homes adapt themselves to their peculiar situation . For a day or two the novelty of living in garrets , going to market in skiffs , and filling the tea-kettle with water purchased of casual vendors who go about in boats may serve in some slight degree to alleviate the inevitable discomforts of confinement by deluge , but we have no doubt that even the most cheerful of the prisoners will join heartily in the prayers ordered to be offered up in the Catholic churches for the lifting of this sore tribulation . We observe that our contemporary , the Sun , places this flood in the category of evils which man brings upon himself by his recklessness and greed . " The reason for this calamity in the Ohio Valley , " it says , ? ' Is chiefly to be found in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , Western Pennsylvania , and Western Virginia , where the head-waters of the Ohio are fed . " We do not share this opinion , though by no means disposed to call in question the theory that the denudation of the hills hastens the melting of the Winter snows and in some measure tends to produce early Spring freshets . But the change which the depredations of man have thus far made in the habits of nature in the matter of floods is far too slight to account for the 65 feet of surplus water in the Ohio at Cincinnati . It is to be remembered that this is not the first time the Ohio has shown an ambition to turn itself into an inland sea . In 1832 there was a great flood , and the water then rose to the height of 63 feet 3 inches at Cincinnati . At that remote time the population of the United States was but 14,000,000 . New-York , Pennsylvania , Ohio , and the territory now called West Virginia had less than 5,000,000 inhabitants . ? The steam saw mill was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just beginning . The hills through which wind the streams that feed the Ohio had practically the same protection they had always enjoyed while the noble red man was their only visitor . Yet the river rose in that year to within a few inches of its present height . There is reason enough for the outcry against the indiscriminate destruction of forests , but we should have Spring floods just the same were there far less need for that warning . When the deep snows of Winter are subjected to the melting influences of a heavy rain-fall continuing for days they will give way , trees or no trees , and as the frozen ground refuses to absorb the water it will find its way speedily into the brooks and rivers , and floods inevitably result . The water-shed which has contributed to the disaster at Cincinnati is not ' less than 125,000 square miles in area . It includes considerably more than half the whole basin drained by the Ohio . Starting at Pittsburg with the combined waters of the Allegheny and Monongahela , the Ohio receives before it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent , measured by its own course , and its bed has a fall of more than 200 feet in. that distance . Under the pouring rains of the past ten days this vast tract has rid itself of an incalculable amount of water , which in Summer-time would have been to a considerable extent retained by the earth . But the presence of the primitive forests could have had but little effect in staying the deluge .                     