@@744740

txt Not having any royal or imperial Court , we are not in a position to have a real Court Circular . Of course , when.the President of the United States is ill , or when he undertsikes a journey , it is a matter of sufficient importance to merit mention by the press , but the public takes no particular interest in the members of the/President 's family . The Englishman likes to read in the Court Circular that " his Royal Highness Prince Charles Henry used his new rattle , with tooth-cutting attachment , yesterday ; " or that " her Royal Highness Princess Sarah Jane played in the back yard this morning , " but the American has no means of knowing how the youthful sons and daughters of a President pass their leisure hours . There are two classes of people , however , concerning whose most unimportant movements the press keeps us constantly informed . These are actors and artists  --  meaning by the latter term painters and sculptors . If the poorest actor in a third-rate theatre loses his empty pocket-book the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every paper in the Union , and if an actress without ability , beauty , or character marries an utterly obscure horse-person the event is treated as if it were of national interest . It does seem rather odd that the actor should thus be treated as if he were a person of immense importance , merely because he is an actor , but the fact has the possible explanation that the actor 's life is supposed to be passed under the constant gaze of the public . It is true that in most cases this is a delusion , for there are scores of wretched actors of whom the public never hears until they die and are buried from the " Little Church Around the Corner , " but it may he assumed that the tradition that the actor lives in the glare of the footlights explains the attention with which he is treated by the press . This , however , is not the case with the painter . There are thousands of respectable lawyers , merchants , and mechanics who go to Summer hotels without the slightest attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studio and calls himself a painter , no matter whether he has ever sold a picture or even painted a tolerably decent one , can not go to a cheap boarding-house in a remote rural town without being honored with a newspaper paragraph setting forth the fact that " Smith the artist is passing the Summer at West Centreville . " Brown the photographer , who is personally known to thousands of people who have never - heard of " Smith the artist , " comes and goes unnoticed , but the press assumes that the whole country thirsts for information as to Smith because he paints wretched pictures instead of taking ' workmanlike photographs . Now , in point of fact , nobody but Smith himself cares a straw about the movements of " Smith the artist . " Brown the photographer and Robinson the whitewasher have their friends who might take a feeble interest in learning of their movements , but " Smith the artist " could go to Central Africa or the north pole and no one except his tailor or the weak-minded color-dealer to whom Smith owes 75 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact . Nevertheless , the newspaper column of " Art News " must chronicle the movements of Smith , and the patient public does not take the trouble to express its opinion of the absurdity of the , performance . Evidently the practice of writing Court Circulars concerning painters must have had a sufficient reason at some remote day . It would be interesting to know at what period the fashion originated and why the painter was then an ' object of interest to the entire reading world . At present the fashion is a meaningless survival , and what is worse , it is a covert insult to Brown the photographer , Robinson the whitewasher , and Thompson the boot-black. 