@@745882

txt The sharp controversy in the Congregational Church concerning the destiny of unenlightened heathen and the rejection of certain missionaries by the American Board did not end when a compromise resolution was unanimously adopted at the Des Moines meeting . It has been kept alive and embittered by the " friendly " prosecution of the Andover Professors for breach of trust , and by the recent declarations of the venerable Dr. MARK HOPKINS and the Hon. ALPHEUS HARDY . A Boston newspaper urges Dr. DEXTER and his associates to " let the Andover prosecution drop , " because " the spirit of revolt which is growing up in the church as a result of the narrow policy of the American Board is spreading so rapidly as to cause great alarm even among the ultra-conservatives . " The Hon. ALPHEUS HARDY has been a member of the American Board 's Prudential Committee for twenty-nine years . When the meeting was held at Des Moines he was Chairman of the committee , and for some years he had held that office . It was well known that he had opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they did not believe that all heathen who die without a knowledge of the Christian religion begin at once to suffer endless torture . With the Hon. Josipn A. ROPES and the senior Secretary of the board he voted against a majority of the committee when it was decided that the Rev. ROBERT A. Hui  --  a faithful missionary of twelve years ' ' experience  --  should not - be allowed to return to his field of labor in India for the sole reason that he agreed with the rejected applicants . At the Des Moines meeting Mr. HARDY resigned , and at the same time Prof. SMYTH of Andover was dropped from the committee , which was reconstructed so as to present a solid front against the probation idea . The convention saw , as one of its committees reported , that the loss of Mr. HARDY " took away a tower of strength . " He was urged by a resolution , unanimously passed , to accept a re-election and was unanimously reelected . Mr. HARDY has since refused to accept this re-election , and his letter of refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the American Board , in company with a long letter of his own . Mr. HARDY says : " I believe there has been , during the past few years , a divergence in the practical management of one part of the board 's work , which has , to some extent , brought the board from its broad , catholic , undenominational , ' and charitable position to be a partisan in questions that are not within its province , are local , in a measure personal , and divisive . With such a policy I can not agree , and , believing it to be detrimental to the best interests of the board , must decline to be a member of a body upholding it ? viz. , the Prudential Committee . " Mr. HARDY refers , of course , to the Prudential Committee 's assumption of the powers and duties of a theological court when applicants  --  otherwise meritorious  --  were rejected because of their views concerning the fate of the heathen . Evidently he is of the opinion that the committee as now constituted will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the convention 's unanimous resolution recommending that the committee should allow the theological qualifications of applicants to be passed upon by councils of the church . That resolution was proposed by Vice-President BLATCHFORD , and warmly advocated by President MARK HOPKINS and President DWIGHT , of Yale University . Dr. HOPKINS 'S letter is really intended for the Congregational Church at large . He declares that the attitude of the Prudential Committee " toward certain theological questions and . theological seminaries , " its practice of filling its own vacancies , and its mode of dealing with candidates have caused " dissatisfaction , perhaps deeper and more widespread . than the committee is aware of . " This dissatisfaction would not have existed if the committee had not undertaken to decide upon the theological fitness of applicants . He continues : " If the members of the committee had been . chosen as but for this they would have been , with no regard to their theological bias , but solely with reference to their interest in missions , to their financial skill , to their ability to judge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various and often complicated questions that come up in the management of missions , not a lisp of present or recent difficulties would have been heard . There would have been no division in the committee and no difference of opinion between the Foreign and the Home Secretary . The question then arises whether a different mode of deciding on theological fitness is not desirable and demanded . " And then he argues that the decision should be left to councils , as if the convention 's resolution had not been unanimously passed , and as if the committee did not intend to be guided by it . If councils can not be trusted , he says , then the Congregational polity is not fairly adequate to the prosecution of missionary work and . ought not to exist . " These remarks , " says Dr. HOPKINS , " I venture to make in connection with the very serious aspect of our difficulties presented by this declinature of one who has been so munificent and conspicuous in missionary work and who has so long acted as the honored Chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a probation for unenlightened . heathen first excited the opposition of the Prudential Committee and certain ministers of the old school , it was urged by them that its adoption or a failure to exclude it from the mission field would " cut the nerve of missions . " If missionaries holding the obnoxious views should be sent out by the board , contributors who had been very generous would , it was asserted , withhold their donations , and . the missionary work would die out for want of moue ' and men . But it was afterward shown that those who were . most eager to enter the field were the very men who had embraced the so-called heresy , and now it appears that the board is in danger of losing money support , not because it has allowed liberals to save the perishing heathen , hut because it has barred the liberals out , for the disaffection or departure of such men as Mr. HARDY is a serious loss . What would happen if applicants should be turned over to councils may be shown by the experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the leader of a group of students who desired tobecome missionaries in Japan . On the 22d. ult. he was ordained and installed by a council as Pastor of a church in Haverhill , N. H. His views concerning probation for heathen caused only one dissenting vote to be cast . He is qualified to preach ' to the people of Haverhill , but not , in the opinion of the American Board , fitted to work for the salvation of heathen who are going to endless punishment because missionaries do not enlighten them .                     