@@743884

txt Certain experiments recently made by Dr. BEARD do not appear to have attracted the attention which they deserved . For the last thirty years exhibitions of " animal magnetism , " or " clairvoyance , " have been frequently made by persons who have not , to put it mildly , commanded the confidence of thinking men . These persons have been for the most part professed fortune-tellers , or traveling showmen , and when they pretended that they or their " Subjects " could read , when blindfolded , letters placed on the forehead , it was not necessary to regard these pretensions seriously . The verdict of all scientific men has been that " clairvoyance " was simply an imposture , and that the exhibition given by traveling " Professors " were really exhibitions of trickery on the part of the performers and of credulity on the part of the spectators . Dr. BEARD , who has been known as an earnest hater of what is called " Spiritualism , " has lately investigated the subject of " clairvoyance , " and to his surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has proved by experiments that there are persons who in certain circumstances can read writing  --  or for that matter print  --  merely by bringing it in contact with the skin of the forehead . There is not the slightest reason to doubt his report . When a chemist of character and ability tells us that he has made an experiment and has obtained certain results we accept his assertion , and the experiments made by Dr. BEARD are entitled to a like reception . We may consider that it has been fully established that a young woman whose eyes Dr. BEARD had carefully bandaged was able to read a page of writing that was laid on her forehead . It other words , the claims made by the " Professors " of clairvoyance are to some extent true . There are two results which follow Dr. BEARD 'S experiments . One is the establishment of the fact that the mind can act upon matter without the aid of the senses . The person who reads words written on a sheet of paper folded up and laid on the forehead does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of touch , for it is absolutely impossible that the nerves of the skin of the forehead can detect through the thickness of a folded sheet of paper the inequalities of surface produced by forming letters with pen and ink . If the mind can interpret writing without the aid of any of the senses , it is something that can act outside and apart from the body , and the materialistic theory that the mind is identical with the ? gray matter of the brain is utterly overthrown . Another result is to furnish an intelligible and sufficient explanation of the so-called phenomena of Spiritualism . These phenomena are of two classes . Those which , in the slang of Spiritualism , are called " physical manifestations , " and which include the upsetting of furniture and the " materialization " of spirits , may be safely regarded as the tricks of impostors . There has never been a serious and intelligent effort made to investigate these " phenomena " which has not resulted in showing their fraudulent character . In at least twenty instances " materialized spirits " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance the " spirit " has proved to be either the medium or a confederate . No further evidence that all exhibitions of " materialized spirits " are fraudulent need be asked . In. fact , the most remarkable feature of the " physical manifestations " is the clumsiness ' of the trickery with which they are produced . The other class of spiritualistic phenomena deserves more respectful consideration . The knowledge which has often been displayed by mediums of matters known only to the person employing the medium 's services is as remarkable as it is undeniable . The amount of evidence relating to this phase of Spiritualism is too great to be rejected , and . can not be explained by the hypothesis of trickery in. all cases . If , however , we once admit that it is possible for the medium to perceive the thoughts of another person , there is no longer any mystery . There is one medium of wide notoriety who proposes to read questions that are written on slips of paper rolled into small pellets . Granting the truth of Dr. BEARD 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grant the ability of this medium to read the writing on his pellets without the use of his eyes . And if this can be done , it is , to say the least , not at all incredible that certain mediums possess the power of reading thoughts that have not yet been committed to writing . We may concede that ? nine-tenths of Spiritualism are trickery , but it is the remaining tenth which has hitherto been the stumbling-block of men who , although repudiating entirely the hypothesis that disembodied spirits are at the beck and call of spiritual mediums , can not comprehend howa man whom they meet for the first time can tell them truthfully of things which it is impossible , in the nature of things , that he could have previously known . A care- ful investigator once noticed that no medium showed any surprising knowledge of subjects other than those present to the mind of the investigator , and he perceived that could it be assumed that the medium could read the thoughts of his clients , all that was unaccountable in . Spiritualism would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason to believe that he has found the clue to the mystery which is the stock in trade of spiritual mediums , and if he has really done this , he has done an immense service id oVerthroWing what has proved to be a demoralizing ands degrading superstition . It is hoped that Dr. BEARD and other scientific men will continue to investigate the field which has hitherto been abandoned to charlatans . Now that one phase of " clairvoyance " has been proved to have a substantial basis , there may be other discoveries to be made which will be of equal interest and ' perhaps greater importance . 