@@780900

txt A Rome dispatch to Reuter 's Telegram Company says : " Despite the recent opposition of the German Ultramontanes , it is said that the Pope will accept the measure proposed by Prince Bismarck relative to the application of the May laws . This acceptance would not imply his approval in principle of the May laws as a basis of the canon law of Germany . It is believed that instructions to this effect have been sent to the Papal Nuncio at Vienna . " A Berlin dispatch says : " It is now considered certain that Prince Bismarck 's Ecclesiastical bill will pass the Prussian Diet . One hundred and fifty Conservatives support the bill , and the Government will probably easily obtain 50 more votes , which are necessary , from the National Liberal Party . Negotiations with the National Liberal leaders , particularly Herr Benningsen , are now proceeding . There is some prospect of a section of the Catholics supporting the measure . " The North German Gazette , of Berlin , says : " Of late the confidence previously felt in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been shaken , and the Prussian Government has consequently resolved to make to its Catholic subjects , spontaneously and without regard to any return on the part of the Vatican , such concessions as are possible without prejudice to the interests of the State , and also to obtain from the Diet discretionary powers relative to the application of the May laws . " The same journal confirms the statement that it will depend - upon the at-titude of the Curia to what extent the Government avails itself of those powers . BERLIN May 27 . ? The . North German Ga-sette publishes a dispatch from Prince Hohenlohe to the German Ambassador at Vienna , Prince Reuss , dated the 5th inst. , mentioning the depressing effect ' produced by the fruitlessness of the negotiations with the Curia , as exemplified by the attitude of the Centre Party . The samejour-nal also publishes two dispatches from Bismarck , dated the 14th and 21st inst. , calling special attention to the fact that the opposition has been transplanted from the body of the clergy to the Legislature . The . Government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ever lead to an understanding , will , out of sympathy for the orphaned condition of many parishes , persevere in the intention of submitting to the Legislature , on its own initiative , the measures already announced , giving . the Ministry discretionary powers in administering the May laws . Prince Bismarck remarks : " It is a deplorable fact that the Pope either takes an exaggerated view of the end to be attained , or altogether misunderstands the situation . Prussia , at any rate , can not go further toward conciliation . " LONDON , May 28 . ? A Berlin correspondent telegraphs : " The publication of the negotiations with the Curia has caused a change of sentiment among the National Liberals , especially the Right wing , in favor of the Government . There can , consequently , be no doubt that after debate on the first reading of the Church bill , the measure will be referred to a commission .                     