@@671922

txt For some inexplicable reason the mercury in the Harrison thermometer has risen during the day , while that in the Sherman and Gresham tubes has taken a little tumble . There are very few delegates in town  --  hardly a Corporal 's guard  --  but Secretary of State Griffin of Indiana , who has the Harrison nag in his training , professes to feel very much encouraged by his day 's work and confident that the Hoosier nag will pass under the wire ahead of , his competitors . The Gresham men are suffering from an overdose of the distinguished Judge . The Gresham movement does not seem to have been very discreetly handled . Although Editor Medill , Its chief backer , was a rabid Blaine man not so many months ago he has managed , in pressing Judge Gresham , to antagonize a great many Blaine men who saw that the nomination of Judge Gresham would look too much like thetriumph of the anti-Blaine sentiment in the Republican Party . Into the Sherman camp there has crept to-day a rumor that Blaine is , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been running up and down their backs all day . Nobody knows how this rumor started , but it has undoubtedly resulted in a revival of the talk about Blaine , and . even bets were made at the Grand Pacific to-night that the Mosaic would be nominated . Coupled with the name of Blaine was that of Foraker for the second place on the ticket . It is known that the Ohio delegation of 46 contains not more than seven genuine Sherman men , and the boomers of the Ohio Senator view with alarm the mention of Foraker 's name . They are also disturbed by talk about Major of the Buckeye State . A Pittsburg manufacturer who is a close friend of Henry W. Oliver , , Tr. , one of the delegates at large from Pennsylvania , said . to-night that with Blaine out of the way Major would be more acceptable to protectionists than any other man who could be named . This statement is not understood to include Samuel J. Randall . Gen. Powell Clayton of Arkansas , who arrived here this morning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blaine will be nominated . The Arkansas delegation is on the fence and will drop into the field which promises the finest picking . The Alger headquarters were not crowded to-day , but the Alger men talked just as loud and long as ever . To their ranks were added Robert E. Frasier of Detroit , who will probably present Gen. Alger 's name ; Col. H. Duffield of the same city , Gen. L. W. Heath , and John P. Sanborn , ex-Collector at Port Huron . They announce that the sentiment in favor of their candidate is spreading . Albert M. Henry . a. brother-in-law of Gen. Alger , reached the city to-day accompanied by Dr. L. H. Goodrich , the Alger delegate from Arizoaia , who has been getting inspiration in Michigan . Mr. Henry will remain until the war is ended . He said that he left Gen. - Alger engrossed in business . The latter will not leave Detroit until after the convention . To the Harrison boomers were added this evening National Committeeman John C. New and Henry L. Nelson of Indianapolis , delegate at large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Central Committee ; Col. W. G. Bridgeland and J. Philli son of Warsaw . They began sounding the praises of Harrison before fairly inside the Palmer House , where they are stopping , and kept it up till bedtime . Mr. New says that Indiana is a protectionist State and wants a genuine protectionist candidate . Congressman D. B. Henderson of Iowa tucked the Allison boom under his arm at daybreak this morning and carried it around till sundown . Ex-Gov . Grier gave him a lift now and then , but the boom was not very ' wavy and was singularly docile . An evening paper which has been very friendly to Senator Sherman has this to say to-night concerning the revival of the Blaine ten tun ent : " Discriminating politicians are rapidly arriving at the conclusion that the undercurrent for Blaine is not to be sneezed at . Its influence is visible In all the combinations and talks of combinations . It Is the one factor that disturbs and yet discourages the favorite sons . Alger believes that the Blaine undercurrent ' will carry him to success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make Blaine himself the beneficiary of the undying Blaine sentiment which permeates the Republican Party . The Gresham men have almost signed away any hope of using or even stemming the Blaine current and the conviction grows among them , yet they will not openly confess it , that they have built upon the sands . The Blaine winds will blow , a deluge of Blaine enthusiasm will break over their frail structure , and it will De swept away like a leaf in a atorm . " ? Contrary to expectations the decoration of the convention hall will not he completed for four days to come . All the decorations have not arrived . One hundred flags and symbols made in Boston and prepared especially for this convention are not here . The 3,000 incandescent lights in the hall were illuminated this evening and the effect was dazzling . The electric lights form a striking feature of the decorations , and the display in that direction will probably be the finest ever seen . Above the speaker 's desk and suspended from the ceiling will be the United States shield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be placed on the opposite side of the halL It is certain that the convention will have evening sessions if for no other reason than to see the hall illuminated . A Denver dispatch says that the Colorado delegation will probably be solid for Denew , although Gresham has been very strong in that State . Henry Walcott , who heads the delegation , is a strong Depew man . Cyrus Leland , Jr. , of Kansas says that his State will present Ingalls 's name to the convention . It will be a pure compliment , and after the first ballot the delegates will go to other candidates . Gresham has some friends in the delegation . there will be a dead-lock in the convention , and more and more often is heard the assertion that to bring about this deadlock will be the deliberate purpose of the Blaine leaders . It is noticed that none of the so-called efforts to concentrate the Blame following for some other candidate has been successful , and it is declared that no such result was intended . Some careful observers think the Blaine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other candidates in such proportions as to insure a dead-lock until the right time comes to " whoop it up " for the magnetic statesman and . to make him the candidate with a rush . WASIIINGToN , June 12 . ? A good deal of solicitude for the comfort and welfare of certain colored gentlemen from the South is being shown here just now by the friends of Mr. Sherman and other would-be Presidential candidates . These objects of Republican solinitude are a portion of the delegates to Chicago from Georgia , Alabama , and North Carolina , and John R. Lynch of Mississippi . They are holding a sort of conference to-night in the " hotel " run by Mr. Perry Carson , who will represent the Republicans of the District of Columbia at Chicago . It is said that the conference is in the interest of Sherman , but the Ohio Senator will probably have a hard task to hold them . The defeat of his right hand man , Sergbant-atArms Canaday , in the North Carolina Convention is not regarded as leaving the delegation from that State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shermauites know that it will bear watching . It is asserted with a good deal of confidence by the Blaine people that the North Carolina delegates are ready to put their votes where they are wanted by the Blaine managers . Perry Carson himself is credited with an earnest disposition to follow what- ? ever plan is agreed upon by the Blaineites , and " Andy " Gleason , the other delegate from this district , also leans ' toward the Paris letter writer . It is quite possible therefore that the little conference mentioned may not result in any practical benefit to the Ohio statesman . It is also quite possible that it may be influenced somewhat by the revival of the Blame talk . This revival has suddenly became very marked , and there is a steady increase in the number Of those who think the man from Maine will yet be the nominee . On all sides is heard the prediction that 