@@745847

txt The keenest interest was yesterday manifested in the news , printed in yesterday 's TIMES , to the effect that ex-County Clerk Patrick Keenan held the resignation of " boodle " exile John Keenan as a member of the Democratic State Committee . The resignation , as was stated , will be handed to the Chairman of the committee at the meeting to be hold in Saratoga to-morrow . The selection of Mayor Grace to fill the vacancy created by the exile 's retirement was looked upon with surprise by many , some of whom saw in it a significance not often attached to so insignificant a matter as usually is the filling of a vacancy in such a body . When the ex-County Clerk presented the " boodle " carrier 's resignation to his colleagues in the Sub-Executive Committee of the County Democracy organization there was a great powwow on the subject . Many of the leaders could not conceal their surprise . The most sanguine of them had never hoped for so easy an adjustment of the problem of how to get rid of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retaliation . It was known that to all requests to resign John Keenan 's invariable answer was " No . " He told Edward Kearney so on Aug. 30 , and he repeated the declaration to more recent visitors at his rooms in the Windsor Hotel in Montreal . He was perfectly willing to have his friend Patrick Keenan appear for him at Saratoga , or he was willing to not issue a proxy at all , and thus let his Congressional district be unrepresented at the gathering . Most of the County Democrats felt that they would have to be content with either of the propositions submitted by the exile , and it was to their great surprise that at the session of the leaders on Saturday night it was announced that the exiled chieftain had placed his resignation in Patrick Keenan 's hands . There was one peculiar fact about the meeting of the Sub-Executive Committee on Saturday night . Tile session was prolonged until after midnight . Those of the members who left the , New-Amsterdam clubnouse on West Twentyfourth-street told the reporters that nothing of interest had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no conclusion had been arrived at in the troublesome Keenan matter . The men who made these statements were yesterday placed in a very awkward position . They excused themselves by the state . ment that they had been bound to secrecy in the caucus , and that it was only through a blunder that the news of John Keenan 's resignation was made public . Some of the wiser heads m the organization say that it would have been better to have refrained from publishing the.fact of John Keenan 's retirement until the meeting of the State Committee , as by so doing the Tammany Hall leaders must have remained in the dark on the subject , and perhaps have blunderingly per . matted ex-Senator Thomas F. Grady or somebody else to appear as a proxy for ex-Alderman William P. Kirk . The Tammany Hall members of the State Committee were skeptical about the truth of the report that Mr. Keenan had resigned . " We do n't intend to take anybody 's word on the subject , " remarked one of them last evening to a TIMES reporter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the minutes of the State Committee . We mean to have a look at the letter . As far as the presentation of the name of Mayor Grace as a successor for My . Keenan is concerned , we intend to insist that he shall be certified as having been selected by the delegates to the last State Convention from Keenan 's Congressional district . We will have Mr. Kirk 's successor selected in that way , and will insist that the other side follow suit . ' The Tammany Assembly district leaders yesterday decided to have the delegates to the last State Convention from Mr. Kirk 's Congressional district called together to-day to choose a successor to the ex-Alderman . Tammany Hall 's representatives on the State Committee will attend the meeting in Saratoga pledged to having no State Convention and . favoring Democratic - union in New-York . A resolution favoring union on local nominations will be presented at the meeting , if not by some country adherent of Gov . Hill and the Wigwam , then by a Tammany Hall man . The County Democracy men , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to oppose the resolution . It is probable that at least one County Democracy member of the committee will follow in Tammany 's footsteps in the matter . In many respects the meeting of the State Committee will more accurately mirror the actual condition of New-York City politics than has any similar gathering in years . With Tammany and the friends of Gov . Hill in the interior of the State favoring a union in this city this Fall there is little doubt but that the weight of the State Committee will be thrown into the scale as against the declaration for a fight by a section of the County Democracy organization . The County Democracy leaders are by no means a unit on the question , but they are all willing that Mayor Grace should be renominated , even if by their attitude on this question union in the city should be made impossible . Mayor Grace , though holding the purse strings of city patronage , controls the working element of the County Democracy , and through having made a clean record as Mayor he holds the affections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the grip which his friends have on the County Democracy by reason of these two things , the Mayor can have anything he wants from the leaders or the rank and file . The selection of ex-Mayer Edward Cooper to lead the organization could not have been made if the Mayor 's friends had said nay , and those who are on the inside understand this thoroughly . The greatest compliment that has ever been paid to a politician , except perhaps in the case of the late Samuel J. Tilden , is being paid to Mayor Grace by those who see in his declarations to his friends that he will not run for Mayor this Fall only a canny way of drawing good citizens in and out of the County Democracy about him , uniting in their demands that it is his duty once more to fight the thieves and scalawags that will be sure to unite with Tammany Hall and its Republican allies in au effort to obtain control of the City Government . Nothing that Mayor Grace has done or said since he first gave it out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construed as involving a chance of his acceptance of any nomination that may be tendered . him . What his answer would be if a nomination were unanimously tendered him by representatives of the business interests of the city and by the County Democracy nobody but he himself knows . Of one thing those on the inside are convinced . and that is that Mayor Greco will be tendered such a nomination , at least at the hands of the County Democracy . The leaders , after looking over the field , have become convinced that he is the most available man , and they will use every means in their power to induce him to reconsider his determination not to again run for Mayor . If Tammany should find it impossible to force a uuion there is good reason to suppose that the leaders will name a candidate for Mayor who is a member of the County Democracy organization . The talk of ex-Congressman P. Henry Dugro and Sheriff Grant as Tammany 's choice for Mayor is all bosh . Tammany would take up either the Hon. Roswell P. Flower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been any intention on the part of the leaders to name Mr. Dugro . Sheriff Grant would not accept the nomination . Of course the Tammany men will take up no man unless they . are certain that he will be subservient to their interests . They will not indorse Mayor Grace if nominated . The Bixby Citizens ' Committee of One Hundred has decided to name a full county ticket early in October . Secretary Robert A. Van Wyck , of the committee , said last evening that a Democrat would be nominated for Mayor , and that at least three well known Republicans would be put on the ticket . " Mayor Grace will never be indorsed by our committee , " continued Mr. Van Wyck . " We will disband first . Henry A. Oakley , the Chairman of our committee , is an enemy of Mayor Grace 's , and as the committee was named by him it is safe to say that there are very few of the Mayor 's friends in the list of membership . We intend to go into the fight to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tammany ? leaders as to who should bo selected in place of ex-Alderman William P. Kirk when the latter resigns as a member of the State Committee . Mr. Kirk is anxious to have ex-Senator Thomas F. Grady named as his successor , but the majority of the leaders favor W. Bourke Cochran , who yesterday returned from Europe on the Umbria . When Mr. Kirk was seen by a TIMES reporter last night there was fire hr his eyes . " I have only been in the city two hours , " he remarked , " and I do n't know what may have been done by the Tammany leaders . " " Have you resigned from the State Committee ' ? " " No , I have not . " " It is said that you have , and that Mr. Cockran will be elected in your stead . " " The man who says I have resigned lies . " " Do you intend to resign I " " That is for me to determine . " " Will you go to Saratoga . " " I may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tammany leaders whom I want to consult on the subject . " It is pretty safe to say that Mr. Kirk 's anxiety to have Mr. Grady selected in his place will not be gratified . When the leaders get hold of him Mr. Kirk wilL it is said . be compelled to resign or suffer the humiliation of being publicly disowned as a Tammany representative in the State Committee . The sub-Executive Committee of the County Democracy , through a delegation , waited on Mayor Grace at Great Neck , Long Island , yesterday , and learned with sorrow that the Mayor would not be able to serve on the State Committee , owing to the sudden death on Saburday of Mrs. Gilchrist , the mother of Mrs. William R. Grace . The Mayor will therefore not go to Saratoga , but will accompany the body of his mother-in-law to Maine for interment . The County Democracy leaders have discussed the subject of providing funds for the National Demoeratio Congressional Campaign Committee . A commitee consisting of Theodore W. Meyers , E. Ellery Anderson , and Henry R. Beekman @ @ @ @ @ @ 