@@781748

txt When the Court of Appeals shall have finally disposed of the claims of - the Kings County Elevated Railway Company Brook-lyn 's rapid transit franchises will be ; divided between two corporations . Of these the Brooklyn and the Union Elevated , which for all purpose of management are the same , will constitute one , and the Long Island Elevated the other . The latter is an outgrowth of the Long Island Railway Company , and is only incidentally intended to supply rapid transit for Rrooklyn . The main purpose of its promokers is. to provide a continuous route for Long Island trains , with a terminus at South Ferry . Down to the present Flatbush-avenne , station the company is authorized - to have four tracks  --  two for through cars and two for local transit . Between the present station and the ferry one middle track can be laid for through trains . reserving ther " two side tracks for the others . Brooklyn people have alwaysl been skeptical about the honest ; intention of the Long Island Company in regard to local transit . having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the main object of the company , and that the interests of the city were hi3ld to be entirely . subordinate - to that end .. One of the most serious sacrifices which Brooklyn has had - to make for the convenience of Long Island is the surrender of the greater part of Atlanticavenue to railroad purposes . A very large and rapidly growing section of the city is cut in two by a , surface steam railroad on which , in Summer , the trains are more numerous than on the New-York Central . The depreciation of adjoining property represents an enormous loss alike to the city assessment roll and to the owners . The Long Island Elevated scheme has commended itself to general appreciation because it insures the removal of this band of steel from what may be called the waist fa the city . But to the city ' at large its chief merit is that it promises to give a very substantial installment of rapid transit , and the only question about its execution is how it can be carried out - without detriment to other and equally necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests has been sharply raised by the plans of the Union Elevated , for its line between Fifth-avenue and the ' , bridge . This would . ' cross Atlantic-avenue , and , must evidently pass under or over an elevated rail-wapon that street . The crossing of two such 7roads at grade is out of the question . With Coney Island trains , Rockaway trains , and trains to all the points pf the Long Island system added to the local traffic on the Atlanticavenue road the ? procession of cars in the busy season would . be well-nigh continuous , and the crossingi ) of another road at grade would simply be. a predestined death trap . The question to ' . be decided is which . road shall take the higher elevation . This:is not by any means a simple problem . To have to put its Flatbush-avenue depot fifty feet in the air would be a serious inconvenience to the Long Island Company , and would be equally detrimental tp the interests of the Union Elevated , not isonly at this point , but because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Brooklyn being the main consideration to which other interests must be held strictly subordinate , it is argued with apparent ' justice that the Long Island Company may properly be required to operate the section of its road between the Flatbushavenue depot and the South Ferry by " shuttle " trains , having a ) bridge crossing for passengers as on the Third-avenue , road at Forty-second-street in this city . The majority of Long Island passengers will probably require transportation to the ' bridge , and that can be provided by the - tracks of - the Union Elevated from the common station of the two roads . This is the only serious obstacle to the immediate prosecution of work on two important lines of elevated railway ) in Brooklyn . The Aldermanic consent to the plans of the Long Island Company will doubtless be forthcoming as soon as the difficulty about the Atlantic-avenue crossing has been adjusted . With the development of the rapid transit system of Brooklyn similar difficulties may arise elsewhere , but as virtually one corporation is likely-to control all other routes but Atlantic-avenue they will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long time for adequate rapid transit facilities , but seems at last to be on the point of securing them .                     