@@743655

txt How many of the so-called elections to the Forty-seventh Congress in Southern districts will be contested by defrauded candidates can not yet be stated , but preparations are on foot in quite a number of cases . There are others in which there is no doubt that Republicans would have been chosen if there had been a free election , a full ballot , and a fair count , but the influences which defeated them may not be such as can be dealt with as direct frauds upon the ballot-box . Votes which were never cast and which there was no attempt to cast , on account of intimidation and discouragement , must , of couse , be left out of account , but where men were driven away from the polls or prevented from casting their ballots by violence and trickery , where legal votes were received and then thrown out for no proper cause , where illegal votes were stuffed into the boxes and afterward counted , and where the result was changed by false and fraudulent returns , there ought certainly to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language of the ' President , no benefit should " accrue to any person or party " through a violation of the right of suffrage . It is strange , in view of the variety and extent of the devices resorted to to prevent a fair representation of the Southern people in Congress , that denials of fraud should be persisted in . The statements which are made are so explicit and detailed , and so fortified by facts and figures , as utterly to preclude the supposition that they are inventions , and if they were false it would be an easy matter to refute them . If they could . be easily refuted , investigation would be courted instead of deprecated , as is now the case . The fact is that , while they are boldly denied , there is probably a consciousness among the Southern Democrats that the evidence can not be successfully met . Among the contests sure to be made are those of the first four districts of Alabama , the Second of South Carolina , the Third of North Carolina . and the Sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a great variety of facts to be dealt with , which ought to be fully placed before the people of the country . In the first place , it will be found that the election laws in several of the States have been framed for the purpose of placing obstacles in the way of a free exercise of the suffrage and of giving the officials charged with the conduct of elections complete power over the reception and counting of votes . These officials can facilitate the action of citizens in exercising their rights or they can hinder it . In counting and making up returns they have a wide discretion in the matter of rejecting votes and ample opportunity for falsifying the results . While the State authorities uphold their action there is no means of preventing a consummation of their frauds or of visiting them with the punishment they deserve . These State ' laws are so admirably adapted for the encouragement and protection of a violation of the principles of free suffrage that there can hardly be a doubt that they were intended to serve this purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that object . Although the election of ? members of the House of Representatives is properly a matter for national regulation , the existing Federal laws provide only for a supervision of the execution of local statutes . They do not supersede them . That these statutes and the manner in which they are applied work a violation of the spirit , if not the letter , of the fifteenth amendment does not admit of question . The effect , and doubtless the intent , is to abridge the right of citizens to vote because of their race . How far Congress can take this into account in deciding contested cases is a matter for consideration at the proper time . But infamous as many of the State laws are , most of the offenses on which contests will be based are such as can not be defended behind these enactments . They ' do not justify a refusal to open polls in precincts where there is a known preponderance of Republican voters ; they do not make it lawful to drive citizens away from the ballot-box or to prevent them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraudulent 0 ballots by the score may be stuffed into the boxes , and that those which have been . legally cast may be thrown out without , cause ; they do not say that Canvassers may manipulate the contents of ballot-boxes at will and make returns that bear no relation to the votes actually deposited . If they give opportunity for such frauds they do not make them lawful . All these and many other offenses are alleged and are likely to be proved , and they will furnish ample ground for excluding from seats in Congress the claimants who seek to benefit by them . It is not probable that these proceedings would have been conducted so recklessly if Southern politicians had anticipated that a Republican Congress would have occasion to inquire into them , and that a Republican Administration would continue to direct the execution of national laws . They counted boldly . on the connivance and protection that would be sure to ' result from a Democratic ? control of the Government , and they were grievously disappointed in their calculations . Now they resort to denial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in regard to their misdoings . But the next House of Representatives will have a duty to perform which it is not likely to shirk . Whatever else may be done with regard to Southern election frauds , it is pretty certain that so far as they have resulted in returning members as elected to the Forty-seventh Congress whose right to sit therein . is duly contested , they will be thoroughly investigated and will not be permitted to vitiate the just representation of the people . 