@@781755

txt The exciting struggle at Oberlin between the righteous villagers and the base druggist is approaching a critical and probably decisive stage . Thirty prominent citizens , sworn in by the Mayor as special deputies , now stand guard , relieving each other at brief intervals , in the store of the infamous BRONSON , and in the presence of these argus-nosed sentinels he finds it impracticable to introduce surreptitious whisky into the soda of his favored customers , yet he can not with his great iron pestle set upon these men and drive them from his premises as he did the volunteer and unofficial citizen guards whom they have supplanted , f or they are there by the authority and with the hickory club of the law . The temperance crusaders have , therefore , temporarily got the better of BRONSON . With the resources of the pharmacopoeia at his command the druggist might no doubt drive out the detested guards , but asafoetida is as rank in the nostril of the peaceful customer as in that of the interloping temperance person . SO BRONSON sits on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schemes for the discomfiture of his enemies and the deluging of Oberlin with gin . The moral aspects of this fight are peculiar . The crusaders state their case thus : Oberlin was founded on a moral principle , and two distinct trusts are reposed in the virtuous temperance people of the place , to wit : the college and the " moral atmosphere " of the place . Therefore , pure morality and temperance are the twin guiding stars of Oberlin society , and the people all over the country who send their children there to be educated in the odor of piety and cold water hold that society strictly responsible for the morality and virtue of the town . " Nineteen people out of twenty In the place are opposed to the sale of liquor in Oberlin , " say the temperance leaders , " and , under the rule that the majority should control , we believe that saloons should be kept out . " This is the doctrine taught by ROUSSEAU in the " Social Contract , " that the individual should yield up his preferences and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of law and common sense this doctrine is inapplicable in the present instance . Oberlin is a town , whose people live under the laws of Ohio . It is not a club or a private park , to be governed by its owners or managers under the authority of a charter ; nor is it Nount Sinai . Mr. BRONSON professes to sell liquor only on a physician 's certificate , and the other party have not yet found that he sells it otherwise , or they would bring the law to bear on him instead of resorting to the crusade tactics . Their interference with his lawful business is unjustifiable on any theory of morals in use outside of the Oberlin circle of pietists . In the end they will probably ruin BRONSON or drive him out of Oberlin . That is , by a system of organized oppression , gpying , and boycotting they will deprive a citizen of the rights guaranteed him under laws which with worldly craft they contrive to evade and break . But the conduct of the people of Oberlin is not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which apply to other communities . Their task is a heavy one , in this world of sin and woe , to keep the " moral atmosphere " of their town . uncorrupted . In their present attempt to disinfect it they have brought on a struggle of which their fanatical conduct is not so triking a feature as the folly of the druggist . Was it the hope of gain or the love of controversy which lured him to this most uninviting town ? Surely a sensible liquor-seller would never tap his barrels in Oberlin save from sheer contrariness . If certain people think it wise to bring their sons up in absolute ignorance of vice  --  except as it is pictured in selected Sunday-school libraries  --  and for that reason found and attempt to maintain an Oberlin , why should Mr. BRONSON intrude upon their pious privacy with his abhorred ardent spirits ? If he is a Mephistopheles and seeks the ruin of the youth of Oberlin , he has blundered . The surer way to compass their moral destruction , if ho can have the patience to wait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trust to the wrench of sudden temptation upon their cloistered virtue when they go out into the world which is not Oberlin . Besides , Mr.Bnonsox is too reasonable andlawabiding a person to engage these experienced crusaders in such a contest . If an assault is to be made on the purity of Oberlin it should be engineered by men who know neither law nor fear nor have respect for college Professors and temperance Mayors . " THE " ALLEN , the JAMES brothers , " OWNay " GEOGHEGAN , and Mr. BRADLAUGH are types of the class by whom alone the effectual and lasting pollution of the moral atmosphere of Oberlin can be accomplished ; and even they would probably have to put up , for a while , with a noonday prayermeeting in their places of business .                     