@@745079

txt The only important business on which the Democrats in the House of RepresentAlves have been engaged for the past five nonths came to naught yesterday through he defection of 41 men of their own party . Whatever else it may show , the killing of the Morrison Tariff bill proves beyond pestionthe incapacity of the party for the serious work of legislation . The bill was the net product of the energy , the wisdom , and the skill of the Democratic leaders . The subject with which it dealt was amply discussed in the canvass of 1882 , when the present majority was chosen . It ' was made the issue in the canvass for the Speakership , and Mr. CARLISLE was elected for the express purpose of organizing the House for tariff reform . He did so , and the bill presented by the Ways and Means Committee clearly and completely tarried out the ideas to which Mr. CARLISLE was committed . It was framed , not to meet the views of extremists , but avowedly to make the smallest measure of reform that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very carefully and , on the whole , very ably debated in the House . It is now defeated by Mr. RANDALL and his followers , nct because it goes too far ; not because it does not embody the general purpose of the party ; not because it is a defective , or incongruous , or impracticable bill , but solely and openly from opposition to all reduction of the tariff at this time . This action is direct revolt against the party , and for the single aim which the party has definitely set for itself it shows absolute incapacity . It leaves the party , moreover , with no princi pies whatever . There is not . one other question of interest to the Americar people on which the Democracy has ,  --  or pretends to have , a clear opinion or practical policy . Having failed to unit ( on a moderate reduction of the tariff , t ( which by every method known to polit ical action it was committed , the party stands before the country with no corn mon end except the attainment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can go before the country in so humiliat ing , so damaging a position as this . Th ( controversy which the great body of the representatives of the Democracy in Congress have waged with the des perate and obstructive minority must in the natural course , now be transferred to the National Convention . On that field the relative strength of the contest . ants will again be tested , and the strugglE will be a very different one . The minority will have no Republican allies , and the majority , with anything like the strength which they have in the House , will be able to force their opponents to choose between submission or a complete defeat of the party at the polls . With that choice facing them , their responsibility will be very great . The attitude of the Republicans in this matter is more consistent , but it is hardly stronger than that of the Democrats . Both parties will share in the discredit of having refused to do anything to relieve the burden of excessive taxation or to abate the acknowledged evils of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be removed from the Presidential canvas , unless the Democratic Convention should take a position in advance of that ' in which the party is now left . But the question must have a strong ' influence upon the Congressional elections . In very many districts it will be the controlling issue , and is more likely to influence the character of the next House than any or all others . The feeling which has been steadily gaining ground in favor of the reduction and reform of the tariff can find expression in these elections without serious embarrassment with general party associations . Every probability points to a widely diffused , energetic , and effective effort to secure some adequate action in the next Congress . The defeat of the very modest propositions of the Morrison bill will stimulate this effort because it will discourage any hope of a settlement by the agency of the existing regular party organizations . It will , moreover , irritate those who have set purposes and strong convictions on the subject , and the protectionists will find that their present apparent victory will cost them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed conditions of business , the requirements of our growing and varied industries demand a substantial reform in the tax system surviving from the war . If all moderate approaches to that reform are rejected the final result will be the same , but it will come more rudely.                     