@@781842

txt Baltimore is in a good deal of trouble concerning the alleged mutilation of two marble beasts which decorate the Calvert-street bridge . Who mutilated the beasts and what was the object of the probable miscreant are questions which now agitate the Baltimoreans almost to the exclusion of the original question as to the nature of the beasts themselves . When the marble beasts were first placed on the bridge a warm discussion arose as to their precise character , and presently Baltimore was divided into four parties  --  those who held that the beasts were lions , those who said that they were cats , those who maintained that they were poodles , and those who pretended that they were griffins . It was the sculptor 's impression that the beasts were lions . It is true that he could give no conclusive reasons for this impression , but he nevertheless insisted upon calling them lions . The lion party made up in vigor of assertion what it lacked in the ? way of evidence , and insisted that the fact that the beasts were ideal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resemble the ordinary lion of menageries . On . the other hand , the partisans of the cat , poodle , and griffla theories were equally positive in their assertions , and though they could produce little evidence in behalf of their pet theories , they were undoubtedly right in asserting that the beasts , whatever else they might resemble , did not resemble lions . There was , nevertheless , one clue to the meaning of the Calvert-street beasts . Their tails were distinctly leonine . Of course , one tail does not make a lion , but still the leonine tails gave some little satisfaction to the supporters of the leonine theory . The other night the two tails were secretly broken off and carried away , and no clue to the culprits has yet been found . Suspicion was at first directed against the local Irishmen , on the ground that they might have regarded the beasts as representatives of the notorious British lion . It is , however , conceded that no Irishman could have mistaken the beasts for lions and that most of the Baltimore Irishmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the tails had been carried off by the lion party in order to place them in . Gen. Dr CESNOLA 'S hands with instructions to restore them so that they would be complete and unmistakable lions . This theory , however , is untenable for the reason that Gen. Dr CESNOLL is just now too fully occupied to execute any commissions for restoring sculptures . Then it was suggested that the cat party had removed the tails , and thus transformed the beasts into Manx cats . This , again , is improbable , since no one had pretended that the beasts were Manx cats , and hence the cat party would have gained nothing by converting them into Manx cats . The pretense that the tails were removed in order that they might be replaced with poodles ' or griffins ' tails is made by the opponents of the poodle and griffin parties , but as yet there is no evidence to sustain it . The true explanation of the incident is undoubtedly this . The city authorities have removed the tails with a view of making the marble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties . All that is needed to carry out this plan is a series 01 different tails. , When the original tails arc in position the lion party will be satisfied ; when they are replaced with unquestionable poodles ' tails the poodle party will have itE turn of satisfaction . ' But griffins ' tails will turn the beasts into plausible griffins , and without tails they will be accepted at . probable Manx cats . An able sculptor it now engaged in making a pair , of eagles ' tails , so that on national holidays the Calvert-street beasts can be changed into birds of freedom , and it is very probable that thE experiment of adding fishes ' tails to thE beasts will be made , so that they can be converted into mermaids . Baltimore 's interconvertible beasts will thus be the most useful and valuable piece of sculpture in the country , and will be full3 equal to half a dozen distinct and separate beasts . It is thought that a like systen could be applied to our statues of public men in Washington , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great men simply by a change o head . This system is highly thought of 133 Mr. HOLMAN as a measure of economy and will doubtless receive the warm suppor of Democratic lovers of art .                     