@@743423

txt We shall soon see the customary Summer spectacle of all New-York devoting-itself to out-door diversions on Sunday . The people will throng to the adjacent sea-side resorts ; they will indulge in excursions on the rivers and the Bay , and seek the numerous picnic and pleasure grounds , for relaxation and amusement . There will be no check upon their enjoyment , and , within the limits of orderly and becoming behavior , there ought to be none . They will go forth with gayly flying flags , and listen to music upon the worldly character of which there will . be no restraint , and they will be none the worse for the fresh air , the invigorating surf , and the general recreation which the day of freedom from toil and care will bring them . But there is something strange in the contrast which will be presented between the uses of the day that are easily tolerated , if not generally approved , when the opportunity comes for getting away from the dusty streets and the burning pavements , and the theory that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment in the City , and at other seasons . The theory is , indeed , so pertinaciously held that the practice which departs from it is perforce of a more lawless and vicious character than it need be , and the question is one of serious import whether it is not working a positive moral injury , as well as standing in the way of some of the most potent agenies for improvement . Our people are at liberty to range through the parks and public grounds , and visit any accessible spot out-of doors on Sunday , if the weather interposes no prohibition . In Central Park they may take rides , they may row on the bit . of lake , or they may wander aimlessly about , occupying their minds as best they may . They may even watch the gambols of the apes , and stare at the somewhat meagre display of wild ' beasts in the menagerie . They may do almost anything that is tiresome or'profitless , . but , if they approach the doors of the Museum of Art , or of Natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are supposed to have an educational value - and to exercise an elevating influence upon all who can be got to take an interest in their contents . It is our boast that the poorest citizens , who can command no resources for instruction or wholesome entertainment that are not offered to them at the public expense , may enter these portals and learn something of the marvels that lie beyond the narrow world of their daily toil . But Sunday is the only day on which that toil is intermitted and they have the time to share in the benefits which the generous public professes to hold out to them , and on that day the treasures are carefully locked out of sight . They are invited to an intellectual and aesthetic Barmecide feast of brick walls , which might as well be empty , so far as concerns any nourishment that they can draw from them . We boast more or less of our libraries and reading rooms  --  though we . have not much to boast of in that line  --  but the day of general leisure is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The jaded working man , and most of our people are workers more or less jaded , has no difficulty in penetrating bar-rooms and beer shops on Sunday . They may even find the opportunity to play billiards and to indulge in gambling in out-of-the-way places , but they can not get access to Ales of newspapers , to current magazines , and to shelves of books , which might take uP their time with profit and improvement . There is no real hindrance to vicious indulgence , but there is an absolute bar to means of cultivation outside of the churches . And what an enormous proportion of our population spends its Sundays wholly outside of churches few that are accustomed to their . ministrations realize . Every effort to bring them under religious influences is commendable , but the lack of effort to bring them within other influences that are salutary is deplorable . Amusement , or what passes for it , most of them will have . The forms that are attainable are low , if not demoralizing , simply because those which . would be elevating are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplated the moral well-being of the people , is beyond doubt working to their moral injury and to the hindrance of a healthy social development . New-York , while claiming leadership in all that is liberal and humanizing , is in fact behind many even American cities in this respect . Boston , which is often taunted with Puritanism , opens her magnificent public library and her art museum during certain hours of every Sunday . Our avowed practice in regard to the observance of the day ? our practice that is displayed in public and official action ? is in glaring contrast with the actual practice of our people . Society maintains a policy that amounts to downright hypocrisy , and the people divert themselves as they may because they are not allowed to do it as they ought . Foreigners are amazed at the strictness with which we endeavor to make Sunday a dull , tiresome , and unprofitable day of nominal rest , but they soon find that it only drives the people to those insidious modes of escaping restraint which are the more mischievous for the secrecy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They find us rather worse than better for the rigid veneer of outward devoutness with which we endeavor to cover ourselves one day in the week . We will not venture into the controverted questions of mere amusement and the liberty of openly obtaining on Sunday what there is no difficulty in getting " on the sly , " but the expediency of having our museums and libraries available for the beneficial work for which they are intended ought by this time to be beyond controversy . It is difficult to argue in its favor , because the considerations are so obvious and there is nothing to combat that deserves the name of argument . It is only necessary to take the step boldly and all attempt at controversy will cease . 