@@781206

txt A report that one of Mrs. Christian Herter 's cottages at Monmouth Beach had toppled over into the sea drew a number of curious people to the spot today , but the journey proved a fool 's errand . Mrs. Herter 's cottages are not damaged , and , except for the destruction of one of the bulkheads , her property Ors unharmed . The greatest sufferers at this point , and probably anywhere along the coast between Asbury Park and Sandy Hook , are David Duncan and E. H. Platt . The former 's cottage narrowly escaped toppling down the steep bluff , in spite of a strong stone bulkhead erected only a few years ago . The huge waves worked their way behind the bulkhead , and soon washed the sand from beneath it . The sea inundated the eastern portion of the costly edifice , and in a few hours 15 feet of the foundation were tor newsy . The house still stands upright in its place , though a heavy sea may at any moment cause its total destruction . Mr. Platt 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stout oak , bulkhead stands firmly in its place , but the sea washed under it . The costly promenade on the east side foil and was demolished at the bottom of the bluff . It is only with the aid of big hawsers that the house is now kept upon its temporary foun-dation : ft is estimated that the entire loss to eottagers between Seabright and this plisse will amount to fully $15,000 . Of this sum Messrs . Duncan and Platt 's loss comprises the larger half . The storm abated early this morning and the weather to-day has been extremely warm , and is quickly melting the nine inches of snow which had fallen , and thus gradually raising the water in the Shrewsbury River . To-day the Shrewsbury is on a line with the New-Jersey Southern Railway track at Galilee , and the old farm homestead of Sidney Van Brunt is nearly submerged . All the docks and private landings is this neighborhood are covered with water . ATLANTIC CITY , N. J. , March 22 . ? The storm here is abating and the water is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peters Beach , , the latter place being the cause or much anxiety among the inhabitants of the inlet district , who watched the Peter 's Beach House , about three miles away , standing out in the ocean without any land visible about it . Charles Smith , the proprietor , and his wile are keeping boats ready in which to make their escape in case the threatened collapse of their home takes place . The foundation was partly washed away yesterday . The few people at Brigantine have been living almost entirely in boats since the storm began , their homes being submerged .                     