@@744694

txt The Republican politicians who have visited the capital since the adjournment of the Legislature report that Republicans throughout the State express a desire for harmony , and all factions seem ready to unite if a good ticket is nominated by a convention which will be considered representative of the true party feeling and be free from machine practices and disgraceful scenes , such as were witnessed at Saratoga last September . But while thousands of Republicans who deserted Secretary Folger in November are willing to come back into the ranks , it is evident that very many of them will not do so unless satisfactory assurances are ? given that the abuses against which they protested a year ago will not be repeated now orin 1884 . Reform in the party organization is an essential to Republican success in the State . and if the leaders do not recognize this the Democrats will have an easy victory at the coming election . Although the independents of last year are ready to bury past differences , they are still apathetic , and will take no interest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery , and the convention takes decided and advanced ground on the acknowledged issues of the times . There are some Stalwarts who believe that the tidal-wave of 1882 was only the outburst of a passing tornado , and think they can continue to play the same old game with safety , but evidence accumulates from Washington , New York , and other political centres that the leaders appreciate the situation and are preparing to make the concessions demanded . It is understood here that President Arthur and ex-Gov . Cornell , who represent the two factions which figured in the Saratoga contest , have reached an understanding about the campaign , and their forces will act together in the interests of harmony . A prominent politician who has just been here says the programme agreed upon embraces an early convention , called so as to include all shades of Republicans . Orders will be given , it is said , to the machine workers in the cities , who have become especially obnoxious to the independent voters , to keep in the background and allow the election of new men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is believed , the scheme adopted by the Central Committee will remove all dissatisfaction and ' secure a good set of delegates . A State Convention chosen in this manner , the managers think , will do its work in a way thoroughly acceptable to the rank and file , and the party will enter upon the canvass with bright pros- ' pects . The general features of the convention have been easily settled upon , but the management of the campaign to follow has been more difficult . Each faction has feared that if a rival secured control of the State Committee the strength of the organization would be directed to advancing the interests of that wing of the party . It was reported at one time that exGov . Cornell would be the next Chairman of the State Committee , but as the-rumors of his Senatorial aspirations began to circulate this idea was dropped . It is now said that the Hon. Silas B. Dutcher , ex-Superintendent of Public Works , has been accepted as the most available man . He is an indefatigable worker , a splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different factions . His activity in behalf of Cornell 's nomination last year gives him the support of the Cornell men , both machine and anti-machine . President Arthur showed his opinion of the man by offering him . the office of Commissioner of Internal Revenue , and Mr. Conkling and his friends ought to feel grateful to him for his untiring labors on the exSenator 's side in the long Senatorial campaign of 1881 . The anti-Cornell men have been rather suspicious that Mr. Dutcher might use the influence of this-position to aid the election of Cornell adherents to the State Senate , but these doubts have been removed by pledges that the Cornell movement will not be pressed this Tear , and Mr. Dutcher is now booked for State Committee Chairman . It seems to be taken for granted that the present Republican State officers  --  Secretary of State Carr , Controller Davenport , AttorneyGeneral Russell , and State Engineer and Surveyor Seymour will be renominated . None of them will make a canvass for the honor , and none will refuse to go on the ticket if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one time that the condition of his health would require him to go abroad next Winter , and thus prevent his being a candidate . He has , however , gained strength steadily during the Spring , and his consent to stand for a second term can now be obtained . Gen. Carr , Judge Russell , and Mr. Seymour will , it is believed , give rather a more hearty appearance to the renomination than Mr. Davenport . Of course , the talk about the old ticket does not include Gen. James W. Rusted , the defeated candidate for State Treasurer in 1881. 1f one who has great personal strength and popularity and has not figured in the recent party squabbles can be secured , he will bring many votes to the ticket . Only a few names have yetbeen mentioned for the position . Ex-Senator Stephen H. Wendover , of Columbia County , one of Mr. Conkling 's spartan band in 1881 , is said to want the honor , and Senator Edmund L. Pitts , of Orleans County , is also reported in the field . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this year Monroe County claims the right to select the Senator , leaving Mr. Pitts out in the cold . Wayne County has a candidate in the person of Pliny Sexton , a banker . A proposition to put ex-Assemblyman Henry L. Sprague , of New-York , who was defrauded of his seat by the Democratic Legislature , on the state ticket for Treasurer meets with considerable favor among young Republicans . 