@@743490

txt It is expected that at the beginning of the next session of Congress the Democrats in the House will at once proceed to the further consideration of the contested election case of McCabe against Orth , in the Ninth District of Indiana , with the purpose of making the vote of the State of Indiana in the House Democratic . It is well Imown that if the election of President should be thrown into the House , the vote would be so evenly divided that Congressman De La Matyr , of Indiana , the Greenbaeker , could either turn the scale in favor of the Republicans or throw the election into the Democratic Senate . The Democrats have been reasonably . sure of De La Matyr 's co-operation , but , in order to secure the National Legislature beyond a doubt on a vote by States , they endeavored , during the recent session , to unseat Mr. Washburn , of Minnesota , and put Ignatius Donnelly in his place . The history of the ineffectual attempt to do this has been made familiar to the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seated in Orth 's place , the vote of Indiana will be secured without the aid of De La Matyr . The case of McCabe against Orth was partly heard at the recent session , but the hearing was discontinued because McCabe , conscious of the weakness of his position , failed to complete his evidence within the time alotted by law , and virtually dropped the whole matter . But at the end of the session he was induced by the Democrats to take a step . which might furnish ground for a reopening of the case . Just before adjournment he submitteil a petition and some papers which the House ordered to be printed . This petition has been printed . In it , McCabe asks for authority to submit to the committee certain " newly-discovered evidence . " This evidence is to the effect , he asserts , that there are 24 ) or 30 persons who will swear that they were members of a secret organization in Tippecanoe County , in Orth 's district ; that this organization had 150 mem- bers , and that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by money paid by the Republican friends , supporters , and neighbors of Orth , with his knowledge and connivance , as the petitioner believes . The returns of the election gave to Orth 15,608 votes , to McCabe 15 , - 510 , and to a Greenbacker 4,571 , so that if the votes of this organization should be thrown out , McCabe would have a majority . When McCabe first claimed Orth 's seat , he based his claim upon a contested election in Montgomery County , where , he asserted , he could prove that many illegal votes were cast for Orth . Upon investigation , he says he found that these illegal votes were not sufficient in number to change the result of the election , and therefore he determined to proceed no further , unless a more extended inquiry should reveal sufficient additional illegal votes to turn the scale . He says in the petition that the alleged discovery of illegal votes in Tippecanoe County was made only a week or ten days before the time for the presentation of his evidence expired , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was seeking for such evidence with the greatest diligence . Inasmuch as there was not time in which to present this new evidence to the committee , he chose not to proceed at that time , although he expressly declined to relinquish or abandon the contest , or to waive any of the rights of his constituents or his own . Therefore , he now asks that the case be reopened , in order that he may submit this alleged evidence . It is understood that the case will be reopened if the necessities of the Democratic Party seem ? to demand such course , and that there will be as little delay as possible in pushing Mr. Orth out of his seat and placing Mr. McCabe in it by the force of a political majority , in order that the party may be able to elect a President in the National Legislature if it should fail to do so at the polls .                     