@@744597

txt Brooklyn has not yet made up its mind to what extent the opening of the bridge will change the lines of travel through its streets . The Union Ferry Company is said to cherish the comforting belief that the bridge will not prove a formidable rival to its boats and will make no serious inroad into its receipts . The Brooklyn City Railroad Company has during the past week learned for the first time that a bridge was in process of construction over the East River ? at least it has never before given any sign that it had heard the news , though its interest in the matter is second only to that of the ferry company . It has now bought property on Sands-street 90 feet in depth and running from the bridge approach to Fulton-street . Upon this ground , when the buildings are removed , it will establish a car stand . A certain proportion of the cars which are run to Fulton ferry will , on the opening of the bridge , be switched from the main line at Sands-street and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their loads of passengers crossing the bridge . The people of Brooklyn arc very much interested in the arrangements the City Railroad Company will make for the accommodation of those who use the bridge , and they have a right to demand that an intelligent and considerate regard for their convenience shall in some degree guide the company in its plans . All residents of Brooklyn and such New-Yorkers as occasionally visit the city across the river know that the horse car arrangements at Fulton ferry are abominable . Cars of something like a dozen different lines come down Fulton-street over a single track , and after passing the doors of the ferry-house are switched to their respective places in such a way that the crowds which ; pour out of the ferryhouse at certain hours of the early evening are forced to risk life and limb in the attempt to reach them . All passengers arriving on the boats are forced to cross , the line of the down-coming cars in order to reach the cars upon the stands . The railroad companies meet continued and energetic remonstrances upon this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to get ground enough at the ferry to give them room for the working of any better system . And when they are still more indignantly censured for the practice of holding cars on the stand until they are packed with a double load and for their refusal to put on cars enough to carry their passengers decently and comfortably , their answer is the same  --  that there is no room for more cars . The truth of these pleas has been distinctly and often challenged , but the company has all the advantage in the discussion which a resort to the non - possums argument always gives . But we believe our Brooklyn readers will agree with us that the managers of the horse railroads will be held guilty of a needless and impudent indifference to the opinion and wishes of their patrons if they do not make the opening of the bridge the occasion of some radical reforms in their methods . The division of the travel will rob them of their well-worn and somewhat flimsy excuse of the lack of room , and if they continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ packed with from 50 to 75 persons before it is allowed to start , the people of Brooklyn will probably take measures to provide themselves with such enlarged means of transportation as will make the horse railroad companies less insolently secure of the monopoly they have so abused . It is reported that the Brooklyn City Railroad Company will allow " one car in three " to be switched from the main line to the bridge . approach at Sands-street , the other two running to Fulton ferry , as at present . Is this because the company , in the interest of the Union Ferry people , wishes to discourage travel across the bridge by limiting the transportation facilities at the Brooklyn end ? It is barely possible that it will some time , for its own interest , conclude to run as many as two cars out of three to the bridge . But if it had the slightest wish to treat its passengers otherwise than as so many cattle to be hauled through the streets at five cents per head it would meet the wants of travelers over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their special accommodation , leaving the number running to the ferry undiminished , at least during the crowded morning and evening hours . There is no doubt that the travel by ferry will be large enough in volume to fill the cars on all its lines if it will be content with , say , 30 or 40 passengers per car instead of 70 . Upon the two stands , at the bridge and at the ferry , there will be abundant room to switch and turn all the cars needed to carry comfortably to their homes the people who cross the river every day , and nothing but the most odious stinginess on the part of the railroad companies can stand in the way of the necessary extension of the present facilities . Application has been made for permission to run a line of stages from the bridge through Washington and Fulton streets and Greene-avenue to Bedford-avenue . If it comes from a proper and responsible source it should be granted , for so long as horses must be depended upon to draw these thousands of people to their homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work . The opening of Flatbush-avenue through to the bridge and the establishment of rapid transit are talked of with a new and greater confidence of late , and even the distant parts of Brooklyn kindle with the hope of being brought as near New-York as Philadelphia is . These schemes are for the future , however . The subject we have discussed in the interests of our Brooklyn read- era is one of immediate interest . We hope the railroad companies will consider it in such a spirit of liberality as their enormous patronage and great profits should commend to them . 