@@781488

txt The announcement of the approaching completion of the crematory at Mount Olivet Cemetery might import nothing beyond the conversion of a few hundred dollars into bricks and mortar . But the fact that forty bodies are awaiting " fire burial " can not be misunderstood . It certainly indicates an unsuspected growth of opinion on this subject . It is even more remarkable , upon a wider view , to find that this movement began about the same time in several nations , and in each of them shows a natural and steady growth . There may be another explanation of this than the world-wide unity of intelligence and thought resulting from the modern press and telegraph . It now makes no difference in what remote spot an idea is born . If it have intrinsic strength straightway the continents and peoples throb responsively . It may be an error to trace to a Pennsylvania village the progress of cremation throughout most Christian nations . But there appears to be no other relation than that of time between the seve ral revivals of cremation . And America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under theosophic auspices in December , 1876 , appeared to be a purely sporadic freak of a not too sound mind . But it attracted attention and wide comment . Fifteen months later Mrs. PITMAN 'S body Was burned , and in October , 1879 , the body of Dr. LE MOYNE , who built the first furnace in the United States , was thus disposed of . He , too , was a fanatic on various topics . He was even said to be opposed to bathing , holding an occasional scratching of the skin with a table knife for a strigil to be a better substitute . These were not imposing leaders . But Germany followed . The Gotha Crematory was opened in 1878 , and 200 bodies have been burned there . In 1881 and 1882 the number was only 33 , in 1883 it was 47 , and in 1884 it was 54 . In Italy half a dozen crematories have been built , and the cremations now number 362 . In Milan there are 6,000 members of a single society . In France the topic has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although GAMBETTA favored a permissive law . The committee of the Belgian Chamber has favorably reported upon a petition for a law making cremation optional . No action has been taken in . Austria , it is believed , although opinion was officially gathered throughout the empire so early as 1878 . In England Lady HANHAM and the wife of Capt . HANHAM were cremated in 1882 , but they set no fashion , although they brought the subject prominently forward . The growth of cremation in the United States has been general . The NewYork Cremation Society was organized in this ; city in 1881 , as also was the United States Cremation Company , ( Limited . ) By this company was laid the cornerstone of the Mount Olivet Crematory , in November , 1884 . That was a good year for the cremationists . In Buffalo a company was organized with a capital of $10,000 ; at Boston the NewEngland Cremation Society was organized ; at Lancaster , Penn. , was built the second crematory and the first for general use , and the University of Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas is expected to be completed soon . In this year the original furnace at Washington , Penn. , was limited in its use . The demand for its offices had outgrown its capacity , and the Trustees announced that only residents  --  that is , former residents  --  in the county of Dr. LE MOYNE 'S home would be accommodated in the furnace built by him . It remains to add that in New-Orleans the Grand Jury has advised cremation in cases of public charity upon the ground that burial in the neighboring lowlands is at least a possible danger to the public health . But if it be possible to suggest only a probable explanation for the occurrence so nearly together of events so similar and yet so widely scattered upon the face of the earth , at least it is possible to understand the victory of reason over sentiment and prejudice . The religious argument against the " pagan " custom can scarcely overweigh the fact that cremation is numerically strongest in Rome , the seat of the world 's most conservative church . It is not meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appears that she finds no greater obstacle to the resurrection of the body in burning than in burial . The plea that cremation is illegal was settled for common law countries by the opinion of Sir J. STEPHEN to the contrary . Every argument from the fitness of things  --  at least as regards the neighborhood of cities  --  had previously favored the new , or rather the revived , custom . To the weight of reason now began to be added names of authority . Prof. S. D. GROSS , of Philadelphia , followed his wife in giving his body to be burned , and JOSEPH LEIDY , President of the Pennsylvania Academy of Natural Sciences , defended the act in the comment which followed . Prof. ADLER has often spoken in favor of cremation in this city and is one of the promoters of the crematory now building . Sir LYON PLAYFAIR and Sir JOHN LUBBOCK are cremationists . That GARIBALDI was not cremated was due solely to neglect of his solemn request . And the list could certainly be extended . These facts , taken together , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be doubted whether the idea is to gain over the majority . People are either indifferent about the grave and the furnace if they be strong-minded , or they are intrenched in unconquerable prejudice if they be of weaker mold . It may be that the sanitarians and the publicists will conquer their way . Their difficulty will be less in their arguments than in the nature of their case . So long as the disposition of the dead is left to the living , and so long as the living dislike to think about death , about so long whatever is may be expected to continue .                     