@@744838

txt In an interview with a reporter of THE TIMES , on Saturday , Mr. W. H. VANDERBILT , with his usual playfulness , derided and scouted the notion that he cared a rap for the West Shore Railroad , either as an investment or as a competitor . The West Shore Line runs parallel with the New York Central , with the Hudson between the two roads from New-York to Albany , and thence westward the twain run side by side . From the windows of Mr. VANDERBILT 'S particularly dirty cars one can look across the tracks of the rival road over which the roomy and handsome conveyances of the West Shore Road will soon be traveling . Exactly what connections in the West the new road will make , it is not now possible to say . There are various rumors and conjectures , but when the reporter asked our American Crcesu.s for information concerning the report that there was an attempt to force a purchase of the West Shore Road by the Vanderbilt interest , the great man , as we have said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price or for any purpose . He would not have it . He did not believe that the Grand Trunk wanted it , and he had no fear whatever of its competition . For the sake of public convenience in traveling , it is to be hoped that Mr. VANDERBILT , this time , really means what he says . It is demoralizing for prominent railway persons to set an example in the way of pinching facts to suit their convenience . And if the New-York Central Railway system is to have no competition and no wholesome dread of any , its niggardly management will last forever . ' " Competition is the life of trade , " quotes Mr. VANDERBILT , with great apparent heartiness , and people who travel have this truth forced upon them with great vigor . If the New-York Central Railroad should have a little wholesome rivalry , travelers by rail might hope to see its dimly lighted , dingy , and ramshackle cars replaced by others that have been built within the present century , wherein one may read and sleep with some comfort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now coming into general use , Mr. VANDERBILT 'S favorite railway feeding-cribs would disappear , and possibly the eastward-bound traveler from Chicago might at least be allowed to breakfast at Rochester , where he arrives at 7 A. M. , and not be kept fasting until the train reaches Syracuse , at 9:30 in the forenoon . That competition is the life of trade is as true of railroads as of other industrial enterprises , other magnates than Mr. VANDERBILT are obliged to confess . Nothing more antiquated and shabby in the way of railroad coaches can be found than those in use on the Central Pacific Road . The Directors and their friends may travel in rolling palaces , but the general public must be transported in antique arks of a pattern unknown and unused by any other line , and in which it is not possible to read print by the railway taper 's feeble ray . Since the Northern Pacific line with its modern coaches and appliances has been opened , there is industriously circulated a pleasing rumor that the Central Pacific Road is to be equipped with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what competition does for transcontinental travel . That is what it will do for the unfortunate people who must needs journey over the New-York Central Railroad , with its admirable road-bed and detestable coaches . That is what competition has done already for the Kansas Pacific branch of the Union Pacific Railroad , where conveyances that far outshine those on the main stem ( where there has been no competition ) are used . And this is why the public will hope that Mr. VANDERBILT means what he says , this time , and that he will not absorb the rival West Shore Road , but will profit by that competition which is the life of every trade .                     