@@745082

txt An example of the greater care generally exercised by the Senate , as compared with the House of Representatives , in the scrutiny and preparation of bills in committees is found in the report of the Senate Military Committee on the House bill providing for the correction of the muster-roils of the volunteer forces in the late war in certain cases . The House bill was very general in its terms , and directed the Secretary of War to so correct the muster-rolls that the muster of officers and enlisted men should cover the whole period during which they were regularly commissioned and actually performed the duties to which they were commissioned , in all cases where no charges are pending against them , and there was no fault or neglect on their part which delayed their muster in . The bill also provided that officers and men should receive the pay and allowances to which they would have been entitled if originally so mustered , less the amount they actually received . The Senate committee recommends the striking out of the whole of the House bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure . The substitute provides that the present laws shall be so construed that any person who was duly commissioned , whether his commission was actually received by him or not , shall be considered as commissioned from the date the document was actually issued by competent authority , and shall be entitled to all pay and emoluments as if . actually mustered at such date . He is not to be thus paid , however , unless at the date of his commission he was actually performing the duties of his position . The pay is to date from the actual commencement of such duties . The new law is only to apply to cases where the commission was issued prior to June 30 , 1803. or after that date when the recipient 's command was not below the minimum number requited by law . The Senate substitute also provides that the heirs or legal representatives Of any officer whose muster is amended under the bill may receive the arrears of pay due such officer . and the pension , if any is authorized by law . Section 3 requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years from its passage , and the last section provides that the pay and allowafice of a milk or grade paid to any military or naval officer in good faith for services actually performed by such officer in such rank or grade during the rebellion shall not he recovered back because of any defect in the title of the officer to the office , rank , or grade in which the services were performed .                     