@@745903

txt The management of the American Opera Company has repelled with promptness and vigor the attack of " a section of the clergy of St. Louis " upon the ballet . The clergymen in question have strongly intimated that the ballet of the American opera is neither a moral nor an instructive form of entertainment , and that Christians might be much better employed than in looking at it . Inasmuch as the American Opera Company set out to provide an entertainment which should be at once highly moral and deeply instructive , it was necessary that the ballet should be either dropped or defended . To drop it would be not merely to admit the justice of the strictures passed upon it by the clergy , but to abandon the project of establishing an academy of the ballet and thus opening a new avenue of work for women . Even if the managers had been willing to spare such of their receipts as the ballet attracted they could not be expected to give up this philanthropic purpose . Accordingly they have produced a defense of the ballet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ballet have always been recognized as an appropriate and harmless accompaniment of lyric art , " that " beautiful stage pictures are , perhaps , the nearest possible approach to celestial scenes , " that " to the pure all things are pure , " and that " to condemn without seeing is neither Christianlike nor reasonable . " They avow their willingness " to do all possible within the domain of artistic and historical reason to meet the religious feeling of the country , " but as they do not hint at dropping the ballet , it is to be presumed that an opera without a ballet is beyond the domain of artistic and . historical reason . The clergy certainly did not take into account the fact that there are ballets and ballets . The Pan-Athenaic procession is in. the nature of a ballet , and the clergy of St. Louis or any other city would not maintain it to be an exhibition of a " corrupting tend. - en.cy . " A parade upon the stage of the schoolmistresses of Massachusetts would be harmless , whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Even if the schoolmistresses danced , they would doubtless dance like Queen ELIZABETH , " high and disposedly , " and it would not occur to the clergy to object to the performance or to the laity to attend it . The distinguishing traits of the objectionable ballet are probably gauze and pink stockings . Those who fink these articles of raiment harmless and appropriate accompaniments of lyric art will no doubt continue to take their wonted seats in the front row , with a new solace derived from the reminder that - to the pure gauze and pink stockings are pure . When the coryphees assume the attitude described by the late THOMAS CARLYLE as that of a pair of scissors with one blade stuck upright in the floor and the other horizontal , these veterans will consider that all that is possible within the domain of artistic and historical reason has been done to meet the religious feeling of the country . And . when the premiere , after whirling twenty-two times on the point of her great toe , sinks in exhaustion with the small of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they will delight in the consciousness that they are beholding , " perhaps , the nearest possible approach to heavenly scenes . " It is to be feared , however , that these thrilling spectacles would fail to overcome the objections of the clergy of St. Louis , nor can we echo the complaint of the managers that the clergy have condemned the ballet without seeing . A body of clergymen which made a practice of going to see all the ballets , in order to decide which were sufficiently serious to be commended , would become connoisseurs of ballet dancing , but would scarcely increase the respect in which they are held by their parishioners . It is upon the whole safer and more dignified for them to stay away and to declare , on . information and . belief , that the ballet would be improved , from a clerical point of view , by being invested in drapery more voluminous and less diaphanous . Such a change would make ballet dancing a more eligible channel of usefulness to young women in search of a career , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the views of the purists in the front row who support the unregenerate ballet as that ballet fails to meet the views of the clergy of St. Louis .                     