@@745209

txt There has probably never been in this or any other country such an offensive exhibition of the worst spirit of trades unionism as is shown in the demand of the Master Plumbers ' Association that manufacturers and dealers in plumbing materials shall only sell to licensed plumb-. ers who exhibit a certificate of membership in an association . Its plain purpose is to exclude from the business of plumbing all men whom the associations do not see fit to admit to their " privileges " and to enable those in the associations to charge such prices as they please , free from the pressure of competition . It arises from one of the many tendencies to combination and monopoly by the exclusion of competition which characterize the present time . It is one of the most unjustifiable attempts to interfere with the personal rights and liberties of the people that has been recently made , and the manufacturers who submit to the demand will aid in the perpetration of a great public wrong . In the first place , any man who has the requisite skill and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exercise the craft of plumbing with out becoming the member of any association if he prefers his personal independence . No combination has the right , nor should it be permitted , to exclude him from the market for supplies or to dictate to him what he shall charge for his labor or his materials . In the second place , any man not a plumber has a perfect right to buy any plumbing materials he may have occasion to use for himself and to employ the skill necessary to put them to use in his own way , provided all legal requirements as to the character of the work are complied with . Any man plumber or not plumber , has a right to secure plans and specifications , estimates of cost , and whatever else he may have occasion for , wherever he sees fit , and any one else who can has a right to furnish them , whether he is a manufacturer or dealer in materials or not . And , finally , any manufacturer or dealer has an absolute right to sell his goods to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit him , to " figure on " plans and specifications , and to become surety on contracts if he sees fit . All these are rights upon which . no man or combination of men should be permitted to encroach . Every self-respecting citizen should use every means at his command to defend them , and if necessary the State should exercise its power for his protection . These multiplying violations of the rights of citizens by ' combinations of other citizens . are a thing that threatens to breed serious ? trouble . Plumbers have the right to form associations and through them to demand such prices as they can get , but they have no right to coerce any one into entering those associations or to enter into conspiracies to prevent those who keep out from getting anything to do , nor have they a right to conspire to control the market for materials . Workmen have the right to combine to secure higher wages or shorter hours , but they have no right to interfere with the liberty of such as do not choose to enter their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so impudent a , demand as that which has proceeded from the Master Plumbers ' Association . The Association of Dealers and Manufacturers in Plumbing Materials has very properly resented the interference , and doubtless its members will be able to maintain their rights .                     