@@745911

txt The second annual message of President CLEVELAND is a very plain presentation to Congress of " information concerning the state of the Union " and of recommendations for such legislation as appears " necessary and expedient . " A comprehensive statement of our foreign relations is given , which are for the most part altogether amicable . The President expresses his regret at the continued ill treatment of Chinese in this country and the hope that arrangements are to be effected with China which will secure at once an effective limitation of immigration and the protection of those Chinese who remain in this country . With regard to the Canadian fisheries trouble , he calls attention to the inadequacy of the treaty of 1818 , and speaks of the effort that has been made to secure an interpretation and application of its provisions which will be satisfactory . Ho pointedly intimates that the action of Canadian officials toward our fishermen during the past season has been such as to threaten the continuance of those " mutually beneficial and friendly relations " which are so much to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no hesitation in recommending a continuance of the relations with the Hawaiian Islands established by the reciprocity treaty of 1875 . An appeal is again made for the legislation necessary to carry into effect the reciprocity treaty with Mexico , and negotiations are promised for a new and enlarged treaty of commerce and navigation with that country . The facts in regard to the Cutting incident are candidly stated , and the pretension of Mexico to jurisdiction to try American citizens for offenses against Mexicans as defined by Mexican law , when those offenses are committed upon our soil , is squarely combated . The distinctions to be observed are clearly set forth , and the hope is expressed that in the interest of harmony and good feeling the statute under which the jurisdiction objected to is claimed will be " so modified as to eliminate the present possibilities of danger to the peace of the two countries . " A hopeful view is taken of the effort to avert commercial discriminations and reprisals in our trade with the Spanish colonies in the West Indies , and a favorable recommendation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the various department reports the President does little more than to present abstracts of the principal points and to enforce the suggestions made by the several officers at the head . of the departments . He recognizes the " absolute necessity " of provision for the defense of our harbors and coasts against possible foreign aggression , and expresses the hope that " effective steps will be taken in that direction immediately . " He also agrees with the Secretary of the Navy that encouragement should be given for the production in our own country of the steel required for heavy armor for vessels and for the most effective ordnance . The suggestions of the Postmaster-General in regard to a more extended mail service with South America are reinforced . The President thinks that the out1ay required " to secure additional postal service , necessary and proper and not otherwise attainable , should be regarded as within the limit of legitimate compensation for such service . " In referring to the affairs of the Department of Justice , he recommends the establishment of one or more penitentiaries for the confinement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which incidentally something might be done for the solution of the convict labor question . Some pertinent suggestions are made for the improvement of the administration of Indian affairs with a view to promoting the civilization of these " wards of the Nation " and the gradual change of their relations toward the Government to that held by other occupants of our soil . To direct this work the President again recommends the establishment of a commission , to be auxiliary to the other agencies of the Government for the care of the Indians . In speaking of pension matters ho deprecates the practical injustice and discrimination wrought by the failure of the present laws to cover all proper cases and the effort to supplement them by special acts , which give opportunity for favoritism and fraudulent claims , and he urges the adoption of a system " broad and comprehensive enough to cover every contingency " and make unnecessary " an objectionable volume of special legislation . " In referring to the plan for adjusting the obligations of the Pacific railroads to the Government the President cautiously , but with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken into account are the " situation of the Government as a creditor , and the surest way to secure the payment of the principal and interest of the debt . " The President gives evidence of his special solicitude for the laboring and agricultural interests of the country both in his discussion of the effect upon them of the revenue policy and his renewed reference to the possibility of promoting arbitration in labor disputes by national action . His reference to civil service reform shows that he does not in the least swerve from his earnest faith in the value of the system established . He makes an admirably clear and concise statement of its significance and effect . On the whole the message is one to which hardly any exception can fairly be taken , being unpretentious , patriotic , straightforward , and businesslike.                     