@@671939

txt Nothing in out recent history is more curious than the transfer Of the moral weight and influence of . the country from the Republican to the Democratic Party in national- politics : Of the fact of this transfer there can be no doubt . Of course the great mass of the men who voted for BLAINE in 1884 and who will vote for HARRISON this year are of the ' shore character as those ' who voted for LINCOLN and . for GRANT . But , as a wise man has said , men act , according to custom . The name Republican is still a , synonym with these voters for all that is excellent and admirable and the name Democrat for all that is base and detestable . To see in which direction the moral balance of the country is tending , we need to look at the men upon whom party ties sit loosely and for whom party names have no other value than that of the things actually signified by them . It was the just pride of the Republican Party that most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they thought a bad nomination or . an unworthy platform , habitually voted with the Republican Party . There is one very important " vote , " that is to say , a large proportion of the German vote , which was always independent , as was to be expected both from the intelligence of the voters and from their absence of any inherited or traditional prejudice for or against either of the American parties . Now , this independent vote , most of which was cast for GRANT , for HAYES , and for GARFIELD , was cast for CLEVELAND in 1884 , and elected him , and . it appears that it'will be still more largely cast for him this year . It can not be said that the Democratic Party as a party has ctono anything to deserve this transfer . The urgent questions of the past few years have been questions of finance and revenue and questions of administrative reform . In the matter of the currency , when inflation was threatened by irredeemable paper the record of the Democrats was decidedly worse than that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When inflation was threatened by means of depreciated silver , there was really nothing to choose between the parties . The traditions of the Democratic Party as a low-tariff party , and . the fact that its strength is mainly in States in which nobody profits by the abuses of the tariff , have made it comparatively easy for the - party to undertake the reform of those abuses . They had the same advantages for the reform of the civil service , since they had not profited by its abuses . But here the party has made no better record fo-2 itself than the Republicans . Whatever has been dime for this reform during the Administration of CLEVELAND has been done by the President in spite of his party , as is shown , not only by the hostile or indifferent attitude of all the other leaders , but by the paltry and quibbling resolution upon this subject which disgraces the Democratic platform . It is true that there is no prospect of getting a larger measure of reform from the Republicans than from the Democrats , nor so large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of all his shortcomings , has given earnest , of his intention to give , but it would be absurd to support the Democratic Party as a party of civil service reform . In State politics the Democrats have shown themselves at their very worst . In New-York and in New-Jersey especially , from the Governors down , they have sounded the lowest depths of degradation in their unscrupulous devotion to the " labor interest " and the " liquor interest . " It is therefore not what the Democrats have clone , except what has been done by a President far better , stronger , and braver than his party , that has sent the moral weight of the country to their side . It is what the Republicans have done to disgust and repel conscientious and independent voters . It is the fact that the control of the Republican Party organization has fallen into the hands of men to whom politics is merely a trade like any other and who have made it more disreputable than almost any other . It is the Steve Elkinses and Tom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ praitorian guard putting up the empire at auction . When a party arrives at that state in which it is a serious question whether a man can not buy its nomination to the Presidency with money Paid to the " leaders , " and when the " leaders " put out a platform which is simply a speculation upon the gullibility of the voters , intelligent and conscientious voters must feel that such a party has outlived its usefulness . 