@@743612

txt The inventors of the infamous " Chinese hoax " may justly be given the credit for having been the means of causing a bloody riot in the city of Denver , Col. If these mischievous persons had not imported into the campaign an issue which is wholly irrelevant , the outburst of barbarism in Colorado would not have been possible . It is an addition to the wickedness of this miserable business that the so-called issue has been raised by means of forgery . But aside from the fraudulent character of the invention , the stratagem employed by the Democrats was base and mean . It was an appeal to the selfish passions of men . Even if Gen. GARFIELD had entertained sentiments like those contained in the counterfeit " Chinese letter , " the use made of the weapon wielded by the Democrats would have been quite as unmanly and tricky as it has been in the present case . There has never been in the discussion of this matter , from beginning to end , any effort on the part of the Democrats to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " bogy , " a ridiculous scarecrow . The evil passions thus awakened have , in one city , at least , been wreaked in bloodshed , incendiarism , and riot . It may be said to the credit of the peaceable citizens of Denver that the riot in that place last Sunday is supposed to have been chiefly the work of Democratic repeaters and colonists , who were imported into Colorado for the purpose of voting fraudulently to-day . These ruffians , having paraded on Saturday night , making much display of devices intended to excite men against the Chinese , persuaded themselves that the mock , issue which they had raised was a real one . Inflamed with strong drink , and besotted with overmuch Democracy , they lashed themselves into a fury against the Chinese . They resolved to drive them out of the country or kill them out of hand , as it were , without waiting for HANcomes election and the year of jubilee . After " making a night of it " in the streets , these patriots , who went to Denver to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by Sunday noon , to destroy the Chinese . They , accordingly , tore down or gutted the Chinese houses , started fires in different places , killed or beat the hapless foreigners , and finally took possession of the city , defying the Police and the law-abiding people of Denver . This shameful affair is thoroughly characteristic of the men upon whom the Democratic Party founds its strength . The rioters were lawless , ignorant , and dissolute . They were ready to reach their ends by violent means . They did not know how disproportionate to the evil of which they professed to complain was the machinery which they employed . And they were of that baser sort which is bravest when drunk . There are about 150 Chinese in Denver . As in most of the newly built settlements in the West , they are employed in useful menial occupations , A. majority of them are laundrymen ; some are market gardeners , and a few have been employed in street-cleaning and as helpers in humble trades . In a normal condition of things , these inoffensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outskirts of the city , in cheap and not over-clean tenements , and are too feeble in numbers to be a " moral blot , " or to threaten any industry in which white people desire to engage . If Denver , had suddenly been invaded by a band of the much-dreaded Utes , the proceedings would have been very like those witnessed there on Sunday . In this case , however , the barbarians were American citizens , so intent on preserving the purity of American institutions that they resorted to murder , incendiarism , and violence . They did not have even the poor exctise of being Maddened by the resistance of the Chinese . For these people are so feeble-spirited that they fly in terror at the slightest approach of danger , never once thinking of tarrying to defend their property . In common with the more highly civilized Caucasian , the Chinaman sets great store by his own life . It may not be of much account to the rest of mankind . To him it is highly valuable . It will not do for those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have projected into the canvass the Chinese question to say that this is merely an accidental demonstration of feeling . The cause of the bloody and . disgraceful riot in Denver , which stains the record of the day , was the invention of a fictitious issue in the canvass . Ignorant people were told that as soon as ? GARFIELD should be elected the country would be flooded with Chinese cheap labor , and that all white laborers would become paupers . The most violent diatribes were leveled against the Chinese , for the purpose of exciting men of the baser sort against the Republican Party , which was falsely charged with encouraging Chinese immigration . The wickedness of this course was evident from the first , and it has been signally illustrated by the riot to which that course has in one instance directly led . The Democratic managers , at their wits ' end for some expedient to check the popular current , invented the bogus Chinese letter , and then appealed to the people to vote against a party which was sought to be held responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruffians in Denver murdered and destroyed they might have truthfully said that they had been incited by the Democratic National Committee , of which ex-Senator W. H. BARNUM is Chairman .                     