@@780798

txt The Democratic senators have been summoned to assemble in caucus at 10 o'clock on Monday morning . It is announced that the caucus has been called for the purpose of determining a course of action in relation to the vacant Secretaryship , but it is surmised the real purpose of the meeting is much more serious and important . Senator Garland , it is said , has a resolution to authorize the Chief Clerk to act as Secretary until the Senate shall fill the vacancy , but it seems that some of the Democrats insist that a Secretary shall be chosen at once and thus dispose of the matter . While it is likely that this question will occupy the attention of the caucus , it is intimated that the question of offering a resolution to depose Senator Davis from the Presidency pro tern . by electing a Republican will also be considered . The Democrats are very much incensed toward Senator Davis because of his action or non-action on this question , and some of them openly say that they would preifer to see a Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthony should that Senator 's name be presented , in order to depose Judge Davis . Even should the Democrate Senators decide to present Mr. Anthony 's name for the Presidency pro tem. through one of their number , it is not likely that the Republiceus would sustain the movement , for the reason that by doing so they would be made the instrument of punishing Judge Davis for accepting at their hands and without any solicitation on his part the position he now holds as presiding officer of the Senate . If the purpose of such a movement should be to place the Repubhcan Senators in the awkward posision of voting against one of their own numtiaer Presiding officer , it would be equally rutile , because neither Mr. Anthony nor any other Republican Senator would permit his game to be used in that way . The Senate to-day determined to adjourn from Monday until Friday next in order that the members may accompany the President to Yorktwon end participate M the ceremonies to be held there neat week . The members of the Cabinet , except perhaps Messrs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . The French and German visitors will also leave here on Monday- , in charge of Secretary Blaine , on the United States steamer Kaatskill . A stop will be made at Mount Vernon to enable the visitors to inspect the home and tomb of Washington . NOTES FROM THE CAPITAL . WASHINGTON , Oct. 15. 1881 . Secretary ' Windom to-day received $50 conscience money from an unknown person in Cleveland , Ohio . At 3 P. M. , the hour of closing the department to-day , Secretary Windom had received an amount of 3e4 per cent , bonds slightly in excess of the $5,000,000 he offered to receive for redemptionZon and after Monday next . The Post Office Department is informed that there are upward of $1,750,000 in the NewYork Post Office , the result of accumulations from money orders unpaid since the system was originated . Congress will probably be asked at its next session cover this money into the Treasury . The chiefs of bureaus of the War and Navy Departments and the officers of the Army and Navy on duty in this city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 11:30 to-day , and were formally presented by Secretaries Lincoln and Hunt , respectively . The books of the 5 per cent , funded loan of 1881 , continued at 33 ? per cent. , being closed for the purpose of preparing the checks for the dividend of Nov. 1 , the United States Assistant Treasurer at New-York has been instructed that should any such bonds be included in the weekly purchases the seller must deposit the amount of the interest on the bonds from Aug. 12 to Oct. 31 , both days inclusive , as the dividend will be paid to the persons in whose names the bonds stood on Oct. 1 . The bonds purchased will be paid for at the regular price of par and interest accrued to date of purchase .                     