@@780642

txt The session of the Congo Conference to-day was presided over by Count von Hatzfeldt , the German Minister of Foreign Affairs . A programme of proposals was presented on of the German Government , for which the sanction of the conference was asked . The programme was referred to a committee composed of the delegates of Germany , France . England , America , Spain , Belgium , and Portugal . Baron de Courcel , the French Ambassador , will preside over the deliberations of the committee , which will decide the questions of the frontiers claimed by the various States . The meetings of the committee will be attended by assistants and experts , and a week will be consumed in the discussion of the matters to be brought before it . Gen. Sandford has been appointed an additional delegate to the Congo Conference for the United States , and attended to-day 's sitting . Count von Hatzfeldt , the German Minister of Foreign Affairs , gave a dinner to the delegates to-day . Count Herbert Bismarck paid a visit yesterday to Mr. Henry M. Stanley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other powers will soon follow Germany 's example . LONDON , Nov. 19 . ? The Berlin correspondent of , the Times says that Portugal , while maintaining . her territorial rights at the mouth of the Congo River , has privately informed the members of the conference that she accepts the principle of free trade on the whole river . PARIS , Nov. 20 . ? A telegram from Berlin states that an agreement has been about concluded between England and Germany , whereby the Congo Conference will establish rules relative to the trade on the Niger River , intrusting to England the execution of the agreement . The idea of the formation of an international commission is , therefore , abandoned . LONDON , Nov. 20 . ? The Standard 's Berlin dispatch states that at the meeting of the conference yesterday the delegates from Portugal read a memorandum insisting upon Portugal 's right to the Congo , when the Hon. John A. Masson , the American delegate , replied , Pointing out somewhat sarcastically that Mr. Henry M. Stanley , in all his long journeys on the Lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Portuguese dominion or civilizing influences as were now claimed . He had , in fact , said Mr. Kaoson , found everything and everybody but Portuguese . The committee on the programme was then appointed .                     