@@744541

txt Those who are in the way of hearing complaints about the condition of business are aware of many symptoms of uneasiness , especially in those lines which depend for activity and profit on the prosperity of manufacturing industry . They are frequently told that manufacturers are doing poorly and have a dismal prospect before them . There is a plethora in production and sales are practically confined to the home market , which is too restricted for their needs . Under the stimulus of a few years of success following a long period of depression appliances and facilities have been extended with the inevitable result of " over-production . " For this there is no outlet , and stocks have accumulated until there is a strong pressure on prices . But prices can not go down to the point which would relieve the market by exportation without entailing loss , because there is no chance for a corresponding decline in the cost of production . The cost of imported material is beyond the control of our manufacturers . It is fixed in the first instance in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Congress refuses to ? remove . This bolsters up the price of domestic materials. , The standard of wages is fixed by causes equally beyond control . Of course , workmen do not readily change their occupation and will bear considerable pressure before they are driven from present employment . But they will resist this pressure as long as possible , and their sense of the justice of their claims in the matter of compensation will be determined by the general standard of wages which prevails and the conditions which surround American labor in general . Manufacturers are reluctant to attempt a reduction of wages , knowing that it will cause resistance , trouble , and distress , and they can not reduce the cost of materials . So they are compelled to " rub along " as best they can , making little or nothing , incurring loss from time to time , and forced to restrict production . The inevitable result of this state of things is the breaking down of the weaker concerns , and already failures are beginning to multiply . Each suspension tends to aggravate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insolvent concern upon the market for what it will fetch , thus helping to break it down . Moreover , the creditors who lose part of their dues are likely to be thereby crippled and pushed to the brink of failure themselves . There are many who tell us that the manufacturing interests of the country are at this moment in a perilous condition . The cause is simply and solely the restriction of their market occasioned by the high cost of production and the obstruction of commerce with other countries . Manufactures have been fostered or have grown to a point where the home market is not sufficient , and the cost at which they are carried on , together with the impediment put in the way of the importation of goods to be exchanged for their product , make it impossible to reach foreign markets . One illustration of the effect of high duties on raw materials may be cited . The manufacture of brass goods has grown to large dimensions in the neighboring State of Connecticut . The raw material is copper and zinc . There is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mining company to grow enormously rich while selling its product in Europe at 4 or 5 cents a pound below the price which it exacts here . The result is that our brass manufacturers can not hope to compete in the foreign markets where raw material from our own mines is cheaper than it is at home . A secondary effect is to restrict the demand for the zinc ore which we also produce and are able to export . Our manufactures are , in fact , being strangled by protection , and all the trade which is in any degree dependent on their prosperity suffers . The suspensions in the iron business illus- trate very strongly the evil of stimulating domestic production and excluding foreign competition . The effect is to build up the manufacturing establishments very rapidly while there is an active demand for their product . They are extended to meet the maximum requirement of the most prosperous times . The prices which they maintain and which for the time give them heavy profits tend ; to check the demand , and after a while it falls off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product , as there was before no inlet for competition , which would have checked them in time and kept their prices within reason . There is no chance to reduce expenses materially , and there is a collapse of the weaker concerns and a crippling of the stronger . Meantime it is the workmen that suffer most keenly . If there is trouble impending in the business world , of which there are many indications , it is directly due to the iniquitous policy embodied in the tariff , and it is aggravated by the uncertainty which Congress keeps like a shadow over the country . That policy is , in fact , the source of the frequent and violent fluctuations which so demoralize the industries and the commerce of the country .                     