@@743325

txt Those who resist any change in the amount or character of the United States notes seem to think that they have brought forward an argument that can not be answered when they ask if we wish to make the country depend wholly on the national banks for its circulating medium . These gentlemen appear to forget that so long as the United States notes remain outstanding , and the present redemption law is in force , it will make practically no difference whether these notes are legal tender or not . If they are kept redeemable at the Sub-Treasury in this City on demand , they will serve all the purposes that they now serve , and equally well . They will be received by every one with entire confidence and safety . If they cease to form a part of the bank reserve , as they probably would , though that is not absolutely necessary , they would be replaced by coin . The only Measure which would reduce the paper currency in this connection would be the cancellation of the United States notes , either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury or by the operation of a law directing their withdrawal . If they should be thus withdrawn and canceled they would be replaced by the coin with which they would be redeemed , so that , while the paper currency would be reduced , the currency as a whole would not be changed . Whether the notes were simply deprived of the legal-tender quality , or whether they were gradually paid off , there would be no contraction of the currency . We should be no more dependent on the national banks for the circulating medium than we now are . It would still remain true , as it now is , that the currency could not be legally extended except by national bank issues , or by imports of coin , and it could not be reduced except by the surrender of national bank notes by the banks , or the export of coin . It will naturally be asked , why , then , deprive the notes of the legal tender quality , and , especially , why retire them ? The answer is very simple . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be kept up if the notes are to remain a safe currency , is a very uncertain and risky one . It may be broken down by a drain of gold from the country.and the continuous coinage of silver . It is in still greater danger from the assertion of the power of Congress to keep legal tenders in circulation , e. , to constantly make forced loans , which power wouldnot be abandoned if redemption should become difficult ; which would , in fact , be used and extended in such an emergency . There is no doubt that if the paper-money party can resist successfully the present movement to put the currency on a sound basis , it would be greatly strengthened , and the difficulty of renewing that movement would be greatly increased . The principle of the paper-money men would have gained prestige . If a reverse should happen in our foreign trade , and the gold which we refuse to incorporate permanently in the currency should flow out again , a situation would be created in which the Greenback idea would instantly and strongly assert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained the right to regulate the currency by the use of legal-tender paper ; that the Supreme Court had decided that such paper could be issued In an emergency of which Congress must be the judge ; that there was no essential difference between reissuing notes that had been redeemed and issuing new ones , and that it was the duty of the , representatives of the people to come to their rescue when the currency was likely to be reduced by its export to foreign countries . Against such a feeling as this it would be very difficult to make headway . This would be particularly true if , as seems certain , the next Congress be chosen on issues unconnected intimately with the finances . It is , therefore , important , that whatever is to be done should be done promptly , and that the currency should be made sound at a time When the paper withdrawn can be promptly and easily replaced by gold . But while , as we have shown , the gradual cancellation of the legal tenders would not necessarily affect the present volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national banks the task of increasing the paper currency should it become necessary to do so . So far from denying this fact , it should be advanced as one of the strongest arguments in favor of the policy of cancellation . The national banks under the present system , with such nfbdifieations as would secure continued actual redemption of their notes in coin , are the best possible agency for the increase of the paper of the country . In their hands , the power of increasing or withdrawing the notes would , under the conditions suggested , be as nearly safe , and at the same time as completely responsive to the real needs of the country , as it is possible for it to be . Whenever the demand for more currency for legitimate purposes of business becomes sufficient to make additional issues profitable , such issues would be made . When that demand was lessened , the issues would be as gradually and surely withdrawn . We do not intend to assert that the issues would never be excessive or the withdrawal never too sudden or too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being increased by an unwholesome and extravagant demand for money , they would unquestionably , to some extent , respond to such a demand , as well as to one which was legitimate . Having responded to it , and extended their note issue too much , they might be led. to try to protect themselves by extreme measures of contraction . But these twin evils can not wholly be avoided under any system . They are inherent in the modern modes of business . Where credit is given and taken as freely and dangerously as it is in every country at present , in times of progressing activity in trade and speculation , such errors must inevitably occur , and no possible scheme of banking can wholly guard against them . But our national banks would be as little liable to them as any note-issuing agency could be . If the Banking law were so amended that every bank should be required to actually redeem its issues at appointed centres at frequent stated intervals , the danger would be reduced to its minimum . And whatever should happen , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these issues , there would always be the immense advantage over every other system ever tried on an extensive scale in this country , that the note-holders would be perfectly safe . The temptation to overissues would be counteracted by the amount of capital which would have to bo tied up in the low-interest bonds deposited as security for the notes , and , however yielded to , nothing could imperil the perfect soundness of the notes . The banks might unduly encourage speculation by lending their notes on imperfect security and to borrowers engaged in hazardous enterprises , but the notes , in whosever hands they should be found , would always be worth their face . In times of reaction , the effort to call in these notes might embarrass the debtors of the banks , but it woukl never entail the slightest risk or trouble to note-holders on account of the notes themselves . So far , then , from the substitution of the 2,000 national banks in the place of Congress , as the source from which an increase of paper currency must come , being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of the banks , with the power to make such an increase under the restrictions and conditions which exist , or ought to be imposed , is the strongest possible argument in favor of ? such withdrawal . No country was ever so fortunately situated as our own is , from this very fact , to extricate itself from the difficulties and dangers of Government legal tender loans . 