@@743893

txt Among the questions which the convention of bankers at Niagara Falls next month will take up is that of the future of the national bank system . None could be more important , or , as it seems to us , more timely . The country has happily at last fought its way , though painfully and at great cost . through many of the perils which beset it , growing out of the disturbances caused in the currency by the war . It has reached a point where its paper money , whether issued by the Government or by the national banks , is equal to gold in every part of the Union , and where there is no immediate difficulty in maintaining this complete and equal exchangeability . It ought to be possible , therefore , to look back over the experiences through which we have gone , and to learn from them some lessons , at least , of value in the future . And it should be particularly possible for practical financiers , for bankers and bank officers , coming into intimate daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs and desires , to throw light on the questions which must sooner or later arise . The prejudices arising naturally from the conflicting interests of debtor and creditor , which made all fair discussion of the currency for a long time excessively difficult , are for the present allayed , if not removed . It is now for the interest of every one that the currency shall be made permanently as sound , as safe , and as useful as it now is . While it is possible at the present moment to approach the discussion of the currency under more favorable circumstances than at any previous time , it should be said that the necessity of taking it up and thoroughly studying it is all the greater because the present situation can not be relied on to continue . On the contrary , it has within it the elements of change , and of change , probably , for the worse . The interests which are now in harmony may , and in all likelihood will , again become conflicting:unless the system now in so fortunate a condition is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the natural course of events , the country will be compelled to choose between a paper currency issued by the Government and subject to the control , more or less arbitrary , of Congress , and a currency issued by the banks , under the restraining provisions of Federal law . Two facts hasten the approach of this decisive period . One is the fact that the charter term of most of the national banks will expire within the next few years ; the second is the fact that the public bonded debt , which forms the essentis .. 1 . security for banking circulation , is being rapidly reduced in amount , while the interest on it is also being cut down to a point where the issue of currency upon it , considering the taxes to be paid , will no longer be profitable . As the privilege of issuing currency is absolutely the only thing which makes banking practicable under the Federal law , because it is the only consideration offered for compliance with all the restrictions and conditions imposed by that law , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be renewed unless the situation is such as to make national banking profitable . If they be not renewed , the alternatives in the matter of currency which will be presented will be paper money issued by the Federal Government or the repeal of the present tax on State bank circulation . The latter , we are confident , will not be readily adopted . The country has had enough  --  too much , indeed ? of State bank notes . It is not credible that it would go back to them now , with all their uncertainty , difficulty , inconvenience , and dangers . The choice will be between providing some essentially fair way of continuing the national bank system or falling back on Federal notes . We need not say how much the latter is , in our judgment , to be dreaded . We believe it to be practically impossible in this country , with our present political methods , to make a system of Federal paper money which shall not be radically defective and , dangerous . Under the most favorable conditions , the creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the greatest difficulties . It has not been tried with any success on a large scale in any great commercial country of modern times . Such an experiment with us would have to encounter many and great dangers from the demoralization- which the spoils system has produced in our politics , which has made it almost impossible to get any great question treated fairly , honestly , and thoroughly on its merits . The selfishness , unscrupulousness , and want of conscientious conviction which have been shown by politicians of all parties regarding finance , in our country and in very recent times , would be sure to influence the legislative discretion in regard to a Federal currency . But if we are not to have Federal paper money it will be largely left to the bankers of the country to prevent it by presenting some safe , liberal , and wise scheme for the continuance and extension of the bank circulation . We trust that this vital question will be taken up in an adequate manner at the approaching convention . It should be treated not only from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view as well . Any proposed plan should avoid dangers and also the appearance of dangers . The bankers have hitherto acted with moderation and intelligence . They have now arrived at a point which may be decisive of the fortunes of the national banking system . We trust that they will be able to make a valuable contribution toward the settlement of the questions which must sooner or later be decided , and the decision of which will ultimately depend on the in- telligence of the public opinion which the bankers can do a great deal in forming .                     