@@743933

txt Judge Black 's severe criticism on Buchanan 's administration of affairs just before the outbreak of the war has brought out a somewhat emphatic reply from an old-time friend of President Buchanan , Mr. Joseph D. Baker , whom Buchanan appointed Collector of the port of Philadelphia in 1857 . Mr. Baker 's relations with Mr. Buchanan were always of the most intimate character . His statement , which the Press will print to-morrow , is substantially as follows : " To begin with , Judge Black seems to have taken credit to himself for the initial steps that asserted the dignity and integrity of the Nation . He said that Mr. Buchanan was ' timid , undecided . ' These are equally fallacious . He was constitutionally a very courageous man , and if he over showed any indecision it may be attributed to circumstances more harassing and difficult than had surrounded any Executive since the Nation was instituted . I went to Washington on Dec. 26 , the day it became known that Major Anderson had evacuated Fort Moultrie and transferred his command to Fort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the President had been using all his authority and diplomacy to avoid . In the excited condition of feeling in South Carolina , the act was there regarded as one of hostility , and it also called forth the latent differences in the Cabinet which had for months been scattering thorns in the President 's path . Cass had already quit the Cabinet because the forces in Charleston Harbor had not been strengthened , and Cobb and Thompson had also resigned , because the President would make no pledge to the seceding States not to strengthen those ? fortifications . The other fraction of the President 's advisers counseled that secession was unconstitutional , but that sovereign States could not be coerced . The President told me at the time that his Cabinet troubles gave him more annoyance than the political situation did . It is well to remember that whatever act originated with the President was contemptuously discussed by both extremists , and even the dismissal of a Cabi net officer would have been unfavorably construed . I have reason to believe that Secretary Cass would have withdrawn his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President , in company with Judge Black , to effect that purpose , but was so coldly received that the overture was not repeated . This event oceurred after he became convinced that the President was determined to assert the national control of the forts , arsenals , Custom-houses , and other public property . " In this determination President Buchanan never wavered . He saw the drift toward war much more clearly than any public man of whom I have knowledge . He was very averse to accepting the nomination , because he apprehended that the civil strife which he knew impended would culminate during his Administration . I frequently heard him say , even before the canvass which elected him , that the sectional feeling must inevitably result in war and bloodshed . He was thoroughly acquainted with the Southern feeling and their expectations of bloodless withdrawal , but he thoroughly understood the Northern temper as well , and that a hostile act , eotnina. from Southern sources , would arouse the Northern people on masse . That was the problem that confronted him . Cabinet differences were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout his acts how steadily he kept in view his purpose to maintain the authority of the Government . Judge Black , no doubt , thinks honestly that the determination to reinforce Sumter was due in a measure to his arguments . I believe that the act was determined upon before his opinion as Attorney-General or Secretary of State was asked . In the inharmonious relations of the Cabinet , the President was accustomed to ask many questions for advice which masked his designs . He may have even employed duplicity , or , as it is sometimes called , , diplomacy , In calling out the real sentiments of his advisers . In his determination to succor Fort Sumter he was opposed by many eminent citizens of opposite political faith . In fact , Greeley , Sumner , and the extremists of the Abolitionists , stood almost as one in advocating it . Seward and other eminent Republicans counseled the withdrawal of the troops . The extreme secessionists of South Carolina were simply afraid that it would be done and that they thus would be deprived of a very powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact is that he made particular confidants of none of his Cabinet officers . As Cobb once said , ' We were much like a lot of boys . ' He heard them and acted on their advice if it accorded with his views , contrarily if it did not suit him . As far as the attacks made by Gen. Scott subsequently were concerned they were the drivel of a man : in his dotage . He was regarded by the people as the ablest General of the country , and this impression was so strong that the Northern people would have regarded his retirement an act designed to strengthen the hands of the disunionists . As soon as his incapacity was proved President Lincoln had no difficulty in retiring him . It would have been construed an act of treason in his predecessor . " Mr. Baker says that President Buchanan would undoubtedly have asserted the national authority by force of arms if war had been precipitated during his Administration , but hesitated to commit any overt act in that deli cate time . Tie desired to deliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communications during the early stages of the war , Stanton , and Lincoln himself , commended the policy pursued by President Buchanan , .                     