@@745408

txt The first success of RIEL 'S rebellion is much like the success of a mob in destroying property . It brings the rioters no nearer the fulfillment of any public purpose . The half breeds wage war very much in the manner of the Indians who have joined them . They have committed a few murders and a great many depredations , and their only purpose seems to be to possess themselves of the enemy 's valuables . Of course , inasmuch as the conflict is evidently one between savagery and civilization , it is to be deplored that the savages have gained a first success which is likely to encourage them . If the first rising had been promptly put . down we should probably have heard of no second . At the same time it would be unjust to blame the Canadian Government for not having displayed more vigor . The cause of law and order in the Saskatchewan is an abstraction ; the Government is merely a name . A few officials represent it , some of whom have been already murdered . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot or within easy reach . If the Canadian Pacific and its branches were completed the rising would have been easily put down , Put in that case the rising would not have occurred . It must be owned that RIEL and his companions have taken an effectual method to call the attention of the Canadian Government to their grievances . At the same time they have put it out of the power of the Government to redress those grievances . - No Government , without abdicating its authority altogether , can consent to parley with its subjects arrayed in rebellion against it . They must either overcome it , in which case the rebellion becomes a revolution , or it must overcome them , before it can make any change in the laws which they regard as oppressive . The grievance of the half breeds seems to be a real grievance , and such a grievance as might easily occur anywhere in the early stages of reducing a wilderness to civilization . The Government has undertaken ' to survey the whole country with the view of making , allotments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own convenience by laying out the country in " sections " of square miles , which are to be subdivided among the settiers . These rectangles are measured . off as the work proceeds , apparently without regard either to the natural features of the country or to the habitations or claims of the settlers , mainly half breeds , who are already in possession . Even when the half breed bas not established a habitation he has staked out a " claim , " and he has " located " it , as a matter of course , with the greatest possible frontage upon one of the rivers , which are the only highways of the wilderness . No record existing anywhere of these claims , the Government at Ottawa has disposed of many of them to persons who had acquired no rights by settlement , but who had complied , as the half breeds in possession had failed to comply , with the requirements of the law , and there has been the amount of rascality in obtaining patents which might be expected . The half breeds now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the claims arising from patents where there is a conflict ; that each settler shall have his possession to the extent of 240 acres con. firmed by patent , that his " location " of his land shall be respected , and that the Government shall make provision for the education of the children of the half breeds and for the support of the Indians whose alliance is courted by this demand . Here are all the elements of a long and angry quarrel . Of the ultimate result of the conflict there can , of course , be no doubt , but before that result is realized the rebels may do an immense deal of mischief . RIEL is evidently more distinguished by energy than by discretion ; he has private wrongs of his own which have embittered him beyond the point of being satisfied with what is reasonable , or even what is for his own interest and for that of his followers , and he is absolute master of the territory in dispute . The few officials and satisfied settiers are absolutely helpless against him until they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a costly and troublesome and , above all , a slow process . Before the rebellion is finally put down it may easily be that its leader will have so enraged the people of Canada against his followers that they will be in no mood to listen even to just and reasonable appeals from the half breeds of the Northwest .                     