@@743604

txt At the meeting of the Executive Committee of the National Republican Committee on Thursday , a sub-committee , consisting of William E. Chandler , of New-Hampshire ; John A. Martin , of Kansas , and Richard C. McCormick , of Arizona , was appointed to prepare an address to the party to be submitted to the National Committee today . The sub-committee yesterday prepared the address , which was adopted last evening , and directed to be issued to the Republicans of the country . It is as follows : To Ike Republican niers of Me Union : The elections of Tuesday last clearly show that with continued zeal and systematic effort the Republican triumph in November will be complete and overwhelming . Our plurality in Ohio is about 22,000 , being . a gain of 6,000 over the exceptionally large plurality of 1819 , white the election of 15 of the 20 Congressmen gives us a gain of 6 members . Our plurality in Indiana reaches about 7.000 , being a gain of 21,000 upon the Democratic plurality of 1818 . In the Legislature we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2t , in the last Legislature , thus gaining a United States Senator . Of the 13 Congressional districts , 0 have been carried . making a gain of 3 members . The result in each State , and especially in Ohio , is the conclusive answer of the people to the false and malignant assaults upon the personal character of our candidate for President , which ! have thus far been the principal weapons of our opponents , and have been indecently and shamelessly repeated in the address this day published by their stunned and demoralized National Committee . Both these victories are the result of a spontaneous and enthusiatic uprising of the people in favor of patriotic principles , enlightened legislation , and good government . That in Indiana has been won , in spite of the lavish expenditure of money by the Democratic candidate for the Vice-Presidency , who was nominated solely for that purpose . and by the same Eastern emissaries who , in 1816 , vainly attempted to purchase the Presidency , and have recently traversed that State , shouting against and at the same moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any State in the Union , and which were purposely retained in force by a Democratic judicial outrage . It is apparent from these results that if Republicans relax no exertion every Northern State will choose Republican Presidential Electors ; while it is not improbable that some of the Southern States will give their votes for Garfield and Arthur . Of the 17 members necessary to make the next House of Representatives Republican , 11 are already gained , in Oregon , Vermont , Ohio , and Indiana , and the full result is reasonably certain . The six Senators necessary to make the Senate , with the Vice-President , Republican , will probably be secured from the States of Ohio and Indiana . ( already gamed , ) and from Pennsylvania , New-York , New . Jersey , and Connecticut , yet to elect . Thus , with the inaugunition of Garfield and Arthur , all branches of the Government are likely to be Republican once more . Republicans , however , need to he reminded of a remaining danger . The disappointed Democratic leaders will not shrink from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majorities in both houses of Congress , claim full rower over the Presidential count , and have steadily refused to enact laws to secure the peacable and orderly decision of a doubtful result . Let no possible effort he spared to make the Republican majority on the Electoral vote so large as to avert the perils of a disputed count , and the majority in the next House of Representatives so decisive that there can be no conflict in its organization . By unremitting exertions such as have secured the brilliant achievements In Ohio and Indiana , the Republican Party can defeat . the purposes of the reactionists , who. in order to gain political power and patronage , are willing to unsettle the results of the war for the Union , change the financial and revenue policy of the Government . derange the national currency , and Jeopardize the thriving business interests of the country . Republican success will , on the other hand . firmly establish throughout the country a free and honest ballot , protection to life andpropertY. well Paid and contented labor . activity in all agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the Statt of our Union prosperous and powerful beyond tho : of any other nation .                     