@@672171

txt The Secret Ballot bill which was passed by the Legislature last week at the dictum of the Republican caucus Was returned to the House at noon to-day by Gov . Bulkeley without his approval . The veto Was expected by the ballot , reformers who were apprised yesterday of its preparation . The Governor says the bill proposes so radical a revolution in the elective system of the State , is so experimental in character , so cumbersome in its details , so burdensome to the voter in its operation , so expensive in its machinery , so unharmonious with existing laws . that it can only prove a burden and a failure . While aiming at honesty and fairness , it impresses the Governor as throwing wide open floors for fraud , or preparing the way for an extensive disfranchisement of constitutionally qualified voters , inabilities to comply with its exacting provisions will be numerous , mistakes will be without number , and It wid be difficult to say whether or not , through its machinery , the will of the people has been ? fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its requirements will in their efforts to do so be inevitably put to au inconvenience and annoyance which will be irksome to all and tend seriously to the increase of that already too numerous class of indifferent voters . Gov . Bulheles , discredits the opinion that fraud and corruption will be banished from the polls by the bill under it . He says : " Collusion between election officials might defeat the will of hundreds , " and adds : " The easy access of voters to the ballot boxes , as now in vogue , may have its evils , but it renders the practice or other and greater evils impossible . I can not shut my eyes to the Ganger that lurks under the complete surrender or the election machinery into the hands of a few and the withdrawal of tae oversight of those whose interests make them watchful and vigilant . The bill is most radical , revolutionary , and experimental . It is as foreign as possible to all American methods . Its like has never been tested and proved in any spot in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is one thing to elect under it one or two officers at elections , as is done in Australia or England , where it has been experimented with , and another thing to elect forty or more . Its machinery is exceedingly expensive . The cost of holding the annual elections throughout the State would be very great . If the result sought could be certainly gained under the provisions of the bill , then the additional expense should not be an obstacle to its adoption , but as long as the benefits are uncertain , care should be had that the public treasures be not unnecessarily wasted . " The Governor urges the adoption of a simpler bill , or the continuance of the measure which he has vetoed to the next General Assembly in order that it may be fully discussed and a popular verdict secured concerning it . The House at first flush passed the bill over the veto by 121 to 38 . Ninety members were absent or dodged . The next step was reconsideration , the change of mind being effected within five minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its fate at present is problematical . It will remain on the House table till Tuesday , when it is probable that a new bill meeting Gov . Bulkslev 's views will be offered . The secret ballot leaders say they will have the Australian bill or none . It ought to be stated that Gov. 13ulteley is backed by a large and increasing public sentiment In the course he has taken . 