@@672113

txt While the United States , after . an experience of nearly a century - with immigrants from Europe , is endeavoring to hit upon some just and proper plan for restricting immigration and confining it to those who promise to make good and valuable citizens , the nations of South America , heedless of the warning which is to be found in our history , are taking steps to encourage that very kind of immigration which we are so anxious to divert from our own shores . - A great exodus is just now taking place from Europe of thousands of men , women , and children , all bound to the lands to the south of the Isthmus of Panama . The greater number of these people have Brazil for their objective point , but very many are making toward Chili and the Argentine Republic , both of which countries offer extraordinary inducements to attract immigration . These inducements , coupled with the restrictive policy adopted by the United States , promise to divert from this country for a time a great flood of people who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can see turned aside with more than equanimity , for it is composed of elements for which there is no longer room in this progressive Nation . A fair specimen of the inducements which the South American countries are offering to attract immigrants is furnished by the offers made by the Government of Chili . The immigration agents of this republic are authorized by their Government to offer a free passage to Chili to all who desire to come , and . to furnish them with free board and lodging for fifteen days after their arrival . It is easy to imagine what kind of immigrants will be secured under an offer of this kind . Every tramp in Europe who is too lazy to work , and who can reach the office of one of Chili 's immigration agents ; every pauper who can not support himself at home and has less chance of gaining an honest livelihood in a strange land ; every worthless rolling stone who thinks he would enjoy a trip to South America at somebody else 's expense will hasten to take advantage of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Chili , the Government will awaken to the folly of its course . Some few of them , spurred to something like ambition by a change in their surroundings , may become - worthy and - valuable citizens ; but the great body of them will become in all probability burdens on the community , or , what is even worse , criminals . The immigration which Chili.and Brazil and the Argentine Republic require to add to the productive resources of the country is not made up of the men and women which offers of free transportation and free board and lodging for a specified time are likely to attract . The men of brain and muscle , who alone are worth inviting to citizenship in any civilized country , are not looking for free passes or the bread of idleness , even for a short tune ; they want some guarantee that there , is a future before them in the new country - which opens its arms to them , which they can make for themselves by hard , honest work . And the man who is willing to do hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the New World has done hard , honest work before , and has saved enough to pay his own way to the land of his dreams . If he has not done this at home , it can be depended on that he will not do it abroad , and he is not worth his fifteen days ' free board and lodging to any country on the face of the earth . 