@@743953

txt There is no disguising the fact that since the evening set in the tone of feeling has been one of marked despondency , as contrasted with the general jubilation that prevailed all day . The late bulletin was not of a highly encouraging character , and the statements of the attending surgeons have been of a most depressing nature . as interpreted by the public . Yet after careful inquiry , and despite Secretary Blaine 's telegram , there is the highest authority for stating that the public fears have been greatly exaggerated . The President was not prostrated by the intense heat of the day and his room was not close or uncomfortable at any time . All statements to the contrary , no matter by whom made , are without foundation in fact . At 3 o'clock this afternoon , when the thermometer registered highest , Dr. Hamilton entered the President 's chamber and found it exceedingly pleasant in contrast with the outer air . A gentle but bracing breeze , laden with the odor of the sea , was pouring in through the open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recognizing Dr. Hamilton ; the President stretched . out his hand and exclaimed : " Is n't this delightful . " It may also be stated , on equally high authority , that . the sea air is having a perceptible effect for the better upon the President 's general condition , so that , far from being worse , as the prevailing reports would seem to indicate , the change has already proved of benefit to him . After dark a cool and rather strong breeze sprang up from the south , and has blown steadily ever since . It comes from a point of the compass that the President must necessarily obtain the full benefit of it . At 11 o'clock Dr. Reyburn , in speaking of the President 's condition then , said that his temperature had gone steadily down under the influence of the breeze , which the surgeons hoped and believed would prove the forerunner of more favorable as well as more seasonable weather . In response to a question about the gland . Dr. Reyburn said that it has entirely sloughed off , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfort should he recover , as there are enough other glands to furnish tha requisite amount of saliva . Midnight. ? The President 's temperature is now normal and he is sleeping . The cool breeze continues and bids fair to last until the arrival of the cold wave predicted from the West . There has been a great rush to this place to-day ; and the Elberon and West End Hotels are as full as they can be comfortably . 