@@745383

txt Those Democrats who believe that Mr. Cleveland 's views about the suspension of silver coinage , as expressed in his letter to Mr. A. J. Warner , are correct have talked to-day as if the vote against suspension yesterday would do him no harm ? in the estimation of conservative men . They say that it will probably strengthen any determination he may have reached , and the rabid silver men do not hope to hear any encouragement for them in the inaugural address . Some of the more cautious ones argued that Mr. Cleveland should have been induced to say nothing about the matter in advance of his inauguration , regarding it as extremely unfortunate that he should have been opposed by a majority of his own party in Congress before he has had an opportunity to present his reasons for any financial policy he has adopted . One effect of the vote on the silver suspension clause has been to convince Democrats that the Congressional Record will furnish Mr. Cleveland with a list of men , some of them soon to be out of office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into consideration in parceling out the offices . There are 60 or more members of the present House who will not be members of the next , and some of them have been mentioned as probable Cabinet officers . It is argued that Mr. Cleveland will not want any strong silver men among his advisers , and that these gentlemen will have to take back seats . In connection with this subject the extraordinary story has been heard here today that Mr. Cleveland has been urged to retain Mr. McCulloch as Secretary of the Treasury , and that the suggestion has met with favor . There have been no more Cabinet reports here to-day . All sorts of Cabinet lists have been prepared and exhibited about the halls of Congress . One of these presents a full list of New-York men , beginning with Mr. John Bigelow as Secretary of State , including Mr. Manning as Secretary of the Treasury , Mr. Dorsheimer as AttorneyGeneral , and Hubert 0 . Thompson as Secretary of the Interior . Col. W. F. Vilna , who will reach the Capital to-morrow , and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his rooms to-day , as he is to be the guest of Z. L. Leiter , of Chicago , who lives in Mr. Blaine 's fine house , on Dupont Circle . In the absence of more definite information the report that he is to be Postmaster-General is generally accepted as true . The arrival of the Vice-President-elect created No excitement this afternoon . It was noticed that there was a very small attendance of Indiana people at the station when he arrived , but this was explained by the fact that the House was in session , and that business of importance prevented the Hoosiers from paying that honor to their chief that they desired to show to him .                     