@@780752

txt Constitution specials state that the storm of this afternoon throughout Northern Georgia was productive of great loss to life and property . For several days the rains have been uninterrupted , causing a rapid rise in the rivers . The Cossamattie and Ellijay Rivers overflowed their banks and have swept away dwellings in several towns along their course . The Oostanaula and the Coosa at Rome began rising at the rate of 13 inches an hour , and has risen 27 feet . At 1:30 o'clock this afternoon heavy clouds portended a renewal of the storms , when the flood-gates of heaven seemed to be opened , accompanied by a cyclone of wind . Signs and everything that could be detached , went flying in all directions . Soon houses were upturned , and flying timbers carried death and destruction in their wake . Reports from Walker , Paulding , Chattanooga , and other counties are freighted with disaster . In East Rome the residence of W. S. Crane was completely demolished . One thousand residences in that county were similar-ly demolished . In Cave Spring great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his son were killed by the falling beams of a house from which they were attempting to escape . Two negroes also perished . Mrs. Hoke was fatally injured . The family of Mr. Ford , five persons in all , were seriously injured , to what extent is not stated . The State Deaf and ' Dumb Institute is located in this place , and the terror of the frightened inmates was pitiful to see . Passing on through Carroll Counts- , along the ' banks of the Hatcheechubbeo Raver. reports are that great disasters to life and property have : happenad , but as the telegraph wires are prostrated in almost every diaection , it is impossible to get trustworthy particulars . Columbus is practically cut off from the world , but reports which have been obtained are that the loss of life and property has been incredible . The roof of the Ranken House was blown off . In Harris two cyclones started out one of which did damage in the section already ' noted , while the other took a straight westerly course and passed through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A most tern- : ble tale come from Jasper , Pickens County . A large number of children were in school when the teacher saw the portending clouds . He dismissed the scholars and sent them home . On the way they were overtaken by the storm , when they huddled together in a vacant building . A gust of wind carried the building away , the crashing timbers killing and mangling the unfortunate little ones , a areat number of whom are dead . COLUMBUS , Ga. , Feb. 19 . ? A severe windstorm struck the eastern portion of this city about noon to-day ; doing damage to the extent of at least 503,000 . The cyclone came from the south-west , and passed above the city until near the eastern limits , when it descended and unroofed the First African Baptist Church and damaged the walls , and also unroofed the County Jail and the Columbus Oil Mills . The round-house at the Central Station was utterly demolished and six engines were badly damaged , two of them being wrecked . The damage sustained by the railroad company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escaped with their lives , but no one is reIv ported to have been seriously injured . Other slight damages in various sections are reported . A heavy hail-storm passed over the city at about 2 P. M.                     