@@745081

txt The Senate Committee on Cities seems to be unable to agree upon a report , and there is likelihood that its protracted in-. vestigation of the Department of Public Works may prove fruitless so far as legislative action is concerned . The report drafted by the counsel of the committee , which Mr. GIBBS has thus far been unable to get a majority of the committee to sign , condemns the methods of the Commissioner of Public Works in severe terms . The Democrats of the committee , Messrs . THACHER , DALY , add CULLEN , refuse to sign this report , and Mr. AL DAGGETT also declines to put his name to it . Apparently the Democrats are anxious to shield Mr. HUBERT 0 . THODIPSON , and probably Mr. DAGGETT acts from sympathy with loose and corrupt methods , and from a dislike of reform in any shape and for any purpose . The result may be three separate and distinct reports from the committee leading to nothing . Whatever the committee or its various sectiohs may report , the evidence taken on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the real basis of any judgment that may be formed . The spirit and methods of the committee throughout the investigation have been far from satisfactory , but it has been shown that lax management and extravagance have characterized the administration of the Department of Public Works . Many of the expenses , such as those for cleaning public buildings , are ridiculously excessive . A great amount of work has been done and supplies furnished without contracts on competitive bids , as required'iby law . In very many cases where small contracts were made below the one-thousand-dollar limit it is quite apparent that the object was to evade the law . All dealings with contractors have been loose and extravagant , the supervision exercised has been lax , and reports and accounts have been practically worthless . Whether an indictment of the Commissioner for violation of law and malversation in office could be sustained on the evidence collected is not certain , but it has shown him to be utterly unfit for the position which he holds . He has not only shown no zeal in getting public work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but he has pursued and upheld methods which inevitably result in its being done in an inefficient manner and at extravagant expense . There is ground enough for his removal from office , and there is more than enough to justify action which would prevent his holding office beyond his present term . Perhaps the best use that can be made of the disclosures in his department ' . is to promote the passage of the bill giving to the Mayor to be elected next November the right to appoint a Commissioner of Public Works in January .                     