@@743817

txt It is generally assumed by those who approve of the recent action of the President regarding New-York appointments that it will tend to restore " harmony " in the party . Mr. GARFIELD himself , in the report of his views given in our Washington dispatches yesterday morning , declares this to have been his intention . He desires to distribute the offices in New-York so that the various elements in the party shall be fairly represented . Were Judge ROBERTSON rejected and the other nominees accepted , his power to do so would be very seriously impaired . The Conkling element would have got all that was intended for them , and would have refused to the antiConkling element what was meant to be their share . Mr. GARFIELD proposes to have the anti-Conkling share voted on first . If that is accorded , then he can hand over the share of the Conkling faction . If that is not accorded , then he will still have " resources to provide for new complications . " It taxes the patience to calmly consider this explanation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize its significance without a sense of humiliation that the chief Executive should be so openly engaged in a business of this sort . But the explanation appears satisfactory to the President 's im. mediate friends , and we have no reason to suppose that it is not the correct one . If it be , his policy is sure to work harm in the party . At the present moment no one denies that the Republican Party needs " harmonizing . " No one disputes the existence of factions in it , and the President probably knows better than any one else that the root of the difference between them lies in the fact that each one wants more offices than the other , if , indeed , each does not want all of them . The President 's mistake consists in supposing that any conceivable distribution of the spoils would satisfy both factions , and further in failing to see that if the great body of the party  --  not the office-seekers only ? is to be united , it must be by some policy of more importance than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painfu prominence . Whatever use Mr. GARFIELD may make of the " resources " which he has recovered by the withdrawal of the New-York nominations , the mere factionists will continue discontented and angry . If he uses them to placate enough of Mr. CONKLING 'S adherents to secure Judge ROBERTSON 'S confirmation , he will still leave the Senator irritated and revengeful , with a considerable following ready to aid him in retaliation . If , on the other hand , he tries to use them to build up the opponents of Senator CONKLING , he will find that they are an unquestioned minority among the " workers . " Any course that he may pursue will necessarily fail to satisfy or unite the professional politicians . Meanwhile , the spectacle of the President parceling out appointments in the interest of factions , prostituting one of the chief prerogatives of his office to the adjustment of the traffic in patronage , will loosen party ties among Republicans whose allegiance is to Republican principles and not to one or another machine . It is a great misfortune for the party that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party itself that he should apparently be ignorant of the fact that the mass of those who cast Republican votes do not care a fig whether Mr. CONKLING or Mr. CONKLING 'S rivals are suited with nominations or not , and do care very much that the service shall be officered by men of character and capacity . To thoroughly unite the Republican Party the President , so far as nominations are concerned , has only to select able and honest men for the principal places vacant , and enforce an impartial standard of fitness for minor positions . If he had the sagacity and firmness to ignore the traders in patronage , and to annals to the service the rules of ap- pointment and promotion which have been so successfully enforced in the New-York Custom-house and Post Office , he could rest entirely tranquil in regard to the harmony of the party . Nor would he need to be disturbed about his ability to get the Senate 's " advice and consent " to such a policy . If he made the issue distinctly , if he threw on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate would accept it . Not promptly nor without a bitter struggle , but the policy would be accepted because the good sense and the honest purpose of the party would compel it . If , on the contrary , the President continues to potter with the various factions in each State , to treat the public service as a political bank account from which to appease the greed of the office-mongers , he will not succeed in his immediate purpose , and he will discourage and alienate a very large number of Republicans who had hoped better things of him . He will throw away an admirable opportunity to enlist all sincere and disinterested Republicans in the cause of reformed administration , and run the risk of seeing the . party melt away for the lack of a distinct and honorable standard about which to gather .                     