@@744299

txt If GuiTeau had killed an obscure citizen whom he pretended to have been obliged to " remove " by an inspiration , he would have long since been hanged , and the world would have taken almost no note of his defense or his execution . The distinction of his victim has given him a fictitious distinction above all other criminals who ever afflicted this community . Because he killed a President of the United States he seems to be entitled to the morbid sympathy of many people , and in his behalf the resources of the courts have been exhausted , and the last appeal has been taken to the highest tribunal in the Republic . Finally , there being nothing left but the Executive clemency to appeal to , the representatives of certain organizations have applied to the President of the United States for a special commission to sit upon GIIITEAII 'S case and to decide whether he is insane or not . The man Is sentenced to be hanged on June 30 , and it is asked that he be reprieved , if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the time appointed for his hanging . The societies making this demand , in the name of science and humanity , are a queer lot . Among them the reader will recognize the titles of several concerns that affect an immense amount of erudition and occult knowledge , but whose " strong hold " is their mystery and abstruseness . Reading the petition of these combined organizations , it is not easy to determine whether the movers in the matter are more desirous for the promotion of the interests of science or of the interests of humanity . The general impression will be that the petitioners regard the assassin as a psychological curiosity upon whom they desire to try a few experiments . These pseudo-alienists and neurological persons arc nothing if not empirical . Assuming to speak for " the profession , " they say that there are several circles in the craft divided into groups of men holding different views regarding GUITEAU 's responsibility . One circle believes him to be insane , and that he should never have been tried . Another circle is of the same opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third circle believes him sane and deserving death . But , according to the spokesman of the combined groups , the opinion that GIIITEAII is insane and should not be hanged is rapidly becoming the belief of all circles . One of the remarkable statements of the delegation who presented this case to the President yesterday was that the reason why this statement was presented in GUITEAU 's behalf so late in the history of the case is that " in the opinion of the leading physicians and lawyers of the country " there was no defense and no lawyer . " The incompetency of ScoviLLE was as phenomenal as the insanity of his client . " According to this suddenly revealed representative of the medical profession , nine-tenths of the doctors do not believe that Gurrkeu is responsible for his acts . Therefore , says this eminent authority , " Psychology is not pleading for GurritAn , but for the American people ! ' The American people are undoubtedly very greatly obliged to these scientific twaddlers for their disinterested labors . And when they say that they do not ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be pardoned , " they really seem to have exhausted their case . It is assumed that case were almost farcical , because the defendant is irresponsible and has not been defended by any competent person . ' There is no reason to suppose that the " profession " represented in this novel and pertinacious petition is any more trustworthy - or worthy of respect and belief than the profession that diagnosed the case of GARFIELD . There never was , and never will be , any considerable number of doctors who will agree upon any given point . It naturally follows that where so much of the so-called Behnke of medicine is guesswork the guessers will widely differ . But , so far as the general public has , cognizance of the matter , the eminent persons who attended the sickbed of the President and wrote or talked about the case. ( and these were many ) were agreed as to the supposed character of the wound inflicted by GUITEAII , and the course and position of the bullet . The post-mortem revealed the fact that ' not one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having ' failed to describe the exact condition of GARFIELD 'S wound and to follow the course of the fatal ball , now demands another hearing in behalf of the assassin , who has been lawfully tried , convicted , condemned , and sentenced to be hanged . If this felon had , in a moment of passion , assaulted a victim In a frontier settlement , and had been incontinently strung up to a hickory limb by a committee of lawless citizens , Science would have probably turned its attention to the lynchers as worthy of curious investigation , if Science had taken any notice whatever of the incident . But this particular crime being of world-wide note , and the criminal being a unique character , Science is busy with its theories without foundation and its facts that are largely invented . The man has been fairly tried . The highest authorities in medical jurisprudence ( so far as relative height can be ascertained ) have been brought into the witness box , and the assassin has been convicted . If this abominable creature were a hero and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon him than has been evoked in his behalf . Let an end be made of this insufferable twaddle.                     