@@672191

txt The killing of four persons at a highway crossing on the New-York and Long Branch Railroad at Little Silver Friday afternoon directs attention to the repeated and unsuccessful attempts in this State and . adjoining States to procure needed legislation for the elimination of such crossings . The crossing where Mrs. WARD , Mr. KEETING , and their companions were killed is a very dangerous one , but the company has neglected to guard it by a flagman . The victims saw an express train approaching from the south and they stopped at a safe distance from the track until it had passed . They then started to drive across the track and were struck by another express train from the north , which they had not seen . Three of them were killed almost instantly and the fourth lived only an hour . The crossing is about three miles north of Long Branch on a railroad that does a very large business at this season . The time tables show that fifty-six trains pass it every day , going northward or southward , and twenty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road is operated by the Pennsylvania Company and . the New-Jersey Central , and although its passenger traffic in the Summer is said to exceed that of any other suburban road in the country , these great corporations have been unwilling either to separate grades at the dangerous highway crossings on the line or to place gates or watchmen at them for the protection of people using the highways . The condition of the crossings on this road , as well as the notorious failure of the New-York , New-Haven and Hartford Company to guard certain very dangerous crossings in the shore towns of Connecticut , where many lives have been lost , show that even the richest railroad . corporations will not maintain safeguards at such traps unless required and compelled by law to do so . Companies should be required . to guard ? dangerous crossings at grade so long as such crossings are permitted to exist , but the constant aim of legislation should be to compel a separation of grades wherever such crossings menace travelers on the highways . We have heretofore shown how great is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been greater in New-Jersey than in any other State , and while it should not be forgotten that the improvements voluntarily to be made in Jersey City by the Pennsylvania Company will reduce the mortality from this cause in Hudson County , there is great need of legislation that shall protect the people in many other places where they are exposed . to great danger at almost every hour of the day . In every State there should be enacted laws providing for the gradual but sure elimination of all grade crossings . Unfortunately the recommendations of the Commissioners in this State concerning this subject have been disregarded by the Legislature . An imperative popular demand in Connecticut for new legislation has caused the old law of that State to be changed , but it does not yet appear that the new statute will be effective . The New-Haven Company has separated grades at all of the crossings on its main line in this State , and . it was understood when the company was empowered , a few weeks ago , to increase its capital from $15,500,000 to $50,500,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in separating grades at crossings on its lines in Connecticut . In Massachusetts at the recent session of the Legislature no bill relating to the subject was passed , although the matter was discussed . The making of new crossings at grades should be strictly forbidden . Within three years the number of such crossings in Massachusetts has been increased by 122 , 94 of which are on one road , It was shown a year or two ago that the Commissioners in Connecticut had authorized the construction of fifty-seven new grade crossings . Wherever a new road is built or an old one extended a separation of grades should be required by law , and provision should also be made for the elimination of a certain Percentage of the old crossings every year .                     