@@745501

txt The disparity between the assessed values of real estate and personal property in this city , as shown in the report of the Tax Commissioners , affords an illustration of the inequality and injustice of our system of taxation in practice . The most thorough and intelligent examination of the subject of taxation in this State ever made was that of the commission of 1870-72 , consisting of DAVID A. WELLS , EDWIN DODGE , and GEORGE W. CI:TYLER . It adopted the statement of a high financial authority , which was generally accepted as correct by competent students of the subject , that " universally the market value of the aggregate of land and that of the aggregate of productive capital are equal . " It went further , and said that in highly civilized and densely populated States the separate aggregates of property generally classed under the two heads of real and personal are " either equal or closely approximate to each other in actual value . " They presented a schedule of property of the personal class within the State , " founded on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equaled in value the entire amount of all the property of the State , real and personal , returned for taxation during the year 1870-71 . " The truth of the general statement that the value of personal property is approximately equal to that of real estate in any industrial and commercial community is one which no sensible man who has studied the subject any longer denies . It is the capital used upon land which in a great city like New-York gives it its high market value , and the costly buildings put upon it are an approximate measure of the capital that is profitably employed in its use . Since the great development of corporate enterprises and the multiplication of various forms of invest- ment the proportion of personal property values to those of real estate held in a great commercial centre have vastly increased . There is scarcely a doubt that the wealth held in this city in the forms classed as personal property greatly exceeds that held in real estate , notwithstanding the immense increase given to the value of real estate by the accumulation of wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convention of 1868 that thirty citizens of this State could be named whose aggregate wealth exceeded the entire valuation of personal property of the entire State . There is no doubt that twenty-five men in this city could be named whose wealth in personal property alone exceeds the entire valuation of that class of property . as shown on the assessment rolls . The absurdity of the pretense that personal property is assessed with any degree of completeness or equality was shown by the commission of 1870 in a comparison of figures for different States and cities and different years . If there is any State in which the ratio of personal property is high it is the State of New York , and it certainly holds a higher ratio in the city of New-York than in any other American city whatsoever . It is also a fact that the ratio has progressively increased rather than diminished in recent years . And yet the ratio , as shown by the assessment rolls , has constantly decreased until now it is little more than 1 to 10'as compared with the valuation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1-2 , while that of Providence , R. L , was 1 to 1.20 and that of Boston 1 to 1.67 . The inequality is glaringly shown between the ratios of different years and different cities , counties , and States , and it is certain that it corresponded to no similar variations in actual values . All this shows the inequality of personal taxation . The property on which it is levied has taken so many elusive forms , is so easily concealed and transferred , and the allowance of deductions for debt gives such opportunity for devices for evasion , that fully nine-tenths of it escapes assessment . No sensible man believes that the taxable personal property of this city , aside from bank shares , is but little more than $130,000,000 and not much more than twice the amount of those shares , and that the number of men legally subject to assessment thereon scarcely exceeds ' 12,000 . It is altogether too absurd for belief . The fact is that personal property escapes taxation , and the exceptional instances are only an indication of the enormous inequality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not that an inquisitorial system should be devised for reaching all personal property . It would be costly and annoying , and would be only partly successful at best . It would probably increase the inequality and injustice instead of removing it , for to a still larger extent than now the honest men would pay while the rascals escaped . It would be far better to abolish personal taxation altogether and put the whole burden on real estate , where it would diffuse itself and work out equality by an irresistible law . If it is desirtif ble to supplement the direct assessment of fainlanded property in a way to derive -a t revenue from the wealth represented in its occupation and use , an additional tax upon rental values above a certain limit , to be paid by the occupier , whether owner or not , would serve the purpose much more equitably than the present system of pretending to assess personal property . 