@@743338

txt It is not an admirable practice which has grown up among us to begin wrangling over Presidential candidates a year before the day of election , though even that is preferable to our recent dolorous experience of a Presidential election remaining a subject of dispute and recrimination for three years after it was decided . If we must choose between protracted discussion before , and endles disputes after , the election , the country would certainly yield a large majority in favor of the former , and , perhaps , the best way to avoid that perilous closeness of Presidential contests which offers such tempting opportunities to unscrupulous returning officers is to have the claims of competing candidates ao thoroughly canvassed in advance of their nomination as to diminish as much as possible the chances for these bewildering changes of political equilibrium which upset all preeoneeived theories of party strength . It has seemed good to certain leading Republican politicians to fix the date of the conventions which will send the largest quota of delegates to the Chicago Convention from four to five months in advance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have given a sufficiently emphatic expression of opinion about the expediency of such a policy , whether considered with reference to interests of the party or to the interests of any particular candidate for its Presidential nomination . What is rather more to our present purpose is the fact that for Republicans the present time constitutes the most critical stage of the Presidential contest , since the process of selection is now going on by which the candidate of their party will be designated . It is probable that the action of the National Convention of 1880 will be decided in advance of its meeting , and , as after that action has been taken any protest against it will be regarded as treason to the party , it is extremely desirable that there should be a full and free discussion of the character of the candidates who are being most earnestly pressed for the nomination . This is particularly desirable if there be any prominent candidate for the National Republican nomination whose choice would alienate a sufficient number of Republicans to insure party defeat . Mr. E. B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the use of his name as a candidate before the National Convention , and THE TIMES has been able to announce , on unquestionable authority , that Gen. GRANT is ready to accept the nomination of the convention , should he be the choice of a majority of the Republicans there assembled . The Republican nominee for the Presidency will , therefore , in all likelihood , be one of these three men ? Gen. GRANT , Senator BLAINE , and Secretary SHERMAN . Setting aside the nonsense about " Cresarism , " " monarchy , " and so forth , which is at once an insult to the intelligence and a denial of the capacity for selfgovernment of the American people , the only serious objection made to the nomination of Gen. GRANT is that it would cause a falling off in Republican votes sufficient to diminish , if not to neutralize , the chances of his election . When we come to analyze the reasons for this belief , we find that it is based upon the alleged unwillingness of many sincere Republicans , and of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of the Republican candidate , to support a man who would probably become the tool of the class known as " machine " politicians . There are various " ways of meeting such an objection , but as it comes mainly from the avowed Republicans or professed Independents who are urging the " claims " of Secretary SHERMAN , let us take , for the present , the most obvious way . Before the friends of Mr. SHERMAN can use with any effect the " machine " argument as against Gen. GRANT , they must be prepared to show that their own candidate is identified with the cause of political freedom of choice , that he has used all the great powers of his office to strike at the root of machine politics  --  the possession of Federal office as a reward for active partisanship  --  and that he is contracting neither obligations nor alliances which would make the redivision of party spoils the most characteristic feature of his administration . Not only have the " Reformers " who have so unaccountably taken up the cause of Mr. SECERMAN made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathy with their most distinctive principles , but they have volunteered no explanation of the open and notorious abuse of the patronage of his office by which Mr. SHErtmAN has endeavored to secure from North and South Carolina , Alabama , Missouri , and other Southern States , delegations pledged to vote for him at the Chicago Convention . From the somewhat pretentious clique of journals which espoused the " Liberal " cause in 1872 , and which , after numerous changes of base . are still united on the platform of " anything to beat GRANT , " we should have expected a fine display of virtuous indignation over the exposure of the intrigues of Mr. SHERMAN . Unfortunately for their cause and their character , they have shown no disposition either to sift the charges against their candidate or to admit that , if proved , these charges would absolutely disqualify him to secure the support of any honest Republican . It may not be much of an effort for free traders , who accepted as their Presidential nominee the most bigoted of protectionists , to identify the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it will cost intelligent Republicans an effort , which they are not likely to make , to believe that the jobbery and favoritism which are involved in " machine " methods of politics would be avoided by the selection of a man who is endeavoring to capture the Republican nomination by methods which show the most cynical contempt both for the responsibilities of a great public trust , and for the freedom of political action which is essential to the continued existence of the Republican Party .                     