@@780869

txt Gov . Butler accepts the Greenback renomination in a somewhat extended letter , in which he says : " The greenback has become absolutely the currency of the United States in the several different forms in which the Government issues its money . Every sliver and gold certificate and every postal note Is essentially a greenback  --  that is , a paper currency based on the guarantee of the Nation 's good faith . TrueVor a part of that currency gold and sliver is. in my judgment , piled up in the vaults of the Treasury , but if that were all taken away , still the note of the United States would he just as good , as there is no considerable number of persons that I know of who would have that currencY ? hanged . Upon that question you have won your fight , after a long and severe struggle . commencing in obloquy and ending in victory . I attempted , In what I wrote to the officers of the convention of the party last year , 1 o pay this compliment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it was couched to twist it for their nefarious purposes . I trust on this occasion that I have made plata even to that most ordinary capacity . a uewspaaer writer , what I mean . " Gov . Butler thou tells the Greenbackeis that their party has now a higher and nobler mission before it , and that is to establish those relations between capital and labor which shall be just and profitable to both , and so curb and control , by proper legislation and administration , the combination and organization of capital which shall take an undue share from the working man of the production of his hands . ifs says some kinas of business must he carried on substantially in the form of monopolies , such as the transportation of freight and passen gers.but these monopolies are created for the public good , and whenever they are attempted to be exercised to the public injury stringent laws must bring them back to their proper position . The taws should be strong enough and be so vigorously executed as to preveut capital from obtaining . more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of law which gives to any man or set of men undue advantage , by which the rich are made richer and the poor poorer , he says , Is destructive of free , equal , and just government , and , for the safety of both property and labor , ought to ho sternly dealt with . A lew years ago , he says , the currency and public debt was such a contrivance ; now the party must go forward and abolish and restrain other contrivances . such as watering stocks , bogus mortgages on railroads , and fictitious valuations of the property of incorporated companies , by which money , without proper and just eonivalent for it , is taken from one and given to another . " If capital suffers Itself to become the oppressor of a free people it will surely be swept away . "                     