@@744523

txt The Tariff bill will come up in the House to-day , and , if the resolution of the Republican caucus is carried out , will be kept before the House until it is disposed of . That this end may bd accomplished in two weeks is a somewhat sanguine expectation , but that result is not impossible . That a well-matured and comprehensive reform of the tariff can be brought about in that time or during the present session is impossible , because there is no desire to do so on the part of those who have the initiation , and , to a great extent , , the control , of legislation on the subject . But much can be done if those who are in earnest in their desire for reform will take up the matter In a sensible manner . The determination of the caucus to limit general debate and to confine debate on amendments to five-minute speeches will , if firmly : carried out , make extended discussion im- , possible , but it can not prevent the friends of reform from exposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detail , and from giving the House an opportunity to vote on such changes as are proper and necessary . In the first place , it is obvious that there is no need of any abstract discussion of the principles of free trade or protection at this time . No measure can possibly be passed which will not be strongly protective . The only hope of the revenue reformers is to make the protection as reasonable , as fairly distributed , and as little oppressive to dependent industries as possible . On the other hand , if any of the high tariff men seriously sustain an advance in the protective rates , it should be opposed by ' every means known to parliamentary law and practice , for that would be , under all . the circumstances , a monstrous injustice . In the next place , it should be the aim of the advocates of reform to draw from the committee a precise statement of  --  the nature and effect of their propositions , many of which are purposely confused and misleading . Increased taxation by means of changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at as clearly was possible , the specific propositions of the committee should be examined first of all with reference to their effect upon the interests of the consumer . The American people , While paving into the Treasury as they do literal contributions for all necessary expenses for the reduction of the debt , are entitled , as against any class of manufacturers , to be gradually but surely relieved from taxation on the obvious necessaries of life , on the articles which are required for food , shelter , and clothing , and on their implements of labor and trade . The effect of taxation upon this natural and undeniable right is the touchstone for all tariff rates . It will require a reduction in the taxes on all food , on common tableware , on lumber , on nails , screws , and building iron and steel , on window glass , on agricultural and other implements , on all the cheaper grades of clothing and material for clothing , and on wools . These things are so clearly and indisputably necessary to the ordinary comfort of existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when there is no need for revenue is nothing short of robbery . There is no single industry or group of industries which has any claim to protection at the expense of all labor , and the first and imperative duty of Congress is to make a beginning of withdrawing the taxation heretofore imposed for their benefit . Another test which should be firmly and carefully applied is that of the effect of each tax on dependent industries . Where a duty is found to rest on articles which are essential raw material for considerable industries , and particularly for those which minister to the common requirements of life , it should be cut down . There can be no disputing the justice of this principle even by protectionists . The fostering of one industry at the expense of others is favoritism , and it is impudent pypocrisy to pretend that it is for the benefit of American labor . It has been done for so long a time , and those who have profited by it have so diligently sustained their pretensions , that there is much misunderstanding about it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the present tariff is the rank unfairness with which taxes are levied , and now is the time to remedy that . The usual resort is to ask that the oppressed industries be themselves shielded from competition by import duties . The true course is to free every trade as far as may be from artificial obstacles and leave it to work its own way . It is not now practicable to free all raw materials , but it is practicable to relieve them in part , and every tax which weighs on them should be challenged . Above all , no such tax should be allowed to be increased . If the debate in the House be directed explicitly and intelligently to the points which we have indicated , the effect upon the action which may finally be taken can not but be wholesome . The bill of the committee can not then pass without the country being reasonably informed of its actual character , and if a serious reduction be refused , the people will know exactly by whom and in whose interest it is refused . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House on both sides equipped for such a contest to insure an adequate analysis and exposition of the bill . By restricting themselves to this line of discussion , by forcing the facts at every point , the chances of a fair bill now will ? be greatly increased , and if this fail , the public mind will be so thoroughly informed that present failure must be followed by ultimate success .                     