@@745488

txt The news indicates that the Marquis of SALISBURY has decided that the risk of taking office is upon the whole less than the risk of refusing office . It is altogether unlikely that he has received from Mr. G-LADsToisTE , or from any other Liberal leader , any more specific pledge than a pledge to abstain from factious opposition . This Mr. GLADSTONE could only give with regard to himself . Even with regard to himself , if he assumes that Lord SALISBURY Will not regard as factious any such opposition as he himself has been engaged in , the pledge would leave him " scope enough to satisfy any leader of opposition short of Mr : PARNELL , whose opposition is avowedly factious . Mr. GLADSTONE has no adequate motive , personal or political , or , indeed , patriotic , for helping Lord SALISBURY to carry on the Government of the country in peace and quietness . Naturally , in the present condition of affairs , as it regards Parliament , Lord SALISBURY 'S own proposition , or rather the proposition which has been attributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by a general election , would be the appropriate outcome of the difficulty : The obstacle in the way of that settlement , as we have pointed out before , is the fact that there are two millions of people in Great Britain and Ireland who have been led to believe , on the faith of a statute , that they will have an opportunity to vote at the next general election . At the same time it is impossible for them to vote until next November . There would be serious public inconveniences in a dissolution now , with a general election next November . There are , it is true , no questions of foreign policy which could not remain as they now are until that time , if there were responsible executive officers to take charge of them . A responsible Ministry there must of course be , but after the scheme which comprises the extension of the franchise and the redistribution of seats is got out of the way , there is no continuing necessity for a session of Parliament . The budget must , indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of the Conservatives than of the Liberals that an agreement upon the budget should be reached . The taxes on beer and whisky proposed by the Liberal Ministry are opposed by powerful interests , but they are without much doubt less unpopular than the taxes that would have to be laid if they were taken off . Lord SALISBURY proposes to shirk the issue thus presented to him by issuing bonds for the amount of the special appropriation for purposes of military preparation , and leaving for the future the answer to the question how the money is to be raised . This proposition it is assumed that the Liberals will oppose , both because the Liberal leaders consider it bad finance and because they do not consider it their duty to help Lord SALISBURY to evade a question which they frankly confronted , at the risk , which became a reality , of being turned out of office . If this question of the budget could be arranged the other difficulties could probably be got over without much trouble . The Franchise bill could be so modified and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take an appeal to the country , including the new voters , very much earlier than November ? in fact , before the time at which the present Parliament was expected to be dissolved , Whether Lord SALISBURY or Mr. GLADSTONE or one of Mr. GLADSTONE 'S lieutenants became the Prime Minister during that period would not much matter , except that it is a political necessity for the Conservatives to accept the consequences of their own victory . That seems to be Lord SALISBURY 'S conclusion , disagreeable and difficult as the taking of office no doubt is to him . 