@@744640

txt It is Mr. CONKLING 'S misfortune that he does not know when to keep still . There are two simple rules on this subject which even his perverted and decayed intelligence might master if he should devote himself to the task with reasonable patience , and out of kindness to the gentleman whom he selects as the victim of his unconquerable loquacity he ought to undertake ' their study . One is to keep silent when you have in mind nothing worth saying . Another , and for Mr. CONKLING this is elementary , is to maintain silence when in blind ignorance of a subject you are tempted to discuss . An observance of either of these precepts would close Mr. CONKLING 'S lips . on the subject of the " boss " in politics and on the subject of civil service reform . Nearly two years have passed since the close of Mr. CONXLING 'S political career , and during that time he has apparently forgotten what little he ever knew on these matters , but he is unable to realize the fact . He contracted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the singularly mistaken notion that a " boss " and a leader were the same thing , and that because he was the former he was the latter . That mistake ought to have been corrected by the discovery that all his power as a " boss " was unavailing to secure him the position of a leader , and the lesson thus taught must have been confirmed during the long months in which not even his infatuation with him.self could persuade him that he has been either the one or the other . But on every available occasion he announces his unshaken conviction as to the identity of the " boss " and the leader , and asserts inferentially his own claim to be accepted as both . Mr. CONKLING is so consumed with the idea that he is a leader that he can not conceive that there can be any such thing as victory without him . He gravely announces that the Democrats are about to take charge of the Government , and that , though he led his former party to victory two years ago , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is victorious . The following States gave Republican majorities in 1882 : Illinois , Iowa , Maine , Minnesota , Nebraska , NewHampshire , Oregon , and Vermont , and Mr. COERCING must have noticed that Rs-Gov . SPRAGUE was defeated in Rhode Island this Spring . If the ex-Senator will carefully count this list he will probably be able to see that it contains nine States . That New York is not among them is unfortunate . If he will consult Gov . CLEVELAND 'S speeches he will find that this is due to the fact that so many Republicans voted a protest against an effort to impose a " boss " upon them that the Governor had nearly 200,000 majority . Thus a simple example in addition of nine units , and the recognition of the most notorious fact in recent politics will enable him to see that it is not safe for him to discuss the nature , history , or consequences of the rule of the " boss " in the Republican Party . As to civil service reform , we do not know that Mr. CONKLING @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct conception . On this subject his mind is not simply empty ; it is filled with illusions , and , as he is a prey to a sort of emotional insanity , perhaps he should be held . irresponsible for his utterances . He is dimly conscious of the fact that the determination of the American people to have a reform of - the civil service put an end to his political existence , and he can not approach the . topic without uncontrollable wrath , which practically unfits him for forming any connected ideas regarding it . He exhibits that confusion as to cause and effect which is one of the marks of mental alienation . He imagines that President ARTHUR and his Cabinet are wholly given over to " that great issue , the finding out of what boy or what girl shall have a Place in the Government employ , " and are neglecting all other matters , and that this is the reason why the people regard them with respect and ignore him and his associates . In reality , the President is engaged in carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this " great issue , " and is able to turn his attention to weightier matters . And it is because this is precisely the opposite position to that occupied by Mr. COMING that the President is winning the respect which the Senator never could secure . It is hardly to be expected that Mr. CONKLING will be able to grasp this fact , but until he does so he can not refer to the subject of reform without making himself an object of ridicule , or , among his sincere friends , of pity .                     