@@780639

txt A nervous anx-iety to adjourn has taken possession of the Demo-crats of the House , and they talk hopefully about getting through with business and leaving the capital for the Summer before the Demo-cratic Convention is held at Chicago . Added to this restlessness is the uneasiness with which the New-York State Convention 's decision is await-ed . The hope of getting through before July 1 is not shared by the Republicans . The House has become so ingrained with laziness that it is unreasonable to expect it will become industrious with hot weather settling down upon the city . If the New-York State Convention should result in a failure to unite upon Cleveland there is no doubt there would be wide-spread aisappointment , and the Democrats would go to Chicago much less hopeful of success in November than would be the case if the Empire State Democrats presented a wise and strong demand for the nomination of the popular candidate . This anxiety is not snared by the Indiana and Kentucky Democrats , who are for McDonald almost to a man ; still . they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that State will give a candidate with assurances that he can carry the State , The members of the Indiana and Kentucky delegations have been interviewed here to-day by the correspondent of the Louisville CourierJournal , to ascertain their preferences . Col. Matson , who is for McDonald , says : " If the New-York Democrats concentrate upon Cleveland I think he will be nominated . " Judge Holman , who was a strong advocate of the nomination of Tilaen and Hendricks , believes that Indiana should make an effort to nominate McDonald , although he would prefer Thurman . Mr. Ward is for McDonald , believing that he can carry Indiana by 23,000 majority . Mr. Cobb is for McDonald and Slocum. recognizing that a New-York candidate A8 important . Mr. Lamb fears that Cleveland and lower will kill each other off in New-York State . Judge Lowery is for McDonald . Mr. Kleiner is satisfied that the Germans will vote uainst Blaine in Indiana , because he is a prohibitionist . ExState Treasurer Fleming believes it will be a blunder not to nominate McDonald for  --  President . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Cleveland , " be says , " is doubtless a capable and conscientious man . As for Flower it would be simply suicide to nominate him . You may give him credit for all his friends claim for hint , and then you have not answered the very Serious objection that he isan unknown and untried man and a total stranger to the West , except as he has been advertised as a millionaire . " Mr. Robertson has always been for isieDonald , but would accept Cleveland as a very popular candidate .                     