@@780552

txt Half-past Twelve O'clock A. M. ? At midnight the President was sleeping quietly . His pulse and temperature had gone down considerably , Drs . Hamilton and . Agnew went to Attorney-General MacVeagh 's house for the night , and Private Secretary Brown also went home a few minutes after midnight . Before leaving , Dr. Hamilton said there was nothing in the President 's condition to cause alarm . The settled confidence with which the President 's condition had come to be regarded received a rude shock to-day . A short time after the last official bulletin was issued last night an unexpected rise in pulse and temperature was noticed , and on examination it was ascertained that the pus was not flowing so freely from the wound . But the physicians were not alarmed , and all except one retired to their homes for the night , as has been customary . The patient was very restless during the latter part of the night , but at 7 o'clock this morning , when the surgeons arrived to make their morning examination and dress the wound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his temperature was found to be perfectly normal , indicating that the fever of the previous evening had entirely subsided , and a special bulletin to that effect was issued to the Cabinet officers by Private Secretary Brown . While the " preparations were going on , however , to dress the wound , at 7:30 the President was ' seized with a sudden and violent chill and rigor of the muscles , in consequence of which the dressing of the wound was postponed . The chill lasted about 15 minutes and left the patient very greatly exhausted . It was nearly two hours before he was deemed sufficiently recovered to undergo the customary manipulation . It was then found that the flow of , , , pus had , almost ceased during the night , and to this the sudden and alarming change was ascribed . During the chill the President 's pulse jumped up to 130 beats . After his wound had been dressed it went down to 110 , and he seemed to be gradually getting better , though the fever continued . At 11:30 o'clock he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsequently arose until , at 12:30 P. M. , it was 104 ' , with his pulse at 125 and his respiration at 26 . The alarming change had been kept quiet by the doctors , who were probably too much occupied in watching the fluctuations in their patient 's condition to announce the facts , but the second chill and the dangerous temperature that followed so frightened them that , after a consultation , it was decided to telegraph at once for the two consulting physicians , Dr. Hamilton , of New-York , and Dr. Agnew , of Philadelphia . In this way the news leaked out , and it is astonishing how quickly it spread . The excitement of three weeks ago was repeated . - Blanched faces appeared on every side . Groups gathered in the streets eagerly discussing the news , and crowds hurried to the White House gates and anxiously waited for news from inside . The corridors of the Presidential mansion and Private Secretary Brown 's room were once more crowded by newspaper correspondents and other privileged persons , and the members of the Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room . The deepest alarm , anxiety , and gloom overspread everything . Nor was this allayed by the first reports of the physicians . Dr. Reyburn , who is one of the most candid of the four , on being asked for his opinion , responded that the outlook was a very gloomy one , but that there was no immediate danger A few minutes before 1 o'clock the fever broke , and a heavy perspiration made its appearance on the surface of the President 's body . This relieved him so much that at 3 o'clock his pulse had gone down to 100 beats . The good news was brought out of the Cabinet room by Postmaster-General James , who said he had been assured by Dr. Woodward- that the danger had passed for the time being . Soon afterward the other Cabinet officers emerged with brightened faces and drove off to their respective departments . Their ladies remained to render asgstance to Mrs. Garfield , who bore up under the threatened blow with the same heroic fortitude she has manifested from the first . The report of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the story of the relapse , and a tremendous sense of relief was experienced everywhere . The general feeling can best be described perhaps as a sudden and great scare , with an equally quick recovery . The crowds disappeared from in front of the White House gates - and people went about their ordinary affairs as usual . When the physicians took the bandage off the wounds this evening for the first time since morning they found the prepared cotton at its mouth filled with pus , showing that the discharge had been very full during the day . This was regarded as an excellent symptom , and they afterward spoke cheerfully regarding his condition , although his pulse had risen 18 beats since 3 o'clock . Drs . Agnew and Hamilton reached the White House together at 8 o'clock , and after receiving a detailed statement of the President 's condition at that hour , together with the information that he was then resting quietly , they agreed that it would be injudicious to disturb him , as there was no immediate danger . To-morrow morning they will make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause of the unfavorable symptoms which have shown themselves . The physicians in charge do not know whether the stoppage of the discharge avas caused by the formation of an abscess or pus cavity in the region of the ball or by the process of granulation now in Progress along the walls of the wound . If it should prove the former , the case will be serious , because the increase of strength which the President has recently acquired will not be suiliCient to resist many renewals of the exhaustive chills he experienced to-day . It is hoped and believed , however , that the granulation theory will turn out to be the correct ' me and this nninion is stren.zthened by the re . sumption of the flow unaided except by nature . The President took only liquid nourishment today , but he retained it all without effort . Among the many rumors that filled the air to-day was one that Vice-President Arthur had been telegraphed for . This is officially denied . THE OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS . BULLETINS ISSUED BY THE DOCTORS AND DISPATCHES FROM CABINET OFFICERS . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the President 's condition sent from the White House to-day : I. ; 10 A. M. ? The President was more restless ' fast night , but this morning at , 7 o'clock , while preparations were being made to dress his wound , his temperature was found to be normal ; pulse , 92 ; ? temperature , 98.4 ? ; respiration , 19 . At 7:30 he had a slight rigor , in conssa quence of which the dressing of his wound was postponed . Reaction followed promptly , and the dressing has now just been completed .. At present his pulse is 110 ; temperature , 101 ? ; respiration , 24 . D. W. BLISS . J. K. BARNES . J. J. WOODWilRD . ROBERT REYBUI.N . II . 7 P. M. ? After the bulletin of 10 A. M. the President 's fever continued . At 11:30 A. M. he had a slight rigor , and his temperature subsequently rose until , at 12:30 P. M. , it was 104 ? , with pulse 125 , respiration , 26 . Between this time and 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperature began to fall gradually . It is now 101.7 ? ; pulse , 118 ; respiration , 25 . There has been a free discharge of pus from the wound during the day . D. W. BLISS . J. K. BARNES . J. J. WOODWARD . ROBERT REYBURN . III . The following was sent by the Secretary of State this afternoon : WASHINGTON , July 23 , 1881 . To Lowell , Minister , London : About noon to-day the President 's condition became very suddenly worse . He had chills , alternating with fever , increased pulse , and very high temperature . His symptoms at 4:30 are better , and he is. much easier in every respect . The consulting surgeons , Dr. Hamilton , of New-York. and Dr. Agnew , of Philadelphia , have been summoned , and are now en route to Washington by special train . BLAINE , Secretary . IV . To Lowell , Minister , London : At 10 o'clock to-night the President 's symptons are better . Pulse , temperature , and ? respiration are improved . The distressing nausea has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BLAINE , Secretary . V. To the Editor of the . New-York Times : At this hour ( 10 o'clock ) the President Is sleeping quietly . Pulse , 106 . There is a manifest subsidence of the disquieting symptoms of the day . THOMAS L. JAMES , Postmaster-General . VI . 1:30 A. M. ? Nothing has occurred since 1 P. M. to indicate any unfavorable change in the President 's condition . At this hour the President is resting comfortably , and the two attending physicians on duty at the Executive Mansion , as well as the members of the President 's household , are asleep .                     