@@744648

txt The proper management of the navy is something with which every one is familiar , except the Navy Department and naval officers . At least such is the opinion which any one must gather who reads the newspapers and the debates in Congress . . This is a curious and totally- inexplicable state of things . Why it is that , although men are born with an intuitive knowledge of the needs of the navy , the moment a man becomes in any way connected , with the service he is afflicted with a sort of mental paralysis no one can tell . The Western Congressman , or the country editor who has never seen a ship or gazed on a sheet of water larger than his localmill-pond , is capable of demonstrating precisely what sort of vessels the navy needs , and precisely what should be required of its officers ; but were Admiral PORTER himself to be made Secretary of the Navy he would undoubtedly , in the space of 24 hours , know less about naval affairs than a child in arms . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , undertaken to pro : vide the navy with three steel cruisers . It has already been pointed out by a large part of the press that these cruisers will be utterly worthless , because they ? will be slower than the fastest ships now afloat . It is true that no official announcement . haS been made to the effect that the new cruisers must not have a speed of more than five or six knots an hour , but it is assumed that they will be slower than the Arizona or the Alaska . That any man-of-war that is not faster than any other steamer in existence must be worthless is maintained with great vigor by newspaper writers and those indefatigable people who delight to free their minds in " letters to the editor . " It will probably occur to people ignorant of naval affairs that if a man-of-war in order to be efficient must be faster than any other vessel there can never be but one efficient man-of-war afloat at any one time . It may surprise naval officers to learn that Great Britain has but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but such is evidently the fact . What is required of a naval vessel is that she should be fast enough to overtake the Alaska or to run away from her , the whole duty of a man-ofwar being summarily comprehended in this requirement . It used to be thought that a man-of-war might be called upon for various duties unconnected with the chase of - the Alaska , but this is a mistake . Unless a vessel can steam 20 knots an hour she can never overtake a land fort in order to bombard it ; ? she can never catch up with an enemy 's harbor so as to enter it , and she can never capture or escape from any hostile man-of-war that is slower than the Alaska . Twenty knots an hour is , as the public has been already informed , the very lowest rate of speed that will render the new steel cruisers efficient , and unless they have this speed it will be a waste of money to build them . It could be wished that the Navy Department would accept this view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that any Secretary of the Navy , or any advisory board of naval officers , can possibly know anything about the navy . The besotted men who are to supply our navy with the new cruisers will continue to believe that a man-ofwar can accomplish something else . besides the consumption of unlimited coal , and it is probable that the Chicago , the Boston , and the Atlanta will be as worthless as are all the other men-of-war now afloat in any part of the world , with the exception of the one solitary , and presumably British , vessel that is fit to race with the Alaska .                     