@@780932

txt New-Yorkers got a taste of genuine Winter weather yesterday . It was the coldest day so far this season . The mercury fell rapidly ' after midnight , Saturday , and before 2'o'clock reached 4 ? above zero . It rose , a few degrees soon after dawn , and at 10 o'clock yesterday morning registered 8 ? above , but a bleak north-west wind swept through the streets and the avenues . Men hurried along with their heads buried in their coat-collars and their hands thrust into their pockets . The down-town business streets were almost deserted , and there were but few strollers on upper Broadway and Fifth-avenue . Ministers noticed a diminution in their congregations . People were glad to remain indoors . The thermometer continued to rise gradually until noon , when it reached 14 ? above , but after that time it took a sudden drop , and at 3 o'clock was down to 8 ? again . The wind was veering around to the north-east , and traveled along at the rate of five or six miles an hour . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , and reached 10 ? above at 9 o'clock . When the people came from the churches after the evening service they found the slippery sidewalk covered with a thin coating of fine snow . A slight flurry began about 8 o'clock , which , at the Signal Office , was thought to be the edge of a storm that raged in St. Lou'is all day Saturday , and covered Michigan and Wisconsin early yesterday morning . As the temperature ros ? the snow fell the faster , and at 11 o'clock the horse-car drivers were running four-in-hand . It was a fine , misty snow , and the wind sweeping along at the rate of 13 miles an hour whirled it into the faces of pedestrians and banked it in drifts upon the sidewalks . Policemen sheltered themselves in snug doorways , and smokers were not plenty on the rear platforms of horse cars . Brakemen on the Third-avenue elerated laughed derisively at the scowls of the pas-sengers who objected to having the snow blow down their backs through the open doors . It was a wild , stormy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foretold high winds to the mariners in the harbor . At 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon , when it was growing colder in this City , New-Orleans people were unpleasantly warm at 84 ? , Memphis was comfortable at 06 ? , and in Chicago the thermometer just touched the freezing point . In Boston the mercury just registered 1 ? above , and in Albany 1 ? below . Cold weather prevailed in Canada . At Fort Garry , British Columbia , it was 32 ? below zero , and at ' Halifax it touched 22 ? below .                     