@@744513

txt The meeting of the National Republican Committee , which was called by the Chairman some weeks ago , is to be held in Washington on Wednesday of this week . Its first business should be to provide itself with a Secretary other than Mr. S. W. DORSEY , who is still holding on to that position ; but . its most important duty will be to carry out the instructions of the last National Convention in regard to prescribing " methods or rules for the selection of delegates " to the Convention of ' 1884 . These instructions , adopted in June . 1880 , required that duty to be performed " within the next twelve months , " A meeting of the committee was held on the 5th of March , 1881 , and certain plans were considered , but , differences of opinion arising on several points , nothing was done beyond declaring that " the call for the Convention of 1884 shall provide for securing to the several Congressional districts the right to elect their own delegates to such National Convention , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or rules to be included in such call . " That subcommittee consisted of Messrs . WILLIAM E. CHANDLER , of New-Hampshire ; THOMAS C. PLATT , of New-York ; JOHN M. FORBES , of Massachusetts ; JOHN A. MARTIN , of Kansas , and CHAUNCEY I. FILLEY , of Missouri , who were to report at a meeting of the committee , " to be held within one year of this date . " It is now over a year and ten months from that date and the meeting of the committee is yet to be held . What the subcommittee has done on the subject in the meantime is at present unknown to the public . The two principal questions which gave rise to a disagreement at the meeting of March 5 , 1881 , related to the manner of choosing district delegates  --  whether in State conventions or separate district conventions  --  and to representation based on Republican votes . The former of these ought to present little difficulty . It being decided that the right of the Republicans of the several districts to elect their own delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to do so in district conventions of their own . This is a matter which should be explicitly prescribed and not left to the decision ' of State committees . If the delegates who represent the several districts in a State convention are allowed to choose the district delegates to the National Convention , they will be subject to the influences which it was the purpose of the abrogation of the unit rule to prevent from determining or affecting the choice . The districts should be left entirely free in choosing their representatives to the National Convention , and to that end the choice should be made in separate conventions within the districts . The other question is one of greater difficulty . It has been the custom to have four delegates at large from each State and two delegates from each district , or an exact duplication of the number of Presidential Electors . This plan conformed to the general idea of the Electoral system of choosing the President and Vice-President , and as the Electors are all chosen on a general ticket in each State the unit rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The abrogation of that rule and the adoption of the plan of district representation is a radical departure from the fundamental principle of the old method . If the National Convention is no longer to be made up of a representation of the party in the several States , the method of choosing delegates being left to the party authority in the States , but is henceforth to be made up of a representation of the party throughout the country , the method of choosing delegates by States and by districts being prescribed by the National Committee , then consistency requires that there should be a fair representation of party strength in the Convention according to its distribution in the country . Delegates should be apportioned in some fair degree , according to the number of Republican voters , and not simply according to the number of Presidential Electors to be chosen by both parties . States and districts which furnish the greatest number of Republican votes should have a corresponding influence in determining the nominations to be made by the National Convention . Two plans embracing the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of the committee . That presented by Messrs . CHANDLER and provided for four delegates at large from each State and two delegates from each district , with " an additional delegate at large for each Republican Senator in the then existing or next preceding Congress . and an additional district delegate for each Republican Representative in such Congress . " That of Mr. MARTIN , of Kansas , provided for four delegates at large from each State and one delegate from each district , with an additional State delegate for every 12,000 Republican votes polled for President in 1880 , or fraction thereof exceeding one-half . The objection to Mr. 31/mix 's plan is that it would give the representation by States a decided preponderance over the representation by districts , and thereby counteract to a large degree the effect of abrogating the unit rule and resorting to a closer popular representation . If there is to be a representation based upon the number of votes cast in 1880 it should be effected by adding to the number of delegates chosen in the districts rather than to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plan takes representation in Congress as the measure of party strength , and while adding somewhat to the number of delegates at large would retain the preponderance of district delegates . Either plan would increase the size of the . Convention . Under the old method it would contain 802 delegates . The Chandler-qzmcq#Pherson plan would add about 200 to the number , giving a Convention of , say , 1,000 delegates . Under Mr. MARTIN 'S plan the apportionment by States and districts would give 477 delegates , and the representation according to vote would approximately double the number , giving , say , 900 delegates . The difference may not be regarded as very material . The main thing is to secure representation as fairly as possible to the voters of the party .                     