@@745173

txt Two weeks ago the Secretary of the Treasury , having discovered that the ; Inspector of rags at Cairo . had been legislated out of office , gave orders to Collectors of . Customs that they should prevent the unloading of rags from infected foreign ports , and of rags from other foreign ports if there should seem to be sufficient ground for their exclusion . The bark Marie Luigi , from . Marseilles , laden with rags , arrived at this port and was not allowed to land her cargo . After a few days the department decided to reconsider its decision so far as it affected this vessel . The Collector was instructed to admit the cargo , and he was told that he might admit other cargoes from Marseilles if he should become convinced that they had been shipped before June 10 , because Marseilles had been free from cholera previous to that date . The department should not have assumed that the first case of cholera appeared in that city on June 10 . It is probable that no one in America knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France . It does appear , however , that the first case appeared in Toulon as early as June 4 . The bark Marie Luigi left Marseilles on May 30 . Even if the disease had not at that time been recognized there , we know that both Marseilles and Toulon were then in such a filthy condition that the cast-off rags of their inhabitants should not have been sent to and received by the inhabitants of this country . The Government has treated this subject  --  the importation of rags ? in a very unsatisfactory manner . These foreign rags should be absolutely excluded from our ports , not only at this time , when a terrible epidemic is raging in the countries where they are collected , but at all other times . The importation of rags from Egypt and the other Mediterranean countries should be rigidly prohibited for all time . Why should this great nation of fifty-five millions of people be a market for the filthy refuse of countries whose inhabitants are notoriously unclean and ignorant of the simplest sanitary laws ? The cities from which these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filthy Egypt 6,000 tons have been brought to the United States every year , and half of this quantity has been imported by a paper company whose factories are in Connecticut and whose rag gatherers have been at work in all parts of the country bordering on the Nile . We need not undertake to show in what ways these rags became filthy and unfit to be handled or exported ; the imagination of readers familiar with the condition of society in Egypt and with the notorious lack of sanitary regulations there can easily supply the details . The arguments against the importation of rags from Egypt can be used with almost as much force against the importation of rags from France , especially from the cities of Southern France , which are unutterably filthy to-day . With these foreign rags should be classed the dirty bed-wool brought from Turkey . Upon this wool the poor people sleep from infancy to old age , and we are told that when the matted beds become too dirty for even a Turk to use they are packed in bales and sent to Marseilles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are sold to the manufacturers of cheap carpets and coarse blankets . It is one of the curiosities of trade that our manufacturers should ever go to the dirty cities of the Orient for material which has been cast off by the inhabitants of those cities . It is practically impossible to disinfect this foul stuff except by burning it . Every cargo that arrives may bear the seeds of cholera or other Eastern diseases , and every bale that is opened threatens to spread pestilence . Those who use the filthy stuff can easily find material at home that will fill its place , although they may have to pay a few dollars more for it . The Government should promptly put an end to this miserable trade , upon sanitary grounds .                     