@@745490

txt The weather has continued such to-day as to keep Gen. Grant indoors , but he has not been listless , and part of the time he was far from idle . From midnight to sunrise the General 's rest was broken by the usual disturbing . causes . Dr. Douglas went several times to the sick room . during the night , attracted by the General 's coughing and fearful lest he might have caught cold despite the heavy wrens that had been used to cover him . The reason for this apprehension . was that the temperature fell to 40 ? at 3 o'clock this morning . But happily no such weather got into the house , for the nurse kept the wood fire well fed . The doctor found the General awake at each visit . At 9 o'clock this morning the General used his voice enough to say that be felt refreshed . The pulse was then normal . Then be fell into a doze , which lasted more than an hour . Hewes dressed . for the day before 11 o'clock . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had taken nourishment , and , hobbling : into the office , he picked up a pad and started to write out matter that he wanted to insert in the proofs . This process has always been tedious to him of late , even when feeling at his best , the act of writing being such a tax on his strength that he often has to stop for rest in putting a short paragraph on paperToday , encouraged by his rest and heightened spirits , he had scarcely begun to write when he beckoned Mr. Dawson , the stenographer , to draw a chair near him . Then , as the proof sheets were slowly read over , he stopped the reading at different points and dictated short insertions . His voice was a mere whisper , and het used it but a few seconds only at a time . The stenographer sat very close ? to him and , being accustomed to his weakness of utterance , could make out what he said with tie trouble . By 2 o'clock more had been accomplished than the General could ? have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he spoke about 1,500 words . When that was done he retired to his room for a nap , which lasted an hour . Then he returned to the office and wrote a little . When he was through he said to Dr. Douglas that he had used up his notes . meaning that unless fresh suggestions occur to him as proof revision goes on he will have no further concern about the preparation of the memoirs . Then ho took another nap of nearly an hour . Dr. Douglas said this evening that although mental effort taxes the General it also stimulates him , and for that reason he was not wholly glad that the notes were finished . It has been as cool here to-day as it was yesterday . The temperature , a little above 40 ? at sunrise , has not mounted above CO ? all day ; consequently the General has not tried to come out of the house . The cordwood blazed brightly at sundown in the bier chimneyplace , and the family found it very cozy near the General 's chair in front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thermometer sunk toward its morning rec- : ord . As Gen. Grant has been here just a week , the ) family and Dr. Douglas are talking to-day of the effect of the change upon him . Outdoor exposure has certainly driven the sick room pallor from his face . It is only a tinge of color that he has . The month 's confinement to toe house before he left home had made him ashen . That word no longer describes his complexion . V isitors to the mountain have been surprised at the General 's power to move about , as though they had heretofore supposed he had a leg disease . His determination not to display his infirmity while others are looking on is apt to deceive almost any one . The doctors were often m13-led during the earlier months of his sickness by assertions or this same spirit . It is agreed that the neck swelling , which was aggravated and enlarged by the journey up here , has subsided in superficial area to about the size it was before he left home . That accounts for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the swelling prevent the parting of the lips more than about an inch . Such examination of the throat as is thus possible shows steadily destructive progress of the cancer . No violent or radical change has come about , nor was any anticipated , but the disease has followed an onward , characteristic course , oppressing the General by ever-growing weakness . The surest and most alarming physical sign of this weakness is his rapid emaciation . He was not weighed directly before leaving home , but about four weeks ago he weignen 145 pounds . Then ne picked up to 147 pounds . A week before he came here he had fallen off to 140 Pounds . He now down to 130 , the lowest weight since he wag taken sick . The family think that the loss it weight is hastened by his comparative activity/ They would rather he would not attempt to de any walking , unless supported by some one , and they deplore his mental efforts , but it is useless to try to restrain him . lie is not as careful as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his voice , employing it whenevel he can instead of saving it . That , however , ad well as his walking and writing , gives such evi ' dent satisfaction to his pride that the ever-presw eat fears of the family are on that account kept from his knowledge . The doctor is naturally very conservative in his expressions , leaving always to the roseate . He confines himself , except as his views are interwoven above , to saying that the change has not impeded the progress of the disease , and that while the heart 's action may fail at any time , the General may linger a month or longer . The elation of temperament that led to to-day 's dictation for the memoirs is regarded as again illustrating the tendency of the General to overtax himself . All of his relapses have followed just such unusual efforts . The General found time this afternoon to receive R. M. Oration and Earls Cranell , two Albany boys , who had been brought here by their father . They asked merely to shake hands . The General was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys never trod the mountain . Schuyler Crosby , ex- fi overnor of Montana . called on the family and also saw the General . As the General rein ; ; net quiet during the evening , the family became reassured , and by 0 o'clock , when the General was ready for the evening treatment , the fueling iu the house wag a cheerful one . Toe General at that time showed no ill effects from the work of the day , and said he thought he could sleep , as his mind was now unburdened . Dr. Douglas said at 11 o'clock , when the General was failing asleep , that as the disturbing causes had been removed earlier than usual he regarded the indications better for a good night than at any time since the arrival here .                     