@@744112

txt The exertions of Commissioner FINK appear to have resulted in a truce between the warring trunk lines . On Thursday representatives of the New-York Central , the Erie , and the Pennsylvania Roads met in Mr. FINK 'S office and came to an agreement to restore tue terms or last.summer , the cutting of which precipitated the war . The adhesion of the Baltimore and Ohio and the Grand Trunk was subsequently obtained . Whether the truce will be followed by a definitive treaty of peace remains to be seen , but the provisional arrangement seems to be of a peculiarly fragile character . While it restores the tariffs pending further negotiations , it binds none of the parties to accept the results of these negotiations . It is to be presumed that a renewed " pooling " of business is ccIntemplated , but from the meagre details of the conference , somewhat grudgingly given to the , public , it does not appear that the old distribution is definitely agreed to . It has been claimed that that division was not equitable , and if another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for disagreement . If rates arc to be restored without any understanding as to the amount of business belonging to each line , the pressure upon them produced by competition for freight is almost certain to break them down . It is proposed to bind the agreement by the forfeiture of a large sum of money in case of its violation , but the sum has not yet been decided upon , and considering the disputes in regard to the responsibility for the breach of the old compact , it will evidently not be an easy matter to enforce the forfeiture . Worse than all other contingencies is that involved in leaving open the main question in dispute , that of differential rates to the Eastern termini of the various lines . The final adoption of the agreement which is now provisional only depends upon a satisfactory settlement of this question . It is to be referred to an Advisory Commission made up of three men , presumably competent and impartial , who are to listen to statements and arguments , and decide whether rates from Western cities to Philadelphia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , how much . None of the parties , however , will be obliged to accept the decision , and if any of them are dissatisfied with it there is little probability that it will be accepted . How all are to be satisfied with the decision of a question upon which they can not themselves agree , and which they are unwilling to submit to arbitration , simply on the recommendation of an Advisory Commission it is not easy to see . If the claims and assertions of the past mean anything , a decision against defferential rates will not be accepted by the Pennsylvania and the Baltimore and Ohio Roads , and a decision in favor of them will be repudiated by the New-York Central ; and yet there is no middle ground to occupy . There must be a difference or there must not . The Advisory Commission , if it is ever constituted , will not have an easy question to settle . In it will be involved the ever-recurring difficulty that is encountered whenever an effort is made to suspend or evade the laws of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baltimore , and those whose interests centre in the latter cities are anxious to have them offset . If the railroads terminating het e are willing to agree that railroads terminating there shall carry freight to those cities at lower rates than are charged for freight coming from the same points to this City , then they can hope to build up their business at the expense of New-York , notwithstanding its other advantages . " But , " they say , " our railroads are shorter , and distance should be taken into consideration . " Other things being equal , no doubt it should , but other things are not equal , and their inequality may wholly offset the difference in distance . In railroading and steam-shipping distance is not necessarily the controlling element , otherwise Halifax might secure the bulk of transatlantic traffic instead of New-York , and Baltimore could outstrip both New-York and Philadelphia in bringing merchandise from Chicago and Cincinnati . The real question is not one of distance or of time but of economy . If , considering their advantages and facilities , the volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appliances for ? disposing of cargoes at this port , the Central and Erie Roads can afford to bring freight to New-York at as low rates as those for which it can be brought to rival cities , we see no reason why they should bind themselves not to do it . The present situation is not devoid of suggestion for our statesmen at Albany who are expected , if they ever get to work , to give their best powers to the solution of the canal problem . New-York 's most powerful lever , if it can be properly handled , is made of water . Are the advantages of this imperial port to be subject to the bartering of railroad magnates ? It should not be for four trunk line Presidents to say how much of the business of the Atlantic sea-board belongs to Boston , how much to New-York , and how much to Philadelphia and Baltimore , nor should it be in their power to determine absolutely what it shall cost to bring merchandise from the West to the seacoast . Give us an effective water line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a potential voice in deciding how much traffic shall come hither and how much it shall cost to bring it . 