@@743498

txt The Republic Garfield and Arthur Campaign Club of the Eleventh Assembly District illuminated their beautiful transparency at the club-rooms , corner of Broadway and Thirty-fourth-street , last evening , and the rooms were filled with citizens , who had assembled in honor of the event . President Samuel G. Acton occupied the chair , and Mr. H. G. Carter acted as Secretary . After a brief speech by the President , the Secretary read a letter from Gen. Theodore B. Gates , who was renowned for gallantry during the war as the Colonel of the Twentieth Regiment , N. Y. S. V. , ( of Ulster County , ) and who distinguished himself at the battle of Gettysburg . Gen. Gates , who had been invited to speak . regretted his inability to be present . The best efforts of the best men in the party and the cordial co-operation of the rank and file were , he said , demanded by the coming political canvass . Nobody should hesitate to heartily support the Chicago nominees . No young man , proposing to cast his maiden vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working and voting for the Republican candidates , and at the same time , by so doing , testify his gratitude for the inestimable services the party had rendered the country . Gen. Hancock " was but the medium through whom the party whose record for 20 years is a blot upon our country 's history , seek to regain control of the Executive Department of the Government . " He had been nominated not because he had any known opinions upon financial and other great questions affecting the national welfare , but simply because he was " believed to be an available mask for the sins and heresies of his party . " Gen. Garfield , on the other hand , has been intimately and influentially identified with the politics and legislation of the country through all the periods of reconstruction and financial deliverance from the burdens of the war . " He was " foremost among the wise , sincere , and judicious statesmen of our country . " The reading of the letter was received with loud applause , and earnest and telling speeches in behalf of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James A. Briggs , formerly of Ohio ; George A.Yeamans , of Kentucky ; H. A. Matthews , the Irish Republican orator of the Seventh ' Assembly District , and William Freeman , the colored orator . CoL George Bliss and the Hon. James M. Vaniuu. were called upon to speak , and Col. Bliss was the first to respond . He said that the transparency that had been raised that day was the champion transparency of the City , and he wanted the Eleventh District to be in the campaign the champion Republican district . This was to be done by thorough organization . Men should be appointed to canvass the district , which should be divided for that purpose into blocks , each man to be assigned to canvass a block , and before the day of election the name and politics of every man in the district should be known by the club , and it should be known also whether or not they were voters . He was opposed , personally on general principles , to the organization of ; ' Irish and German Republican clubs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationalities , but it was considered a good thing by the majority of people , and he bowed to their decision . He believed , however , that the Republican Party should have all the colored votes , and he favored the organization of colored clubs and a colored General Committee . There were 1,300 colored votes in this City , and the Republican Party should have all of them . If the Democratic majority in the City could be kept down to 60,000 , the Republicans could carry the State ; it the majority was more , the result would be doubtful . He urged that the club should do all it could to promote a good organization of the colored voters . As to statements that had been made that Garfield and Arthur would not be warmly supported by the friends of Grant and Senator Conkling , Col : Bliss said that this was untrue . He could positively assure those present from . personal knowledge that if Garfield and Arthur were defeated in this State , it would not be for want of a strong effort in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed Col. Bliss in a speech in favor of thorough and practical organization in the district , and , after speeches by Messrs . E. Leseur and J. E. Rogers , the meeting adjourned , with cheers for Garfield and Arthur . 