@@781678

txt BISMARCK 'S speech upon the army estimates was marked by what may be.called the brutality of frankness , and also of good sense , allowing , of course , for the Chancellor 's point of view . It is quite - true that the attitude of France is a standing menace to Germany. , , BISMARCK was quite safe in challenging the production of any evidence that France , as represented by any conspicuous public manor any journal of standing and responsibility , acquiesced in the result of the war of 1870 . In'fact , it wouldbe political suicide'for any *French statesman to disclaim , on . behalf of his countrymen , an intention of retaking Alsace and Lorraine . As . soon as France considers that she has a reasonable chance of success in a war with Germany to war she will =doubtedly go . The . hope of retaking the lost provinces and of wiping out the hrunilia-tions of the French Army in a treaty ' signed at Berlin is the most potent and the most prevalent political- sentiment of the republic . While this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such preparations as would secure a second defeat for France . It would be highly impolitic for her not to make it manifest to France that war with Germany would be as dangerous now as it was proved to be sixteen years ago . The grim threat of Brsaiancic that the losses of France in the next war would make the losses of the last seem trifling means more than most threats . It is rather a reminder than a prophecy . The vote of an increased allowance for the army , to last seven years , would be much more admonitory to France than even BIsMARCK 's menaces . In this sense MOLTKE and BISMARCK were right in saying - that a stinted appropriation meant war and that a **25;86;TOOLONG peace . On the other hand , the reluctance of theReichstag to grant the appropriation for so long a term is entirely consistent with German patriotism . There is no disposition apparent on . the part of the Opposition to hamper the Government . There is a justifiable disposition to keep watch of the estimates and to grant them for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government responsible to the representatives of the people . , The history of representative government is the story of a series of struggles between the need of money on . the part of the ruler and the demand for a redress of grievances on the part of the people . This was the contention which resulted in. the great rebellion in . England , and the very appeal for septennial grants , which is now made - to the Reichstag , was then made to the House of Commons . The German people will be false to their own cause if they do not insist that the grant for the army shall be made separately by each successive Legislature . It is - to be hoped BISNIARCK will be disappointed in the expectation that the next Legislature - will be more tractable than that he has just dissolved . All this does not affect the fact that every increase of military preparation on the part of France requires a like increase on the part of Germany . Both countries are under an enormous handicap in Ole arts of peace by reason of maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the actual cost of the army that counts so much . When this increase of taxation is accompanied by , and involved with , the transfer of half a million of workingmen in the prime of life from the class of tax payers to the class of tax consumers the burden becomes almost intolerable . Yet there seems to be nothing for Germany to do but to keep pace with the profuse expenditures of Franco . This fact makes but a sorry showing of the system of civilization which at once requires and makes possible an outlay so great and a conscription so ruthless . One inhabitant out of every hundred , one producer out of every twenty . is withdrawn from production . and kept in readiness to fight . Such condition is more worthy of a beleaguered dukedom in the Middle Ages or of a tribe of savages in our own time than of a moddeleted 15 lines                     