@@780862

txt Reports from Lebanon , Mo. , give the details of a tragedy which has occurred near Bennett 's Mill . 14 miles south-west of that place . A bad feeling had existed during the past weeks between George and William Matthews and some of their neighbors . Yesterday a disturbance occurred between George Matthews and James Ford , both the Matthews boys at the time being intoxicated . Subsequently the boys started ror nome In company with Marion Wilson and Homer Sharp , and had gone some distance when they were fired into by some persons in ambush . The Matthews boys were both instantly killed and Wilson and Sharp were wounded , the former seriously . In the United States court to-day , the following counterfeiters were sentenced : Samuel Holmes and John Kelly . three years in the penitentiary ; William F. Roberts , three years in jail , and William G. Petit , alias " George , " five years . DENVER , Col. , May 27 . ? United States Marshal Smith and Deputy Marshal Ereekine. of Fayetteville . Ark. , yesterday arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged with robbing the mails at Gunther , Ark. , while in charge of the Post Office there . The elder Fuller - was arrested at Pueblo , Mrs. Fuller was arrested at Denver , and young Fuller in Boulder . otherwise Dakota , May 27 . ? Maloohilike , oheravlse known as " Brave Boar , " the Sioux Indian who , but for an appeal to the Supreme Court and a motion for a new trial , would have been executed on the 9th of March for the murder of a soldier named Johnson near Fort Sully , was to-day re-sentenced to be hanged on July 20 , the Supreme Court having denied the motion for another trial . It is said that Brave Bear is guilty of other murders , including that of an entire white family , near Pembina . When asked if he had anything to say before being sentenced he replied : " I have taken a man 's part always . I am disappointed at the treatment of the white men . They can do as they please with me , and cut me to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the utmost unconcern . In the United States court here two days have now been consumed In an ineffectual attempt to obtain a jury for the trial of Harvey W. Knowlton for the murder of David Houck , at Pierre , a new trial having been granted by the Supreme Court . SALT LAKE CITY , May 27 . ? A terrible tragedy has occurred near Milford . 200 miles south-west of here . John A. Smyth , an old ranchman from California , quarreled with his wife , seized a doublebarreled shot-gun , and fired at her twice , both shots taking effect . He then coolly reloaded the weapon , went out of the house , fastened a string to the trigger , placed the muzzle against his breast , and fired six navy bullets into his body . He died two hours afterward . A married daughter witnessed the tragedy . The old man was subject to fits of lunacy . LITTLE ROCK . Ark. , May 27 . ? Edward Isom , clerk in a store at Beres station , 14 miles from this city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the contents of a shot-gun being fired into his body . A considerable sum of money . gold and silver , a shot-gun , and a small quantity of goods were carried off . A colored man , who came to the store in a drunken condition several days ago and was roughly used by Isom , is suspected of the crime ; but so far has not been found . BOSTON , May 27 . ? A telegram states that the United States Marshal of Maine has captured Charles L. Wood , who had been indicted In the Circuit Court for smuggling woolen rags from the Canadian Provinces into Maine , and thence conveying them to this city for sale . Customs officers have for a long time been on his track . ROCKLAND . Me. , May 27 . ? During an affray last night in a disreputable house in Mister-street. this place , Charles McCorrison , who says he belongs in Boston , was struck on the head by Charles Gray , keeper of the house , and had his skull fractured . Gray escaped . McCorrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in search of Gray . WORCESTER , Mass. , May 27 . ? In the Superior Court , this morning , Jesse J. Coburn was fined $2,500 on conviction of manslaughter , as being responsible for the death of Mr. Cahill and two children . Coburn was the owner of a boat which capsized at her wharf July 4 , 1879 , owing to the fact that she had been overloaded . CALAIS , Me. , May 27 . ? Cyrus Munday , a cook on a coasting vessel , after a violent quarrel with his wife this afternoon struck her several blows about the head with a hatchet , inflicting serious wounds . Her recovery is considered doubtful . Munday was arrested . DETROIT , Mich. , May 27 . ? Joseph Moselt , of Newaygo County , was to-day found guilty of committing an indecent assault upon a 9-year-old daughter of a farmer of that county , and sentenced to 25 years in State prison .                     