@@745707

txt The association of car conductors and drivers disavow any share in the violence with which the city was disgraced last week on the occasion of the strike on the Dry Dock Road . They do , well to disavow it . They would have done better to prevent it , and their formal disavowal would have more weight if their representative had not threatened the Superintendent of Police when the latter proposed to do his duty in suppressing it . Whether the strikers were directly engaged in those most discreditable proceedings , or whether they were indirectly connected with them through sympathy , the proceedings themselves were the most unfortunate thing for the workmen that has occurred in a long time . It would have been a real service to the laboring men if the mob in Grand-street had been promptly put down and dispersed at any necessary cost of limb or life on the part of the persons engaged in it . This is plainly true if the rioters were not themselves strikers or led by strikers , for in that case the latter would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less ' true if the strikers were immediately engaged , because all violation of law , all willful disturbance of that peace and order essential to the conduct of the business of the community , costs the laboring men more than it does the employers . We say this with more ample understanding of the right of combination among workingmen than is generally entertained . That right is not a matter for " concession . " It exists . It is no more open to dispute than the right of free opinion and free speech . It is of the essence of popular government , and it has no limits that are not formed by the principles of free government ; that is , that are not imposed by the rights , equally well established , of other citizens . But the prime condition of the safe and profitable exercise of that right is that it shall respect the laws made for the whole community , and that it shall not resort to violence or tolerate violence except in the necessary defense of life or property . This condition flows from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the laws are equally enforced for all , decent and honest and industrious men will suffer from the vicious and the violent , and none will suffer so much as the - workingmen . Before equal laws equally enforced the richest capitalist and the most modest workingman have the same standing . Before laws capriciously enforced or wantonly violated , the capitalist , with his wealth , his experience , his associations , his influence , is far safer than the workingman . If he be vicious as well as wealthy , if he be regardless of the rights of others and bent on grasping all he can get at whatever cost to his fellowcitizens , the law that can be broken , the agents of the law that can be turned from their plain duty are to him facile and powerful instruments of oppression and of eviL But there is another phase of this question which should make all workingmen do their utmost to preserve the full authority of the law , and especially of the law which provides for the peace and order of society . It is this : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be interrupted by violence and lawlessness . Combination among workingmen is not in itself an obstacle to the free employment of capital . On the contrary , it is in many regards an encouragement to it . Many employers of labor prefer to deal with organized labor . They perceive the abuses to which it is liable , but they believe the remedy is not in opposing organization , but in rendering it more complete , intelligent , and responsible . In its present stage it exposes them to some serious disturbances and uncertainties , but it removes others more serious , and it may be perfected , while it certainly can not be abolished . But labor organizations that encourage or sanction violence and lawlessness are enemies to workingmen because they tend to lessen their chances for profitable em- employment . And this is the gravest possible injury . The last census of the United States showed that in round numbers $2,800,000,000 of capital in manufactures gave employment to 2,600,000 men , women , and children , so that every $100,000 in capital insured the employment of nearly 100 persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children , for skilled and unskilled workers , were placed at $355 a year . It will thus be seen that every time a capitalist is deterred by fear of lawless interference from investing so much as $100,000 in the employment of labor 100 persons at least are prevented from earning wages , and for every year that such deterring influence is felt $35,500 at least in wages is lost and is lest forever , for a day 's labor can not be stored as can the capitalist 's money . This is. only a rough estimate and it is below the reality , but it gives an idea in part of what lawlessness may cost the laboring men . They should be the first to oppose it and the most resolute in putting it down .                     