@@745289

txt Torquay , the fashionable Winter watering place on the south coast of England , is at present stirred by a sensation of a most ghastly character . Nearly adjoining Torquay is the smart fishing village of Babbicombe . Uonspicuous for many years among the residents of Babbicombe has been Miss Key , an aristocratic , wealthy , and handsome unmarried woman of middle age . The lady resided in a palatial villa and was regarded by the families of the fishermen ' as an angel because of her charities , and her accomplishments and entertainments were the envy of most of the fashionable visitors to Torquay . Some time ago Miss Key took into her personal service as a valet a young man named John Lee . He had come down from London , and bore such strong testimonials as to worth and character from personal friends of the Key family that he found little difficulty in entering the service of the lady . In fact , the handsome youth deported himself with such tact and intelligence that he soon proved himself an invaluable protector to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties finally resolved themselves into those of an escort , and he waited upon his patron wherever she went . Last night the people of Babbicombe were startled by the discovery of flames issuing from the mansion in which Miss Key resided . The fire bad evidently been burning for some time , as the flames broke simultaneously through windows in the different walls . The alarm was spread quickly and effectively . The villagers went to the scene in a body , and the coast guard and local police soon got control of the fire from without . They found that the mansion bad been securely closed , Mid that the windows and doors had all been securely fastened . An entrance was forcbd , and the fire extinguished . Miss Key was found lying upon the parlor floor dead . Her Person was nude , and the body was partly charred . An investigation revealed the facts that her throat had been cut and her skull fractured . There were evidences that the lady had been dragged down stairs before she was killed , and that preceding all this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she had been outraged . All the jewelry and portable valuable property belonging to the lady were missing , and not a shilling of money was left in the house . The murder was at once set down to jealousy and the robbery was set down as a ruse to misdirect suspicion . No trace of John Lee could be found , and it was feared that he too had been murdered . The country was at once scoured by the police and the fishermen , who eagerly joined in the chase for the criminals . After an all night search , John Lee was found this morning concealed in a stable not far from the scene of the murder . A large sum of money and much of the missing jewelry were found upon his person . He was at once arrested and charged with the crime . He confessed his guilt and fully told the story . He admitted he was an ex-convict , and had obtained employment in the service of Miss Lee by means of forged letters . He said he bad fallen in love with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an acquaintance with her , resorted to this deceit for the purpose . After he had been in her employ for a time , and had secured kindly ' recognition in his capacity of valet , his ardor getting the better of his judgment , he mistook the lady 's favor for more than it meant and made an avowal of love . Miss Key was horrified and attempted to correct his folly by showing him that his suit was both hopeless and absurd . He persisted , and Miss Key finally ordered him out of her service and accused him of being a mercenary adventurer . On the evening of the murder he forced another interview upon his mistress , and when she again treated his overtures with contempt he became enraged and attacked her . His passions once aroused , he lost all control of his moral senses , he said , and alter the assault he struck her senseless so that she could not interfere with his escape . When he saw that the blow was apparently fatal , he resolved to rob the house and flee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of consciousness in his victim , and then being desperate , broke in her skull and cut her throat . It then occurred to him to drag the body down stairs , close the doors and windows , and fire the house in the hope of burying the crimes in mystery . He believed that if he could have got out of the country , the crime would never have been attributed to him . The prisoner is under special guard , threats of mob violence having been made against him . 