@@781714

txt The committee appointed by the National Congregational Council in 1880 to prepare a new creed for the Congregational body has completed its work . The new creed has no binding force except upon such congregations as may adopt it , for the principle of independency makes it impossible for any Congregational Council to exercise authority over congregations . From the character and reputation of the members of the committee it may , however , be taken for granted that they fairly represent their denomination , and that their work will be accepted by a majority of Congregational societies , and so become the distinctive Congregational creed . The new creed is contained in twelve articles . It begins almost in the very words of the Nicene Creed , but the fullness with which that creed sets forth the doctrine of the Holy Trinity is evidently regarded as injudicious by the modern representatives of Trinitarian Congrega tionalism . Thus where the Nicene Creed says of the Holy Ghost , He " proceedeth from the FATHER and the SoN " ? using the term " proceedeth " in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sent from the FATHER and the SON . " This change renders it possible for those who , disbelieving the doctrine of the Holy Trinity , deny that the Holy Spirit is of one substance with the GOD the Father , to be admitted to the membership and ministry of the Congregational body . This is certainly liberal , but with what amazement and indignation would the founders of Congregationalism regard it ? The second article of the new creed deals with the subject of the Divine decrees . The framers of this ' article have worded it in such a manner that there is not an Arminian in the land who could not cheerfully subscribe to it . If it becomes part of the accepted Congregational creed , Congregationalists will no longer have the right to call themselves Calvinists . In the younger days of the sect it was pre-eminent among all the Calvinistic bodies for the prominence which it gave to the doctrines of election and predestination . The new creed not only knows nothing of these two doctrines , but it abandons entirely the Calvinistic ground as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In regard to the inspiration of the Scriptures the new creed is so worded as to be unobjectionable , either to Cardinal NEWMAN or to the Rev. HEBER NEWTON . Article V. says : " We believe that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments are the record of GoD 's revelation of Himself in the work of redemption , " and " that they were written by men under the special guidance of the Holy Spirit . " There is not a word in the article or elsewhere in the creed as to this infpllibility of the whole of the Scriptures ; not a word that is incompatible with Mr. NEWTON 'S assertion that the Scriptures contain the word of GOD , but that every part of the Scriptures is not the word of GOD . Thus , the framers of the new creed are content with affirming , not that the whole Bible is infallible , not that the whole of it is a revelation from GOD , but that it is a " record " of GoD 's revelation , and , by implication , a record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove very satisfactory to Mr. BEECHER , but it is an abandonment of the old orthodox theory of the nature of the Scriptures . Of course the new creed expresses extreme Protestant views as to the Holy Sacraments and the Priesthood . These , however , are entirely consistent with oldfashioned Congregationalism . In regard to the doctrines of the Holy Trinity , of the Divince decrees , and of the authority of Scripture , the new creed marks a long step in the direction of liberalism ; and fifty years ago its framers would have been tried for heresy and deposed from the Congregational ministry .                     