@@671714

txt While it is perfectly proper for the Civil Service Reform League to hold to its ideal and to demand as a matter of principle that , in filling all planes in the public service which have no connection with questions of policy but merely require efficiency and honesty , partisan considerations should be ignored and tests of competency and integrity alone applied , it is also right in using . its utmost efforts to have this principle carried into practice . Bnt in judging what is actually done and in criticising the difference that still exists between the civil service reform theory mid the practice of , the National Administration , justice requires that the practical conditions with which the President has to deal should be fully recognized and fair allowance be made . It is right to work for ideal methods , but it is not fair to demand from any man what is at present impossible . It is to be remembered that Mr. CLEVELAND was elected as the candidate of the Democratic Party , and that he must rely mainly on that party for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public sentiment of the country were sufficiently with him to sustain his efforts , it is evident that lie could not go so far as to separate himself from his own party without impairing his power to accomplish what is reallypracticable . Had he strained the bonds that hold his party to the support of his Administration to the point of breaking he would have become helpless to do for the cause of reform what he has done . It is not pretended that there are not instances in which he has done less than might have been done , but in the main , by considering the conditions with which he must deal and adapting his action to the necessities of the case , he has accomplished far more than would have been possible if he had attempted that - thoroughgoing policy which some of his critics seem to have expected of him . Nor is it fair to say that under his Administration the civil service has undergone a complete partisan reconstruction or anything like it , or to assume - that it will undergo any such reconstruction . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is called the classified service have been executed in good faith . There is no pretense that in the departments at Washington they have not been in the main fairly applied . Efforts to evade them have been invariably checked , and it is the opposite of the truth to say that in those departments there has been a partisan reconstruction of the service . Almost the only appointment there outside of the classified service that has been criticised as hopelessly bad is that of Appointment Clerk HIGGINS , and it has not ** shown thathe is an inefficient clerk , though he is the most offensive kind . of partisan . But his position for the exercise of partisan proclivities was plaintively described by himself when he said : " I ca n't do nuthin ; my hands is tied . " The principles of civil service reform have been carried out with equal fidelity in such great establishments as the Post Offices of New-York , Brooklyn , and Boston , and are being carried out in the main in the New York Custom House since the mistake of HEDDEN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case is very different in the Philadelphia Post Office and the Post Office and Custom House of Chicago and other establishments of less importance , while Baltimore is recognized by everybody as a plague spot on the Administration record . These complaints are probably just . But let us remember that in these places and many others the service was filled , before the advent of the present Administration , on the spoils principle . The subordinates were political workers and incapable of accepting in good . faith the conditions of a non-partisan service , and probably in more cases than we know of they were inefficient or dishonest . In places where the civil service reform cause had made little progress , as in a large proportion of Western cities and . towns , and had . but feeble support in the sentiment of either party , or even outside of the parties , it would not have been an easy thing to appoint a competent man of the President 's party who would have been zealous to carry out the requirements of the reform in good faith . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to be filled , and trusted to him the carrying out of the policy of the Administration . That in many cases this policy has not been carried out , and that efforts have been directed largely to getting rid of Republican subordinates and filling their places with Democrats , is due in a great measure to conditions that could not be got rid of . A Democrat in Chicago or Indianapolis , however capable and honest he may be , cannot. suddenly be transformed into an ardent civil service reformer , and the sentiment that would compel him to act up to the principles of the Administration can not be suddenly created . Had the President waited until ideal men became available , or favorable conditions were produced , ho would have made no appointments in these places and done nothing either for the improvement of the service or the advancement of fmblic sentiment in his direction , while he would have lost much of the support to which he was entitled . But the exacting criticisms which we hear are an indication of how far public sentiment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration . A standard has been set up and insisted upon which would have been laughed at a few years ago , and there have been . some extremely valuable object lessons in , .. civil service reform from . which the People will learn more than from volumes of theory and argument . Where the principles of the ' reform have been faithfully applied , as in the departments at Washington and the New-York and Brooklyn Post Offices . there has been a satisfaction with the public service which has given strength and support to the Administration . There has also been far less political disappointment and consequent dissension and less disposition to complain of the Administration on party grounds than where changes have ? been maclo for partisan reasons . The expectations of those who claim office as a reward for party service have not been raised , and the inevitable disappointments which must be caused by the taking ' of some and the leaving of more have been avoided . It has been demonstrated that the application of reform principles is better for the service , better for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the usefulness and reputation of those in : charge of important branches of the service , and better for the party and for the politicians who are working honestly for its advancement .                     