@@781874

txt There is something very pathetic about the inexhaustible gullibility of the Irish people . Almost all their misfortunes may be traced to their intellectual habit of seeing things as they would like them to be , instead of seeing them as they are . Sir CHARLES GAVAN DUFFY 'S letter of congratulation to Lord CARNARVON is the latest illustration of this tendency . It is a very striking illustration , because the writer is a man of unusual talents and attainments , of high character and of long experience . After beginning his active life as one of the leaders of the " Young Ireland " Party in 1848 , and one of the founders of the newspaper which gave their best expression to the aspirations of his countrymen , he has since run a distinguished and successful career in Australia . He has at the same time the experience of Irish politics and the detachment from them which ought to make an Irishman a safe counselor for his countrymen . Yet it is Sir CHARLES DUFFY who hails with exultation the monstrous and unnatural union of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very much the same sort of man as his predecessor , Earl SPENCER . He is more bookish , but he no doubt entertains virtually the same opinions upon the Irish question . Still , the Home Rulers who delight just at present to honor Lord CARNARVON equally delight to execrate Earl SPENCER . The real difference between the two men as Viceroys of Ireland is the difference between the parties which , in spite of themselves , they represent . The applause of the Parnellites for Lord CARNARVON proceeds from a belief real or pretended , and Sir CHARLES DuveY 's letter undoubtedly proceeds from a real belief that the Conservative Party is more disposed to do what Irishmen account justice to Ireland than the Liberal Party . One would suppose that this was a proposition which needed only to be stated in order to expose its own absurdity . The overtures of the Conservatives to the Parnellites , including the conciliatory conduct of Lord CARNARVON , are obviously nothing but the makeshift of a Ministry in a condition so precarious that it must take advantage of any makeshift . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be unjust to blame very severely , considering the unfortunate condition of the dodger , but it is wonderful that anybody should be deceived by it . Moreover , the alliance thus formed , being an unnatural alliance , can not be permanent . English public opinion will not submit to the government of England by a coalition of one of the English parties with a body of men who are the avowed enemies of England . The Englishmen upon whose votes Lord SALISBURY must rely for support may not possess reasoned political convictions , but they are possessed by strong political prejudices that are at least as hard to overcome . NO real measure of self-government for Ireland could be proposed by a Conservative Government without revolting the whole Tory phalanx . If it passed it would pass by Liberal votes , and its success would be as fatal to a Conservative Government as its defeat . What reason is there to imagine that the Tory leaders have suddenly become so enamored of Irishmen that they are prepared to commit political suicide for the purpose of doing justice to Ireland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state of mind of an Irishman , supposing him to be an honest man , who sees any hope for his country in the present coalition . The nature of the measure proposed seems to have nothing to do with the acceptance of it by the Irish representatives . They reject with scorn and loathing , when it is proposed by Mr. CHAMBERLAIN , a measure a fractional part of which they hail as a boon when it is suggested by Lord SALISBURY . And yet Mr. CHAMBERLAIN 'S proposition must proceed from principle , or at least from a far-sighted policy , while Lord SALISBURY 'S can be nothing but a hand-to-mouth device to keep his Government going by winning a majority in the House of Commons . If Mr. GLADSTONE had done exactly what has now been done by his opponents he would have disaffected the Whigs , who form but a small part of the voting strength of his party . He would have retained the Radicals , who already constitute its most vital element , and who , after the admission of the new voters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other hand , Lord SALISBURY will alienate all of his party , except those members of it who hold that it is better that the Conservatives should enact the Liberal programme than that the Liberals should have a chance of enacting it themselves . It is not to be expected that these considerations should carry any weight with the Parnellites in Parliament , whose occupation as agitators would be gone if there were no wrongs of Ireland left to be agitated against . But it is remarkable that they should have no effect upon a disinterested and patriotic Irishman like Sir CHARLES DUFFY .                     