@@780592

txt Capt . Bostel , of Rockland , Me. , the newly appointed Consul at Pernambuco , Brazil , is in the city receiving his final instructions prior to his departure for his post of duty . Capt . Bostel is an old sea Captain , whose experience will enable him to render invaluable assistance to the whaling vessels which frequent the port of Pernambuco . He enters upon his duties with a pupose of helping American shipping interests to the full extent of his powers . Much interest Is manifested in the invitation extended by Secretary Whitney to members of the appropriate committees of both houses of Congress and to a number of naval officers to go down New-York Bay on the 20th inst. and witness the attempt to blow up an old schooner furnished for that purpose by the Navy Department by the pneumatic dynamite gun . In regard to the pure/Ilse of bonds by the Government , the President said to-day to a reporter : " The criticism upon the action of the Treasury Department for the refusal to accept any of the offers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsiderately made . In the first place the offers wore higher , considering the lapse of the time they had to run , than they had heretofore been and did not present as favorable terms to the Government . Iu the next place the number offered was much less than on former occasions . These facts may well give rise to the inference that people holding bonds preferred them to money . The Government wants to buy bonds to answer the requirements of tee law relating to the Sinking Fund , and it is wiling to advance interest on such bonds as are nut bought and thus supply any immediate demand there may he for money . These two movements of the Treasury Department are calculated to release a good deal of money and turn it into business channels if required . But they are both executive acts and must , be performed with a due regard to thto interests of the Government as one of the parties to these transactions . There is no disposition to drive a sharp bargain with the holders of the bonds but it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain except that of the seller and holder and that these bonds must be bought and the interest advanced on such terms as their interest alone dictates . The competition offered in the sale of bonds as a just way to fix their price , and will be fairly pursued as long as it seems to protect against an undue advantage on the part of sellers and results in offers which , upon business considera tions , ought to regulate their value is between private persons . The Goverment ought not to be expected , regardless of any public purpose , to identify itself with private business or speculation .                     