@@743668

txt Since it has been decided that the power of appointment is to remain in the hands of a Republican President for at least four years more the Democrats in Congress appear to have lost their interest in the overburdened condition of the Supreme Court . They are not so anxious as they were about the law 's delay and the overwork of Judges . Their . little scheme for increasing the membership of the court to twenty-one has fallen out of favor since it has become evident that , instead of revolutionizing its political character , it would strengthen it for an indefinite time to come , and the various propositions for increasing the facilities for disposing of claims against the Government tippear to have been dropped for the very good reason that the number and scope of such claims arising out of war losses are likely to be restricted rather than extended . But the fact remains all the same that the business of the Supreme Court has accumulated beyond its capacity for disposing of it until it is all the time about three years behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar extent and embarrassed by corresponding delays , it is clear that something ought to be done to expedite the decision of cases and the adjudication of questions upon which important public and private interests depend . Since the working capacity of the Federal Judiciary has been substantially the same as at present the amount of litigation coining within its jurisdiction has vastly increased . The growth and complication of commercial interests , the development of transportation facilities and the questions arising out of their operation , the multiplicity of cases relating to the rights of citizens which are the product of the ' great political changes of the last twenty years , and the natural increase of litigation occasioned by advancing population and wealth , have thrown upon the Federal courts an amount of business with which they are unable to cope . The consequence is overwork of the poorly paid Judges and vexatious delay in reaching decisions . A variety of propositions have been made for remedying the admitted evil . Something similar to that suggested by AttorneyGeneral DEVENS in his annual report would give promise of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business pressing upon the Circuit Courts would justify the appointment of an additional Judge in each circuit , while in the Second , which includes this State , a third would be necessary . This would increase the capacity of that branch of the Judiciary up to its needs , and probably relieve the Supreme Court Justices from the necessity of holding Circuit Courts . As a further measure of relief , he suggests the establishment in each circuit of an intermediate tribunal , with restricted appellate jurisdiction , composed of the Circuit Judges and the Associate Justice for the circuit . This would bring into employment for a part of the time on appeal cases the increased force of the Circuit Courts , and give to the Supreme Court Justices a substitute for their present circuit service . At the same time , a large proportion of appeal cases of the less important kind would be finally disposed of without going before the Supreme Bench . The Attorney-General proposes that the ' final jurisdiction of this intermediate tribunal be confined to cases involving not more than $10,000 unless the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such difficulty that it should be argued before the Supreme Bench . This would limit the work of the highest court to cases in which it has original jurisdiction and to the most important eases of anneaL It is probable that the re . lief thus afforded mould be sufficient without an increase of the number of Supreme ' Justices . The number now corresponds to that of the circuits , and , with the large increase in the efficiency of the Circuit Courts which the plan proposes , and the establishment of an intermediate appellate tribunal in each , there would probably be no necessity for increasing this . Besides , there would be no advantage in a larger number of Justices on the Bench at Washington beyond a wider distribution of the labor of preparing opinions . Aside from all questions of reorganizing the Judiciary , there ' are likely to be further changes in the composition of the Supreme Court within a short time . The resignation of Mr. Justice STRONG has already been followed by the appointment of Judge WOODS , of the Fifth Circuit , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CLIFFORD on the Bench is at an end , and it is only a question of a very short time when his successor must be selected . Justice I-Imvr has long been incapacitated for active service , and should make way ' for some one able to do his share of the work . Mr. Justice SWAYNE is far advanced in years , and entitled to retire on full pay whenever he may , see fit . These vacancies as they occur should be filled in a manner to strengthen the court , and it is far more important that men of the highest capacity should be selected than that too much stress should be laid on geographical considera tions . Yet these may be fairly regarded without a departure ' from the highest standWard of qualifications .. Much has been said about a fair representation of the South on the Supreme Bench , and there have been suggestions of the propriety of keeping up a political balance by the appointment of one or more Democrats . When Mr. DAVIS , of Illinois , and of nondescript politics , retired , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a Southern man and a Republican . Mr. STRONG , Republican , of Pennsylvania , is succeeded by Mr. WOODS , Republican , of Alabama . Though Judge WOODS was born in Ohio , lie is certainly entitled to rank as a Southern man , and the memorials from the Bar in the Fifth Circuit in support of the appointment indicate that he is entirely acceptable as such . There would be a manifest propriety in selecting a successor to Mr. CLIFFORD from NewEngland , and there is ample , material there to choose from . Conspicuous ' examples are to be found in Attorney-General DEVENS and Senator EDMUNDS . This , the most important of all the circuits , should have a representative , and Judge BIATC11-FORD is already more or less talked of as the successor of Justice HUNT . Mr. SWAYNE is an Ohio man , and as that much-represented State furnishes the Chief-Justice , there is no reason for looking there for his successor , but the West has perhaps as strong a claim as the South for a second representative on the Supreme Bench . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointee shall be a Southern man or a Democrat , it is of the highest importance that he shall be an able and learned jurist , who regards the Constitution of the country as equally valid in all its parts and to be impartially enforced by " appropriate legislation . "                     