@@744307

txt It is said that Mr. JAY A. HUBBELL and some of his associates on the Republican Congressional Committee are very much astonished at the intolerable pother that has been raised over the now celebrated circular sent out to Federal office-holders and employes . They claim that the machinery to which they have resorted is not new , and that the methods employed py them have been sanctioned by many years of usage by both of the great political parties . The only attempt at a defense of the circular and of the policy of which it is an example , put forth in the recent debates in Congress , was that it is not a recent invention . Furthermore , it is declared that similar " requests " to those sent to the Government officials have been mailed to private individuals , and that this has been done before , and that the replies have been gratifying to the committee . In other words , it is alleged that the Government clerks have simply been asked , as all other citizens are asked , for voluntary contributions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should demur , or why nonofficial persons should demur , the request being civilly worded , and the character of the response being left wholly to the judgment and inclination of the recipient of the circular . This is precisely the state of the MC as presented by Mr. JAY A. HUBBELL and his associates . It is absolutely true that the Democrats , during the last days of their power in the national Government , did assess every individual office-holder for each man 's share of the expenses of a political campaign . For example , during the Administration of Mr. BUCHANAN the Collector of the Port , the Postmaster , and the other heads of departmental offices , in each city in the Union , received an autograph letter from the Democratic National Committee ( Congressional committees of the parties being then undeveloped ) asking each said chief officers to collect from the persons under him such sums as , in his judgment , seemed just and equitable , the same to be applied . to the expenses of the campaign . This , we know , was done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Presidency in 1960 . The Collector of the Port of San Francisco , for example , was notified that a specific sum " would be expected " of him . He was left to collect from his appointees and from the appointees of his colleagues , the ? Surveyor and the Naval Officer of the port , as much or as little as he pleased . He might make up from his own private purse any deficiency , if any existed , or ho might so severely grade the assessment on his subordinates as to exempt himself from any contribution . In any event , the magnitude and character of his return , as he perfectly knew , determined his standing with the Administration at Washington . The temper of the subordinates and their standing was determined by the character of their ' responses . This was the Democratic method . It was , in all essential particulars , the method that was in vogue in this country twenty-five years ago . And when Senator PENDLETON or any other Democratic statesman or politician denies that this is true he denies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved to-day by the testimony of many living witnesses . It is also true that even during the Administration of LINCOLN somewhat similar practices prevailed . But the Republicans , being new to the business , were deficient in their organization of machinery . They also had during the war an army of contractors to draw supplies 1 from ; and these men , who were making handsome profits , were willing and able to pay liberal assessments to the party in power . But , while the war for the preservation of the Union was in progress , and while the party of moral ideas held the reins of Government , there was less need than ever before for levying political assessments . Patriotism was at flood-tide . The Republican Party , the only party sincerely devoted to the cause of national unity and human freedom , was sustained in power by the well-nigh unanimous voice of the people . Never before in the history of this Republic has there been a manifestation of popular feeling like that shown in the repeated and overwhelming majorities thrown in the several States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a sight . It would be idle to say that any political campaign can be conducted without money . There are numerous expenses ? honest , legitimate . and reasonable  --  to be met by some methodical provision . There was a time , and that not long since passed , when the individual members of the great political parties were given , in various ways , an opportunity to contribute to the treasury of the organization to which they owned allegiance . It is not a good sign that the custom of those times seems to have fallen into disuse . It can not be denied that there has . gradually obtained in the minds of political managers a notion that the bulk of the cost of a political canvass k should fall upon the candidates and upon ? the salaried servants of the Government . This has led , on the one side , to the nomination of men who are reputed to be rich , and , on the other , to a systematic assessment of office-holders . It is a long step from asking lump sums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and employes of the Government . The Democratic plan was shameless , bold , and rapacious . The Republican plan , as adopted by Mr. HUBBELL 'S committee , is inquisitorial , mean , and tyrannical . Let us believe that we have a better Government , a more enlightened public opinion , and a purer public service than we had in 1860 . But wherein is the Hubbell method of 1882 an improvement upon the Democratic method of 1860 ? As for the pretense that men , women , and boys not in the employment of the Government have been treated with circulars as the employes of the Government have been , it is hardly worth serious consideration . The circular prepared by Mr. HUBBELL , and sent to every official and employe of the Government , is printed in fac simile . It contains a blank for the insertion of the amount of money demanded of each man . What would a business man , or an employe of a private concern , think of a lithographic note from Mr. HUBBELL , or anybody else , informing him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be less than ? , " a specified sum ? And it is pretended that this assessment , which is a percentage on the annual pay of the recipient , is just such a voluntary contribution as is asked of private citizens . Where did Mr. HUBBELL 'S Committee procure the enormous lists of governmental employes for the direction of these circulars ? Finally , it is claimed that this collection is not a novel thing in politics . Since when has it been considered decent and dignified for members of Congress to assess Federal office-holders throughout the whole country for the expense of electing Congressmen ? Much may be pardoned in the management of a great Presidential campaign . The Republican Congressional Committee , pleading ancient Democratic usage , has the impertinence to levy a tax on every man , woman , and minor in the employment of the Government to secure the re-election of individual members of Congress .                     