@@780793

txt Three new members of the Legislature were ch o en on Tuesday , at the time of the local and municipal elections . Two of these were members of the House , to fill vacancies caused by deaths of members-elect between the November election and the meeting of the Legislature , and there is no political change made by the two now men . Henry R. Brown , a Republican , succeeds Wallace J. Boyd , Republican , from Montgomery County , and S. Woods Caldwell , a Democrat , succeeds John C. C. Whalley , Democrat , of Clinton . The third election is that of a Senator from Luzerne County , in place of Mr. Eckley B. Coxe , the wealthy coal operator and capitalist , who , it will be remembered , announced himself unable to take the oath prescribed by the Constitution , in the Senate , on the first day of the session , and read a statement showing expenditures in his campaign which he regarded as not " expressly authorized by law . " It Is now stated that a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Coxe will probably arrive to take his seat on Tuesday or Wednesday , and it will then be seen whether or not he takes the oath . If he should not , he will again forfeit his seat ; if he should , the point will be raised that he is disqualified , and liable to an indictment for perjury , rendered incapa- ' ble of ever again holding public office in this State . The Constitution ( article 7 , section 1 , ) requires an oath to be taken that " I have not knowingly violated any election law of this Commonwealth , or procured it to be done by others in my behalf . " But it is now argued that Mr. Coxo , . in the statement which he read on declining to take the oath , explicitly admitted that , in his belief , he had violated the act of Assembly defining more particularly the language of the Constitution . It is , therefore , held that to have done so in his November canvass disqualifies him now . The matter , it is presumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a report , and its merits will be closely inquired into , though tho Democrats threaten that if Mr. Cole 's case is put under the investigating barrow , they will retort by insisting on probing into the canvasses made by Republican Senators and Representatives who did not show equal hesitation in taking the oath . Mr. Cole 's case is one especially noteworthy , both front the fact of his declining to take the oath , an unprecedented proceeding  --  and from the enormous expenditure of money which he made in Luzerne County in November , the amount being estimated as high as $75,000 , by persons whose means of knowing gives their statement respect .                     