@@780732

txt The results of 88 second ballots for members of the Reichstag show the election of 9 Conservatives , 2 of the Centre Party , 16 National-Liberals , 14 Secessionists , 2 Liberals , 25 Progressists , 5 of the Party of the People , 13 Socialists , and 4 Particularists . The Kreuz Zeitung says : " The conference of Prince Bismarck with the Emperor shows that complete harmony exists between them relative to the present political situation and the steps made necessary thereby . A doubt on this point is inadmissible , even if the Emperor should not open the Reichstag . " Other journals take a similar view of the subject . The above quoted article is interpreted as meaning that the Emperor 's approval of Prince Bismarck 's policy - will be emphasized in the speech from the throne . Prince Bismarck 's audience with the Emperor lasted one hour and a half . The Emperor 's physicians have advised him against personally opening the Reichstag . Cardinal von Hohenlohe arrived here yesterday . It is stated that he is the bearer of proposals for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the budget . The revenue and expenditure are each estimated at ( i07,000,000 marks . A grant of 300,000 marks is proposed for enabling Germany to participate in the proposed International Polar Expedition . LONDON , Nov. 15 . ? A Berlin correspondent says : " Prince Bismarck advocates extensive electoral reforms . He desires that minorities be represented in Parliament , and that there be a radical change in the formation of electoral districts . " Another Berlin correspondent says : " On the whole , it is probable the Government will do nothing to provoke party conflict in the coming session of the Reichstag , which will be short and unimportant . the proceedings of the Prussian Diet will furnish the true key to the situation , as it is probable that the party of the Centre , whose support will be necessary if the Government adheres to its schemes of economic reform , can only be satisfied by the adoption of same definite measure by the Diet in favor of their claims . LONDON , Nov. 16 . ? A dispatch from Berlin says : " At his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish that the Crown Prince be present in order to discuss the present situation , and in order that he might have a voice in deciding upon the policy to be pursued . The Emperor expressed a wish for a restoration of peace between the Catholic Church and the State . " Prince Bismarck has not suggested his resignation to the Emperor . Both are in complete accord .                     