@@780738

txt The Police have made so further progress toward the discovery of the assassins . The report of the arrest of three men at a hotel at Cork was untrue . The man Rush , who , it was stated , drove the car containing the murderers , is a car-owner . He was questioned by the Police as to whether any of his cars are missing , but the inquiry was without result . James McGrath , who was arrested at Shrewsbury , England , on suspicion of being concerned in the murders , it has been found ; had no connection with them . He , however , has been held on a charge of theft . The Police have discovered that the car in which the murderers escaped was hired by a stranger from a stable in the southern part of the city , and was returned about 8 o'clock on the evening of the murder . They hope to be able to trace the driver . The assassins dispersed when the car returned to the stable . The Police merely suspect who the driver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he may be arrested , but the detectives have no chance of bringing home his guilt unless an informer comes forward . The persons who have witnessed the flight of the assassins have been shown the car , the horse , and the suspected driver , but their evidence as to identity is conflicting and unsatisfactory . CORK , May 15 . ? A man named Robert Dow &ill; was arrested here to-day , on the arrival of the mail train from Dublin , on suspicion of being concerned in the Dublin murders . His face was scratched . The fund started by the corporation of this city as a reward for the apprehension of the assassins of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke now amounts to ? 1,000 . LONDON , May 15 . ? In the House of Commons this afternoon , Mr. Johnson , AttorneyGeneral for Ireland , announced that the Sub-Inspector who was in command of the Police when the crowd was fired upon at Ballina a few days ago , during the rejoicings over the release of the " suspects , " has been relieved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. O'Shea , Home Rule member for County Clare , before his release from prison , and which is to the effect that reforms of the Land act in regard to arrears of rent , purchase , and leases are necessary , and that on the completion thereof the Land League would do all that was possible to suppress outrages in Ireland . Mr. Forster asked that the whole letter bo read . Mr. O'Shea then read a paragraph omitted by Mr , Parnell , stating that if the reforms specified were made the Land Leaguers might act cordially with the Liberals in support of Liberal principles . The reading was received with cheers from the Opposition benches . Mr. Thomas Power O'Connor , member for Galway , who recently returned from his American tour , will attend a meeting of the Parnelites to-day . Considerable division of opinion exists among the Parnellite members on the subject of the new Coercion bill , several being in favor of withdrawing from the Parliamentary discussion of the measure altogether . The text of the bill for the repression of crime in Ireland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an alien expelled from Ireland may subsequently be expelled from Great Britain , The Common Council at a meeting to-day decided to offer a reward of ? 500 for the conviction of the persons guilty of placing the canister of powder on the railing of the Mansion House last Friday night . LONDON . May 16 . ? The Queen has written an autograph letter of sympathy to Miss Burke , sister of the late Linder Secretary Burke . Mr. Gladstone introduced the Arrears bill in the House of Commons last evening . He explained that the bill was limited to tenancies up to ? 30 , Griffith 's valuation . The till is to be administered by the Laud Commission , which will be assisted by a County Court Judge , before whom the tenant will be obliged to prove inability to pay arrears . Either the landlord or the tenant may apply to the commission . The bill only deals with two years ' arrears , and requires the tenant to pay one year 's arrears  --  from November , 1860 , to November , 1681 . When that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canceled . The Government will contribute the remaining one year 's rent from the residue of the Irish Church surplus fund , the estimated amount of which is ? 1,500,000 . There is no reason to believe that the claims on the Government 's contribution will exceed ? 2,000,000 . The remaining ? 500,000 , therefore , will be made up from the consolidated fund . The progress of the bill will depend upon the progress of the Repression bill , which can not be displaced .                     