@@671706

txt The debate on the Land bill was resumed in the House of Commons to-day . Mr. O'Doherty , Home Ruler , member for North . Donegal , moved , on behalf of Mr. Parnell , to limit to three years the clause providing for written notices of evictions instead of the present method , on the ground that the provisions of the clause would only be required until a land purchase bill was passed . Mr. Balfour , Chief Secretary for Ireland , speaking for the Government , declined to accept the proposed modification . Mr. John Dillon said that as the bill was only a temporary measure a clause depriving tenants of the small fragments of rights reserved to them under the act of 1880 ought not to be permanent . He asked whether the Government would accept an amendment securing to the tenant undisturbed possession between the service of the notice of eviction and the time of its redemption . Mr. Balfour said the ** would consider favorably any amendment that would secure the tenant asslight delay between the service of notice of eviction and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to turn round and prevent the appearance of harshness on thepart Of the landlord . Mr. Thomas Wallace Russell , Liberal Unionist member for South Tyrone , suggested a compromise whereby evictees might be reinstated as caretakers , and in that capacity have six months ' time in which to redeem their holdings . Caretakers were now liable to ejectment within three days or a week . He ( Mr. Russell ) supported the clause generally because it would stop one-quarter of the evictions and prevent public scandals . Mr. Maurice Healy , Home Ruler , member for Cork City , denied that the clause would abolish evictions . He contended that it would double evictions . The argument to the contrary was a hollow sham and a lying pretense . The Chairman  --  The member from Cork City must restrain his language . Cries of " Hear ! " " Hear in Mr. Healy , continuing , said it was an electioneering dodge to pretend that the Government 's object was to abolish the scandal of evictions . The clause was so bad that it outweighed all the benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than have the clause retained . The clause was a deadly , hostile blow at the tenants . The fact that the process of eviction was troublesome to landlords was a protection to tenants , but the clause in the bill would lessen this trouble to the landlords and increase evictions a bun dred fold . The Right Hon. George Shaw-Lefevre , Home Ruler , member for Central Bradford , said the Parnollites had made out a strong case . The clause was liable to great abuse and , therefore , should be temporary . A harsh landlord could easily convert his tenants into caretakers , when they would be at his mercy and liable to eviction at any moment . Mr. Balfour said in that respect the clause did not change the existing law . Mr. Parnell urged that the Government postpone decision on the clause until clause 22 , dealing with the powers of the Land Court to settle evictions , was settled . He did riot agree with Mr. Maurice Healy 's persistent apposition , but preferred to defer final judgment until he could balance the risk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause would subject tenants . The Chairman ruled against further debate . The amendment offered by Mr. O'Doherty was lost , the vote being 156 for and 221 against it . The annual meeting of the Liberal Union was held to-day , Sir Henry James presiding . The annual report announced that in addition to the 400 working members there were many others , who offered to qualify for admission by speaking , writing or organizing in behalf of Unionism . The financial position of the Union is strong and the platform electoral agencies are active . Mr. Chamberlain , in a speech . expressed confidence in the future and in the prospects of the permanent triumph of Unionism . ; Sir Henry James , Mr. Caine , and Mr. Collings spoke in a similar strain and congratulated the Union upon its position . Lord Salisbury delivered a speech at Norwich this evening . He said that Mr. Morley had boasted that Liberal success was assured , but he ( Salisbury ) doubted whether any political strength based upon the rotten relations existing between Gladstone and Parnell could be permanent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England 's policy . What had Mr. Gladstone to say to the fact that the whole civilized world condemned free trade I Anyhow the Government 's policy held the field . Mr. Gladstone had formulated no policy . Referring to the Egyptian convention Lord Salisbury said it was mainly useful to Turkey , and that England suffered nothing by its rejection . As for the recent by-elections he did not believe the results indicated a turn of public opinion in favor of home rule . There was no home rule plan now before the country that any one was bold enough to own .                     