@@743357

txt The two most important subjects demanding the attention of the Legislature of this State at the present session are unquestionably those of bringing the railroads into proper subjection to law and effecting a judicious revision of our system of taxation . o one has been bold enough to maintain that the Tax laws are what they should be , and that there is no occasion for doing anything in regard to them , and yet every time the subject is brought up there appears to be a remarkable disinclination to taking earnest action . The Governor ' called attention to the glaring defects of the present system , but , notwithstanding the fact that it has been . in operation for many years , that it has been repeatedly investigated , the existing evils pointed out by commissions and special committees , and remedies more or less judicious many times proposed , he had no better recommendation to make than that a new commission be appointed to put the task over yet another year . The State Assessors , in their annual report , are emphatic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' present specific statements showing the inequalities and injustice of their operation , but they , too , propose that they be allowed to go on working injustice for the present , taking unduly from one class , to the relief of another , while a commission attempts to see what can be done about it . In both branches of the Legislature the same weakness is displayed , and the same desire to stave off grappling with the difficulty , and to throw the burden of preparing legislation upon a special body of men , whose work would possibly stand little better chance of adoption than that of their predecessors . A few men have shown an appreciation of the pressing importance of the subject and have made persistent efforts to spur their fellow-legislators up to a discussion of it , at least , with a view to evolving some basis of action that will stand a chance of finding acceptance . But their efforts , thus far , have been without avail . All proposed measures have been quietly turned over to committees , without consideration of their merits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last of them . . The attempt made near the beginning of the session to get the Finance Committee of the Senate to consider a definite plan and report upon it in some shape was , after a month 's delay , defeated by instructing the committee to report " by bill or otherwise " in ten days . That this was regarded as mere trifling was shown by the fact that the committee did nothing at all about it , and to all appearances nobody expected it would . Then came the joint special committee arrangement for getting rid of the subject for the time being , and all propositions were turned over to that body in advance of its existence . It would be well enough to have a joint special committee devote itself to the subject , if there were better indications of a purpose to get some action from it likely to be accepted , or to work out of the results of . its labor the needed modifications of the law . But so persistently has the desire to have the subject turned over to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , and so unconquerable has the disposition appeared to evade practical action now , that there is little encouragement to be derived from the appointment of a committee to take the matter in hand , after two months of the session have gone by and the time of crowded and hasty work draws on . Mr. ALVORD , in declining to serve on the part of the Assembly , sneers at the composition of the committee , and intimates that no good is likely to come of it . His motive for refusing to give it the aid of his mighty mind and valuable experience may be due to despair of accomplishing anything with such inferior colleagues , or it may spring from no very enthusiastic ' desire to have anything accomplished in the direction where it is most loudly called for . It is vain to represent that fresh investigation of the general subject is necessary , and that the needful laws can be formulated only by months of labor based on such investigation . The general principles of taxation are sufficiently understood by those who are competent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be little benefited by a formal reiteration of them . The defects of the present laws have been repeatedly pointed out , and . the means of remedying them have been often suggested . What is called for at present is simply - a clear and vigorous embodiment of well-known principles in measures judiciously devised for carrying them into effect . There are men in the State competent to effect this , and they have studied the subject so long that they do not need months in which to go over the ground of their studies afresh . If the committee includes none of these , doubtless their assistance could be had . There is really no reason for new investigations or further delay , but there is a very evident need of an earnest desire and a genuine determination to do something . The real difficulty is that there are powerful interests which are benefited by the existing inequalities , and these apparently find representation in the Legislature more effectually than do the wider interests of the community at large . Unfortunately , there seems not to be that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is necessary to generate a very effective public sentiment on the subject , but there is nevertheless a wide-spread understanding that reform is needed , and that the need is acknowledged on all hands , and a continued evasion of duty on the part of legislators can not fail to produce effect upon the minds of constituents . Those who make earnest efforts to perform their whole duty in regard to this subject ought to be remembered , and those who shirk should be regarded as failing in their responsibility to the public .                     