@@745782

txt There is a chance for live young men not afraid of hard work to get Professorships at Oxford . Applications must he made in the handwriting of the applicants , and it would be advisable to write on only one side of the sheet of paper . There are five vacant chairs , " . to wit , " ( we quote the language of the Secretary of the Board of Trustees , ) " Latin , Greek , Mathematics , Natural History , and English Language and Literature . " The Oxford referred to is not , of course , that effete old city on the banks of the Isis and Cherwell , but a thriving post village of Lafayette County , in the State of Mississippi ; and the educational institution whose Faculty is so sadly in need of recruits has been known since 1848 as the University of Mississippi . This seat of learning has undergone many vicissitudes , but we infer that it has taken a new lease of life and will strive hereafter to keep abreast of the times . The cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it is plain that the Trustees of the university have determined to put new blood into the old concern , to break away from musty traditions , and to make an end of debilitating conservatism . They want new Professors and they are going to have them . There is an annual salary of $2,000 attached to each chair , and the incumbent is provided with a " house and premises free of rent . " It will be seen that substantial inducements are held out to encourage timid Northerners . At the present stage of its history the State of Mississippi is not famed for the prevalence within its boundaries of a liberal spirit in politics . It would be as well , therefore , fon applicants for the Professorships either to be Bourbons or to maintain a discreet silence as to their party affiliations . But what opportunities are here offered ? to the host of disappointed Jeffersonians who have been complaining that the Federal Administration has neglected to heed ? their applications for Government offices ! Few places under the Government are worth $2,000 a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the disappointed take courage . Here are five fat offices to be had for the asking . There is one of them that very few of the office seekers could properly fill  --  the chair of English Language and . Literature . But the Latin , Greek , and other Professorships are worth trying for . Seriously speaking , the Trustees of the University of Mississippi have done well to make their wants known . Mr. H. M. SULLIVAN , the-Secretary , has sent through the mails printed postal cards setting forth the facts we have cheerfully given space to . The action is somewhat unconventional , but it is wise for all that , and businesslike . Some of the enterprising spirit of the West has got into Mississippi , and we hope it will stay there . The Professorships will all be filled on July 27 , and applicants must either be present or address Mr. SULLIVAN before that time . We trust that capable , broad-minded men may be obtained , and that the university may be thoroughly reorganized upon a liberal basis . 