@@672226

txt The recent decision of the English Court of Appeal in the important case of The Mogul Steamship Company against Mo . GREGOR , Gow eer . Co. , and others , to which we have already directed attention , was to the effect that English courts would not interfere to prevent a combination of manufacturers or traders from driving an independent competitor out of business by temporarily reducing the price of goods or services to a point whore it should be unprofitable to either party . This decision was based upon the doctrine that there ought to be no interference on the part of the Government , and the law for the relief of any manufacturer or trader who is suffering loss by reason of severe competition , when such competition is not accompanied by intimidation , violence , fraud , or other acts that are clearly forbidden by law . It was held - that although the extreme competition in this case was carried on by a ring and designed by the ring to drive out of business an independent trader , there was no legal ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination and was not acting in an unlawful manner . And yet it was admitted that the sole purpose of the ring was , by removing a rival , to obtain power to raise safely the prices which it had temporarily depressed below the line of profit . As Lord Justice FRY said , " The scheme of the ' conference ' was by means of competition in the near future to prevent competition in the remoter future . " The court was not called upon , however , to deal directly with a suppression of competition , but to say whether a trader injured pecuniarily by severe competition was entitled to recover damages . In the opinion of only one of the three Judges this remedy was open to him . Combinations in this country , while striving to suppress independent producers , have , as a rule , found ? means less costly than a direct reduction of prices to a point below the line of profitable trade . The Standard Oil Trust crushed independent competitors by iniquitous bargains with railroad companies , thus greatly increasing the relative cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . In certain districts it has brdken down weak rivals by making an extraordinary reduction of price for a time , but in most cases it has preferred to accomplish its ends by conspiring with railroad companies to exact from every independent refiner a heavy and ruinous tax . Such discrimination in freight charges is now forbidden by statute . The so-called Envelope Trust sought to prevent the profitable manufacture of envelopes outside of the combination by obtaining control of the shops in which the indispensable machines are made . The promoters of the proposed Salt Trust boldly gave notice in their prospectus that they intended to use the profits of the entire combination in meeting any " attack " that should be made upon the fixed ring price in any one district . The W whisky Trust warned the two or three independent distillers at one of its regular meetings some months ago that they " could hope for no profits , " because it was the policy of the Trust to " vanquish " them " even if it should become necessary for the accomplishment of this purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Trust will not permit the paying of any dividend or even the regular fixed charges . " The independent distillers assert that the Trust 's competition in the matter of prices has been accompanied by acts of malice . Suits at law have been brought in this country by two or three independent manufacturers to recover damages for loss suffered under the action of a combination , but in these cases the injury was inflicted not by the ring directly interested but by a second ring that controlled and supplied the raw material used by the first . We do not know that any one of these suits has come to trial . The memorable suit against a branch of the Standard Oil Trust in Buffalo was one in which the defendants were charged with having sought to destroy the factory of an independent refiner by causing an explosion in it , and competitive prices were not involved . The defendants were convicted . In the snits brought by GEORGE RICE , the independent refiner of petroleum , the defendants were railroad companies that had discriminated against him and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation charges . The suit brought by the people in this State against certain corporations that are members of the Sugar Trust relates to the powers and duties of corporations chartered by the State , and no question concerning competitive prices is primarily and directly involved . No one has brought suit in this country asking for relief and damages on the ground that by reducing the price of a commodity to consumers a combination has deprived him of profitable trade and thus aused him to suffer loss . In some cases Trusts and other large combinations have reached an amicable understanding with the few producers remaining outside of the ' ring . It is stated that for some time before the recent enlargement of . the White Lead Trust the companies then outside of the Trust , and now in it , were maintaining ' by agreement the Trust 's prices . Although it does not appear that the few independent refiners of sugar have any understanding with the Sugar Trust , their prices are but a shade lower than those of the Trust , and the Trust has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their markets below cost . It has not subjected them to the " extreme competition " that was the ground of the complaint in the Mogul steamship case . The Whisky Trust did , however , begin a war of rates some months ago and has proclaimed an intention to carry it on . It is reported that in certain markets buyers of refined petroleum , linseed oil , white lead , and turpentine are allowed a considerable rebate at the end of each year if they shall have bought their entire supply of these four commodities from one and the same seller or agent ; The Standard Oil Trust , it is said , controls the production ' and sale of turpentine , and some of its officers are deeply interested in the White Lead Trust , with which the Linseed Oil Trust is affiliated . For these reasons it would be easy to make such a combination for sales and rebates as has been described . An independent producer of any one of the four commodities would be at a great disadvantage , and his condition would closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evidence in the English case . If an independent producer who has been deprived of trade by such an arrangement for the sale of these four commodities as is said to have been made , and also by a sharp reduction of rates in addition to the rebates , should appeal to the courts for relief , the suit would involve the questions raised in the English case . While it is not probable that in such a case our courts would undertake to say how high or how low a " fair and reasonable price " should be . or to check a fall of prices due to severe competition , they would take notice of the existence and aims and methods of the combinations or Trusts interested , and their opinions as to the lawfulness of these combinations and of the means employed by them for the ultimate suppression of competition might not be in accord with those of the majority of the Judges of the English Court of Appeal . But independent producers who compete with actual Trusts in this country as a rule ask for nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trust prices with which their own must compete . This is so for the reason that the Trusts have so inflated their certificate capital and are carrying so many idle factories and so much antiquated machinery that they can not afford to reduce their prices to a war basis .                     