@@745412

txt Now that Miss VAN ZANDT has been hissed in Paris by -a mob of wicked persons she will be sure of a warm . reception in her own country . Even , those of us who have little taste for singing have patriotism enough to resent a cowardly attack on a defenseless American girl , and when Miss VAN ZANDT comes here we will show her our loathing of her French assailants by buying unlimited quantities of tickets whenever she sings in public . That Miss VAN ZANDT should have been virtually hissed off the stage in Paris has made the blood of , say , forty millions of her compatriots boil . and our rage can express itself satisfactorily only in tickets . There was a time when an American prima donna could not hope to be successful here unless she had previously ; made a success in Europe . Indeed it was almost imperative that she should have succeeded in Paris . , Scores of new American soprani , who had made most brilliant debuts in Milan , and had been enthusiastically received by audiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have made miserable failures . Now and then an American singer has ventured to sing in Paris , but unless she has been warmly tind unreservedly approved by the Parisian public . she has had little chance of being warmly received in New-York . The experience of Miss VAN ZANDT will show our young singers that the thing to do is not to achieve a European success , but to be hissed off the stage . The next new American prima donna may be willing to make a brilliant success in some provincial Italian town , but she will know that such a success ' will be of no real use to her . When she is ready to come to America she will pay any price to be permitted to appear in a Paris opera house and to be driven from the stage . If she is well hissed she need have little fear as to her future , and if she can employ some base ruffian to express his disapproval of her with cabbages and dead cats her fortune will be made . She can come to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People will rush to see and hear the helpless young woman who . was treated so infamously by a French mob simply because she was too good and saintly to win the approval of Frenchmen . It will matter very little whether she can sing or not . If she can convince her fellow-countrymen that she has been insulted in Paris , and can show in the front of her best dress the rent made by the claws of a dead cat , she will win a success , no matter how badly she may sing . Miss VAN ZANDT ought to reflect upon the consequences of her Parisian experience . No doubt she has been treated badly , but unless she is willing to establish a precedent which every new American prima donna will follow she would do well to remain in Europe until public indignation here has subsided and we are ready to judge her as a singer by her merits .                     