@@745047

txt The Republican ward caucuses to elect delegates to the State and District Conventions are to be held in all the wards of this city , composing the Thirty-second Congiessional District , from 5 to 8 o'clock tomorrow . The calling of all the caucuses for the same day and hour , the extended notice that has been given , and the length of time given for depositing ballots are unusual , and are intended to silence the charge of snap judgment . As a matter of fact , however , the machine men do not expect the caucuses will be contested , and so can afford to seem to be fair . If a real contest were to be made , everybody supposes the old tricks would be resorted to , and that machine delegates would be returned whether elected or not . Hence a contest is improbable . Anticipating a machine victory , it has already been given out that the delegates from this district to the Chicago Convention will be James D. Warren and Josiah Jewett . The former is Chairman of the State Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the unsuccessful Republican-candidate for Mayor last Fall . An evening paper to-night prints interviews with a number of Republicans to show what the feeling is in regard to this representation .. The expressions show a good deal of feeling against it . Several Germans complain because their race is not represented , and because both proposed delegates ' are from the same ward . Mr. Henry Morse , an Alderman , said : " If both Messrs . Warren and Jewett go as delegates I do n't think there will be very much harmony as a result . " Mr. N. C. Simons , an exAlderman , said : " I do n't like it , but do n't see as we can help it . I am opposed to Arthur myself . I 'd like to see representative men go who would vote for the best man any way , and not be bound by any 306 arrangement  --  such men as S. S. Rogers , E. C. Sprague , and others . We 've got hundreds of such men if some one would only take a stand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William F. Kip . Secretary of the Civil Service Reform Association , said : " Mr. Jewett and Mr. Warren are emphatically Stalwarts . They do not represent the whole of the party at all . I do not see why representative men are not selected . Mr. Jewett , however good a business man he may be , and however strong in a money way , is a Stalwart opposed to civil service reform . Mr. Warren represents nothing but Stalwarts , and is opposed to civil service reform too . Now , if we are to have union and harmony in the party , both sides of it should be represented . To send two men , from here who are Stalwarts , and who oppose civil service reform , is an open declaration of war . " Mr. Pascal P. Pratt , a Niagara Falls Park Commissioner , said he was entirely satisfied . Mr. Ansley Wilcox , a prominent lawyer , said : " I like Mr. Jewett very much . I like to see men go to the convention who are not pledged to any particular candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am in favor of Edmunds and Lincoln , but I do not want to see Arthur nominated . " Mr. Frank Sears , ex-Alderman and ex-Police Commissioner , said : " If Mr. Jewett is going down as an Arthur man he makes a great mistake . We want a compromise to uialte the two sides of the party . But if they are going to take the bull by the horns and fight the fight over again . Arthur will be beaten as badly as Foirrer was . I do n't think Arthur can be elected anyway . He ca n't carry this State . " The persons whose views are given probably represent Republican sentiment outside . of immediate machine circles very fairly .                     