@@745566

txt " The convention has done well , " said the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher at his farm in Peekskill last evening , " and placed a strong ticket in the field . Taken as a whole and in detail the ticket is one that should be elected . " When asked what he thought the attitude of the independent Republicans would be he said : " This ticket should receive the hearty support or them all . I can see no reason why the independents should not vote the straight ticket . " In regard to the platform Mr. Beecher said some of it was good and some bosh . The resolutions in regard to civil service reform and the silver question were excellent . but those in regard to the tariff bosh-and twaddle . Asked as to his opinion as to the possible success of the ticket at the election , he said that depended on circumstances and on what the Democrats did . With a good ticket and a sound platform , taken in connection with the suspension of Sterling by the Administration , pending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one  --  another Puritan and Genesta race over again , with a good deal of doubt as to ' which was the Puritan . William Dowd , Aqueduct Commissioner and President ef the Bank of North America : The . ticket is indeed a very strong one . The nomination of Mr. Davenport is wise and conservative. , He made a very excellent State Controller , and has been free from the factional troubles in the party for the past few years . I am very much pleased with the nominations . The ticket insures a very large Republican vote , and in my opinion it is a stronger one than any the Democrats can put up . Col. Emmons Clark ? I think the ticket as strong a one as could have been named . I know Mr. Davenport to be an excellent gentleman , and in my judgment all wings of the Republican Party will support the ticket heartily . Excise Commissioner John J. Morris ? Mr. Davenport is a very strong man , and so are the other gentlemen nominated . The ticket will commend itself to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the convention was done in a thoroughly business like manner , and reflects credit on the party . Col. Charles S. Spencer ? It is a very good ticket and will certainly win . Mr. Davenport is known all over the State , and the New-York people will be perfectly satisfied with him . The Rev. Dr. Howard Crosby  --  The ticket is a strong one . 1 think it will poll the party vote . Ex-Collector Murphy ? A better ticket could not be named . It will please everybody , and every Republican will gladly cast his vote for it . Gen. btewart L. Woodford  --  The ticket ought to win . It is made up of strong elements . All shades of party opinion and preferences will unite in giving it cordial support . Ex-Judge John Fitch  --  The ticket is the strongest ever nominated in the State of New York . Ex-Judge Dittenhoefer ? I believe Mr. Davenport will make a good Governor . He has not taken part in any factional differences . I ca n't tell whether he will draw the independent Republican vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has more than a fighting chance of election . Ex-Judge William H. Arnoux  --  The ticket is composed of men of reputation and experience in public affairs . Mr. Davenport I believe to be a man of highest integrity and ability , not identified with any faction of the Republican Party . I think this ticket is one that will secure the unqualified support of the Republicans of every shade of opinion . Mayor Grace Mr. Davenport is a very good man  --  that is , of course , I mean for a Republican . Gen. Carr I know to be a good man of high standing , both officially and personally . My own preference for Governor , so far as the Republican nomination was concerned , was Cornelius N. Bliss , because he is thoroughly acquainted with city affairs here . Corporation Counsel E. Henry Lacombe ? Mr. Davenport is a very able young man , and the Republicans acted wisely in selecting him to bead their ticket . I do not know the other nominees sufficiently well to form an opinion as to their strength or availability . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , but with a good representative Democrat we can beat it . Isaac H. Batley , of the Shoe and Leather Reporter  --  The ticket is a strong one , and all the nominees are good men . I have not heard any one express a contrary opinion . Still , it is hardly a matter of candidates this Fall . I think any Republican ticket will win . If it does n't win through its own strength it will through Democratic weakness . Mr. Ripley hopes ( for years one of the leaders in the reform movement in Brooklyn ) ? I am very glad that Mr. Davenport has been nominated . I do n't see how any man in the Republican Party can refuse to support him . I have known him for years , and I believe him to be an honest , upright man , and while not particularly brilliant as a statesman , yet able enough to be Governor . The independents will , in my opinion , give him hearty support . His nomination is a step forward in the right direction , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things in State politics . Edward M. Shepard  --  The Republican Convention has nominated a strong ticket . Mr. Davenport is an excellent gentleman , with a good record . Still , I think that should the Democrats nominate a ticket in sympathy with Cleveland 's Administration the minovumps would support it . Henry W. Maxwell ? I think the ticket a strong one . Mr. Davenport is an excellent gentleman , with nothing of the demagogue about him , and the nomination for Controller will commend itself to all upright citizens . Mr. Wadsworth is one of the strongest nominations , It is difficult to tell what action the Kings County independents will take until the position of the Democratic Party is more clearly defined . My own position I can not better define than to say I am a Cleveland Republican .                     