@@745180

txt The Presidential contest is sure to absorb the chief share of interest and activity in the present canvass . It ought to do so , for the issue which it is to decide is more important than anything that has arisen in our politics for well-nigh a generation . But it is not to be forgotten that members of the national House of Representatives are to be chosen in November . In a few weeks the nominations will be made throughout the country . Intelligent voters should be able to separate entirely the Congressional from the Presidential canvass , for the determining question in the one case has no relation to the other . In regard to the election of President the question of official integrity and of an inflexible fidelity to the highest sense of public duty towers above every other consideration . Questions of policy that relate to national legislation should be relegated to the Congressional field . That is where they specially belong at all times , and at present it is there alone that they can be properly considered . And it ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Congressional districts for the nomination and the election of men who will truly represent their principles and promote the policy in which they believe . It is especially desirable that there should be a homogeneous majority of some kind in the next Congress . The material interests of the country depend far more on the action of the national legislature than on anything that can be done by the Executive Department of the Government . It would be well if close attention were given in the Congressional districts to securing the truest representation of the sentiment and purposes of the people in those districts in regard to the questions that are to be dealt with . Whatever is to be done to perfect laws relating to the currency and the collection of revenues must be done by Congress , and there is much that needs to be done . The coinage of silver is threatening trouble ; the basis of the circulation of national banks is in danger ; the revenue laws are still badly adjusted , and the continuing surplus of the Treasury is admitted to be a peril @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican Party that it has exhibited more intelligence , more capacity , and more prudence in dealing with these matters than has been displayed by its opponents . Let Republicans therefore do their utmost to send representatives to Congress who will carry out their ideas and promote the policy to which they are devoted . The policy of reform in the civil service has heretofore received more support from Republicans than from Democrats in Congress , and the former claim that it will be safer in their keeping . So far as the head of the Executive Administration is concerned , it will certainly be safer in ' the hands of a Democrat like CLEVELAND than in those of Republican BLAINE , but Congress must be depended upon to perfect and sustain the system . Here is an opportunity for Republicans to make good their professions and endeavor to elect representatives whose action would give substantial support to a reform Administration . There is yet a chance for strenuous rivalry for popular confidence and support in the Congressional districts . While we should condemn a candidate with a bad character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he belonged , we hope to see the Republicans making such nominations for Congress that they may unite cordially in their support and win a majority in the next House in whose hands the best principles and the soundest policy of the party will be safe .                     