@@743938

txt The Cornell men  --  the four who can not row  --  are very exasperating . Just after their sincere friends had convinced themselves that the real object with which the Cornell crew went to Europe was to show ' how well American oarsmen could bear defeat , this pleasant theory is upset by the announcement that one of the crew is accused of having sold the Vienna race to the Germans , . and that his comrades have quarreled with him and are on their way home . This is quite irreconcilable with the theory that the Cornell four are humble and consistent martyrs , thirsting for defeat and ready to accept it at the hands and oars of the humblest German boating men . We are , therefore , forced to invent a new explanation of their extraordinary conduct , and in this hot weather the task is by no means easy . The three Cornell men who accuse Mr. SI:111111EL of having been bribed to pretend to faint away during the Vienna race must not expect to be believed unless they produce evidence in support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least , very improbable that the Germans , who are proverbially thrifty , took the trouble to win a race by foul means which they were morally certain to win by fair means . When the Cornell men . went to Vienna they had already been beaten in every race they had rowed . Every rowing man who had read the account of their English races knew not only that they could not row , but that the harder they tried to row the more certain they were to run into the bank . In these circumstances the German crew must have felt perfect confidence in their ability to row over the Vienna course before the Cornell men could flounder over half the distance , and they must also have known that the more earnestly their antagonists could be induced to contest the race the more hopelessly the Cornell boat would be beaten . Instead of hiring Mr. SHINKEL to faint and drop his oar , the astute Germans would rather have encouraged SHINKEL and each one of his comrades to row their very hardest . If Mr. &MICKEL'S; alleged illness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he stopped rowing in the rational hope that the crew would run into fewer banks without him than with him . Whether SHINKEL was bought or whether he pretended to faint as the best method of helping his comrades , it remains equally clear that the Cornell men are not pure-minded , unselfish martyrs . As they have quarreled among themselves because they were beaten at Vienna , it is quite possible that bribes have been paid to some of their number . Is it not , however , conceivable that Mr. SHINKEL is the one simple-minded , earnest oarsman , and that his three comrades have been bought with British and German gold ? The Cornell crew was beaten in England without any fainting on the part of SHINKEL , and undoubtedly would have been beaten at Vienna had SHINKEL rowed his best  --  or , to speak more accurately , his worst . Suppose that Mr. SHINKEL should assert that , in his belief , the three other Cornell men were hired by the effete despots of Europe to lose races in order to bring American oarsmen into contempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plausible ? Consider the wretchedly bad rowing of these unfortunate young men . It must have taken months of hard labor for them to learn to row so exceptionally badly , and it seems improbable that they would have attempted the task had they not been well paid for so doing . They must have known when they left this country that there were not four small-boys in Europe outside of a hospital for cripples who could not beat them in a fair race , and unless they were hired by the despots aforesaid to give exhibitions of bad rowing , how can we account for their willingness to go abroad ? Assuming that three of the crew were thus hired to be beaten , we may imagine that Mr. SIIINICEL was the one man of the four who really fancied that he could row , and who went to England in good faith . This simple-minded man may have discovered at Vienna , while in the very act of rowing a race . the true character of his companions , and the shock may have caused him to fall unconscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the three other men may have hastened to forestall public prejudice by accusing the innocent SHINKEL of the boating crime of which they themselves were guilty . Thus we arrive by a series of gentle assumptions at a clear explanation of what would otherwise be inexplicable . Of course , it would be unjust in the absence of any conclusive evidence to charge these Cornell men with having been hired to lose races , but they themselves must see that the human mind imperatively demands some explanation of their conduct . If they went abroad in good faith , expecting to win races , then the conclusion is inevitable that they ought to have represented an asylum for weak-minded youth instead of an American college . If Mr. SHINKEL is really the sort of man who sells races , then the three other men who have associated with him for several years and never discovered his character need to be provided with careful governesses and sent into remote rural towns where they can be kept from falling in with more bad boys of the Shinkel pattern . If they honestly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in order to do so , announced that a representative Cornell oarsman is a wretched " welcher , " then the best thing that can be said of them is that ? well , they are the kind of men who are capable of that sort of thing . Either the intellect or the honesty of Mr. SHINKEL 'S three comrades must be called in question , and perhaps the kindest course would be to permit them to decide to which they attach the greater value .                     