@@746017

txt The clique in wheat gave the crowd a glimpse of their hand to-day , which the latter seized upon with an avidity that cast every shred of the clique 's erstwhile overweening influence to the winds and made the day one of great excitement , wild fluctuations , and heavy trading . The first few moments of the opening were tame , with May wheat at 8414 cents and June at 1.2 to al of a cent discount . The day promised , like those of a ' week past , to be one of moderate trading and eager watching . The entrance into the pit of one of the most prominent of the clique brokers as a seller of May wheat changed all . The crowd listened to hear him make one or two offers , and then simultaneously a rush to sell was made by the tailors , big and little , and prices broke under the 2 cents in less than - five minutes . The June option was left for the first time in many weeks at its legitimate premium . There was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and fluctuations were quick anti wide . When the futures were seen to be once more in a natural condition as regards premiums the country and the New York speculators woke up from their lethargy . Outside orders were liberal . In the afternoon the excitement was even greater . The final close was at bottom figures of the day , with June at a premium of 1 cent and July a premium above June . The corridors were full of brokers discussing the situation until a late hour . Every sort of rumor was afloat . The weight of opinion , however , was unmistakably that if the corner was not broken it had received a shock which had destroyed a great deal of the prestige of its operators . ** day long the clique brokers were open and heavy sellers of May wheat . The crowd betrayed less fear of the mysterious clique and sold them all they wanted . It was said that heavy sales of May by certain commission houses Monday and Tuesday were for the clique 's account . " The way they sold that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as they bought it , " said a well known member who watched the deal all day , " looked very much as though they found it bard to raise the money to carry the wheat or were frightened at the prospects of big receipts . " There appears no doubt of 1 he latter . The agent of the Burlington Road says his road could handle 1,000,000 bushels a week were storage room available . The arrival of a large fleet today and the absence of pressing inquiry broke vessel rates to 3 cents to Buffalo . A large quantity of corn was again engaged to be loaded out and the space freed will be filled with wheat . Commission houses were Jubilant over the change in tho situation . They said that whether a clique existed or not the day 's developments had removed much of the fear it inspired , and their customers were again returning to the market . The gossips were today counting up the losses thus far in the wheat deal . They estimated one sum of $150,000 , seven or eight others exceeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the least of which was several hundred dollars . It would be invidious to mention names when the losers pay up , as is the case with all those referred to . It has been a bitter lesson in the art of straddling between the different markets which had been almost a uniformly successful operation for the last three years . Kershaw 's purchases of June wheat turned the tide this morning . Ho took hold at 83 cents and bought up to 8312 cents , his purchase being estimated to exceed 2,000,000 bushels . He is reported to have taken vessel room for 380,000 bushels wheat to go from Milwaukee . and remarked that he had orders for 500,000 bushels more , which could be filled if the room were obtainable . 