@@745193

txt The recent festivities at the home of Gen. MEREDITH READ , on the occasion of the marriage of his daughter , were extremely brilliant , and would have been still more so had not so many of Gen. READ 'S royal friends been unable to attend . . Invitations were sent to Queen VICTORIA , the Prince and Princess of WALRS , the Kind , Queen , and Crown Prince of Denmark , and the King and Queen of Greece . Strange as it may appear , not one of these accepted Gen. MEREDITH READ 'S invitation , and even President ARTHUR and Lord Chief-Justice COLERIDGE failed to be present . Of course the fact that Gen. READ did not invite several prominent European monarchs will give rise to great dissatisfaction . He had , however , good reasons for refusing to invite the Emperor WILLthe Emperor FRANCIS JOSEPH , the Kings of Italy , Spain , and Portugal , and the President of France . With the Czar it Lis hardly necessary to say that Gen. READ is not on speaking terms . Long . ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making war on Turkey he should consider him and every member of the imperial Russian family as strangers , and as the infatuated Czar refused to listen to this warning he can not complain that Gen. READ did not send him an invitation to a wedding party . Between the General and ; the Emperor WILLIAM there is a lamentable coldness , for which , undoubtedly ; the Emperor is solely responsible . About two years ago Gen. READ was conversing earnestly with a friend in the chief Street Of Berlin , when the Emperor , anxiaiisji6 ask his advice as to the propriety of ietaiia.ing BISMARCK in office approached him and tapped him on the shoulder . Gen. READ without the slightest intention of offending the ' Emperor . said to him : " I 'll see you in a moment  --  I 'm busy just now , " and continued the conversation which the Emperor had interrupted . Curiously enough , the old man took offense and walked angrily away . The next day Gen. READ sent word to the palace that he would be at home all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the latter to call on . him , but to this very considerate message no reply was made . The next time the General and the Emperor met the former bowed coldly and . passed by without speaking . Their acquaintance having thus been brought to an unpleasant close , it is quite clear that the Emperor had no right to expect an invitation to Gen. READ 'S Newport palace . As to the Emperor of Austria , Gen. READ was compelled to treat him without ceremony during the time that the General was the United States Minister to Turkey . Gen. READ did not like the conduct of Austria in Montenegro , and believed that Austria , after having crushed the Montenegrins , would threaten the Turkish Provinces . He therefore telegraphed to FRANCIS JOSEPH : " I give you six hours in which pledge yourself respect integrity Turkey , answer paid for . " The Austrian Emperor was furious on the receipt of this note , and telegraphed in cipher to the German Emperor for his advice . The answer was : " Do n't provoke READ unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these circumstances FRANCIS JOSEPH gave the required pledge , but , of course , friendship between him and Gen. READ is out of the question . Gen. READ did not invite the Kings of Spain and Portugal for the simple reason that he does not know them . When the General was in Paris a few years ago he had gone to his room one hot afternoon to draw up , at the request of GAMBETTA , a new Constitution . A servant knocked at his door and ? informed him that some Kings were below . " Tell them to send up their cards , " said the General , wearily . Now , it so happened that the . Kings of Spain and Portugal had rashly undertaken to call on Gen. READ without an introduction , and when they sent up their cards , Gen. READ , remarking , " I do n't know those Kings , " tossed their cards into the waste basket . Had the two monarchs only taken the trouble to procure an introduction to the General he would doubtless have received them courteously . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to blame for losing the honor of the General 's acquaintance . Whether Gen. READ is or is not acquainted with the King of Italy is not known . There is a rumor that the two are acquainted , and that an invitation to the Newport festivities was sent to Rome and was lost on the way . In. regard to the President of France , it is only necessary to say that he is a mere republican , and would have been out of place among Gen. READ 's other guests . Why the monarchs whom Gen. READ did invite did not appear at Newport is not so easily explained . The King and Queen of Greece sent , it is said , a polite reply regretting that a prior engagement would forbid their acceptance of Gen. READ 'S kind invitation . Neither Queen VICTORIA nor the Prince of WALES made the slightest reply to the invitation- . It is reported  --  by way of the new cable  --  that the Queen was actually displeased , and remarked on receiving Gen. READ 'S invitation , " Drat his himperence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince of WALES laughed and said , " Oh , READ is a good fellow , but we really ca n't go to those dreadful American watering places , do n't you know , and meet Presidents and all that sort of people . " The silence of the British royal family was , however , less offensive than the note written to Gen. READ by the Crown Prince of Denmark , whose language was really frightful and whose threats as to Gen. READ 'S ears were almost as extensive and awful as the subject . But it would be improper to publish what the Prince undoubtedly intended to be a private letter , unless Gen. READ should see fit to give it to the press . It is nevertheless a pity that a few Kings did not come to Gen. READ 'S party , and those who refused his invitation will hardly fail to regret their want of good judgment and courtesy . 