@@744613

txt The severe weather which has prevailed on the North Atlantic during the past Winter has naturally attracted general attention to the behavior of screw steamers when exposed to violent winds and heavy seas . Many able articles have been written both here and in England , in which the proper way to manage a steamer in a cyclone has been discussed . Obviously , the proper thing for a steamer Captain to do when he finds himself in a cyclone is to run out of it , which he can always do within three or four hours , unless he has the land under his lee or has postponed the attempt until the sea has become so heavy that he can not risk changing his vessel 's course . There is , however , a natural reluctance on the part of a Captain to prolong his voyage by unnecessarily running away from a cyclone , and in the majority of cases an Atlantic steamer when caught in a cyclone makes the best of the situation and waits for the gale to blow itself out . No invariable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in bad weather , for there is a vast difference between different steamers . The Captain of one of the steamers of the American Line , running between Liverpool and Philadelphia , has found by experience- that when his vessel is suffered to fall into the trough of the sea and her engines are stopped she takes no water over her deck and is perfectly safe and comfortable . Hence it has been argued that all screw steamers should lie in the trough of the sea in dangerous weather . This , however , would be a fatal mistake , for the great majority of steamers would have their decks instantly swept and would run imminent risk of foundering were they to be placed in the situation which the Captain of the Illinois has found conducive to the safety of his own ship . Recently an English steamer passed successfully through a cyclone by scudding before it , whereupon a leading London journal propounded the theory that all screw steamers should present their sterns instead of their bows to a cyclone . In some instances the best thing to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the wind , but in the case of a heavily loaded steamer , this course would be almost certain to insure her destruction . The Notting Hill arrived in this port a day or two since after a most perilous passage . during which the sea extinguished her fires , and she lay in the trough of the sea for hours , with the waves constantly'sweeping her decks . When at last her engine-room was freed of water and her fires were started , she was able to bring her head to sea , in which position she shipped very little water . Our esteemed contemporary the herald . in commenting on this incident , insists that all steamers should carry sail enough to enable them to lie to under sail alone in case of accident to the machinery . Now , the simple fact is that no steamer of the height and general proportions of modern screw steamers can possibly lie to under sail . The spread of after-sail necessary for such a purpose would be so large that no canvas could be made stout enough and no spars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cyclone . The safety of a steamer in had weather depends almost wholly upon her engines . So long as they can keep steerage way on her , so that she can keep the sea about four or five points on the bow , she will in most cases weather the worst Atlantic gale in safety . If , however , her engines break down , she is virtually at the mercy of the sea . A steamer is not a sailing vessel , and she must depend upon her steam alone . As to whether it is best for a given steamer to scud , to lie in the trough of the sea , or to keep her head to it , must be decided by those who know her peculiarities . No general rule is possible , though unquestionably most steamers make better weather when head to the sea than when in any other position .                     