@@781489

txt It has been cynically charged that the Greek troops have for months been fraternizing with the Turks all along the frontier . If so the time for such intercourse is past . The rival outposts are now facing each other in grim earnest ; and while some of the rumors of actual fighting may be incorrect , an exchange of hostile shots is likely enough anywhere on the border . What preparation has Greece made for war , and what would be her chances in waging it ? The country is divided into three military districts  --  Eastern , Western , and Southern  --  with headquarters respectively at Larissa , Missolonghi , and Athens . The ordinary peace effective is 30,692 men , of whom perhaps 23,000 could be brought into line of battle . This force includes 36 battalions of infantry , 9 being rifle battalions ; 8 regiments or 12 squadrons of cavalry ; 16 four-gun batteries of field and mountain artillery , with 64 guns ; 4 batteries of heavy artillery , 12 or 13 companies of engineers and train . This organization is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 2,856 cavalry , 6,942 artillery , and 4,634 engineers and pioneers , making an aggregate of 72,257 officers and men . There are 5,342 men in the gendarmerie , so that we have a nominal force of 77,599 men and 120 guns as the . Greek war footing . Thus Greece could theoretically put about 80,000 men into the field to-day . But with the garrisons for her many posts , ' and the various-details for administrative duty deducted , the campaign effective would probably not reach 60,000 . There is , however , a reserve , and after that a landwehr of men under 40 who have served-in the.active army or the reserve . Hence Greece claims to be able , if need be , to put 100,000 men in the field and still leave many-thousands as home guards and garrisons . Two classes of reserves have already been called out , and there remain , we believe , two more . Weak compared with Turkey in point of numbers , the Greek Army has a further disadvantage in the general lack of military experience among its officers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milittir-Zeitung this judgment upon it : " It could only be good for guerrilla warfare , and would be valueless in a regular campaign . It could not hold the field for a moment against Turkish troops . The military instruction of the Greek soldiers is much neglected . They are merely armed bands . " A correspondent of the Cologne Gazette finds them " tolerably well equipped , but badly drilled and administered , wanting in discipline , and led by officers with little military training or experience in command . " No doubt the organization is imperfect and the discipline rather lax . The Russian system is reputed to be the model ; but the recruits are often mere lads , and , except where they find their way to a few crack regiments , ill-trained . During the last year a French general officer has been brought in to mend matters of drill , but the extreme brevity of the , service with the colors required prevents thorough instruction , while a system of promiscuous furloughing , which often begins as soon as recruits are enlisted , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the men , increases the military shortcoming . Add that during the wars of Turkey and Russia for the last thirty years , in which other peoples of the Balkan peninsula  --  Bulgarians , Bosnians , Herzegovinans , Servians , Montenegrins , and Roumanians  --  have taken part , Greece has usually held aloof , or else been forced to remain quiet , and it will be seen why her troops lack experience of actual campaigning , though there is testimony to their being good material for soldiers if properly instructed . It may be urged that the Greek Navy is of quite another sort , and filled with well trained and experienced sailors . This is true ; but just now the powers are not disposed to let the navy fight . Greece has , however , popular enthusiasm in her favor , and an abundance of excellent arms . Gras rifles and carbines are supplied to the field forces , and there are chassepots for reserves . There are-effective Krupp guns for the artillery , both heavy and light , and much artillery material . Greece hopes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until insurrections can be stirred up in Macedonia , Albania , and Crete , and meanwhile looks for prompt intervention of the powers , with Russia and France well disposed toward her and her claims .                     