@@744114

txt The report of the officers who have examined the so-called defenses of the principal ports of the United States will probably disturb the calculations of some of the ingenious gentlemen who are drawing plans for the relief of what they call " our overflowing Treasury . " There is in Congress , and probably elsewhere , a notion that it is necessary to devise ways and means to spend money , otherwise the country will be burdened with a surplus of cash . Certain economists have usually favored vast appropriations for pensions and for the alleged improvement of rivers and harbors . Meantime , little or nothing has been done for the strengthening of the defenses of the sea-coast and of the lake ports . There are about sixty fortifications , in various grades of efficiency , along the exterior line of national defense . Many of these , perhaps most of them , are practically valueless . And none of them is capable of defending against the most effective war enginery of modern times the point for whose protection it has been constructed . Congress has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erection of sea-coast defenses , and the general impression which one gets from an examination of the reports of debates and the details of the annual appropriations is that the average Congressman considers the appropriations as money wasted . Unfortunately , the course pursued by Congressmen in regard to the internal improvement bills has created an unreasonable prejudice against the bills for the building and strengthening of fortifications . Naturally enough . the Congressman in whose district United States forts are situated is ready to advocate a liberal appropriation for the works , with whose necessities and whose importance he is familiar . This is regarded as his " job , " and not a measure in which the whole country has an interest . Ile is believed to favor an expenditure of money on a fortification in his district just as he would insist on a handsome appropriation for the " improvement " of a trout brook in his district if he were a West Virginia Congressman and the River and Harbor bill were under discussion . But it is high time that Congress should decide to abandon as needless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of efficiency the fortifications already in existence . There are men ( and probably some of them are in Congress ) who consider that the cheapest line of defense is that which keeps the country at peace . Let us have no war , they say , and we shall need neither fleets nor forts . Unhappily for the peace of the world , this policy is not always practicable . Peacefully disposed nations , like peaceable individuals , may be involved in hostilities very much against their will . A rich and prosperous people , well provided with the treasures and stores most coveted by others , is very likely to become an object of attack from a powerful and avaricious nation . A vast coast line studded with cities that are the depots of great wealth , and left undefended , must needs excite the cupidity of the adventurous and unscrupulous . We have no cause for quarrel with any power in the world . Wars are not always undertaken with reasonable cause , however . And if a war should ever be forced upon us , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found with a coast line virtually defenseless , and with a Navy incapable of protecting our own commerce or damaging the fleets of our adversary . The recommendations of the board to whose report reference has been already made are simple . To be prepared for attack from the best floating war engines now in use , it is necessary that the fortifications of the United States coast line should be remodeled , and , in some instances , rebuilt . Yet it will be seen that the basis of the works required is already in position , and the additions need not involve a tremendous outlay . In most cases , the works now in use may be utilized for various purposes of defense , but the battery required should be 100-ton guns , mounted in revolving iron turrets , and capable of sending a projectile weighing 1,700 or 2,000 pounds to a distance of one or two miles . How many of these guns should be used is a question not now discussed . Nothing less than these will cope with the batteries of armored vessels now afloat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying an 800-pound projectile , are recommended to be mounted en barbette for closer range practice . It is thought that batteries like these , with a good system of torpedo service , would render our coast line so strong in defense that attack would be improbable . The fortifications now nominally defending the principal ports of the United States were originally designed when wooden ships were in vogue . The introduction of steamers made necessary some changes , and , up to 1860 , we may say , our defensive works were in a fair condition of efficiency . But the invention of iron-clads and armored vessels and highly improved ordnance have made these works practically obsolete . They may as well be abandoned utterly as to keep up an eXpensive pretense of maintaining them , unless we are prepared to bring to a condition of trustworthiness and efficiency the defenses of the sea-board cities of the Republic . 