@@743811

txt There are many gratifying evidences of the fact that at least a portion of the people of the South are slowly but surely beginning to realize that the lack of prosperity which they have so long mourned can only be remedied by hard work . There was a time , not long past , when all over the South even the best-informed and most thoughtful of men shared the common error that the success of a business community depended mainly upon the defeat of one political party and the victory of another . Four years of uninterrupted Democratic rule have tended to disabuse their minds of this ridiculous idea . They have not found in that rule the universal panacea for earthly ills which they expected . On the contrary ; they have in only too many instances discovered that under it their material condition has grown worse rather than better . Beginning , as they are , to realize these truths , they have naturally grown less and less devoted to the Bourbon Party , more independent in politics , more indifferent to the results of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people of other parts of the country , they must be the architects of their own fortunes . One of the most hopeful signs of this change of feeling is to be found in the rapid growth of the manufacturing interests which is reported from different portions of the cotton country . Throughout Georgia the example of Columbus and Atlanta  --  where some of the finest mills in the Union are now running at a profit far in advance of that which can be made in New-England ? is being enthusiastically followed . Even Augusta , just across the river from Hamburg , of terrible memory , and one of the most proscriptive and unprogressive of towns , seems to be yielding to better influences . It is announced that a cotton factory of mammoth proportions is shortly to be established there by the aid of home capital , and there is every reason to believe that it will not only give support to hundreds of people , but will also make rich dividends for its owners . In South Carolina , too , there seems to be a rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up grumbling and go to work . The results of this inclination in " the up country , " at least so far as is indicated by the cotton receipts at Columbia , are most encouraging . According to the official tables just prepared , it seems that in 1877 the receipts at that place amounted to but 12,357 bales ; in 1878 they increased to 17,033 bales , in 1879 to 20,032 , in 1880 to 24,660 , while for the present " cotton year " the receipts already exceed 30,000 bales . The difference in the value of the receipts of 1877 and this year was nearly one million dollars , and now , from the depths of despair in which they found themselves , even during the Government of their hero , WADE HAMPTON , the people of the Palmetto capital are elevated almost beyond recognition . Like their friends over the line in Georgia , they are beginning to talk seriously of being no longer content with the profit from cotton crops raised by the labor of the blacks , and of establishing mills and factories where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living and cease to be a drag on the community . That numbers of such factories might be conducted with profit there can be no question in the minds of those who know of the remarkable water-power which runs to waste in the Edisto , Santee , and other Carolina rivers . The total waterpower of the State has recently , by experts , been estimated to equal that of three million horses  --  the power of three-fourths of all the locomotive and stationary engines in the country . It needs only intelligence , energy , and work to win fortune from these natural advantages . Very much the same comment may be made in regard to the many inducements of situation and climate which should go to make New-Orleans a favorite manufacturing centre . That city commands the most extensive water-route system known in the world ; it is in the very heart of the cotton belt , and because of the low rates of river transportation , fuel may be had there at prices much below those demanded in other markets . Being fully aware of these facts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inducements to establish factories in the Crescent City , the late Constitutional Convention of Louisiana wisely enacted that from the date of the passage of the Constitution for ten years there shall be exempt from taxation and the payment of all license fees to the State of Louisiana " the capital , machinery , and other property employed in the manufacture of textile fabrics , leather , shoes , harness , saddlery , hats , flour , machinery , agricultural implements , and furniture and other articles of wood , marble , or stone ; soap , stationery , ink and paper , boat-building , and chocolate ; provided , that not less than five hands are employed in any one factory . " Encouraged by this liberal law , and by the natural advantages enjoyed by New-Orleans , capital talists have recently erected a number of factories there , and others of a more extensive character are contemplated or in course of erection . In fact , there are at last many signs that the Southern people have determined to stop begging from the national Government and help themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displaying a little more independence and tolerance in politics , they must in due time be rewarded with their full share of the general prosperity .                     