@@781013

txt The State Assessors since they finished their labors in Ulster County have been examining Town Assessors and Supervisors in other Hudson River and also in inland counties . They have found that realty Is very unequally assessed , and in many instances personal property is taxed ridiculously out of proportion , provided it can be said to be taxed at all in certain towns . In towns in the same county assessments on real estate vary from 33 1/3 to 100 per cent. , and the only excuse that the Town Assessors had to offer was that they had done the best they could under the existing state of public opinion in their respective townships . Everywhere the State Assessors have emphasized the fact that towns will not be made to pay a higner tax because property is assessed at its full value . There is no doubt that the State Assessors have succeeded very largely in impressing that important fact upon town officers , and the results may be made apparent in the new tax rolls to be inane out the coming Winter . The State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the failure to assess personal property imposes a great burden on real estate . In a number of leading farming counties agriculturists have asserted that real estate has ueen depreciating in value , and that they have made no money farming . Large allowances , of course , have to be made for such statements , especially when the subject matter in hand is equal or unequal taxation . In instances it has been made apparent that farmers believe the local Assessors have done about right when they taxed property at 50 per cent . and even lower , instead of its full value , as required by law . Some farmers were asked if it ever had occurred to them that the Assessors , who had glaringly violated their oaths In swearing to tax rolls , might be Indicted for false swearing . and they said they did not believe that such a consummation was probable . The basis for such an assumption seems to be that pretty nearly everybody in a given town , ' so far as relates to taxation , is in " the same boat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very apt to give testimony against themeelvea. particularly so when they are fully persuaded in their own minds that they are " just taxed to death . " The moral aspect of the matter , together with the incongruities of the State 's political economy in the premises , are furnishing food for thought to thinking people . The next annual report of the state Assessors will undoubtedly contain interesting reading for all classes of taxpayers .                     