@@745571

txt After WILLIAM M. TWEED had secured , in 1870 , a charter for this city which suited his purposes of plunder , he found it necessary to obtain additional legislation which would give the ring of which he was the dominant spirit absolute control of the municipal finances . He was busy in the Summer and Fall of 1870 in securing as many members as possible for the next Legislature who would be subservient to his schemes , and in taking every possible measure to assure the favor or the silence of the press . We showed yesterday how through the agency of his stanch supporter , Mr. PATRICK , he secured at once a newspaper and an Assemblyman in Chemung County . When he put $10,000 into the Elmira Gazette he was not looking for dividends on the investment , as was shown by the fact that he sold his interest very cheerfully at a loss after the close of the session of the Legislature , through which he proposed to accomplish the purposes he had in view . He was simply making sure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit both the purchase and the sale were made , and he obtained what he was after , as the record of the session of 1871 shows . The Democrats had a small majority in the Senate that year and the preponderance of a single vote in the Assembly , and the Tweed influence was predominant in both branches . The Assembly was presided over by TWEED 'S zealous tool , " BILLY " HITCHMAN , and " Tom " FIELDS and " ALECK " FRE Alt were leaders of his gang on the floor . With them HILL , of Chemung , and all the Tammany-ridden Democrats heartily co-operated . When the Tammany bully , " JunrY " IRVING , made his assault upon Mr. WEED , of Clinton County , and was forced to resign , the Democrats lost their majority , but the loss was made up at considerable cost by the purchase of the vote of the Republican ORANGE S. WINANs , ' , of Dunkirk . The manifold scandals of that session , which preceded the exposure and downfall of TWEED , remain but dimly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them should be allowed to escape his share of the obloquy which they entailed . No single Democrat in the Legislature of 1871 had the manhood to stand up against the overpowering influence of TWEED , au4 among those who did his bidding without a protest was the present Democratic candidate for Governor , whose subserviency was practically purchased by TWEED 'S partnership in his newspaper enterprise . There were half a dozen or more political measures before the Legislature of 1871 in the interest of the Tweed ring , including a new registry law for this city , an amendment of the election law , and a change in the charter , all calculated to strengthen the power of the ring , but the most important bills were those known as the Two Per Cent . Tax Levy and the Consolidated Debt act . The two were intended to work together to facilitate the plunder of the city by the Tammany gang . The bill limiting the tax levy of the city to 2 per cent . on the assessed value of property was intended as a blind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in thirty-year bonds all obligations issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes and all forms of floating indebtedness that might be incurred . Thus in addition to the 2 per cent . taxes any amount of funds might be raised to be divided as plunder and the payment saddled upon the city through the medium of consolidated bonds . These and all the other Tweed measures received the support of Mr. HILL , which had been duly secured by the device of the profitable partnership in the Elmira Gazette . What the judgment of the people was upon the Legislature of 1871 and those who participated in its corrupt and scandalous work appears in the result of the election of that year . Not only was Gov . HOFFMAN 'S majority of over 33,000 of the year before changed to a majority of nearly 19,000 for the Republican candidate for Secretary of State , but the Democratic representation in the Senate was reduced to eight members and in the Assembly to thirty-one , or considerably less than one-half that of the previous year . Since that time every man identified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come forward and invite the confidence of the people of this State has been emphatically reminded that there are some things which are not easily forgotten . As a candidate for the unimportant place of Lieutenant-Governor on a ticket which had exceptional elements of strength Mr. HILL escaped an exposure of his record in the last Tweed Legislature . Now that it has been brought to light , together with the corrupt means by which his service to TWEED Was secured , he will hardly fail to receive the judgment of the people upon his course . Nothing in his political career has redeemed the infamy pf its beginning . It has been consistent in its methods from the time of his negotiations with PATRICK to the day of his control of the Saratoga Convention .                     