@@743751

txt Yesterday was what may fairly be called a field day in the Senate . The Democrats had sufficient votes to prevent an executive session , and refused to proceed to one on the very plausible ground that no committees had yet been formed . But the debate , which began with a very courteous , though intentionally provoking , speech from Senator YENDLETON , soon struck the really important fact in the situation  --  the position of Senator MAHONE , and from that point became intensely personal and exciting . The Democrats would have done better if they had trusted their case wholly to Mr. PENDLETON , who is at once ingenious and forcible . When Mr. HILL , of Georgia , took the floor he managed by his coarseness and violence to entirely obscure whatever of reason there is in the course of the Democrats , and gave to Gen. MASONS the opportunity that he doubtless desired , and that he certainly seized with great promptness , not only to declare his personal independence , but to castigate the party in whose name Mr. HILL had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure  --  whatever it may have been ? by which the new Senator from Virginia has been persuaded to vote with the Republicans in the body he has just entered was anything at which the Democrats are called upon to make a show of virtuous indignation is absurd in the light of that party 's history . It makes it no worse to call it a bargain . Possibly it involves an understanding regarding the administrative positions of the Senate , and not impossibly one regarding appointments to the Federal service in Virginia . As to the former , it is no worse for one man having the voting power to determine patronage , to use it to suit himself than it was for the Democratic majority to turn out all the employes of the Senate , when they attained a majority , in order to put in their own men . As to the distribution of Federal patronage , it is new doctrine for the Democrats that it should not be used for strengthening the party that controls it . From the Republican stand-point the accession of Mr. Memorm on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an advantage that may be fairly sought . It must be added that it may be obtained on conditions that will make it worthless . On the one hand , it is well known that Mr. MA HONE represents me distinctly Republican principle -- a free vote and a fair count . It is duo to his personal influence , to his courage , independence , energy , and persistency , that the right of suffrage in Virginia has been maintained in accordance with the Constitution of the United States . It is not so maintained in any other Southern State in the same degree . While the Democratic Senators  --  the most high-toned and conservative as well as such vulgar demagogues as Mr. Huai  --  have been steadily laboring by unconstitutional means to nullify the election laws passed in strict accordance with the Constitution , Gen. MAHONE has been working to secure to all the voters of his State the rights those laws were intended to protect . Whatever were his motives , his action has been on the Republican side of the most distinctly defined national issue in the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal appointments should fall within the influence of party leaders , there is at least some logical consistency in Gen. MAHONE obtaining his share . There is none whatever in a party which has clung to the spoils system for half a century affecting to condemn a Senator because he makes his power in the Senate serve his political ends . On the other hand , it can not be forgotten that the particular doctrine on which Gen. MAlloNE has secured his success in Virginia is one with which the Republicans can have no possible sympathy . The integrity of the suffrage is no more a cardinal Republican principle than is the inviolability of the public credit . Gen. MAHONE has made his fight in his State professedly on the issue of repudiation . If his present co-operation with the Republicans involves the use of patronage in Virginia to promote that doctrine , it will be very dearly bought . The party can not sustain the public faith in the Nation and nurse repudiation in a State . Such compromises are farreaching in their influence , and wherever it reaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while Gen. MAHONE 'S campaign in Virginia was professedly against the honest payment of the debt , it was in reality against the overbearing political despotism of the Bourbons . The debt question was for him a means to attract popular support . It is an open question how far he means to pursue it . It is entirely in accordance with the tradition and practice of both parties for the Republicans to regard him for the time being simply as the representative of opposition to the Bourbon Democracy of his State and of the Nation , and to treat with him in that capacity . It is unfortunate and disgraceful that in doing so the Federal patronage should be generally considered as a legitimate instrumentality for promoting political ends . If the United States were not in practice far below the standard of representative government set up in its Constitution , and intended by the founders of its institutions to be observed , no such view could be entertained . But it remains true that this view is quite in harmony with the general practice , and if the tables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be found who would not share it .                     