@@671791

txt The envelope manufacturers ' pool or Trust , appropriately named the Standard , succeeded yesterday in silencing the only outside company that kept competition alive and prevented the perfection of a monopoly . This company owned and operated twenty-two envelope machines , and was selling the product of these machines at prices below the Trust 's recently-advanced rates . The Trust , therefore , bought the machines and the company 's manufactured goods and made a contract by which the company binds itself not to resume business within five years . If any one shall hereafter be rash enough to set up an envelope factory without first entering the " combine " and submitting to its terms , he will probably find in the Trust an enemy whose power he can not withstand . The people appear to have been deprived of the benefits of competition in this industry . The complaint in a suit recently brought by two butchers of this city , who ask for damages , reveals the existence of a Mutton and . Lamb Trust , whose operations should . be interesting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns . It appears that this Trust includes about forty firms that are engaged in slaughtering sheep and . lambs or in supplying sheep and lambs to slaught erers . It is a combination of wholesale butchers and live stock brokers . It is asserted that the butchers in the ring bind themselves to buy no sheep or lambs from any broker who is not a member , and that the brokers are bound to sell to no one who is outside of the ring except at a price greater by 15 cents a head than the ring butchers are required to pay . The plaintiffs , who are retail butchers , undertook to go into the slaughtering business without entering the " combine , " but were unable to make a living because of the discrimination against them . It is said that this Trust or pool controls the trade in this city , in Brooklyn , and in Hudson County , N. J. Owing to the threatened . action of the Attorney-General , a similar Trust working under a corporate charter was voluntarily dissolved not long ago , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private agreement . Monopolies formed under charter or by absorbing chartered corporations are open to attack through the courts , as the Chicago Gas Trust has recently discovered . The effect of this Meat Trust is to maintain high prices for food and practically to prevent citizens from engaging independently in a business which they may desire to enter . The purpose of the " combine , " like that of the other Trusts about which we have spoken from time to time , is to kill healthful competition and put consumers at the mercy of a monopoly . In this case complaint is made by persons who desired to compete in the business of supplying meat . When will the people , the consumers , who are the prey of these combinations , make their protest against the operations of the Trust makers ?                     