@@745097

txt The Democratic majority in the House does not confine its capacity for blundering to large matters . It demonstrated it yesterday in seating young Mr. ENGLISH , of Indiana , for a few months in the place of Mr. PEELLE , who was duly elected from the Seventh Indiana District . Mr. ENGLISH 'S sole claim to the seat is that he is the son of Gov . ENGLISH , the wealthy candidate for Vice-President four years ago on the ticket with Gen. HANCOCK . He was defeated by a small majority , in 1882 , in spite of the most desperate attempts on the part of his father and the liberal expenditure of his father 's money . When he contested Mr. PEELLE 'S right to : the place , the evidence he was able to bring was of the flimsiest sort , and on Wednesday , when the question was brought before the House , some 25 Democrats voted against the majority and for the minority report , and - Mr . ENGLISH 'S claim ' was rejected by 121 ' to 117 . . A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. ENGLISH another chance , and that was promptly followed by a motion from the Republican side to lay it upon the table . Then the notorious CONVERSE , of Ohio , moved to adjourn , which was carried by the vote of Mr. S. S. Cox , of this State . ' This was the situation when the House met yesterday . The intervening period had been diligently used by Gov . ENGLISH , who was on the ground using every available means to secure the gratification of his son 's ambition to bear for the remainder of this Congress the purely conventional title of " Honorable . " The labors of the veteran politician were not in vain , though they narrowly escaped defeat . The motion to table the reconsideration of the fatal vote failed by a tie , 132 to 132 . The House then proceeded , amid great excitement , to reconsider its previous action and then to reverse it . Gov . ENGLISH had the satisfaction of seeing his son sworn in as Representative of a district which had not elected him , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution directing an investigation into the charge that he , the father , had violated the rules of the House by the abuse of his privilege as an ex-member in lobbying in his son 's interest . As we have said , this whole affair is only another demonstration of the capacity of the Democrats in Congress to blunder in small things as well as in great . It is really of very little consequence to the Republicans or to Mr. PEELLE that the latter has been deprived of the seat to which he was entitled . The Republicans are in a minority in any case , and Mr. PEELLE is entirely sure of being elected again next November . On the other hand , the Democrats have no use for young Mr. ENGLISH 'S vote in the House , and have gratuitously disgraced themselves for the sole apparent purpose of pleasing a former political leader who is thoroughly detested in his own State . The transaction will cause them much ' trouble and loss not only in the Seventh District of Indiana but throughout the State , and justly so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is understood to be quite willing to seek further honors , if there is any chance of his getting them , denounced on the floor ' of the House for scandalous lobbying and subjected to a formal investigation , is one that will have.its influence throughout the country . This will hardly be counteracted by the manner in which the proposition for an investigation was met by prominent Democrats . Mr. RANDALL protested that ' he could see nothing improper in Mr. ENGLISH 'S conduct . Mr. Cox , of New-York , tried to show that the rule against . lobbying by ex-members was not directed to this kind of lobbying , and other Democrats insisted that it was cruel ? to enforce a , rule which " for months " had been practically disregarded . The net result of the whole affair is that the Democrats have managed to add to , a majority which they do not know how to use and to dis- credit themselves in the eyes of the country . 