@@743613

txt Any argument on national issues which may be addressed to voters to-day is not likely to have much effect . The minds of most men are fully made up . What was to be said on one side or on the other has been said , and if it has not been weighed it will not be weighed now . It is not as argument , therefore , ( though as argument it is very telling , ) but as a matter of current history that we call attention to the following extract from the Charleston News and Courier . It was published in that journal , on Saturday morning last , in a leading article , to which was lent the emphasis of double-leaded type : " The Radicals need no special organization . In the absence of personal inducements the colored people vote the Radical ticket . Normally they are Republicans , because the whites are Democrats . There is no reason in it . The brute instinct of self-preservation , as they understand it , governs their action . They know that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals of every sort live and prosper together , the owl caressing the sparrow , the mouse dallying with the cat , the hawk coquetting with the chicken . But they are not sure that this will last , and unless pains are taken to reassure them they are apt to return to the Radical menagerie . " The title of the article which contained these statements was " One More Appeal for Vigorous and Unselfish Work . " The purpose of the writer was to show that there was very grave danger that South Carolina might elect one or more Republican Congressmen by Democrats trading votes for Representatives for votes for Governor or local officers . The " unselfish work " was to be to prevent this consummation by refusing to trade , and the writer sought to show that it was necessary by showing that the negro vote would , other things being equal , go to the Republicans . No one can dispute the authority of the News and Courier . It is a strongly Democratic paper . It has the courage , if not of its convictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes , as on this occasion , to the verge of cynicism . It frequently tells very unpleasant truths about its own party , not apparently because it has any hope , or even wish , to correct its party , but because it cares very little what may be thought outside of the borders of its own State . When it thinks that its party can be spurred to action by an admission which is quite fatal to the pretensions of the party in the'North , it does not hesitate to make those admissions and to urge them on its readers . Its spirit is that of an educated and polite , but thoroughly arrogant , Southerner  --  a spirit with which the country has had to deal in the past , and with which it has not yet done . This Southern Democratic writer , then , who has no possible motive for saying anything to the disadvantage of the Democratic Party of the South , declares that " in the absence of personal inducements the colored people vote the Radical Republican ticket ; " that " normally they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the brute instinct of self-preservation , as they understand it , goVernt their action . " This is precisely the fact on which the Republican press of the North , apart from the mass of definite evidence to ' which they have appealed , has rested the charge that the colored vote in South Carolina , Alabama , Mississippi , Louisiana , Florida , and to a great extent in other States , has been suppressed . Given the large Republican vote in those States previous to 1874 , given its rapid , , and in some instances almost instantaneous , disappearance , and the presumption becomes overwhelming that the change was brought about by either the suppression or the fraudulent overbearing of the colored vote . It is only necessary to read the political statistics of the last halfdozen years , in the light of the specific and unqualified admission of the leading Democratic organ of the South Carolina Democracy , to be compelled to accept this conclusion . It is the only one which explains all the now undisputed facts . Nor does it explain the facts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over what will be done to-day . We invite our readers to scan ' the election returns this week with this South Carolina statement in mind . If Gen. HANCOCK is reported elected President to-morrow morning  --  a grossly improbable thing  --  let them ask themselves to what he owes his office ; what were the " personal " inducements which prevented the negroes of the South from voting against him ; what were the means by which 138 Electoral votes were secured from the Southern States in his favor . If , on the contrary , Gen. GARFIELD be elected  --  as there is scarcely room for doubt that he will be  --  let them inquire what votes would have swelled his majority which he will not have received had the " instinct of self-preservation " ? no mean motive in a free voter ? been allowed to guide the action of the " colored people , " who are " normally Republicans . " The contest of to-day will settle many things . If it result in a Republican victory it will break up the " solid South , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not serve its purposes , how-ever ever subservient it may be in trying to do so . With this change new problems will present themselves , in which the political action of the really enfranchised negroes will not be the least important or the least difficult element to deal with . But , at least , that action will be free . It may be ignorant . It may become largely corrupt . It will no longer be suppressed .                     