@@744982

txt The State of Rhode Island is so small that its votes in the Electoral College are a matter of little consequence except in case of a very closely contested election . It is therefore open to the astute statesmen to become indignant at the frequency with which Rhode Islanders obtain divorces . It is alleged that every sixth Protestant Rhode Islander has been divorced . In other words , a sixth of the Protestant population practices polygamy of the consecutive type . This is a state of things that can not fail to fill every virtuous man and woman in the land with horror . Divorce and consecutive polygamy constitute a relic of barbarism and an affront to civilization and Christian morality . It will not do for Rhode Island Congregationalists , Baptists , and Methodists to allege that the respective denominations to which they belong do not forbid divorce . No immorality can be justified on the plea that it is a part of some religious creed , and no Rhode Islander who has three or four successive wives living at the same time can plead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular religious sect to which he belongs . In the absence of any political issues that can be safely touched by a cautious statesman , it becomes a duty incumbent upon all decent people to put an end to the Rhode Island scandal . Congress alone can deal with the matter , for it is idle to suppose that the Rhode Islanders will voluntarily give up freedom of divorce . Some high-minded Senator should bring in a bill disfranchising all Protestant Rhode Islanders who will not swear that they have never been divorced and never will be . The bill should further provide that the control of the various Protestant sects shall be taken from the members thereof and vested in a Board of Supervisors to be appointed by the President . Measures must also be taken to check emigration from other States into Rhode Island . At present the consecutive polygamists have , with fiendish ingenuity , made Newport an attractive place . Newport draws thousands of people to Rhode Island during the Summer , where they learn to look upon divorces as an excellent device , and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idle to attempt to crush out Protestant Rhode Island so long as Newport is permitted to draw a constant stream of immigrants into the State . Congress must therefore decree that Newport shall be seized by the United States Government . The whole town , including hotels , cottages , and bathing-houses , should be sold , and the proceeds , after the payment of any debts that Newport may owe , should be confiscated and paid into the United States Treasury . By such measures as these we can crush out the Rhode Island Protestants and enable better men to buy Rhode Island property at a very cheap rate . If conservative people protest that Congress has no right to seize upon Newport , or to undertake the government of religious sects , merely because certain Rhode Islanders have obtained divorces , such protest will be sufficient evidence that those by whom it is made are secret supporters of the divorce system , and have an instinctive sympathy with everything that is vile and immoral . When a great moral evil is to be extirpated the end justifies the means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a matter of no consequence , provided we can put a stop to divorce and do- not seriously affect the vote of the Presidential Electoral College . The Rhode Island relic of barbarism is a disgrace to the Nation , and it must be wiped out at any cost . Let us first try disfranchisement , confiscation , and other comparatively mild remedies . If these fail , PHIL SHERIDAN must be sent against the Rhode Islanders with orders to put them to the sword with as little mercy as any right-minded man would show to a community of Mormons.                     