@@780652

txt A special to the Globe from St. John , Now-Brunswick , says : Yesterday afternoon about 4 o'clock the steamer New-Brunswick , of the International Line , plying between Digby and Boston , left Digby for Boston with over 100 passengers and a large quantity of freight . To-day the lighthouse keeper at Digby came into town and reported that the steamer had been off Trout Cove . about 12 miles distant . and that she remained nearly stationary until after dirk . A little while after dark , it is alleged , skyrockets were seen to issue from the steamer and then a lire broke out at the place where the steamer was supposed to be . To strengthen the story a couple of fishermen said they saw the steamer , and that they were sure she was sending up distress signals . The opinion at Digby was that the boiler had exploded , because if the steamer , bad taken fire , the bay being calm , boats would have reached shore in a very short time . To-day the beaches were anxiously inspected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ washed ashore , but not a trace of anything pertaining to a wreck could be found . The report of the disaster caused widespread consternation iu St. John . The boats of this line having had such singular immunity from disasters et this kind in the past , many people expressed the opinion that the report must be false . Capt . Chisholm , the agent of the line . refused to believe it from the outset . Nevertheless , there was deep anxiety in the city , many people having friends among the passengers and crew . All the afternoon the office of the Western Union has been besieged by people eagerly inquiring after the steamer . Some had sons , others fathers , on board . As no message had been received from her , little hope could be held out by the telegraph clerks . To-night the siege was continued women with children in their arms and their eyes filled with tears , begged in pleading tones for any information concerning the vessel . Nor was the inquiry confined to women . Men and boys and girls kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence until the patient clerks were almost driven frantic la replying to interrogatories . There was a feeling of relief when Pilot Trainer arrived in port to-night and reported that at 8 o'clock last night he had sighted the NewBrunswick off Grand Menai . The anxiety has by no means subsided , however . as there are many who believe that the pilot may have been mistaken . Some people allege that it was the reflection of the Eastport fire which gave rise to the ' whole story .                     