@@744949

txt The deadly character of mince pie is notorious , and its wide-spread use is unquestionably one of the great evils of the age . Few people are aware that mince pie was once a part of a religious ceremony . Were this still the case it would be , as innocuous as the incense burned in Ro- , man Catholic churches or the candles of the advanced ritualist . Mince pie has become an evil through its secularization , and the fact is full of warning to the rationalists of our day , who seek to convert religion into a weak parody of science . A few centuries ago mince pie was eaten only at Christmas . The religious mince pie was baked in an oval dish , whit : i was emblematic of the manger of Bethlehem , and its component parts represented the spices brought from the East by the three Magian Kings . The Christian ate his mince pie as a protest against the Jews and other heretics , just as BROWNING 'S Spanish monk drank his water in three gulps so that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , heretics occasionally baked mince pies in round dishes and boastfully ate them , glorifying in their guilt , but we may assume that the number of men who had reached such an extreme of wickedness and boldness was not large . Mince pie , eaten only on one day of the year , and then as a religious ceremony , was not appreciably hurtful . No reformer felt called upon to form a society which should hire him to denounce mince pie , and no story writer of the period thought of drawing harrowing pictures of the man who , consumed by his unnatural thirst for mince pie , sent his little girl to the baker 's to exchange the family Bible for the body and soul destroying pie . This ' happy state of things did not last . Ritualism began to attack the sacred oval mince pie . It was asserted that the three Magians never brought the elements of mince pie to Bethlehem , for such conduct would have been irreconcilable with the hypothesis of their wisdom and goodness . Eminent German theologians denounced the narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ' nature according to the shape of the dish in which it was baked . Ardent Protestants discovered that mince pie was nowhere mentioned in the Scriptures , and maintained that an oval mince pie belonged to the groveling Popish superstition which celebrated Christmas instead of the birthday of LUTHER , and that to attach importance to the shape of a mince pie was quite as bad as to attach importance to vestments and ecclesiastical ceremonies . These opponents of the symbolic oval mince pie had the courage of their ' opinions and ate round mince pies pub- , licly , shamelessly , and on any day of the year . Their deplorable example bore rapid fruit . Mince pie soon lost its sacred associations . It became secularized . People ate it to gratify a depraved appetite and without a thought of frustrating the Jew and the heretic by eating it only at Christmas , and out of an oval dish . A good thing perverted and abused notoriously becomes an evil . Mince pie , having lost its religious character , became a curse to mankind . To-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mince pie eagerly swallowing their fearfully miscellaneous poison and never dreaming that in a purer and happier age devout men ate mince pie in solemn reverence , as an aid to holy meditation . An infinite distance separates the priest of the age of GREGORY the Great , eating his Christmas mince pie on his knees , and filled with pious indignation against the wicked eater of round mince pies , and the Rev. Mr. TALMAGE , eating round mince pie  --  as he confesses to have done  --  for no other purpose than to gratify his lower nature , unless it may be with a view to acquiring a nightmare full of suggestive thoughts for a Sunday morning Tabernacle performance . The moral of the history of the secularization of mince-pie is obvious , and any man may draw it in quantities to suit himself .                     