@@780722

txt The big steel cruiser Chicago went into commission at the Brooklyn Navy Yard yesterday . at 11:30 A. M. The order came by wire from the Navy Department , and although not unexpected , was a sudden one . Before the ' permission pennant was fi big from the main truck 200 bluejackets had been marched aboard from the receiving ship , bags and hammocks in hand . For the first time the Chicago is out of the hands of navy yard bosses and machine-shop foremen and under the control of regular navy officers . It was a pleasing sight to witness the activity aboard the big ship yesterday afternoon . Up on the lore and foretopsail yards a half dozen " Jack tars " were administering a coat of navy " spar composition , " while In the military top , on the mainmast , a knot of bluejackets were busily engaged in touching matters about the masts and on the shields . So far only One-half of the Chicago 's complement of men is aboard . She is entitled to about four hundred seamen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly is considered due to the approaohing centenary , for although she is to be t he liagshito of the European station it is not likely that she will be sent across the ocean until the 1st of June at the earliest . As the present work aboard can be done by 200 men , the Navy Department may not decide to give her the . full eomplement for the batteries until ready to sena her'abroad . To this plan navy officers demur , for they think that every one should be aboard at once , as there is nothing like learning the ropes and getting settled before leaving port : and especially Since aboard Of a new warvessel there is an endless amount of work . The supply of men aboard the receiving ship Vermont has been pretty well exhausted by the draft sent aboard the Chicago yesterday , and It is very likely that the cruiser will get the remainder of her detail from the Boston Navy Yard , along with a number of apprentices from the training squadron at Newport . The full complement of officers has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present are Capt . Henry B. Robeson , commanding : Lieuts . A. N. Knight , J. A. H. Nickels , and H. T. Monahan , Ensigns G. F. Hawke and E. T. Witherspoon , and Passed Assistant Engineers J. H. Perry and R. R. Leitch . It is reported that Commodore Walker , at present Chief of the Bureau of Navigation , will go out in the Chicago , with relative rank of Rear Admiral , to . command the European station . All the guns of the Chicago are on board and mounted , except the big eight-inch rifles . These latter pieces , which are ' ten in number , have not yet been mounted en their carriages . There is even some talk of placing six-Inch rides in their stead , because the carriages are yet ready to receive their mounts . It is expected that the Navy Department will receive a good many requests during the next few days , now that the Chicago has gone into commission , from officers desiring to be assigned to her , presuming that it is time for them awn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is concerned , the new cruiser has comfortable and even luxurious quarters , but the steerage is exeorable . That something ought to be done here for the ensigns and naval cadets is the current opinion among navy officers , for it is simply abominable to crowd , young officers into the hole called the steerage , white their seniors in rank occupy spacious and magnificent quarters further aft . It is one of the faults with all the- new vessels , and tho younger naval officers grumble all the harder among themselves now that they have got to go aboard . It is urged that the Chicago should be painted white , like the Boston . Nothing is more sulking than the sight of glittering brass , all ablaze . among the soft white shades of a cruiser 's topsides .                     