@@744213

txt If one may trust late advices from China , it is by no means certain that the bill prohibiting Chinese immigration would have been an efficient measure , even if it had received the approval of President ARTHUR . The intent of the act was to prevent the Chinese from coming in large numbers to this country , and so far as the immediate subjects of the Emperor of China are concerned , it would no doubt have secured the desired end . But it does not seem to have been sufficiently taken into account that there are a very large number of persons of Chinese birth and descent who are not Chinese in the technical sense of the word . Those who have left that empire to settle in the various East Indian and Australian colonies of Great Britain have for some reason found it expedient to change their nationality . In reports made about a year since by several of the British Consuls in China it was stated that this problem of changed nationality was one which gave rise to a great deal of annoyance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who claimed to be subjects of the Queen , but who were in all outward appearance no ? different from the ordinary citizens of China . These men had lived for a time at Hong Kong , Singapore , or some other English settlements , had been naturalized there , and had then returned to their old homes . It was of advantage to them to retain the citizenship they had acquired , for if imposed upon in any way by the Chinese authorities they could appeal to the British Consuls for assistance . In this respect they occupied positions somewhat analogous to those held by regular residents in Ireland who claim to be naturalized American citizens . In one case , as in the other , citizenship is locked upon as a safeguard to be used in possible contingencies  --  a possession which gives certain privileges and is not incumbered with embarrassing duties . While the disagreeable features of this position were pointed out in the reports referred to , no suggestion was given as to a means of correcting the trouble . The Chinese find no difficulty in becoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An empire which includes within its domain such a vast variety of heterogeneous races is not likely to raise scruples over the admission of a new genus . The point that was made when this question was discussed in England , that it might be well to compel the naturalized Chinese to adopt the European dress and manner of life , was readily answered by the remark that if dress and method of living were insisted upon as guarantees of citizenship then what would become of the English subjects in India , South Africa , and other colonies ? It may be accepted as beyond controversy that guarantees of this kind will not be insisted upon by Great Britain , and , furthermore , that the Chinese will not hesitate to become naturalized citizens of Great Britain whenever they deem it for their advantage to make this change . Although devotedly attached to their country , they are not strongly influenced by sentimental considerations respecting the Government , and are quite ready to throw off the form of nationality if by so doing they can see a way to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been offered if the proposed , act had become a law seems sufficiently obvious . It does not seem to be ' often , taken into account that the Chinese who arrive in this country rarely come directly from China . In the great majority of cases the port of departure is the English colony of Hong Kong , By residing a relatively short time in that place the proposed emigrants could acquire a citizenship which would enable them to sail peaceably through the blockade we established along our coast . The documentary evidence which each of them could produce that they were the subjects of her Majesty the Queen would render nugatory the provisions of our act , which was intended to prevent immigration by the subjects of the Emperor of China . Those Chinese laborers who chose to go to British Columbia and work for a time on the Canadian Pacific Railroad could with equal facility come across the border to Oregon and California after their period of naturalization was over . That the obstacles which the law would throw in the way would have some effect in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable circnmstrces a change in nationality would involve delays which would deter many from making it . But these obstacles would not count for so much as might be supposed with the laboring class , in consequence of the system under which this species of Chinese immigration is carried on . What are known as the Six Companies are interested in organized emigration schemes to other countries than this . They could send out several thousand Chinese to work for a term of years in Australia , and then have them shipped as English citizens to the United States . Isolated immigration , which is , on the whole , the most desirable kind , might be prevented , but it will be hard to frame a law which would not be of questionable expediency , which will act as an effective barrier against this organized method of immigration en masse . Let Congress do what it may , those who are interested in bringing Chinese to this country profess a confidence in their ability to find a means of carrying on their business while keeping within the confines of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              