@@744258

txt The difficulty between Representative Joseph C. S. Blackburn and Senator John S. Williams , of Kentucky , which has beta the subject of much private comment for several days , was amicably settled this afternoon through the intervention of Senator James B. Beck and Representative John G. Carlisle , of the same State . Rumors that a duel was to be fought by Mr. Blackburn and Senator Williams had been quietly circulated , and it was believed that a. hostile meeting would take place . The trouble was occasioned by a question as to who deserved the credit of securing the passage of a bill appropriating - 100,000 for a public building at Frankfort , Ky . Stoddard Johnson , tee editor of the Frankfort Yeoman , and an enthusiastic friend of Mr. Blackburn , gave that gentleman credit for the measure . Mr. Johnson was once the opponent of Senator Williams for a Gubernatorial nomination , and he took great pleasure in singing the praises of Mr. Blackburn . Senator Williams was enraged at this . He wrote a letter on the subject to Judge Lysander Hoard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Yeoman 's praise of Mr. Blackburn , the Senator insisted teat he introduced the bill in the Senate . He added that he supposed Mr. Blackburn and Senator Beck were in favor of it as they voted for it . Judge Hoard freely exhibited this letter in Frankfort . This fact was communicated to Mr. Blackburn , and a copy of a portion of the letter was sent to him . He became furious , and wrote to Senator Williams asking that gentleman whether he was the author of the letter to Judge Hoard . The Senator replied that he did not recognize Mr. Blackburn 's right to question his private correspondence . Thereupon Mr. Blackburn hastily penned a note to the Senator setting forth that as that gentleman neither denied nor admitted the authorship of the letter to Judge Hoard , he must assume that the Senator was the author , and he took occasion to say that in writing it the Senator " deliberately lied . " This letter was shown by Mr. Blackburn to Mr. Carlisle , who begged that it should not be sent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarrel . Mr. Blackburn was persuaded to modify his letter so that it would read that Senator Williams was guilty of misrepresentation . The Senator showed the letter to Senator Wade Hampton , and asked for advice . Mr. Carlisle and Senator Hampton had several interviews upon the subject , and after Senator Butler , of South Carolina , had been consulted , Senator Hampton and Mr. Carlisle agreed that all the correspondence should be withdrawn . The privilege was retained for Mr. Blackburn to seek an explanation from Senator Williams as to whether the letter to Judge Hoard was intended for the public . Mr. Blackburn to-day expressed much surprise that any publicity had been given to the affair , and said , " I am in no way responsible for its publication , and I neither affirm nor deny its correctness . I have nothing whatever to say upon the subject . " Mr. Blackburn was in conference with some friends in one of the House committee-rooms this forenoon , and it was subsequently arranged that in the absenee of Senator Hampton , who has thus far acted as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , and that a con ' ference should be held this afternoon , at which Senators Williams and Beck and Representatives Blackburn and Carlisle should be present . This conference was held in the Senate cloakroom , and at its conclusion the announcement was made that the war-cloud had passed away .                     