@@744476

txt The debate in the Senate yesterday on the bill for the improvement of the civil service was particularly interesting , as showing the currents of opinion in the Democratic Party upon this subject , in some regards the most important , and certainly of the most farreaching importance , of those now before the country . Mr. BROWN , of Georgia , who was , curiously enough , chosen to the Senate as a representative of the more liberal element in Southern Democracy , made a very frank but very extreme and bitter speech against the bill . He denounced it for its injustice to the Democratic Party , because it provided that entrance Ito the civil service should be to the lowest grade , while vacancies in the higher grades should be filled by promotion , regard being had to merit and length of service . This , he declared , was , in effect , a provision that Democrats should be allowed to compete only for the lower offices , while the higher must be filled exclusively from the Republicans already in the service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " fraud " and a " humbug , " because a Democratic President , if lie should be elected , would surely find means to turn out the Republicans from the upper as well as the lower places , and of filling the vacancies with Democrats . For the transparent inconsistency of these two lines of argument Mr. BROWN was promptly called to account by Senator GEORGE , of Mississippi , who pointed out the obvious fact that either one destroyed the other , and that opposition based on both would necessarily fall to the ground . There is no doubt that Mr. BROWN 'S foolish and irrational talk very fairly represents the feeling of the average Democrat , who can be made to understand without trouble a non-partisan service to which Democrats shall be admitted under a Republican Administration , but can not at all comprehend a non-partisan service in which promotions shall be made for fitness without reference to politics . It seems a waste of time to show that Mr. BROWN 'S conception of the effect of the till he opposes is ignorant and narrow , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not apply to a single office filled by the nominat ! on of the President and the assent of the Senate , and that the requirement that promotions shall be made from lower grades gives advantage , first , to those Democrats now in the service who have been retained on account of their special capacity , and , second , to those who may be admitted by competition to the lower grades . Experience shows that in all promotions made in the New-York Custom-house since the reform has been fairly at work there , the new men who have come in through competition are almost sure to win , and to such an ex- tent that very few of the old employes appointed under the spoils system care to even contend for the prizes . Mr. BROWN blunders , therefore , when he holds up the bill as offering any unfair obstacles to deserving Democrats . Ile wound up his remarkable demonstration of political and personal stupidity by offering an amendment declaring the right of the President to remove at discretion . This is a right that exists and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , indeed , seeks to limit it by requiring that removals shall be made for cause only , stated in writing , and after a hearing , and this bill is strongly opposed by the civil service reformers . But if Mr. BROWN 'S illogical speech represents the prejudice of a large portion of his party , the attitude of Mr. GEORGE and Mr. PENDLETON shows a clear appreciation of the real needs and opportunities of the Democracy . These gentlemen recognize the fact that if their party is to come into power , and retain it , it can not do so by offering offices to its active politicians . It can only do so by adopting in good faith a policy of administration which the country approves , and by establishing its claim to confidence in its intention and capacity to carry out that policy . Now , it is so plain that the wayfaring man , though a Senator from Georgia , ought to he able to read it , that the policy of administration which the country has just condemned in the Republicans is precisely the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it desires is essentially that embodied in the bill before the Senate . This is seen by Mr. PENDLETON and Mr. GEORGE and by a small but strong and influential band of Democratic leaders . They perceive the blind and obstinate folly of throwing away the advantage they have gained by openly professing the methods which the country has so overwhelmingly rebuked . They do not for a moment deceive themselves with the pleasing illusion that Republicans in Massachusetts , for instance , have accepted Butlerism , in defeating their own candidate and electing BUTLER , or that Republicans throughout the country have accepted Democracy , as it has been in the past , in electing a Democratic majority to the House of Representatives . On the contrary , they see in the temporary resort to these means by Republicans only a convincing proof of their earnest determination to get rid of their own complicity in the spoils system of politics and to clear the ground for something better . Democratic leaders with a grain of common sense know that if their party can offer that something better , it stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see in Republican revolt against the Republican spoilsmen a stern and unmistakable warning as to the fate that will overtake the Democrats if they cling to the spoils system . On the whole , such outbreaks of absurd prejudic as those of Bitows and VOORHEES , and their prompt rebuke by men of their own party , constitute an excellent augury for the progress of honest politics . If the Democratic Party will give a strong majority of its votes in the Senate and the House to the reform bill now pending , it will pass , and the next great national contest will be carried on on a higher plane , with purer methods , with more intelligence , and to the more certain advantage of the whole country than has been the case in any contest since the close of the war .                     