@@745124

txt One of the most conspicuous features of the trouble within the management of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company is the difficulty of ascertaining just where the responsibility of the late President began and where it ended . Certain operations were entered into by Mr. BALDWIN the end of which was disastrous . Were those operations for his own or for the benefit of the corporation ? In other words , did Mr. BALDWIN speculate in the stock of the company of which he was President in order to make money for himself or for the company ? The statement that this was done " to sustain the value of the properties of the company " does not afford any adequate explanation . There is no doubt that Mr. BALDWIN 'S purpose was to maintain the prices of the stocks and bonds . In a vain endeavor to hold up those prices he involved himself and his fellow-stockholders in large losses . And yet , notwithstanding the obligation which rested on all alike to keep the affairs of the corporation in an intelligible condition , neither President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the company 's . It sometimes happens that a custodian of valuable properties makes fortunate investments for the benefit of those for whom he holds money and securities in trust . Then he is praised for his sagacity and skill . But it also often happens that the investments turn out badly and he is compelled to make good the deficiency from his own funds , or he is obliged to confess that he has impaired the value of the estate of which he was custodian , and that he can not make good the deficiency . Then he is stigmatized as a defaulter and embezzler . Without stopping to ask in which of these two characters Mr. BALDWIN will eventually appear , it is only necessary now to point to the fact that the Directors of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company are , or affect to be , wholly in the dark as to the precise nature of the operations in which their late President was engaged . The fact , however , that they did compel the restitution of more than $200,000 of the company 's funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do not consider all of his ventures wholly made in behalf of the corporation . How did it happen that the Directors Of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company did not know what the President was doing with the cash and stock of the concern ? Is there anything in the character and standing of any mortal man , be he pure as ice and chaste as snow , that can warrant the Directors of a corporation in the neglect of their official duties ? This question has been asked so many times that it has become trite to weariness . And yet , whenever a grave disturbance in the money market shakes out the frauds and malversations of Trustees and depositaries , it invariably comes to light that more than one man has misappropriated or stolen funds under the sleepy eyes of associates who have neglected their duties . The unending repetition of these abuses of fiduciary trusts , one would suppose , would serve as a warning to others . But the game goes on without any material change in its main features . It is the custom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from time to time , held for loans . Usually the securities are inclosed in an envelope on which is indorsed the name of the borrower , the description of the securities , the sum lent , and the time for which it is lent . A Director vfho does not direct reads these indorsements and certifies to the correctness of the statement . The Director who does direct compares the contents of the envelope with the indorsement ; and , when the cash on hand is counted , and the securities actually belonging to the bank are also examined , the Director can certify to facts with tolerable accuracy . How many bank and other directors proceed with this laborious formality and thoroughness ? The late President of the Second National Bank kept the bank 's securities and much of its cash down town . It was not convenient to carry these back and forth . With childlike trust , and in the face of their obligations , the Directors of the bank never knew anything of the transactions of the President other than he chose to tell them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is precisely what happened in Newark more than once with the same twice-wrecked concern . It is what happened some years since with the Bull 's Head Bank . It is what will happen as long as men are indifferent to their duties as fiduciary trustees .                     