@@745040

txt A correspondent suggests , in a communication printed in another column , that the problem of rapid transit would solve itself if New-York were properly paved . With smooth pavements he believes that a cab service of lighter vehicles than those now employed , driven at a much higher rate of speed and at a much lower rate of fare , would come into existence . It is evident that this mode of transit would never be brought within the reach of the masses of the people . Twenty-five cents for two miles or less is as low a rate of cab hire as we can reasonably expect . This would be a great convenience to onetenth of the population or less , but it would be irrelevant to the wants of the other nine-tenths . A more serious objection is that smooth pavements are out of the question for heavy traffic . It is true that the imitations hitherto seen in New-York of the Parisian pavements have been very bad imitations . But even in Paris the smooth pavements are not adequate . for heavy traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fourteenth-street it is necessary to keep all the streets in a condition suitable to the passage of loaded trucks . This means that it is necessary to pave these streets with granite blocks , which make a pavement solid and durable , indeed , but uneven , jolting , noisy , racking to light vehicles , and disagreeable to ride over . Above Fourteenth-street a difference might be made and ought to be made . Two or three longitudinal streets ( avenues ) and say one cross street in five or , even in ten , would probably be all that would be needed for heavy traffic , and heavy traffic might be confined to them , - reserving the intermediate avenues and the streets properly residential for light carriages and cabs . In the absence of regulation , however , the heavy traffic will seek the streets smoothly paved , not only because they are easier to drive over with loads which they are unequal to sustaining , but also because they are not incurnbared with car tracks , which are an impediment to vehicles of all kinds . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which connect stations of the Third and Sixth avenue roads indicates the streets which should be paved with reference to commercial rather than to residential uses . Below Fourteenth-street , as we have said , the commercial use is so predominant that it would be impossible to maintain smooth pavements . The example of Washington is not in point , for the reason that Washington is not a commercial city , and that the only business done in it is the furnishing of supplies for the people who inhabit it by reason of its position as a political capital . The pavements which in New-York would only be available for the residential quarter are therefore available in Washington for the whole city . Our principal need is for quick transit from the elevated railroads to either river , especially in the wider parts ot the island . With two or three roads on each side of the Park , running to either river , and three or four , in addition to those already operated , below the Park , we should do very well . The demand of people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of a dollar whenever they have occasion to travel a mile or two in a direction not taken by any public conveyance scarcely amounts to an element in the public problem .                     