@@781698

txt The public may justly complain of the slowness of the secular and scientific press to recognize the news value of the highly important results of Prof. Koca 's discovery of the parasitical source of tubercular disease . rrof . TYNDALL 'S letter to the London Times , which we published on Wednesday morning , first made known to the English-speaking world the facts stated in Dr. goon 's address , delivered nearly a month earlier before the Physiological Society of Berlin . Yet it is safe to say that the little pamphlet which was left to find its way through the slow mails to the English scientist outweighed in importance and interest for the human race all the press dispatches which have been flashed under the Channel since the date of the delivery of the address  --  March 24 . The rapid growth of the Continental capitals , the movements of princely noodles and fat , vulgar Duchesses , the debates in the Servian Skupschina , and the progress or receding of sundry royal gouts are given to the wings of the lightning ; a lumbering mail-coach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great scientific discoveries of the age . Similarly , the gifted gentlemen who daily sift out for the American public the pith and kernel of the Old World 's news leave Dr. Kocu and his bacilli to chance it in the ocean mails , while they challenge the admiration of every gambler and jockey in this Republic by the fullness and accuracy ' of their cable reports of horse-races . In its purely scientific aspects , Dr. Koma 's discovery that pulmonary consumption and all tubercular diseases are produced by a " minute rod-shaped parasite " is one of the most impressive and striking achievements of the human mind . This young German physiologist , as Prof. TYNDALL sketches him , carrying on a series of masterly investigations in the intervals of attendance upon such cases of croup and measles as his " modest country practice " brought him ; afterward , favored by Government patronage , extending his researches and perfecting his methods of observation and experiment until with his microscope , his rabbits , dogs , and guinea pigs , and his wonderful breeding establishments for the bacilli , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as DARWIN was accustomed to construct for his own before he gave them to the world  --  the man and his work furnish a new and shining illustration of what can be done for humanity by that modern science which elderly orthodox gentlemen are fond of declaring is made up half of empiricism and half of the bravado of reckless selfassertion . In pushing one step further our knowledge of the pathology of the human body , Dr. K oast has given science a new title to its honors , and imbued with new force and meaning the command , " Know thyself . " But science has yet much to do to seize the results of this discovery and apply them to the alleviation and cure of disease . We can not doubt that every intelligent reader of Prof. TYNDALL 'S abstract of Dr. KOCH 'S lecture instantly recognized the importance of the proof it affords that consumption is contagious . It can not be said , therefore , that for the present the new knowledge we have gained is void of practical interest . But to draw from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future , and , fortunately , a work which the physiologist and physician may hopefully undertake . The popular interest in the little parasite Dr. Komi has introduced to the world will deepen in proportion as medical science demonstrates its power to annihilate him or rob him of his fatal power . Tubercular diseases , it is said , are the cause of one-seventh of the deaths of the human race . In this country pulmonary consumption is a scourge of such distressing prevalence and mortality that it may be reckoned first among the maladies which our changeable climate is sapposed to foster . And it is a disease against which medical skill contends with but slight hope of success . Whether this will be true for all time , in spite of Dr. Roan 's observations of habits of baciW , can not be foretold . But the analogy of that other dreaded scourge  --  small-pox  --  affords ground for hope that its melancholy ravages may be stayed by some form of artificial inoculation . Two hundred years ago almost everybody had the small-pox . Court chronicles mention its disfiguring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the advertisements for runaway slaves contained the statement that the fugitive was " deeply pitted with smallpox . " But the small-pox bacillus has b een tamed and made a comparatively harmless little creature by a modifying transplantation to the bodies of cattle , whence he is voluntarily received into the human system as a safeguard against the invasion of his kinsman of the original type . Dr. Koon 's experiments have thus far failed to produce any modification in the character of the tubercular bacillus sufficient to warrant the experiment of inoculation upon a human subject . We may be very sure , however , that the attempt will not be given up by physiologists until it is proved to be hopeless or the supply of rabbits and guinea pigs gives out . But inoculation for consumptive diseases is not the only end science will strive for . What can be done to stay the ravages of the bacilli when they have already fastened upon the system ? Do they sometimes lie dormant for years in the lungs ? Is it the bacillus itself , the germ of consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a consumptive parent transmits to the child ? Why do atmospheric conditions so visibly stay or favor the work of the parasite in many cases ? These and a hundred other kindred questions are yet to be answered .                     