@@744397

txt Earthquakes have been the despair of science . We could recognize an earthquake when it shook a house about our ears , or swallowed up . a city , but we could not tell what caused the earthquake . This was a very humiliating state of things , for it implied that Science , which , when it is spelled with a capital 8 , is , according to Mr. BOB INGERSOLL and his disciples , always infallible , did not know anything , and was , on the whole , not much better than Revelation . Of course , scientific persons invented quantities of theories to account for earthquakes . There was the theory that they were produced by steam . A quantity of sea-water , leaking through the bottom of the ocean and striking the melted rock with which the centre of the earth is filled , would be instantly converted into steam , and this steam , provided it could not find a vent through a convenient volcano , would burst the earth open and shake everything on its surface in the neighborhood of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it was not without its merits . Those who held it failed , however , to explain how the bottom of the ocean became leaky at one thneand perfectly tight a day or two afterward ; and why the earth often failed to open during an earthquake to permit the escape of steam . 7 , Then there was the chemical theory of earthquakes . It was assumed that a quantity of nitric acid , distilled in the interior of the earth , would occasionally fall on a bale of cotton , and convert it into gun-cotton , which would explode and produce the usual earthquake phenomena ; or that sulphur , saltpetre , and charcoal would accidentally become mixed in close proximity to the central fires , and the resulting gunpowder would take fire . This chemical theory was a beautiful one , but in order to believe it one had to possess an exceptionally lively imagination , and it therefore had fewer partisans than had the steam theory . Then there was the electric theory . A California scientific person asserted that earthquakes were produced by electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rails of the Pacific Railroad acted asconductors and carried the superfluous California electricity safely away . The fault with this theory was that it did not explain anything . Electricity is the cat of the scientific world . When no one can possibly tell how any given phenomenon is produced , scientific persons take refuge in the assertion that it is caused by electricity ; just as the cook asserts that the flour-barrel , which is found to be suspiciously empty , has been emptied by the cat . How electric . ity could cause an earthquake no one has pretended to explain , and no one will ever make the attempt . In the place of these unsatisfactory theories we have at last a plausible and perfectly satisfactory one , devised by an English scientific person . informs us that the crust of the earth is elastic , just in the same way that a hollow rubber ball is elastic . It will yield to pressure in one place , and will bulge out at another . The pressure which produces earthquakes is ordinarily supplied by the atmosphere or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there should be tomorrow a heavy barometric pressure over the continent of Australia . This pressure would not be felt by any Australian for the same reason that he does not feel the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere , but it would nevertheless depress Australia to the extent of perhaps six inches . This depression would so squeeze the liquid fires in the centre of the earth that they would press against the crust with such force as to bend it outward wherever it happened to be exceptionally weak . This outward bending of the earth 's crust would be called an earthquake , and it would occasionally be accompanied by cracks through which the central fires would escape . A similar effect is produced by the pressure of the tides , and this fact explains the frequency with which earthquakes occur in sea-coast regions . It has often been noticed in California that an earthquake is heralded by a peculiar state of the atmosphere . When the air is heavy and men feel a sense of oppression an earthquake is very apt to follow . This is what we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the weight of the air is sufficient at times to depress California to the extent of , say , a foot , the sudden removal of this pressure would cause the crust of the earth to spring back to its normal position , and the disturbance would be recognized as a Californian earthquake . The acceptance of this theory ought to lead us to exercise great care in placing heavy weights on the surface of the earth . If we continue to build ten-story buildings in this City , we shall in time accumulate such an enormous weight that Manhattan Island will be depressed , while Flushing , Yonkers , Orange , and other suburban towns will suddenly bulge out , to the great astonishment and dissatisfaction of their residents . Conventions of fat men should also be discouraged , lest they produce earthquakes , and for the same reason no largo quantity of Patent Office reports , speeches by SraltLEY Marraims or ex-President Hayms , or jokes by professional humorists should ever be accumulated in any one place . As for reunions of the FIELD family , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , DAVID DUDLEY FIELD , and CYRUS W. FIELD ever to sit down to dinner together , their united weight of intellect would infallibly depress the crust of the earth to an extent that would be fearfully dangerous . It is very satisfactory to know , at last , precisely how earthquakes are caused , and we can now feel a confidence in the infallibility of science which is immensely comforting .                     