@@745188

txt The situation of . American politics at this moment is not on the surface encouraging to the friends of republican government or even to those of the liberal idea throughout the world . The choice of a leader like BLAINE by a party like the Republican Party , the appearance of Gen. BUTLER as an ally of BLAINE against the best nomination that the Democracy has made in this generation , and the deliberate evasion of really important questions , these are things calculated to make the most friendly observer ask whether , under representative institutions , it is impossible for a party to maintain the high standard which was once so notably that of the Republicans . Nor is this all . In the struggle for place both parties have frequently within the last fifteen years ignored their strongest convictions and acted a cowardly part as to great questions solely to conciliat  --  a small faction that had managed to gain control , not of the majority , but of the balance in doubtful States and districts . The treatment of the legal tenders , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tariff , has been full of this demoralization . For this condition of things there have been two causes , one of which was most potent for a long time , and has now partly spent its force ; the other was more insidious , more enduring , acid has still to be dealt with . The first was the intense sentiment of patriotism which was at the service of the managers of the Republican Party after the war . The members of that party felt , and justly , that they would take any risk rather than defeat their party . Independence bore the aspect of a kind of treason , and discipline was strict in proportion to the zeal of the rank and file . The situation was very tempting to ambitious and unscrupulous men , and it was worked with the greatest energy and skill . The machinery of nomination and appointment was seized by selfish schemers , who kept control of it pretty closely until they began to quarrel among themselves . From this and other causes the machinery has got much disordered within the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gear . But the element in the problem which was the most difficult to deal with was the spoils of the civil service . These were the prize for which the politicians enlisted , and by means of which they got and retained their hold . No service in the world has ever presented so vast and rich a field for political abuses . Its enormous growth in consequence of the new revenue systems and the extension of the old , made necessary by the war , added to the growth which was inevitable with the increase of population , not only multiplied offices , but brought them under ready control . The fact that all important offices were filled by the nomination of the President , with the consent of the Senate , offered to the leaders of the dominant party a singularly perfect machine for the distribution of rewards and penalties for party service or party insubordination . It was this vast body of places thus controlled that gave to the party possessing and the party seeking them the low tone , the office-jobbing character , and the tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pursuit of these as the legitimate and chief object of partisan activity after the great questions of the war were in great part  --  settled that , in great part , has produced the demoralization of which the country is now suffering the effects . The remedy , as far as there is one , lies in the abolition of the spoils system , in taking the civil service out of politics and leaving parties to contend for supremacy on grounds which do not include the satisfaction of party : greed . No one expects that this can be accomplished rapidly , or that when it is accomplished our politics will become perfectly pure and unselfish . But it is plain that such a reform would go a great way . It would remove the coarser and more obvious influence toward corruption . It would compel men seeking political preferment to appeal to a higher class of motives . It would leave the people more free in the expression of their views and purposes . It would open the machinery of party organization to more disinterested control . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And it is an encouraging sign that for the first time in its history the Democratic Party has put forward a candidate whose highest claim to confidence is the firmness and fidelity with which he has worked for the destruction of the spoils system , and whose claim in this direction is very strong . His candidacy appeals to a well-defined and profound sentiment of the need of reform and an intelligent conception of how it is to be had . His success would be the greatest step in the progress of free government in America since the election of Mr. LINCOLN .                     