@@743996

txt No more vital subject , in its bearing upon American life , can be discussed than the social and religious position of the masses in our great cities . How are the masses of people who own no homes , who move every month or every year , whom nobody is interested in , who never see a clergyman unless at a marriage or a funeral , to feel the sunshine which the Gospel of the CHRIST and a professedly Christian civilization ought to bring to them ? This is the question which comes to the minds and hearts of the clergy , the philanthropists , the large-minded and large-hearted people who constitute the Christian forces of the hour . By so much as Christian influences are superior to the ordinary social and personal influences , by so much are they to be prized and sought as agencies not only in maintaining social order and the amenities of life , but in reaching down to the convictions which rule conduct and control the duties to GoD and man . It is an excellent thing for men to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its relation to the masses in our cities , something more than simply a religious belief . If the masses are ever to be won to cleaner , purer , brighter lives in our large cities , it will not be by sermons alone , nor by liturgical services alone , nor simply by industrious visiting from house to house , nor by any process short of that which recognizes men and women as personal wholes . No doubt , many individuals are disagreeable ; no doubt , the bars of access to many are such that one can not easily leap over them ; no doubt , the forces of resistance are strongest in cases where beneficent and up-lifting work most needs doing ; whether one labors for the CHRIST or for humanity , the point of chief resistance is the point of duty , and the personal resistance to that species of religious effort in which the heart is larger than the creed is just the sort of resistance which most needs to b3 overcome . This question of the masses is often looked at as if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich patronize Christianity ; the poor use it to help out their present necessities ; the middle class are indifferent to it . But Christianity never recognizes classes , whether in city or country , and it is the broad Christianity that integrates all classes which is the need of the hour . It is easier to theorize than to be practical on this point . Had we a national establishment , as in England , some of the worst types of class Christianity would disappear . The divisions between Christians would bring less harm to religious work than they do now , because they would be insignificant in influence . Where the reaching a city multitude is left entirely to voluntary effort , It is next to impossible that the heathenism of our cities shall be effectually dispersed by either social or Christian methods . The Roman population is reached by better methods than the Protestant , but the Protestant temper could never be controlled by the Roman agencies . Yet worse than the religious divisions is the growing pessimism of the people at large . The Pastors of churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with personal service seldom have more than the ghost of an idea of the actual spiritual condition of the people of the respectable class who almost never darken the doors of houses of worship , and whose interests are almost entirely included within the limit of each day 's activity : It is here that the issue is to be met ,  --  and it is here that the Christianity of the day is on trial . It is not whether this or that religious body shall have most converts . It is whether , in , the terrible and remorseless grind in which the souls and bodies of men are worn out , any voice of the CHRIST or of His human representatives shall be heard . The murmur of the city is the murmur of life . By day , by night , hour by hour , the hum is heard . No hour is without its pain , its agony . No moment is without its witness to the surrender of life . It is the constant struggle to live , to bear burdens , to withstand temptations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life in its strength and in its weakness , is strangely blended . More and more our great cities present conditions which Christianity has never been called upon to meet before . It is the increasing heathenism of an outwardly . Christian civilization which has to be met at our very doors . The problem is here . It faces us on the street . It starts up in empty churches . It glares upon us along the avenues of crime . The murmur of the city is the murmur of its unconsecrated , unchurched , unreached , unresting masses , and there is not a problem of modern society which does not have its roots in the question whether Christianity has the will to conquer the practical difficulties which beset our latest and ripest civilization . It is a question of will , not of power ; a question of the amount of consecrated purpose which exists in our Christianity as a whole , not of denominations or individuals alone , a question which can never be decided by the clergy without the people , nor by the people without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has given a living example of what can be done with money and men when both are rightly directed . The example of the Rev. EDWARD JUDSON , son of the great Baptist missionary to Burmah , up a suburban parish in the prime of life that he may throw his whole energy into a People 's Church on the West Side , is another indication of a movement toward the religious education of the masses in individual minds and hearts . ' : ? There are instances in every respectable religious communion as marked as those here mentioned , in which individuals have felt themselves to be called of GoD to this work . It is the will of the individual that becomes the will of the multitude , and , if the heathenism of our cities is ever to be overcome , the victories will always be at the hands of individuals whom GOD has touched . Pet theories about churches or services or vestments are useless . Christianity is too broad to be doctrinaire . It always works with the best common sense of the world . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical influence . Earnestness and common sense are its avenues to the multitude , and its secret on the human side is the winning of one man . It is one man at a time , and until , in the aggregate , the one man is the Christianized multitude . The will to do is from above ; tee way to do is the way that seems best , and this is the divinely human m ethod for meeting the religious and social prOb lems of our great cities .                     