@@744246

txt The Advertiser says : " The shocking murder of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke suddenly transforms the Irish situation , which but last week seemed full ? of promise , into one of gloom and despondency . The murder was a political one ? of that there can be no doubt . Its character is not altered by the fact that it is most sincerely and emphatically condemned by Irishmen at home and in America . Not all Land Leaguers are responsible directly for the ruffianism of these days ; but they are responsible for exciting a spirit which has passed beyond their control . Thus the whole situation is once more complicated . in the saddest way by a deed of inexpressible atrocity . Once again Irishman have proved themselves to be Ireland 's worst foes . " Tho Globe , the organ of the Land League in this city , says : " Nihilism has invaded Ireland . An agitation which rested on a high moral basis , and which challenged the respect of the civilized world by the fairness and constitutionality of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an assassin . The dagger and bludgeon have been brought in to complicate the relations between two races which had reached a settlement of existing differences by civilized methods . The man who struck down Lord Frederick Cavendish is a conspirator against Ireland . The dagger which pierced the new Secretary 's body dealt a deadly blow to Irish progress . The duty of the Land League at home and in the United States is plain and simple . It must denounce assassinations openly and earnestly . It must give assistance to the authorities in hunting down the butchem and bringing them to speedy justice . It must proclaim its freedom from any connection with men who would use assassination as a political weapon . " The Herald takes the ground that the attack was planned solely against Mr. Burke , and that Lord Frederick Cavendish was not considered in the original plan of the murderers , pointing out that Mr. Burke 's habit of walking in the park was well known , and that the conspirators could have had no knowledge of Lord Frederick 's presence there until the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time when the clouds which for so long a time have hung over unhappy Ireland seemed to be lifting there has come from the clearing sky a haphazard bolt that throws confusion into the elements that were apparently arranging themselves toward order . The foul murder of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke , the new Chief Secretary and the Under Secretary of Ireland , has sent a shock of horror through the civilized world , and they who have most cause to deplore the rash and brutal tragedy are the Irish patriots  --  the men who have most sincerely and honestly wished and worked for that political condition in Ireland to which at last events seemed to be tending . The question is whether Tory rage or Irish fanaticism has done this thing . Until the source and extent of the conspiracy are learned it is impossible to derive any moral from what has occurred . It will seriously injure Mr. Gladstone 's Government , but it will hurt Ireland more . A direful fate seems to pursue her , and while we hope for the best it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England and Ireland can supply to withstand this sudden and terrible strain . " The Journal says : " The crime was committed at a period in the Irish difficulty when there was the least cause for the commission of the shocking deed . Until investigation discloses some other motive it is fair to infer that the assassins were moved to this crime by the hope of thwarting the conciliatory designs of the Government and inaugurating an era of bloodshed . There has been much wild and incendiary language by the friends of Ireland , and many crimes have been committed that are a disgrace to Ireland and her people , but no Irish leader has advocated assassination . Indeed , the Irish leaders are the first in Ireland to denounce the shocking crime for which the people of Ireland will be punished , unless the Government and the British people are so magnanimous as to relieve the Irish people of the responsibility and punish the conspirators only . " CINCINNATI , May ** Enquirer says : " Aside from political considerations the murder of Lord Cavendish is shocking in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bearings at the present juncture a affairs . " The Commercial says : " If the release of the suspects signifies bloodshed . then the policy of suppressing rebellion in . India will be tried in Ireland , and the consequences will be terrible . " The Gazette says ; " This assassination of Lord Frederick Cavendish will be regarded by tba English as the Land League 's response to the new policy of conciliation , remission , and moral s-nasion ; that it has the a.pnearence of being the act of persons or a faction inimical to recon'Y.:laden as apparently agreed upon between Mr. Parnell and . Mr. Gladstone ; that it is the logical result of Land League methods of agitation . " Sr. Louts , May ** Globe-Democrat says : " The assassination of Lord Frederick Cavendish puts the Gladstone Government in a very unfortunate predicament .. It will be ' urged with almost irresistible force that the hand of the law ought now to be laid on Ireland more heavily than ever , and the Ministry is thus taken at a tremendous disadvantage . A course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its first step will hardly lead Mr. Gladstone to substitute for it a course of revenge . To adhere to it in the face of the vehement demand for retaliation that will arise may drive Mr. Gladstone out of office . To abandon it because of one untoward circumstance would be a sign of irresolution , and irresolution in the present public temper would be fatal to any Ministry . " The Republican says : " It is impossible to foresee what will be the result of this appalling act . The appointment of Lord Cavendish seems to have been satisfactory to no large element . Gladstone 's chief safety has all the while lain in the fact that the Opposition had no leader of sufficient ability to inspire public confidence . It is not unlikely that Ireland will be made to suffer fearful retribution for the bloody act that has startled the world no less than would . the assassination of the Queen herself have done . "                     