@@745177

txt It is probable that the act passed by Congress toward the close of the last session , and approved by the President , for the relief of volunteer soldiers charged with desertion will be a somewhat expensive measure . Properly speaking , this act is amendatory of a previous . one , passed two years ago , for the same purpose , which became largely inoperative from its peculiar wording . Congress , in fact , had a choice between evils . One of them was the overloading of the calendar , year after year , with private relief bills , which ought to seek different tribunals ; the other was , in endeavoring to cover meritorious cases by a general rule , to risk an enormous expense , a large part of which might be for unworthy persons who should manage under the terms of the law to set up claims for arrears of pay and bounty when their unsoldierly conduct rather deserved severe punishment . The real basis of the present law , or its original purpose , was to relieve those soldiers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting was all over , in the Spring of 1865 , did not wait for the form of being mustered out , but went back to their homes . This was an offense , and , in a military sense , a grave one ; and in any country maintaining large armies of reserves , even in time of peace , it would be severely punished . Still , since much of the service in our civil war was volunteer and patriotic , there is  --  a disposition to pardon , on the score of . youth or thoughtlessness , these escapades , provided they were not made in the face of the enemy , and were preceded by honorable records of gallant conduct . Coupled with these cases are others in which soldiers who absented themselves without leave returned to the army , but enlisted in other regiments than those to which they belonged . Even Secretary LINCOLN at one time argued that such cases were " equally meritorious " with those just mentioned . He wrote to Mr. GEDDES , of the Committee on War Claims , that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the removal of the charges of desertion was legal as an act of clemency , any original fault having been atoned for by subsequent good service , or if the charge could be removed for the reason that the subsequent history of the soldier showed that his action was not caused by desire to avoid military service in. general , or an abandonment of the service of the United States , I would have removed the charge . " On this point the main debate in the House turned , the opponents of this view arguing that it would let in all the bounty jumpers who deserted their colors in order to get service in some regiment paying a large premium for enlistments , and also to avoid hard and perilous Service at the front while the new regiment was forming . Secretary LINCOLN afterward therefore urged that only desertions " prior to Aug. 4 , 1862 , " before which time no local bounties were offered , should be condoned by re-enlistment and faithful service . This latter , he thought , would show that the desertion was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a change of personal relations . " The law as enacted aims to cover with great care the issue of honorable discharges under its provisions . It requires the applicant , under one class of cases , to prove to the satisfaction of the War Department that the soldier served faithfully to the end of his term of enlistment , or else until May 1 , 1865 , or that he died of wounds , injury , or disease before the muster out of his command . He also in any case must have served six months , in order that he ' or his heirs may recover bounty , pay , or allowance , when the record of desertion standing against him shall have been removed . Again , his unlawful absence , which prevented his being mustered out and receiving a discharge with his comrades , must not have occurred unless he was sick or wounded " in the presence of the enemy . " Then , as to cases other than those of prematurely quitting the service at the close of the war , the new act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its benefits , any bounty jumpers or any deserters who , with or without bounty , reenlisted in other regiments , since its benefits are expressly limited , under the Senate 's amendments accepted by the House , to those soldiers who died , while improperly absdnt , " from wounds , injuries , or disease contracted in the line of duty , " or else to cases in which " the soldier voluntarily returned to his command "  --  and this last phrase has too restricted a technical meaning to include return to the service in some other regiment . Nevertheless , even with these restrictions , it seems to be expected that the ultimate cost of the measure , in arrears of pay , bounty , and other pecuniary allowances , will mount up into the millions . Exactly what it will cost time alone can tell .                     