@@743537

txt Mr. Weller 's fear of widows was an unconscious tribute to their powers of fascination . There is no doubt that , other things being equal , a widow is far more effective in assaults upon marriageable men than ' is any other variety of woman . The young and pretty widow is simply irresistible . Over a young girl she has all the advantage which a veteran has over a raw recruit . She has learned in the school of matrimony the true nature of man , and knows him from beginning to end . She knows precisely what will please him and in what places he can be most effectively wounded . When she deigns to dispute with . an unmarried girl over the body of a marriageable man , the girl has no more chance than the Adversary had in his dispute with Michael . There was a widow at a fashionable watering-place this Summer who was universally admitted to be one of the ablest of living widows . She had only to wave her fan at any given young man and he surrendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her that she was a singularly magnanimous widow , and apparently had no love of sport for its own sake . The mere chase and capture of young men was so easy a task that she found it tame and uninteresting . Hence , while she exasperated her sex by her beauty and her evident powers of fascinati on , she rarely exerted those powers , and waited patiently for game . worth capturing . In the early part of July there came to the hotel where this dangerous widow resided a young millionaire , whom she instantly marked as her prey . The unmarried , girls despairingly withdrew from the contest , . and in the course of three days the widow ' had the young man completely at her mercy . Here for the first time she was guilty of a tactical error . In her pride of victory and her confidence in her own powers she delayed to effect the final capture of the young millionaire . She knew that at any moment she could compel him to surrender , but she preferred to prolong the pleasures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the moment when he would speak the irrevocable words that would seal his capture . As the result proved , this was a ' , serious error ; but who could have anticipated the terrible catastrophe that overthrew her plans and snatched away her lawful prey ? ! ? One evening the widow gave a little entertainment to a few select friends in her own rooms . It was the height of the strawberry season , and she provided ; her guests with strawberries . and cream , it4addition to other dainties . Of ; course , i'the young millionaire was present , . and there ; were also present two lady friends of they , widow who hated her with great vigor , ; and a young man of no particular value who silently worshiped her , but lacked the courage to mention that unimportant fact . c The hostess never looked more beautiful ' than she did on the evening in question . ? . Her age was a constant topic of discussion among her lady acquaintances , and though , , the . most of them asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she certainly dia not seem ) , to be more than 25 in the eyes of the male sex . One of her chief beauties was her coma-i plexion . Women unanimously agreed that it was artificial , but they could produce noi proof of the charge . Ordinarily , a coral plexion that is artificially whitened or , col-1 colored betrays the fact to the close observer , but not a trace of any foreign substance ? i could be detected cm the fair cheeks or arms ' of the widow . The latter were more than once tested , apparently by accident with black velvet , a scientific test that is usually held to be infallible . But they withstood the test triumphantly , and to the great annoyance of the ladies who had the experiment in charge . Similarly the widow 's arms were tested by astute young men , suborned by envious women for the purpose , with black coat-sleeves , but this test failed as completely as the others . The men , without an exception , maintained that the widow 's complexion was genuine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was a work of art , acknowledged that they could not imagine what preparation she used in the place of the ordinary poudre de Tit The little entertainment in the widow 's rooms was a delightful affair . The strawberries were served by the widow 's maid , a young person without much experience , but of the most excellent intentions . The strawberries were served about 9 o'clock , and it was the young person 's duty to offer to each guest cream and sugar . It was here that the great and irreparable mistake of the evening occurred . The maid , who was , perhaps , a little embarrassed , and may also have been near-sighted , mistook a beautifully ornamented box which stood on the widow 's toilet-table , where the cream had been temporarily placed , for the sugar-bowl , and , in complete unconsciousness of the horrible scandal which she was creating , offered it to the guests . The comparatively valueless young man was the first to whom the box was offered , and he liberally sprinkled his strawberries with its contents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of the white powder at once , and , with triumph in their eyes , calmly declined it . The young millionaire followed the example of the valueless young man , and the hostess , who did not care for strawberries , merely waved the maid aside . What the powder was is not certainly known . The young millionaire , however , after his first spoonful of strawberries , rose up with a faint cry , and , exclaiming that he was poisoned , fled from the room . The two lady guests asked with great sympathy what could possibly be the matter with the sugar , and hoped that it was not bismuth ; but the valueless young man , with the heroism of an early Christian martyr , continued to eat his strawberries , asserting that the sugar was all right , and that he never tasted more delicious berries . The company , however , broke up almost immediately , and in the course of half an hour every lady in the hotel and every attainable man was made aware of the fact that the widow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly poisoned the millionaire by sprinkling it on his strawberries . This teaches us that the ablest widows may be defeated by some almost unimaginable accident , and that a valueless young man may unexpectedly prove himself a true hero . Both the widow and the hero departed from the hotel the day after the calamity just mentioned , and it is ' generally believed that she will reward him for the noble way in which he sacrificed himself in a vain effort to maintain the reputation of her complexion .                     