@@743518

txt The Republican campaign , which was opened in this State at Brattleboro on July 29 , has steadily increased in interest and enthusiasm . Gen. Woodford 's meetings have been attended by constantlyincreasing numbers , until to-dav more than 6,000 persons gathered on the State-house square to hear addresses by Senator Edmunds and Gen. Woodford . Old men say that nothing like the present enthusiasm has been seen in this State since the Harrison campaign of 1840 . Dr. Nichols , the very efficient Chairman of the State Committee , has carried the local organization - into every township . He is making a canvass of votes by election districts , and has already received returns from nearly half the State . Very few soldiers have gone into the Hancock movement , and they are many times offset by the manufacturers and working men who are each day declaring for Garfield . It is safe to predict that the Republican majority will not fall below 20,000 , and careful observers place it at 23,000 . It is the judgment of THE TrmEs 's correspondent , after careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vermont will give nearly , if not quite , 25,000 majority for the Republican State ticket on the 7th of September . The meeting this afternoon was at once thoughtful , earnest , and enthusiastic . The Puritans of Vermont are aroused by Wade Hampton 's claim that a sdlid South will elect Hancock . The Hon. B. Fiefield , who is one of the leaders of the Vermont Bar , presided , and made a brief but very effective opening address . Senator Edmunds followed , and was greeted with a cordial welcome  --  one worthy of the great statesman whom Vermont and Massachusetts sought to nominate for the Presidency . Senator Edmunds excused himself from making an extended speech . He outlined the positions and purposes of the contending parties in terse and vigorous sentences . He warned his hearers that the election of Hancock meant the political victory of the solid.South . He said that such a victory would be fraught with terrible danger to all the industrial and financial interests of the entire country , and then introduced Gen. Woodford . The General was very heartily received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then passed to a careful analysis of the present claims and financial and industrial policies of the two parties . He closed with the following statement of the creed of Republicanism : " We are Republicans because of the memories of thepast . We are Republicans because of the needs of the present . We strive to keep an honest dollar , so that labor may get honest wages , and that what labor earns and saves may be secure . We strive to pay what the Nation owes . We seek to keep the faith of the Nation as good as the gold which the Nation has promised the bill-holder and bondholder alike . We strive to give just and intelligent protection to American industry , so that mines and quarries may be opened , manufactures encouraged , and farms developed from Maine to Louisiana . We strive to prevent the useless and wicked waste of the national revenue on harbors without commerce , and rivers without water , but we loyally and gladly pledge all that wisdom can devise and generosity give to deepen , preserve , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We believe that good public schools , free from any sectarian control , are the corner-stone and hope of the Republic . We will go to the very verge of our constitutional power to promote the education of all our people , black and white , North and South . We are Republicans because we believe in the rights of man and in the nationality of the Republic . We believe in the absolute supremacy of the Nation in national affairs . We believe that every man , without regard to his birthplace , his color , or his creed , should be safe in Lis manhood and his citizenship through every State of this Union . We believe that American citizenship is national citizenship , and that the national power should protect all the rights which the national law confers . We do not believe in bayonets in time of peace , but we do believe in the enforcement of the law , and we do not intend that shot-guns shall silence a free man 's voice and vote . We do not intend that tissue ballots in South Carolina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballots of Vermont and the fair , full , and free elections of the North . In one word , the Nation has decreed that shot-guns and tissue ballots and false counts must forever go out from our American politics . We are Republicans because of the future that already dawns upon us . Republican courage and faith saved the Union in the dark days of battle . Republican good sense built the results of the war into the granite of the Federal Constitution . Republican honesty kept the financial honor of the people unbroken and unstained against the folly of inflation and the falsehood of repudiation . Republican sympathy with the needs and hopes of labor protects'to-day all the great industries of the land . Republican patriotism and far-sighted , broad-minded statesmanship shall so develop our material resources , protect our personal rights , administer our laws , and shape our policies at home and abroad , as topermit this people to grow to our full stature of greatness among the nations of earth . It was the party of our brothers dead in battle . It is the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party of our children in the happy and prosperous days to come . This generation shall pass away , and others shall stand in even our children 's places . The parties of to-day . and even of to-morrow . hall go the way of all the earth . The swords of our soldiers shall rust and the laurels of our statesmen and orators shall wither . Then the muse of history shall write the annals of the great rebellion and of the days of reconstruction and reconciliation that followed the days of battle . That record shall be in letters of light , making a great milky way through the sky , that the Republican Party gave liberty to the bondman and manhood to the lowly , life to the Nation , and Lincoln to history . " Gen. Woodford is doing splendid work in this State . He has endeared himself to the whole Republican Party by his earnest , impassioned efforts to place the real issues of this campaign before the people in a clear , convincing , and satisfactory manner . The exercises of the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mechanics ' Club of this place . This club is composed of working men , among whom are some who have hitherto voted with the Democrats . Gen. Woodford was present , and made a happy and effective speech . Gen. Woodford Win speak at Burlington Aug. 10 , and at St. Albans Aug. 12 . Gen. Logan and other eminent speakers will speak la the larger tows of the State prior to the State election .                     