@@780627

txt The city was astir by 7 o'clock this morning for the opening of the exhibition and the unveiling of the statue of Daniel O'Connell . Bands paraded the streets , followed by large crowds . A procession composed of the trades was mustered on St. Stehpen 's Green at noon . The procession was three miles long . It traversed King 's Bridge , Capelstreet , and Sackville-street . Good order and regularity were kept by the mounted Marshals all along the route . One of the most impressive features of the procession was a long line of Catholic religious confraternities . The Land League was not directly represented , but 14 Irish members of Parliament were present , including Messrs . Parnell , Sexton , O'Connor , Dillon , Redmond , Biggar , and Davitt . Mr. A. M. Sullivan was also present . Only two Irish Catholic Bishops attended  --  the Most Rev. Patrick Dorrian , D.D. , of the diocese of Down and Connor , and the Most Rev. Patrick Duggan , D.D. , of the diocese of Clonfert ; but half a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dillon , and Devitt were much cheered along the whole route . Over the doors of the late Land League offices on a large banner was inscribed : " Cowards ' hearts are self-subduing , Fetters last by slaves renewing . " The O'Connell statue was unveiled by Lord Mayor Dawson , in the presence of Messrs . Parnell , Dillon , Davitt , and Gray , and a crowd estimated at 100,000 persons . The greatest enthusiasm prevailed . Lord Mayor Dawson , in accepting the statue for the Irish people , said their struggle was not over and their efforts would still be obstructed . They must endeavor to forget the melancholy past and look for glory in the future , in the hope that Ireland , once a Province , would again become a nation . Mr. Parnell spoke a few words in which he expressed hope for the future prosperity of Ireland . He said the best monument to O'Connell was the changes beneficial to Ireland which marked his life . The statue was illuminated in the evening with electric lights . The directors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in working for their own country they were not actuated by narrow feelings toward neighboring nations . Lord Mayor Dawson , in reply , expressed similar sentiments . He said the success of the exhibition was a tribute to the energy and self-reliance of the trades and working classes . The exhibition was then declared open . The exhibition is pronounced on all sides to be a great success , especially the machinery department . Everything is quiet . The people are gradually leaving the streets . DUBLIN , Aug. 113 . ? Prominent features in yesterday 's procession were the handles of a large number of banners designed as pike heads . Gilded over the name on the door of the Land League offices was the motto , " It will rise again . " In front of the house was a red banner , with a white crescent and three stars , bearing the word " Arabi . " Some small chains attached to sticks were carried in the procession . O'Connell 's triumphal car , in which he was conveyed from Richmond Brideweil in 1846 , was refurnished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procession . At the exhibition ceremony the British national anthem was not sung . The musical selections comprised , first , a chorus , followed by Mendelssohn 's hymn of praise , " Creation , " and Handel 's " Hallelujah . "                     