@@781745

txt The United States Grand Jury that sat in Blackfoot , Idaho , last week found indictments against twenty-nine polygamist Mormons under the third section of the Edmunds act . Three of the accused were tried on Tuesday last before Chief-Justice HAYES and found guilty . For many years the leaders of the Mormon Church have been building up Mormon colonies in the Territories adjoining Utah . Not until the debates that preceded the passage of the Edmunds bill directed attention to the growth and power of the Mormon organization was the effect of this colonizing policy clearly seen in the East . The wily apostles of the polygamous brotherhood were at that time exercising a controlling influence in the politics of Idaho . They had sent thousands of their followers into Arizona , and their colonists in Nevada were striving to prevent the election of an anti-Mormon representative . A few prosecutions and convictions in Arizona checked the growth of polygamist colonies there , but not until last May did the monogamists of Idaho begin the work of enforcing the Edmunds law in that Territory . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power . By uniting their forces against a common enemy their monogamist opponents in both parties were able at the last election to get possession of the Legislature and to enact a law disfranchising all persons who are polygamists in practice or in belief . Of the 4,500 inhabitants of the county of Bear Lake 4,250 are Mormons . The polygamists also controlled two or three other counties . Having cleared the way by means of the test oath law , the Territorial authorities , led by United States Marshal DuBois , began the work of enforcing the Edmunds act . Every Mormon in Idaho is a Democrat , and in a long petition which these polygamists sent to President CLEVELAND last Summer they endeavored to show that the monogamists and Federal officers were moved only by a desire to place the Territorial Government in the hands of Republicans . But while all Mormons in the Territory are Democrats not all the Democrats are Mormons . Democrats outside of the Mormon Church united with Republicans in suppressing polygamy . The Chief-Justice before whom the three polygamists were tried on Tuesday was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand by them . But he disappointed them by declaring the Test Oath act constitutional , and has now gained their undying enmity by emphatically denouncing polygamy and polygamists during the recent trials . The conviction of these men shows that there is no room in Idaho for those who practice polygamy . For the present at least all other Mormons in the Territory suffer with those who have taken more than one wife , and the enduring strength of the doctrine of polygamy is shown by the fact that while there are only thirty or forty practical polygamists in Bear Lake County they are faithfully supported by more than 4,000 Mormon residents of the county who are polygamists only in belief . Under the Edmunds act all practical polygamists have been disfranchised in Utah , and all who uphold polygamy are excluded from . juries . But that act says that " no polygamist " shall be allowed to vote or hold office " in any Territory . " The constitutionality of that law has been affirmed . The test oath law of Idaho provides for the disfranchisement not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are members of an organization that teaches polygamy or encourages any one to practice it . What will be the ultimate fate of this law remains to be seen .                     