@@743973

txt The results of the first day 's registration in Brooklyn are not encouraging to those who hope to see a good use made of the present singular opportunity for reform in the government of that city . Only some eighteen thousand voters qualified themselves for the exercise of the right of suffrage at the approaching election , which is a number less than half that attained the first day of registration last year . At the last election about one hundred and eight thousand votes were cast in the city of Brooklyn , and there ought to be at least ninety thousand this year , but at the rate indicated by Tuesday 's registration not mole than two-thirds of that number will be given . As it is notoriously not the ignorant , or the prejudiced partisans , or the corrupt voters , who neglect to register , the outlook is not a flattering one for reform . But it is not too late for those voters who really wish good government in Brooklyn to remedy their neglect , and there is every reason why they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a practical and substantial improvement in local government is one that they have never before had , and one which they may not have again in a long time . It lies in the fact that the Mayor who is to be elected this Fall will have powers such as none of his predecessors have ever enjoyed . He will be authorized , at his own discretion , without the necessity of the consent of the Board of Aldermen , or of any of the numerous appointing boards heretofore created in Brooklyn , to name the heads of nearly all the important departments of the local Government . He will be , in fact , what no Mayor of Brooklyn ? or , we believe , of any other American city  --  has ever before been , the real chief of the local Administration . Of course , his responsibility will be very great , and his opportunity for abuse of his power will be also great . But his responsibility , like his power , will be clearly defined and simple . He will not be able to screen himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He will stand out fairly and conspicuously before his fellow-citizens , exposed to their criticism , and entitled , if he do his duty , to their confidence and respect . Every possible motive which can induce an officer to perform his duty fearlessly , wisely , and purely will be aroused in him . But the responsibility in the matter rests first on the voters of Brooklyn . They have the opportunity of radically reforming the muddled , costly , and inefficient management of their city affairs ; but to do that they must be prepared to vote , and to vote , they must be registered . That is the first step , the absolute requisite to every other . The smaller the vote this year the easier it will be for the hack politicians of either party to grasp the extraordinary power intended to be used for the benefit of the people . The latter may be sure that the hack politicians will not neglect their chance . Whether the tax-paying voter understands or not the importance of the coming elec. ( lion , the professional politician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confirm his power by the very means which was intended to enable the taxpayers to get rid of him . The new arrangement of powers , their concentration in the hands of the Mayor , is just as pregnant with danger as with safety . It is not an automatic contrivance for securing good government , but only a very simple device for enabling the voters to secure good government , if they will take the trouble . If they refuse to do that , the weapon provided tor their defense will be turned " against them . The extended appointing power , in the hands of a tool of the ring , or in those of a weak or bad man , will - be used to aggravate the evils from which . the city is now . suffering , and the last state of the negligent tag-payers will be worse than their first . The condition of parties in Brooklyn appears to be favorable to the election of a Mayor who will make good use of his in- creased powers if a serious effort is made in that direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boss in the Democratic ranks , and ' many , especially of the younger . and more intelligent among the active Democrats , are enlisted in determined opposition to him . No doubt something of the antiBoss movement is due to the resentment of disappointed politicians , but this is not the chief motive of the movement , which is too extensive , systematic , and persistent to be thus explained . ' On the other hand , the Republican Party is by no , means in the hands of any one manager , or of any set of managers . The divisions among Republicans are also in part due to factional and personal disputes , but these do not affect seriously the mass of the party , which could be brought to the support of a well-directed effort for the choice of a thoroughly good candidate for Mayor . Such an effort is possible , and might very properly , and with much promise , be undertaken by the Young Republican organization which has already done good service in raising the tone of Republican politics in Kings County . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn ought to seize , the opportunity presented to them . If they do not , if they allow the Mayor 's office , with its largely extended powers . to be seized by an agent of the ring , or by a representative of the class of politicians who in both parties have so long made a spoil of the City Government , they will have only themselves to blame for the consequences which will surely follow , and which will be harder to bear than anything they have hitherto suffered .                     