@@745666

txt So long as Parliamentary Government subsists the gift of eloquent speech will remain the most enviable and the most efficient weapon in the equipment of a statesman . Mr. GLADSTONE 'S oratorical powers have often stood him in good stead , but they have never served him better than in the debate on the Queen 's speech . Englishmen are prone to pride themselves on their insensibility to rhetorical effects . That is a characteristically English remark which an English Judge is reported to have made to an English advocate , who afterward became a Chief-Justice : " Mr. CoCIEBURN , do you imagine that you can affect my mind by lowering your voice a quarter of an octave ? " But as a matter of fact the English are as much affected by eloquence as any other people , and no assemblage of Englishmen is more readily or surely moved by a good speech than the House of Commons  --  only , of course , the speech must have the " tone " of that body . The only achievement of Mr. GLADSTONE , in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his remarks on the speech from the throne was his appeal last year for a " war credit " on account of the dispute with Russia over the Afghan boundary . Although still Prime Minister , he was more deeply discredited in public opinion than he has ever been either before or since . His policy in Egypt and the Soudan , from the time when he sanctioned the departure of GORDON on a fool 's errand to the fall of Khartoum , had been a series of blunders . It is true that the blunders had been committed every one of them with the approval and most of them under the pressure of the British public ; but the British public was none the more inclined to condone them on that account . It was suspected by many that the question of the Afghan frontier had been brought in as a diversion from the Egyptian question . It was agreed on all hands that Mr. GLADSTONE was nit3t the man to be at the head of the Government if there was to be wakr . Yet such was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech converted cold or hostile hearers into partisans . When he sat down the House enthusiastically and practically with unanimity , without asking questions or taking guarantees or exacting pledges , voted him a grant which before he began to speak it is almost certain that a majority of the House would have withheld . The latest triumph of his eloquence is not less signal . The political situation with which he has now to deal is extremely delicate . It has been made evident since the election that . the English people are opposed to making any concessions to Ireland which the Irish people are likely to regard as satisfactory . The position taken in the Queen 's speech against any real measures of conciliation is so distinctly assumed , contrary to all the conventions and proprieties of compositions of that class , as to show that Lord SALISBURY relied , with complete confidence , upon the sympathy of the governing classes of England , the Liberals no less than the Tories . He expected , no doubt , to array against himself the Radicals , and he made very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped to secure the trustworthy majority in the House of Commons which he needs in order to carry on the Government by recruits from the moderate and settled and solid division of the Liberal Party . This expectation seemed reasonable enough . But Mr. GLADSTONE 'S first speech has apparently brought it to nothing . He did not go into the detail of the Irish question , still less produce the measure for its settlement upon which he is believed to have been working . He could not have done so without importing into the debate the irritating material which he earnestly avowed his wish to keep out of it . He confined himself to abstractions and generalities . He treated these with consummate tact , of that kind that comes rather from quick and wide sympathies than from politic deliberation. , The result of his speech was the achievement of which Lord SALISBURY has reckoned upon as impossible  --  the finding of a common ground upon the Irish question for the Home Rulers and the moderate Liberals . Of course , it remains to be seen how long this alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when an actual project , either for coercion or for conciliation , comes up for discussion . But the formation of such an alliance by a single speech is one of the greatest feats of Mr. GLADSTONE , or of any other master of the art of oratory . 