@@745714

txt The manner in which the collision occurred is made comparatively clear by the statements of Capt . Cottier and the passengers of the lost vessel . According to Capt . Cottier 's statement there was a fresh breeze from the west and the Oregon was running under a full head of steam , which means that she was making from la to 2n miles an hour . It is important to note that the wind was fresh from the west because , as the Oregon was heading west , and as she was struck on the port or seaward side , it explains why the lights of the schooner were not seen until a moment before the collision . It shows that the schooner was on the Dort tack , that is , with the wind blowing over her port side , and with her sails bellying out to starboard . The two vessels were approaching each other on the lines of an oblique angle . Nobody has said anything about seeing the starboard or green light of the schooner , and it is evident that nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vessels the schooner 's head sails being carried on the starboard side would conceal her starboard light from the steamship . Capt . Cottier says that " when first noticed she showed no light , but when she was too close to clear she showed a white light , " and this statement practically agrees with that of First Officer Matthews , from whom it was no doubt derived . This white light was undoubtedly the binnacle light of the schooner seen for an instant like a flash through the interstices between her sails when she was close upon the steamer . In fact . First Officer Matthews used the word " flash " to describe it , thus unconsciously offering testimony to the fact that it was revealed as above explained . The implication conveyed by Capt . Cottler 's statement is that the schooner did not have out her sailing lights , but , as shown above , she approached the steamship In such a manner that her starboard light was covered up by her sails , and her port light was shut out by her hull . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this point . Happening to be up she looked out of the window of her stateroom , which was near the par ; in the steamer 's side where the schooner struck , and she exolaimed to her husband : " Why there is a red light out there I " An instant after came the shock of the collision . This tends to show that the schooner did have her sailing lights out , and agrees with the other indications that she approached the steamship in the manner described .                     