@@780671

txt Gov . Cornell lies at the Hotel Brighton , Coney Island , seriously ill , and at times bordering upon delirium . His physicians , Dr. Morgan , of Sneepshead Bay ; Dr. Benner , of this City , and Dr. Cox , of Albany , have been in constant attendance upon him for the last two days , and concur in describing the case as one of malarial fever of the most serious type , and , although they trust to his naturally fine constitution to bring him through , the progress of the disease has been viewed at times with grave apprehension . The fever was contracted , it appears , in Albany , and was the direct consequence of the building or repair of a sewer in the immediate vicinity of the Governor 's mansion , disengaging the foul gases stored up in the soil at a season of the year when the high temperature renders them peculiarly noxious , even to the least sensitive constitution . Last Monday morning the Governor arrived at the Hotel Brighton , with the intention , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breeze . He had been subject to attacks of malarial typo for some days , and was somewhat indisposed , but it was expected that the fresh air of the sea-shore would act as a tonic and restore him to his wonted vigor . The result was exactly what was not anticipated . The fresh , but humid , air seemed to rouse to action all the dormant energies of the disease , and during the last three days the Governor has been so entirely prostrated that all business and official cares , however urgent , have been put aside . His temperature has at times risen so high as to cause symptoms of delirium and to give reason for grave alarm . No callers were permitted to see him yesterday , even familiar acquaintances being excluded from the sick-room . Mrs. Cornell is with her husband constantly , and personally superintends the administration of the remedies . The doctors , in consultation yesterday , came to the conclusion that the fever had passed its crisis , and the patient was reported a little easier in the afternoon . His physicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion , and the bulletin left for inquirers was that the Governor was still very ill , and must not be disturbed , the crisis having left him very weak and exhausted . Should no further complication occur , and should there be no relapse , his friends entertain the hope that he may recover sufficient strength to admit of removal to the City in the course of a few days . At 9 o'clock last night the bulletin stated that there was a prospect of a fair night 's rest to the patient , in the event of which the doctors expect to find him this morning in a condition of considerable improvement . The corridors of the hotel were thronged with anxious inquirers during the afternoon , all solicitous to obtain the latest authentic tidings from the sick-room.                     