@@671928

txt NATIONAL CONVENTIONS . Of course no such body as a National Convention was ever thought of by the founders of the Republic . For one thing , it would have been a hard . matter a  --  century ago to induce a number of delegates equal to twice the Senators and Representatives to make a journey at their own charges to any point of the strip of seaboard:which then constituted the United States of America , since Philadelphia was then practically further from Vharleston than San Francisco now is from New York . Moreover , the original notion of the " Electoral College , " ' from which it has so widely departed , included the functions now discharged by the.nominating conventions . It was intended that the Electors in each State should . meet by themselves and . talk over the various names that occurred to them , and finally choose the person whom a majority of them thought fittest for the Presidency . We are very far away from that now , and the old system seems very primitive . It even argues great.simplicity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would . be chosen without any previous committals merely on the score of their known wisdom . and probity . The Electoral College has now lost all its meaning , and has become a costly and cumbrous device for signifying the , result  --  of a popular election , which could be signified mach more conveniently by a mere certificate under the seal of each State from its Secretary . The . nominating convention , on the other hand , has sprung up spontaneously , not being recognized in the Constitution nor in any law  --  which sufficiently proves the necessity for its existence . Nevertheless , a nominating convention considered as a deliberative body , which it is supposed to be , is about-as absurd an assemblage as could be got together . The meeting of unpledged Electors in each State , if that - were feasible , would - theoretically give a much better chance of a good result . In the , first place , it would be of manageable dimensions , whereas a nominating convention is far beyond . the numerical limits of a deliberative assemblage . The House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do any business at all it has - to adopt and enforce an elaborate system of rules which protract its work to an extent that would be intolerable in a National Convention , while the work of legislation is also arranged and systematized and in effect done by being divided among a number -. of committees which are small enough to admit of a real interchange of views among the members . When we coma to double the number of , Representatives and . of Senators , and to assemble - this number of persons in one - place for a week or less , discussion becomes entirely-out of the question . The delegates however . respectable and intelligent they may be individually , necessarily form a mob when they come together , a " howling mob , " for the reason that one has to howl in order to be heard . This is not the worst of it , for the hall in which the convention is held is own also to the public , and the bigger it is the more eligible is it considered to be . The galleries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result , which they testify in the same manner in which the delegates carry on their deliberations ? that is to say , by howling , and , it is not possible to distinguish accurately the will of the convention as expressed by the howls of the delegates on the floor from the will of the local crowd . as expressed by the howls of the promiscuous and irresponsible persons in the galleries . It is evident that , when there is any doubt beforehand about what , had better be done , the nominating convention is one of the poorest devices imaginable for resolving . the doubt . When there is no doubt , as in the case of the Republican Convention that renominated TANcorzr. or - the Democratic Convention that renominated CLEVELAND , the nominating convention is simply what the Electoral College has degenerated . to be  --  an unreasonably expensive and clumsy way of registering the popular will . When there is any doubt ; a nominating convention has very few points of superiority to a raffle . The nomination is determined . by all manner of irrelevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of these . To this LINCOLN very possibly owed . his first nomination . Then a-candidate may owe a great deal to the fact that his chief spokesman is endowed with a " brass mouth and iron lungs . " Moreover , a person not thought of as a candidate before the convention meets may make so good . an ' impression on that body as to become a candidate in spite of himself , and his name be used as a means of opening a dead-lock . That was the way in which GARFIELD came to be nominated , and although he was elected , the very delegates who voted . for him , if they had been asked about it beforehand . and . in cool blood , would have been likely to agree that his nomination was inexpedient . In the present . convention Gov . FORAICER seems to have made this kind of an impression . Meanwhile the " work " of the convention is going ' on by means of combinations at the various headquarters , and . of casual discussions in the corridors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heated . controversies to rough-and-tumble fights . It is not easy to suggest any substitute for the National Convention , which , as we have said , has this great point in its favor that it has grown up spontaneously to answer a political need . But it is evident that as a means of selecting , the strongest or even the most . eligible candidate of a party , in a case at all  --  doubtful , it leaves very much to be desired .                     