@@327572

When his presidency was just five hours old , on Inauguration Day , 1981 , Ronald Reagan took a respite from the celebration and the constant bulletins about the hostages en route home from Tehran by joking with reporters , " It 's been a very wonderful day . I guess now I can go back to California , ca n't I ? " <P> The quip was a typical Reagan play on his ostensible disdain for Washington and for the traditional politician 's obsession with power . In a profoundly personal way , Friday 's Inaugural will be an even more wonderful day for the nation 's oldest President . Eight years ago , many skeptics predicted that he would have to go West for good after one failed term . Instead , he heads home on his own schedule , with a strong sense that he has done what he came to do . Despite the minefield awaiting his successor , Reagan believes , as he grandly put it the other day , " A revolution of ideas became a revolution of governance on Jan. 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation very different places from those he found is beyond dispute . How much of his personal triumph translates into durable accomplishment is far more debatable . But those doubts will be invisible as Reagan and George Bush ride to the Capitol together . For Reagan , the Inaugural puts the final adornment on the sash proclaiming him the era 's most successful President , if only in political terms . <P> Though historians will give him a rough time because of the impact of some of his policies , even the toughest appraisals will have to recognize successes that seemed impossible eight years ago . Reagan 's four immediate predecessors presided over a frightening decline in presidential authority . Neither Lyndon Johnson , Richard Nixon , Gerald Ford nor Jimmy Carter could manage two full terms . Their serial failures left the presidency bordering on decrepitude . That an elderly celluloid cowboy from California unencumbered by heavy intellect , workaholism or Washington experience might halt that decline was inconceivable to the Eastern smart set . Yet Reagan not only arrested the presidency 's slide , he reversed it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points above Dwight Eisenhower 's in December 1960  --  is only one crude measure of that change . Most Americans are more sanguine about their lot and their leaders than they were in 1980 . Government paralysis is no longer the norm . <P> That feeling of serenity , though diluted by a variety of concerns , is part of the foundation of Reagan 's political trifecta : his re-election in 1984 , his personal recovery from the trough of the Iran-contra scandal and his final vindication at the polls last November . Not since the Roosevelt-Truman era has either party won three consecutive presidential elections . Not even the popular Eisenhower had the pleasure of escorting his designated heir to the Capitol .                     