@@296731

Their journey repeats the classic American immigrant sagas . To escape the old country ( the ration line , the future foreclosed , the totalitarian rant ) , they climb aboard overcrowded boats and go pitching out across the water to a different life . When they glimpse the new land , they throng to the rails ; they peer toward the dock with that vulnerable immigrant look of yearning that everyone carries in memory , like a cracked photograph : the faces at Ellis Island , the Golden Door-or at least the servants ' entrance-to the new world and all its redemptions . <P> The drama , now replayed by thousands of Cubans in their 110-mile trek across the Straits of Florida , can still raise a glow of patriotic nostalgia in Americans . It is " a nation of immigrants , " after all , as John Kennedy wrote 100 years after his Irish great-grandfather left County Wexford to become a cooper in Boston . But today Americans are having trouble rising to the occasion . Drifting into a recession whose depths they can not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about oil prices and taxes that already seem too high for Government services that provide too little , Americans are less disposed to invite more strangers into the house . The beds are all taken , they say . The basement is jammed with illegal aliens-as many as 12 million , by some counts , with thousands more daily piling across the borders . <P> Ku Klux Klansmen have paraded around Florida lately , dispensing their old nativist bile and giving a bad name to an argument ( AMERICA FOR AMERICANS , the picket signs say ) that has more thoughtful and respectable proponents . The New Republic 's columnist , TRB , a voice of intelligent liberalism , writes with some truculence : " Sooner or later , America must face reality . It is going to be painful ... The trouble is that huddled masses need jobs . The American frontier ( worse luck ) is gone . " The American ideal of endless hospitality and refuge presupposed perpetually expanding resources . Now , says the argument , an emerging order of scarcity mandates self-interest , selectivity , limitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open in Whitmanesque embrace , ready to issue a shovel to anyone strong enough and willing to dig . <P> Actually , Congress posted very picky bouncers at the Golden Door in 1921 , when it began the quota system . But official strictures on immigration have become a kind of charade . The flow of illegal immigrants persists , merely inconvenienced by the understaffed Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol . And the U.S. has often made massive exceptions to the law in order to admit refugees-36,000 from Hungary after the 1956 uprising , for example , and 872,000 from Cuba since the Castro revolution . Future upheavals will undoubtedly produce massive new exceptions . A new law , the Refugee Act of 1980 , attempts to bring some order to immigration , but it is not much help in resolving the questions of fairness , humanity , precedent and priority that the new mass Cuban migration raises .                     