@@487713

Last week millions of Americans witnessed one of those rare world-class media events that provide substance with the symbolism . " History " was the vogue word among commentators seeking to evoke the momentousness of the occasion . " We have made history , " said President Reagan after signing the first superpower agreement to eliminate a category of nuclear weapons . For once , the President had his history right . But the I.N.F. treaty will only become history , will only be a symbolic step to more significant nuclear weapons reductions and greater d  --  tente  --  will only help insure that humankind , in the long run , has a history  --  if the fires of public opinion that produced it are kept hot . Last week 's triumph of the peace movement ( the keepers of the flame ) will need to be followed through , most immediately in the Senate , where a little group of willful men is organizing an ambush . A robust but ravenous military-industrial complex and a powerful , inertial national security bureaucracy wait in the wings , flexing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curbs . In the fickle spotlight of history , Reagan was thrust into an unaccustomed starring role in the long-running nuclear disarmament saga ; his is the hand that holds the pen , after all , though others may push it . Whether we witnessed the transfiguration of the President is , of course , another question . But even Republican chief executives have experienced blinding visions of a higher principle in one area of statecraft : Eisenhower warning against the military-industrial complex , Nixon fashioning the opening to China . Perhaps Ronald Reagan , as he enters the final year of his term , has seen the light on nuclear weapons , if nothing else ; perhaps he really does want to be remembered as a peacemaker . We shall see . Trust but verify . CARLUCCI 'S THREE FACES STORY OF A CONSUMMATE BUREAUCRAT JEFFERSON MORLEY Frank Carlucci began working as Secretary of Defense at the same time that the Congressional committees investigating the Iran/ contra affair were going out of business . The committees disgorged their retrospective on the scandal on November 17 and three days later Carlucci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was like two ships passing in broad daylight . The Iran/contra report documented how the national security bureaucracy operated beyond the reach of the law in aiding the contras and selling arms to the Ayatollah Khomeini . Carlucci , in his confirmation hearings , stressed his unprecedented experience in that bureaucracy . He is the only man ever to have held the number-one or - two job in the Central Intelligence Agency , the Pentagon and the National Security Council . What the report indicates , Carlucci pledges to redeem . Carlucci is , depending on whose headline you prefer , a bland and poised " Competent Manager " ( National Journal ) or a bedraggled " Quintessential Survivor " ( The Washington Post ) or a more sinister-sounding " Diplomat , Businessman , Spy " ( Covert Action Information Bulletin , a publication critical of the C.I.A. ) . These views , each the byproduct of Washington journalistic convention , are thought to be mutually exclusive . In fact , the new Secretary of Defense is best thought of as a composite of all three descriptions . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career spook . As a young Foreign Service officer , he had a knack for arriving in Third World countries  --  the Belgian Congo in ( Continued on Page 757 ) When Republicans fall to fighting among themselves , they lose their customary country-club aplomb and descend to the level of prehominids clubbing one another over the carcass of a gnu . The Reagan Administration is not yet exactly dead meat , but the beast is reeling and the tribes are moving in for the kill . The proximate cause of the division is the vigor of response to the Red Menace as embodied in thesummit , the I.N.F. treaty and d  --  tente . But the schism has as much to do with politics as ideology , as party pols and their press pals position themselves for advantage in a post-Reagan America . No Republican now hopes that harmony can be restored before a new distribution of power within the party is arranged . The Red-baiting of Ronald Reagan must be one of the great ironies of modern political history . But in the past few weeks we have heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests in language reminiscent of Joe McCarthy 's attack on the Democrats for " twenty years of treason . " Howard Phillips , the ideological gauleiter of Reaganism , called his erstwhile leader a " useful idiot for Soviet propaganda . " Reagan snapped back at his critics as warmongers , in the Truman manner : " These people . . . have accepted that war is inevitable . " To which pollster/direct mailer Richard Viguerie answered , " If Reagan wants to get into a war with the conservatives , that 's his call . . . . I 'm not going to apologize to a President who is making the world a little safer for the Communists . " And there are splits within the splits . The yahoos on the right have built their careers on a vulgar anti-Communism and now feel threatened and delegitimized by d  --  tente . The Soviet Threat has driven foreign policy , domestic politics and economic expansion in America for so long that life without Kremlin villainy is practically unthinkable . Why should an Administration plunder and pillage Nicaragua , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists ? Why tolerate racism in South Africa if the alternative is not so bad anymore ? The military machos on the right , like Alexander Haig and columnist George Will , pretend to a more pragmatic position . They worry that the I.N.F. treaty and the era of better feeling between East and West that it is bound to engender are Soviet stratagems designed to disarm NATO Europe and detach it from U.S. protection . Soon the Tatar hordes will be streaming through the Brandenburg Gate , and that will be the end of that In fact their worries may be well founded , but only in the first instance . As E.P . Thompson suggested in The Nation last week " The Peace Movement 's Next Task " , a new deal is being negotiated between the blocs in response to changing realities of European politics and powers on both sides of the gate . NATO is a glaring , dangerous anachronism ; the Warsaw Pact is a useless fossil . The cold war on the Continent has run out of rationales . If Reagan persists in his war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember that it was the Republican right that voted against the NATO treaty forty years ago , using the argument that the alliance would overexpose and overextend the United States and confuse American policy with European interests . Come to think of it , not much has changed since then . James Baldwin T he death of James Baldwin diminishes us all here at The Nation , but it is a loss to the larger community as well . Not only the black community out of which he rose and for which he was such an elo-quent and prophetic voice ; not only the shifting , vital literary community of writers and readers ; but a world community of all races and nationalities bound together by the act of a solitary soul touching others through the written word , even after death . The Nation benefited from Baldwin 's membership on our editorial board , and perhaps we once helped him slightly in the best way a young writer can be helped  --  by printing hisfirst published piece ( " Maxim Gorky as Artist , " April 12 , 1947 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a matter for more extended reflection , and we shall be publishing a longer essay on Baldwin in an upcoming issue . In the meantime , let us end with his own words , from the precociously talented review he wrote for The Nation : " We must recognize the need for further and honest exploration of those provinces , the human heart and mind , which have operated , historically and now , as the no man 's land between us and our salvation . "                     