@@320515

But Catholic and Protestant politicians are equally skeptical <P> Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher looked on pensively as her Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , Humphrey Atkins , presented the long-awaited document to the House of Commons . The 16-page paper outlined an ambitious government plan for restoring self-government to Ulster after roughly eight years of direct rule by Westminster and a decade of sectarian violence that has claimed more than 2,000 lives . Atkins guardedly insisted that the Thatcher government 's initiative contained " grounds for some optimism . I detect that the leaders of the political parties really do want to find a way forward . " <P> The new proposals call for an Ulster government to be composed of an executive branch and an 80-member Assembly , elected on the basis of proportional representation . Catholics make up about one-third of Ulster 's population of 1.5 million . Since they would form a permanent minority in the Assembly , Atkins outlined two options for assuring them a voice in the executive branch : 1 ) Cabinet seats proportional to their strength in the Assembly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but counterbalanced by a special Council of the Assembly , endowed with veto powers , on which the largely Catholic minority parties would have a guaranteed 50% representation . Westminster would retain direct control over security , most taxation , defense and foreign policy ; but all other political powers would reside in the government of <P> Northern Ireland , as they did before the Stormont Parliament was suspended in 1972 . <P> On the whole , initial reactions from Ulster 's political leaders were not encouraging . The Official Unionists ' craggy-faced leader , James Molyneaux , warned against adopting a " rigged Assembly " and reminded fellow M.P.s of the fate of a similar power-sharing plan that was wrecked by a Protestant-organized general strike in 1974 . The Rev. Ian Paisley , the militant head of the Democratic Unionist Party , denounced any formula for sharing power with Catholics as " totally unacceptable . " Nor were Catholics enthusiastic about the proposed guarantees . John Hume , Catholic leader of the moderate Social Democratic and Labor Party , said only that he would be open to having further talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ever faithful to their goal of Irish unity , also reacted cautiously to the limited home-rule plan . An official statement from Dublin welcomed the discussion of " possible solutions " but insisted on " closer political cooperation between the British and Irish governments " on the Ulster question . Some measure of cooperation actually began in May , when Ireland 's Taoiseach ( Prime Minister ) Charles Haughey had a cordial meeting with Thatcher , at which the two leaders agreed to hold regular consultations . At that time , Haughey insisted that the Republic did not seek to annex the six northern counties " by force . " He suggested that his government would even be willing to change certain articles of the Irish Constitution , such as one that prohibits divorce , in order to accommodate Ulster Protestants in an eventual unification agreement .                     