@@432016

Mormons , one of the most persecuted religious groups in U.S. history , are emerging on their 150th anniversary as one of the nation 's strongest churches . Despite continuing controversies , the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints , as the group is formally known , is growing by almost 4 percent annually , highest- rate among the nation 's major denominations . Its U.S. membership has risen to 3.2 million , surpassing that of all other religious groups except Roman Catholics , Southern Baptists , National Baptists and United Methodists . Its undisclosed wealth is fed by members in the U.S. , and 1 million in other countries , who are expected to give to the church at least one tenth of their income . " The church that began as a group of pioneers driven into Utah has become a global faith , " says Mormon spokesman Stephen H. Coltrin , adding : " This change has brought many advantages and some controversies , caused by misunderstandings , too . " Among the advantages are a network of church-owned businesses , broadcasting stations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enhancing its influence are 29,000 missionaries and a growing number of members who play leading roles in entertainment , politics and business . These include singers Donny and Marie Osmond and 10 members of Congress . These gains are widely attributed to a conservative ethic stressing hard work , education , strong family ties and discipline . Tobacco , caffeine and liquor are forbidden . Extramarital sex is grounds for excommunication . Members are taught to avoid public aid and spend long hours on religious projects , including church-run farms that provide jobs and food for the Mormon poor . As Mormonism gains in stature , however , it is colliding with a growing number of critics who describe the church as a repressive foe of fairness toward women , blacks and dissenters . One clash came with last December 's excommunication of Sonia Johnson , a Virginia Mormon accused of railing against church leaders in her campaign for the equal-rights amendment . The church has also angered liberals by sending busloads of Mormons to help win victories against ERA , abortion and homosexual rights at conventions and legislative meetings across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the church lifted its ban on blacks in the priesthood , a status that has been virtually automatic for white Mormon males . Source of beliefs . The ban was rooted in the Book of Mormon , scriptures that Mormons say were given in the 1820s to their prophet , Joseph Smith , by an angel named Moroni on a hill in New York state . These writings , used as a supplement to the Bible , teach Mormons that the Garden of Eden was located in Jackson County , Mo. , and that American Indians are descendants of the lost tribes of Israel . Mormons believe that Jesus , after his resurrection , visited those American Israelites and started a church among them that lasted until war destroyed their civilization . It was this faith that led Smith 's followers to organize their church in 1830 and begin a 17-year journey that ended in the founding of a " new Zion " in Utah . Smith was killed by a mob in Illinois . Others died of cold and disease . From these hardships has come growing devotion to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church 's ruling council , calls " an anchor of certainty " that people find attractive " in these unsteady times . "                     