@@494694

Private philanthropy in America has developed over the course of this century into a monstrous , elaborately organized enterprise . Before the passage of the 16th Amendment in 1912 and the subsequent legislation of income and estate tax laws , philanthropy depended on individuals impelled by a sense of religious duty , guilt , admiration , and idealism , if not often a desire for fame and immortality . Now it is dominated by high-pressure techniques , the shrewd use of direct-mail gimmicks , advertising , and a new class of professionals in the field of " development " ( as fund-raising is now euphemistically called ) . These professionals and their tricks have become costly but essential items in the budget of every advocacy group , hospital , museum , and university . Although most of the money raised in America is still given by individuals , individuals have lost control of the world of philanthropy . The introduction of the charitable deduction into the tax code made a seemingly counterintuitive act ( giving money away without an economic return ) appear rational . It generalized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range of potential recipients well beyond religious institutions ) , and democratized it . Anyone earning enough to pay income taxes was aware that he or she could divert money from the government to private charities . The tax code also permitted the creation of non-operating foundations , taxexempt organizations to which one could not only divert money each year but also will one 's entire estate . Since 1912 the roster of great foundations has continued to grow , offering a mirror image of the shifting directions of industrial and commercial progress in America , The Carnegie Corporation , the Rockefeller Foundation , the Ford Foundation , the Lilly Endowment , the Kresge Foundation , the Johnson Foundation , the MacArthur Foundation , the Howard Hughes Institute , the Gannett Foundation , and the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation are just a few of the major concentrations of philanthropic capital created through the wills of industrial giants with wealth derived from automobiles , railroads , steel and coal , oil , pharmaceuticals , insurance , retailing , real estate , journalism , aerospace , and cosmetics . Today the 37 largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assets ranging from $5.2 billion and $3.5 billion ( at Hughes and Ford respectively , both sums larger than any university endowment ) to a mere $250 million ( at William Randolph Hearst ) . Collectively they possess over $27 billion out of the approximately $55 billion in assets owned by all foundations in America . These 37 give about $2 billion away each year . The beneficiaries are usually those that in other Western countries are financed overwhelmingly by government : the arts , higher education , health , scientific research , and social welfare programs . Long an unusually prominent force in American social and cultural life , private charities have recently experienced a philosophical and problematic political renaissance . For all the virtues of private giving , charity among the rich and well-to-do is still an exceptional act , not a habit . The potential of voluntary giving can perhaps be measured best by realizing that the surplus wealth Howard Hughes accumulated in his lifetime was greater than the size of the endowment that Harvard , our richest private institution , accumulated from loyal alumni and friends over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call to replace governmental support with private giving and volunteerism , the organizations of private philanthropy ( particularly the large foundations ) have suddenly been faced with unrealistic demands to satisfy expectations for basic services and benefits once supported by federal money : scholarships , funds for the disadvantaged , legal aid , aid to dependent children , increased support for medical and scientific research , and , after the creation of the National Endowments for the Humanities and the Arts in the 1960s , support for cultural institutions and scholarly activities . This has put foundations in a tough predicament , accustomed as they have become since World War II to starting projects , not sustaining them , and to supplementing the work of charitable institutions and guiding the direction of public policy . The recent turmoil marks the second crisis in the direction of foundation activities in recent years . In the late 1960s , a sense that philanthropic foundations were exerting an undue liberal influence on our lives ( or merely depriving the government of revenue for no good reason ) led to extensive congressional scrutiny of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters of public policy compatible with tax exempt status ? The Pat-man Reform Act of 1969 emerged out of hearings that aired a good deal of public resentment . Most of the reforms were salutary ( though the recent rise of conservative foundations actively supporting the Reagan administration 's agenda ? the Scaife , John M. Olin , Heritage , and Smith Richardson foundations are the best known ? suggests how limited the success of " depoliticization " has been ) . The legislation merely increased the regulation of foundations without destroying their freedom of activity . Foundations were forced to disperse a certain percentage of their assets and income annually ; and they were prevented from operating businesses and from serving as little more than elaborate tax dodges . WHAT ARE suitable expectations for the work of foundations ? And what limitations should be imposed on this work ? In his book Waldemar A. Nielsen tries to address these central questions as he surveys the foundation world . He characterizes and critically evaluates the large foundations . He outlines what they ought to be doing , given the shift in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But The Golden Donors is , unfortunately , an awful book . It is written by someone who is himself a creature of this special milieu . Nielsen is billed as " a leading consultant on philanthropy " who has advised a Rockefeller , a Getty , and Robert 0 . Anderson of Atlantic Richfield , and who has almost made a career of writing about foundations . Nielsen would like the reader to believe that his book is a candid expos ? and a critical blueprint . Rather than the objective and synthetic overview he intends , however , the book itself reveals many symptoms of the problems of the culture of foundation life . Like many in the foundation world , Nielsen is a zealous promoter of professionalism ; he looks down on the simple tastes and prejudices of a foundation 's original donors or lay trustees . He rankles at the presumption of a rich individual who seeks to determine where and to whom money should be given without much ado : wealth is itself not a sufficient basis for authority . Nielsen devotes a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family intrigues of the very rich . He repeats legends , familiar anecdotes , and platitudes about men such as William Randolph Hearst , W. L. Moody Jr. , and Alfred P Sloan , and rehashes near-libelous gossip about the Keck family . He uses his book to air , quite selectively , the dirty linen of the professional foundation world . He recounts in detail the struggle between Rod MacArthur and his fellow board members and the dismissal of longtime Ford staffers by Franklin Thomas . We are treated to behind-closed-doors sagas of the staffing of the Pew and Clark foundations and of dissent among unidentified Rockefeller trustees . But Nielsen is disingenuous . This is not the evenhanded debunking candor it seems . Nielsen has vested interests and vendettas in the intricate politics of the foundation world that perhaps only an insider can sense . For example , he is mercilessly critical of the late John Knowles and is disparaging of the current staff of the Rockefeller Foundation , accusing its members of " slouching toward senility . " In an effort to curry favor with Ford , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either McGeorge Bundy or Franklin Thomas , although he can not refrain from repeating quite nasty information about them both . He heaps vitriol on some , but in other cases , for example that of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation , he finds no fault at all . NIELSEN 'S own prescription is professionalism , and more professionalism . He wants more reports , more innovation , more social activism . He wants the great foundations to be " interactive " rather than " purely reactive , " and to formulate " postures " toward government policy in search of the " maximum feasible function " of a foundation . He makes a series of smaller recommendations ? calling for more data , more talk so that " voluntarism , diversity , compassion , fairness , creativity , and freedom " can be sustained . He seems not to like foundations that are simple and straightforward and give large grants regularly to the same causes . He disapproves of foundations that fail to invent their own programs or that avoid the arrogant posture of telling those in the field what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea that foundations push and shove the world outside in the direction that their wise , prophetic staffs deem critical . " In the matter of foundation governance , as with genital herpes , " Nielsen sums up unfeicitously , " it is clear that a serious problem exists , but how to treat it , even how to define it , is not yet known . " Yet it is possible to define the problem more clearly than Nielsen has , though this means examining the implications of the " professionalism " he praises so profusely . The power of the great foundations extends well beyond the size of their grants . They not only underwrite activities , they legitimate projects and validate organizations . A grant from a major foundation , such as Mellon or Carnegie , constitutes a highly visible and prestigious " Good Housekeeping " seal . Granters and would-be grantees alike take note , copying both style and substance . Meanwhile , the lucky recipient can look forward to more grants down the road , for one grant under the belt is the best qualification for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? which maintains a large staff and writes extensive reports and studies ? makes a grant , surely it has done more than express an opinion or exercise taste . It has been scientific . It has duly researched , evaluated , and conducted the moral equivalent of what in the world of scholarship is termed " peer review . " Unlike the sentimental alumnus , the grateful local-citizen-made-good , the devout member of the body faithful , or the unabashed partisan , the large foundations like to give the impression that they are above subjectivity , prejudice , and whim . A good deal of their influence over the flow of philanthropy depends on maintaining that facade . In reality , the claims to objectivity on the part of foundations are often complex rationalizations for highly subjective choices . The publication by the major foundations of reports , procedures , criteria , and guidelines has led to an exaggerated impression of institutional fairness . Any experienced seeker of funds knows that , just as with potential individual donors , merit is not all that counts with major foundations . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or otherwise gets a sense of what the foundation really wants ) , exploits or nurtures ties to staff or trustees , and then tailors requests not necessarily to actual needs but to a sense of what the professional staff of the foundation wants to fund . In short , the process is usually not so different from raising money from ordinary people who make little claim to fairness and extensive scrutiny . THE PATTERNS and trendsetting influence of the major large foundations ? not to mention their size and visibility ? have spawned a parallel industry of proposal writers and development consultants among the grant seekers . A Byzantine ritual of begging has come into being , the result of which is a sequence of paper exchanges , starting with letters of inquiry and encouragement or refusal , and leading to proposals , revisions , reports , and evaluations . Most are written in the most egregious jargon of circumlocution , exaggeration , and self-aggrandizing piety and invention . Novelty , national significance , " replicability , " impact , and dissemination are among the qualities applicants must evoke in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grants can spend more than one-third of a potential grant just asking for it and justifying it . Since the ratio between grants asked for and grants received may be as high as 10-to-1 , institutions end up spending precious time and money to get less assistance than a grant announcement might imply . The defense of this professionalized process of asking and giving has been that it encourages change and innovation . But the bureaucratization of giving has often led to the narrowing of vision and courage . Among potential recipients , the eagerness to receive large foundation support has led frequently to the reverse of what the foundations overtly seek to encourage . Imitation and the elaborate repackaging of conventional wisdom as novelty have become habitual . In no other sector of presumably intelligent activity have language and the notion of a new idea been so systematically forsaken or polluted . BUT THE problem is hardly limited to how and to whom money is given . Few if any of the major foundations choose to give enough basic support to existing charitable institutions to sustain them . At best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a rage , at all levels and from all types of donors , for the new , the special , the extra item needing support . Fewer and fewer individuals , foundations , or corporations seem content to support directly the basic purposes of not-forprofit institutions ? teaching , caring for the sick , supporting artists , underwriting research . The largest foundations , with some notable exceptions such as Mellon and Pew , are not content simply to give money to others . For example , Ford , Carnegie , and Rockefeller have consistently sponsored studies and issued reports under their own aegis intended to shape social legislation , foreign policy , public opinion , and the administration of justice . Yesterday the rage was poverty , disease in the underdeveloped world , and the education of the poor and minorities . Today , the leading concerns may be the environment , the humanities , and the nuclear threat . Though they are eager to study that which needs fixing , foundations are not necessarily as interested in helping to Fix it . For example , the blue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a massive project , continue to gather dust on the shelves of every college administrator . But the resources needed to implement the still-relevant findings of the Carnegie study are no longer one of the priorities of the largest foundations . Has the Rockefeller Foundation followed up on its humanities report with support commensurate with the time , publicity , and recognition the report generated ? Foundations are essentially static organizations . If they grow , the growth has nothing to do with the staff . There is little room for entrepreneurship beyond shifting the use of a fixed or slightly changing pot of gold . Moreover , in the large foundations , the curious twist is that professionals and trustees use money someone else earned . Their desire for elaborate justifications of their decisions may reflect their hesitancy to make the kind of capricious choices the original donor had no difficulty with ; or it may camouflage career ambitions . In any event , the pace is leisurely , the pay often handsome ; the offices are plush ; the spirit is insular ? all in striking contrast to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search of support . There is less of a sense of urgency than the growing impact of federal budget cuts demands . Foundation officers are to the not-for-profit world what conservative bankers are to industry and commerce . They are relegated to being observers of the travail and success of others . They are , at best , catalysts . Yet despite their flaws , the great foundations have been strong and inde pendent forces that have contributed significantly to research , medicine , education , public policy , and the arts . They are an indispensable part of American life and culture . In addition to acknowledging their problems , we need to ask questions about solutions . How can we strike a proper balance between private philanthropy and government and avoid too much government control ? How can prejudice and taste be legitimated and acknowledged , thereby eliminating the deceptive need to render philanthropy " professional " and seemingly " objective " when it rarely is ? Finally , how can we restore the human directness , individuality , courage , and simplicity inherent in philanthropy ? it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inadvertent or unintended it sometimes is ) from the smug bureaucracies and tiresome rituals that now characterize the foundations and the world of philanthropy they dominate .                     