@@491601

There she was , a thin , pretty slip of a woman from Plains , Georgia , crowded into a corner of an ornate reception room of a converted mansion at the corner of Park Avenue and 68th Street , ready to deliver an international affairs lecture to New York 's Eastern Establishment . Her host group , the Council on Foreign Relations , of course , does not claim that title , but it does n't reject it either . At its frequent briefing sessions on world affairs , typically held in the late afternoon , there come together a remarkable array of Wall Street bankers , international lawyers , editors , television news commentators , a sprinkling of Ivy League academics , retired diplomats and officers and directors of some of the major multinational corporations . As if by right , the Council expects to be visited each year by a parade of prime ministers and foreign secretaries , an occasional king or president , plus numerous ambassadors and to hear them talk about the world or regional problems in which they are involved . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the Council on Foreign Relations invited an American president 's wife to address its members . Rosalynn Smith Carter was the first . Earlier in the day she had conferred with Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim of the United Nations ; the next morning she would be interviewed on NBC 's " Today Show . " Her topic with each audience : the plight of the Cambodian refugees , whose miserable camps on the Thai border she had recently visited . After a gracious introduction by Father Theodore Hesburgh , president of the University of Notre Dame , chairman of the board of the Rockefeller Foundation and veteran presidential adviser on refugees and many other problems , Rosalynn Carter began to speak . Her voice was soft and there was a trace of shyness , but she was clearly not intimidated by this sophisticated and internationally knowledgeable audience . She opened with a brief reference to the crisis of the American embassy hostages held in Teheran , then entering its second month . " These have been trying days for all of us , " she said , " and I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President as does Iran . " She said she was " proud " of the restraint of the American people , angry as we all are over the terrible behavior of the Iranian militants , but she was confident that the patience being shown by the American people and by the administration would bring the safe release of the hostages . " In spite of Iran , " she declared , " we are moving forward with other important matters  --  and one of these is the problem of the refugees of Southeast Asia . " Then , for the next half hour , she talked easily and simply about her personal experience in visiting the hungry , the sick and the dying in the camps . " No way to describe what I saw ... the most distressing situation I have ever seen . . . I held in my arms little children that were nothing but skin and bones . . . too weak to have any control over their arms and legs . ? . impossible to believe such things can happen . " Why had she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on five days notice she , plus a team of experts , went . When they returned they reported to the President and to the governmental officers responsible for handling American assistance . What had she personally been able to accomplish ? She had expressed directly to the Thai leaders in Bangkok the appreciation and understanding of the President for their compassion , generosity and courage in letting in so many thousands of the refugees and for struggling along , with assistance from other governments and international organizations , to handle the problems produced by the enormous influx of refugees . " We must give the Thais our full understanding and support , " she said . Because of the simple fact that she is the American president 's wife , her visit attracted expanded attention from the media and the public , in the United States and abroad , to the needs of the Cambodians , and thus has helped to stimulate private contributions and public action in support of the refugees . During a refueling stop in Tokyo on the flight back , she had telephoned the Japanese foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tell him about the need of the refugees for more assistance . She did not dwell on it , but clearly her vivid impressions conveyed directly to the President gave him more of an up-close feel of that tragic situation than he could have received in any other way short of going himself . Jimmy Carter is , of course , not the first president to use his wife as an extra set of eyes and ears to learn more about conditions in which he is interested . However poor the marital relationship was between F.D.R. and Eleanor Roosevelt , she obviously was an influential source of information for the President in those critical years of 1933 to 1945 . But , it is also pretty clear that Rosalynn Carter is a working partner to her presidential husband in a fuller sense than any other first lady who ever lived in the White House . You got only hints of that in her Council on Foreign Relations speech . She had been thoroughly briefed by responsible officials . She was accompanied by Victor Palmieri , coordinator of the refugee program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts about which she was uncertain . Yet she knew what the administration 's policies were and how to present them persuasively . In the question period she fielded every topic thrown at her with competence and grace . When she did n't know the answer , she said so , a mark of self-confidence many so-called experts do n't always have . The next day Murray Kempton , hard-bitten columnist for the New York Post , devoted his piece to her performance and said she " spoke movingly to an audience that by now can be brought to tears by no vicissitudes except those of the dollar . " He worried that she might be " too decent and too innocent , " but also wrote that " she possesses the one great quality that sophistication invariably loses , which is the indignation of violated innocence . " To some who heard her that day , however , it seemed that her mellow deep-South accent , her gentle manner and her almost schoolgirl modesty did not quite mask a tough mind and a pretty sophisticated understanding of exactly what she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cambodian refugees with a plea for more volunteer contributions to help the refugees , for broader understanding and support of the U.S. role in providing assistance and for increased pressure on other Continued on page 88 sions without a great deal of respect for her and for what she contributed . " One of the most significant recrnt developments of the " female " relationship is how it has changed in recent years . For a long time , it was thought that a presidential candidate could not have been involved in a divorce . After he 'd been divorced , Adlai Stevenson got the nomination , but  --  though few media people ever realized it  --  he was not the first to do so . James M.Cox , the Democratic candidate in 1920 , was not only divorced but remarried . Today marital irregularities are far more common and much more accepted . Senator Bob Dole , the Republican candidate for vice president in 1976 and a candidate for the GOP nomination for the presidency in 1980 , married a young woman who cared for him medically and emotionally while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War II . She went on to support him while he went through college and law school and she campaigned with him to get him into the Senate . But once he was there , he became more absorbed in politics and in " destiny . " The Doles went through a somewhat difficult divorce in the early 1970s and Bob later remarried . His second wife , Elizabeth , was a commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission , so he did not really lose a wife in the legal proceedings so much as gain a second income . ( Elizabeth has since left the FTC and is now working on Dole 's campaign . ) The point is that divorce is no longer a bar to getting into the White House . After all , Ronald Reagan was also divorced and remarried . And Jerry Ford is married to a divorcee . There is a question of whether not being married is a drawback . The Republicans had a bachelor candidate  --  Larry Pressler , the senator from South Dakota . So did the Democrats  --  in a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has carried on a romance on an international scale with rock-and-roll singer Linda Ronstadt . ( " He was just getting experience in foreign affairs , " says one sarcastic staffer for a rival candidate for the Democratic nomination . ) As it developed , Governor Brown was as elusive on the issue of whether he'dmarry his rock-and-roll star before he moved into the White House as he was on most other issues . But he clearly made another decision about the women in his life : He did n't have his rock-and-roll singer campaigning for him across America , but he did have his mother making appearances for him . Perhaps to prove he had other feminine resources . The fact is that his mother is a fascinating woman . But so are all the other women who might enter the White House next year on the arm of the successful candidate . For if there is anything to be learned from the long , trying , sometimes wacky , sometimes ugly process of this particular election campaign , it is that the women who are involved are far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more of their share . " This is a world problem , " she emphasized . " We will not succeed if it is treated as just an American project . " Finally , she shrewdly used the occasion to throw out some challenging reminders about world hunger in general . She had met recently with the World Hunger Commission and quoted from reports that indicate that 40 percent of the people in the developing countries do not have enough to eat and that one-eighth of the people of the whole world are malnourished . The hunger crisis , she warned , will hit us full force within the next 20 years . " We must get ready to deal with the world hunger problem  --  now , " she pleaded , " and not wait until the lasthour as we did with the energy crisis . " Flying back to Washington , she took time off from going through the papers in her brief case to reflect on the remarkable role she has come to play in Jimmy Carter 's life and presidential career . " I know , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am too active and too involved , but I do n't make decisions . I do n't make any government policies . When Jimmy invites me to sit in on a meeting , I am there to inform myself about what our government is doing and why . I am not there to advise . " I ca n't possibly know all the issues , but the more I can learn about them the better able I am to discuss them when people ask me questions or pass on information to me , which they do all the time . " And , anyway , if you had your choice between sitting in a corner and listening to a Cabinet meeting or staying over in the White House and serving tea , would n't you prefer to listen to the Cabinet meeting ? Not that I do n't serve plenty of tea , as it is . " In allocating her time and energies , Rosalynn gives high priority to volunteer , nongovernmental programs and projects scattered across the country . " Community associations , " she says , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply ca n't do it all . " The issues which have most engaged her interests in working with grassroots organizations have been mental health , the care of the elderly , inner city youth and the rights of women . " I have pushed to get the Equal Rights Amendment passed , working with various woman 's organizations , and I have worked to get more women into responsible government jobs and into other good positions in our society . " Asked about the criticism of some women activists and of Teddy Kennedy that Jimmy Carter has not done enough for women , she bristles . She is fiercely loyal to her husband and his policies and actions . She insists that President Carter has done more to recognize and advance women in highly responsible positions than any other president in our history . And she thinks criticism from Teddy Kennedy , of all people , is ludicrous , given his notorious record of passing over women for influential , policy-forming positions in his own staff . She does n't want to talk about Teddy Kennedy , but her feelings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes back to her years in the governor 's mansion in Atlanta when she became involved in mental health problems and in efforts to help privately supported and volunteer initiatives to benefit troubled , disadvantaged children in the inner city schools . One of these , called Cities in Schools , started in Atlanta , now has branches functioning in Indianapolis , New York , Washington , Oakland and Houston . She continues to give it warm support . She realizes that there are limits to what she can accomplish in advancing the various social concerns that interest her and that she faces problems and criticism in picking and choosing what she will spend time on . " It is a difficult thing to set priorities , " she says , " but I do know that because of my position  --  not necessarily because of me  --  if I get interested it can help . " In the international field , it is clear that the Carter family has a special feeling for Latin America . She and Jimmy once took the three boys , before Amy was born , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Later she visited Brazil , Argentina and Costa Rica . " We have good friends in Atlanta who are from Guatemala . Once , when Jimmy was governor , I went down there just to visit my Guatemala friends . I love the Latin American people and I have been trying to learn the language for years . I took two quarters of Spanish when I was in college , and Jimmy really worked at learning Spanish at the Naval Academy . We are still working at it , and I love to speak Spanish when I have the opportunity . " One of the somewhat controversial actions by President Carter early in his term was to send Rosalynn on a state visit to several South American countries as his special emissary . Some Latin American specialists expressed dismay : The Latinos , with their macho complexes and their suspicion of Uncle Sam , anyway , would resent this well-intended but misguided gesture by a new President who ought to take his neighbors to the south seriously enough to do his own in-person fence-mending . Rosalynn went anyway . She remembers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived in each Latin American capital but says that she found her hosts changing their minds as she proContinued on following page ceeded with her visit . " I would try in the first few minutes of conversation , " she recalls , " to give them an authoritative overview of U.S. policy toward Latin America . I had been thoroughly briefed , and Jimmy had already made three speeches on Latin America which I knew well . It became clear to them that the President was not brushing them off by a social visit from me . They could see that I was bringing them serious and friendly messages and they knew I would take back to Jimmy their ideas and report them acccurately . They gave me a really warm reception . We made some good friends and have stayed in touch . " Obviously , Rosalynn enjoys a great deal about her job . What has n't she liked ? " Living with all the security arrangements is hard , " she replies . " But our family had to get used to that when Jimmy was governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We try to ignore the presence of secret service people who are around us , which , I am sure , is what they want . " Despite that and other constant reminders of their public position , and the responsibilities and restrictions that go with it , Rosalynn insists that they live a remarkably normal kind of family life . As she sees it : " When we go upstairs to our family quarters in the White House , we are going into what we have tried to make into a home and where we can live as a family . We have our family meals together . Sometimes Amy brings a friend in from school . The boys and their families come and go . We look at television and read . Jimmy often settles down during an evening to read a book . He , of course , interests himself in what all the children are doing . He has always been a strong father , as his father was before him . I do n't know that he has ever spanked Amy , but she knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Firmness and love is what all children need , and we have tried to supply both . Aside from those hectic years when Jimmy was running for governor and was away so much and the burden of disciplining the children fell mostly on me , Jimmy has been a real father to our children  --  and he still is. " tit Polling the Stars continued from page 63 trying to predict the winner . There are too many possibilities in this very crucial year . The stars incline , they do not impel . The electromagnetic fields to which life on earth responds are constantly changing , and to track them all this far ahead is virtually impossible . Born October 1 , 1924 , at approximately 6 a.m. in Plains , Georgia , Mr. Carter has the sun in Libra and the moon in Scorpio . Libra is called the peacemaker and is known for its sense of fairness and the ability to see both sides of a point of view . Carter 's moon in Scorpio reveals the depth and intensity of the feelings buried inside him , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new beginning in January 1981 . Eclipses have an effect upon our lives . Just before the election , on October 23 , 1976 , a solar eclipse joined Saturn in Mr. Carter 's chart , warning of bitter disappointment in his term of office . A lunar eclipse in April 1977 set up another disappointment and then still another in October 1978 , when Carter struggled with the Israel-Egypt talks , which later bogged down . In March 1979 he experienced antagonism from the public when another eclipse troubled Mars in his chart . There was loss of popularity again in August . Another eclipse in February 1980 will prove crucial for him , and another in August of this year . But in January 1981 , he will make a new beginning ! Two men competing for the highest office in the land could not be more different . Ted Kennedy was born on February 22 , 1932 , just past the full moon , which set up his self-justification motivation , as though he 's impelled to prove himself  --  to himself and to the world around him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world and let it know there 's a good reason for his being aboard . His drive to accomplishment is derived more from his personal needs than from the need to please , which motivates Jimmy Carter . A solar eclipse will hit Kennedy 's chart the day before the Democratic convention . And a lunar eclipse later in August , the same one which will hit Mr. Carter , will affect Kennedy 's chart . It more than likely will stop one man and start the other . Kennedy has " lucky " aspects during the fall of 1980 and also in January 1981 . Nineteen eighty-two , 1983 and 1984 will be some of the most challenging and difficult years of his lifetime . The Republicans present us with another pair of men who are worlds apart . Ronald Reagan , an Aquarian with his moon in Taurus , is fixed in his temperament , inflexible in his views and quietly self-willed . He 's a very private man , one who needs constant reassurance , with all his apparent poise . The solar eclipse in February 1980 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Connally , born February 27 , 1917 , in Texas at around 2 a.m. , is the Piscean who changed his mind and suddenly decided to swim in the opposite direction . Resourceful , intuitive and flexible , Connally 's an adroit politician with a keen sense of timing . His chart indicates he 'd be likely to side-step confrontations with charm and humor . Which kind of man should we elect to guide us through the next few years ? P.S. The vice president will be very important this time . . . let 's be selective . " The ordinary , " says Nellie . " I 'm afraid it was only as far as living in a vine-covered cottage surrounded by flowers with someone I loved dearly . "                     