@@330966

" There are no second acts in American lives , " wrote F. Scott Fitzgerald , who died in 1940 a few miles from the Hollywood editing table where Orson Welles was giving birth to his own screen legend with Citizen Kane . The sin of Welles ' life was that it had two complementary , all-American acts : heroic tragedy , then celebrity farce . By the time he was 25 , Welles had traveled the world , appeared at the Gate Theater in Dublin , stormed Broadway with crackling , sepulchral productions of Shakespeare and The Cradle Will Rock , scared America out of its wits with his War of the Worlds radio caprice , and served as producer , director , co-author and star of the most influential work in film history . Praised and vilified as a boy genius , Welles was now condemned , or condemned himself , to live out the myth . It finally has outlived him . Last week the Magnificent Cumbersome died in his Los Angeles home from complications of cardiovascular disease . <P> Wicked irony dogged every turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserved on film , Welles might be known today as a great actor-manager who also dabbled in movies . If the films had not been preserved , Welles ' trim exuberance would not have so cuttingly mocked the Falstaffian corpulence of his maturity . One generation knows him as the brilliant light that Hollywood failed and as the guy Rita Hayworth married before Aly Khan . Another generation thinks of him as a wine salesman , ballast at a Dean Martin Roast table and butt of Johnny Carson 's " fat " jokes , all of which he bore with wounded dignity . Welles ' premature burial in the flesh of his profligacy and self-destruction needs to be mourned . But it is helpful to recall that his life was not simply a cautionary fable . The man did make movies . <P> To a Hollywood that capered through the Depression , Welles introduced the cinema of melancholy . With Citizen Kane  --  a tale of power and love , and the loss of both  --  American film found the dark , seductive side of its own success story . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detective thrillers would be shrouded in expressionist shadows and shot with oblique camera angles . Kane 's multiple-narrator format announced that no one was to be trusted with the whole truth ; the camera could lie too , and we would have to decide whether to believe it . Welles dragged the movies into modernism , with sequences that keep playing in any film lover 's imaginary screening room : the three-story family squabble in The Magnificent Ambersons ( 1942 ) ; the hall-of- mirrors gunfight in The Lady from Shanghai ( 1948 ) ; the sinuous tracking shot that opens Touch of Evil ( 1958 ) with a bang ; the magnificent pacifist battle scene in Chimes at Midnight/Falstaff ( 1966 ) ; and the Chinese-box structure of F for Fake ( 1975 ) . The last title was appropriate , for Welles ended his directorial film career as he began it , with elegant sleight of hand at 24 frames per second .                     