@@432373

 | A moment Ronald Reagan has yearned for late in his Presidency is at hand : Decision time on an arms-control deal with Moscow . He likes his chances . " I remain optimistic about an agreement this year , " he reported after Secretary of State George Shultz 's tumultuous three days in Moscow last week . Yet some Soviet terms remain unclear . The administration is divided . Members of Congress are ambivalent . Allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization worry that they may be left naked to Soviet non-nuclear power . Reagan 's optimism about removal of intermediate-range nuclear weapons ( INF ) from Europe ? the most likely treaty ? appears justified . But agreement is not quite within reach , and the summit meeting he hopes for in Washington next fall is still not guaranteed . Whether or not a treaty follows , the image out of Moscow last week was almost surreal . Mikhail Gorbachev seemed to be dancing circles around Shultz . As the stolid Secretary of State probed for terms the West could accept , Gorbachev beamed and added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even appeared more tolerant of President Reagan 's Star Wars program . Only with a treaty to sign , he emphasized , could he visit Reagan . To skeptics , the U.S. was preparing to yield strategic advantage , falling into the snare of a seemingly benign Kremlin leader . To the White House , Gorbachev and his colleagues appeared in a peaceful frame of mind . Said Shultz : " Maybe you should take them at face value . " What does NATO want ? The reality of progress will be determined in weeks of further probing . One thing Gorbachev had done was to force a dithering NATO to come to grips with what it really wants . Shultz 's first stop on his way home was to brief nervous allies in Brussels . His report was a Chinese-menu list of Gorbachev proposals : Elimination of the INF weapons , withdrawal of shorter-range missiles , abandonment even of battlefield nuclear weapons . Shultz declared agreement " close at hand " on INF and seemed to expect the allies to agree . But the U.S. , historically the alliance leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons . " This is really their decision , " a U.S. official explained . The allies are more and more worried about possible consequences for overall security . This time , the administration is challenging them to decide their interests without the excuse of U.S. domination . Gorbachev had given them much to think about . There was no surprise in the centerpiece of his package : A treaty to withdraw from Europe all INF weapons with a range of 600 to 3,000 miles ? U.S. Pershing 2 rockets and cruise missiles on one side and Soviet SS-20 missiles on the other . Rough terms , leaving each side 100 missiles on its own territory , were agreed on at the summit last October . What remains to be resolved are mainly details for guarding against cheating . That still could prevent agreement , depending on how much inspection each side will tolerate . Gorbachev 's second offer was new to negotiations , though some Westerners had expected it . Within a year of an INF deal , he said , the Soviet Union would withdraw from Europe its 130 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for which the West has no counterpart . But what sounded like a concession in fact would leave Soviet superiority in still smaller nuclear weapons as well as non-nuclear forces . Rather than eliminate the shortrange weapons , NATO wants to reduce the permitted number and build to the agreed level to preserve a European nuclear deterrent . Without it , NATO 's historic strategy of flexible response ? the choice of going nuclear against a conventional Soviet attack ? would diminish . No one took seriously Gorbachev 's proposal to negotiate away tactical nuclear warheads . Verification would be impossible in any foreseeable political climate . Perhaps even greater than raw fear of Soviet power is a parallel NATO Come to Washington , says Shultz , handing over an invitation from the President . Only if we can agree on arms control , Gorbachev replies concern : That reduction of nuclear arms would " decouple " the U.S. from the alliance , leaving it secure behind its wall of long-range missiles and bombers . No one claims to know the danger point . The U.S. denies it could happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to NATO in Europe . But bills pending in Congress would bring some home , as Europeans point out with passion . Those strains may explain the cautious responses in Brussels to Shultz 's report . The allies , the Secretary claimed , had given a " universal welcome " to the results from Moscow . Not so , said Canada 's Joe Clark : " There were obvious differences . Not just between the U.S. and Europe , but between Europe and Europe . " West Germany 's Foreign Minister , HansDietrich Genscher , cautioned that Gorbachev 's proposals would " have enormous impact on the security situation . " Britain 's Sir Geoffrey Howe fretted that " the apparent swiftness of the Soviet hand could deceive the Western eye . " The allies may indeed often resist U.S. domination . West Germany , for one , has opened its own campaign for improved relations with Moscow . But none wants the U.S. to leave Europe . Congress , too , has considerable sorting out ahead . Many conservatives , distrustful of Shultz , opposed his going to Moscow at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Embassy was more than they could stomach . Republican reaction to any treaty , therefore , may be divided . Neither are Democrats of a single mind . House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas saw " our best opportunity since World War II to make real peace . " But Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin , chairman of the Armed Services Committee , has warned that INF withdrawal would be a " politically unstable outcome " for European allies . His Senate counterpart , Sam Nunn of Georgia , argued that Soviet non-nuclear and chemical weapons ought to be reduced along with mediumrange missiles . Nunn 's influence could be fatal to any treaty he disapproved . The varied reactions demanded great care as Reagan moves ahead . But whatever comes of the maneuvering , Gorbachev had demonstrated once again that he is a formidable , confident adversary , aiming to enhance Soviet power , at home in a public-relations war on Western terms . His self-confidence at times bordered on arrogance . " What are you afraid of ? " he taunted , as Shultz reacted cautiously to his proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he demanded a treaty to justify a trip to Washington : " When I near retirement , I may travel just for pleasure . But now , I need business . " Who needs a deal more ? Gorbachev apparently believes that Reagan is eager for a deal and is more likely to make the decisive concession . At least , he conveyed that impression masterfully . Popular wisdom says both need a deal , Reagan to crown a foreignpolicy record tainted by the Iran-Contra scandal , Gorbachev to prove himself as a world leader . In fact , neither has yet made the sort of commitment that answers the question as to whose need is greater . But the more time passes , the greater the risk for Gorbachev that the West 's agonizing may react against him . So far , NATO allies are grappling with immediate issues . Will an INF deal alone erode the alliance dangerously ? The answer is almost certain to be no . That obviously is Reagan 's conviction . After all , INF weapons were deployed under a 1979 decision in response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one line of reasoning goes , removal of these missiles would simply restore the balance of eight years ago . But Moscow installed shorter-range missiles in the meantime ? a new dimension . Why not simply let them be withdrawn , as Gorbachev pledges ? The alliance says no ? so far . Its claim to match , or the right to match , these weapons is mainly political . Many Europeans now see them as cement for an alliance that did not need such assurance in 1979 . The internal dynamics of NATO have changed greatly since . The once great powers , Britain , France and Germany , have begun to assert themselves politically even as they become more dependent on U.S. nuclear defense . The alliance has become looser , its members more resistant to American tutelage . Now either of two paradoxes seems possible . Gorbachev 's campaign could become the warning that drives NATO allies back toward the U.S. ? the very opposite of his intent . Or it could entice the U.S. to force NATO action against the better judgment of its allies , suiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculation . But it is not early for the inevitable question of whether any treaty that emerges from Shultz 's trip will be driven by short-term political considerations as much as long-term strategic ones . Follow-up negotiations in Geneva this week will only begin to provide the answer .                     