@@330761

In a private session with journalists last week , French President Francois Mitterrand described it as " criminal and absurd . . . and stupid . " Indeed , whoever blew up and sank the Rainbow Warrior , flagship of the Greenpeace environmental organization , in New Zealand 's Auckland harbor last July did not do France or its President any favor . As the usually pro-Mitterrand Paris daily Le Monde and other papers zeroed in on the culpability of the government in the mysterious act of sabotage , the President could no longer remain aloof from what was rapidly becoming one of France 's worst political crises in the four years since the Socialist Party swept to power . <P> Members of an aroused conservative opposition quickly dubbed the affair " Underwatergate . " They accused Mitterrand either of conducting a deceitful cover-up or of ignorance of his own government 's secret-service operations . With crucial legislative elections only six months away , the President could not afford to see his moral authority jeopardized in the eyes of an electorate already largely disenchanted with Socialist leadership . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense Minister , + Charles Hernu , resigned , a tacit admission of French wrongdoing in the affair . Paul Quiles , a Mitterrand loyalist who had been Minister of Town Planning , Housing and Transport , was quickly named to replace him . In addition , Vice Admiral Pierre Lacoste , head of the French foreign espionage agency , was summarily sacked after he refused to answer pointed questions about secret- service missions to New Zealand . <P> The crisis was a bruising political setback for Mitterrand . And Hernu was a special loss . The 62-year-old former magistrate is a longtime confidant of the President 's . Hernu almost single-handedly persuaded the Socialist Party in 1976 to support the French nuclear force de frappe , which it had officially opposed for six years . The Defense Minister personified the promilitary , antipacifist and Western-oriented thinking of the Mitterrand regime . He was also highly popular with France 's armed forces . One opposition leader admitted that Hernu was " the only Socialist minister who should be kept in a new administration . " <P> Warning signals of presidential wrath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At his weekly Cabinet meeting , Mitterrand asked questions about the Greenpeace affair and furiously turned to Hernu , whose responsibilities included overseeing the secret services . " I want to know , " said Mitterrand . " I want to know . " Next day the President sent a letter to Premier Laurent Fabius noting that French newspapers and magazines were uncovering " new elements that we can not evaluate because of the absence of information from the appropriate services . " It was a strange plea . Mitterrand was , in effect , asking his own government to supply information the press had already published . He ended the letter with a demand for action . " This situation can not continue , " wrote Mitterrand . " The moment has come to proceed without delay to changes of personnel and , if necessary , of structures responsible for these shortcomings . "                     