@@329376

Flying high above the verdant Amazon jungle , TIME correspondent Eugene Linden experienced a kind of epiphany . " I had thoughts oddly similar to those I had when I flew in a small plane across the Arctic  --  a sense of reassurance that the world still contained places so immense and so empty of people , " recalls Linden , who wrote this week 's cover story . " But while the emptiness of the Arctic is austere , the forest canopy that seems to extend into infinity is choked with life . " <P> Linden has explored the complex and sometimes tragic relationships between humans and nature in several books , including Silent Partners , which considers the implications of language experiments with apes . For this week 's article Linden spent ten days crisscrossing the region by air , water and land to assess the Amazon 's chances for survival . Says Linden : " The question is whether the concern everyone now has about the environment will translate into meaningful action . " <P> Washington correspondent Dick Thompson pursued that question by joining a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our jungle team , Rio de Janeiro bureau chief Laura Lopez and reporter John Maier , made its own treks through the region . Maier was struck by how virtually everyone in the region , politician and peasant alike , knew that the Amazon was the subject of intense international debate . In speaking with one poor farmer near the Peruvian border , Maier reports , " As soon as I began asking questions , the farmer said to me , ' Whose side are you on , the environmentalists ' or ours ? ' " That question , Maier knew , has no simple answer . <P> This week Massacre in Beijing : China 's Struggle for Democracy ( $5.95 ) will go on sale . Overseen by special projects editor Donald Morrison , the paperback includes eyewitness accounts and analysis of the events in Tiananmen Square from Beijing bureau chief Sandra Burton , correspondents David Aikman and Richard Hornik and reporter Jaime FlorCruz.                     