@@494965

The relationship between Walter Benjamin and Gershorn Scholem is surely one of the extraordinary intellectual friendships of the 20th century . It is not only that each ? Benjamin as critic , Scholem as historian ? was an innovative thinker of the first order , transforming the intellectual horizons of his field , or that they wrestled for 25 years over intellectual and spiritual issues that still seem urgent . It is also that , on a human level , the moral fiber of their friendship proved so tough and so resilient despite their drastically divergent paths . and despite the most soul-trying historical circumstances . To the end , they continued to share the intellectual passions of their student years . They never hesitated to challenge one another , even when the difference between them was painful , as when Benjamin dismayed Scholem by moving , however ambiguously , from a metaphysical to a Marxist perspective . They never ceased to make the highest demands of each other , because they always had the highest expectations of each other 's gifts . Whatever their differences of viewpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the person and a generously affectionate admiration for his mind . Scholem and Benjamin met in their native Berlin in the summer of 1915 , when Scholem was 17 and Benjamin was 23 . Both were deeply involved in the ideological debates of the German student movement of those years . Both were in a process of vehement rebellion against the complacencies of their own assimilated German-Jewish bourgeois background . Each had determined to confront the world with what Scholem in his memoir of their friendship would call " radical demands . " In his case , this rebellion had already manifested itself in an uncompromising rejection of assimilation ? in the adoption of Zionism. in an immersion in Hebrew ( which he had managed to master in a scant two years ) , in the study of the Talmud and other Jewish sources . Benjamin repeatedly contemplated all three of these courses himself , at least for the next 15 years , but it was German and French culture that continued to draw him . Still , even in the most ardent moments of his never quite consummated affair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flag : indeed , it made him vaguely suspect in the eyes of the Marxists , including his friend Brecht . In the years after their first encounter , Benjamin and Scholem spent an increasing amount of time together , including an extended period in 1918-19 in Switzerland , where Benjamin was living with his wife , Dora , in domestic storms into which Scholem was inadvertently drawn . After their return to Germany they were together intermittently , and the volume of their correspondence begins to swell . The intimacy in the letters grows by slow stages . At first Scholem is addressed as " Herr Scholem , " then as " Dear Gerhard " but still with the formal Ste , and not until mid-I921 with the intimate Du . After Scholem 's immigration to Palestine in 1924 , their relationship was entirely epistolary. with the exception of two brief reunions in Paris , the first in 1927 and the second in 1938 . Two years later Benjamin ended his own life , when he thought he was being turned hack at the Spanish border in his attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondence was published in Germany in 1966 , edited by Scholem and Theodor Adorno . ( It is not yet available in English . ) From 1917 onward , the overwhelming majority of his letters are addressed to Scholem ? though one should add that the published correspondence does not entirely represent the variety of his epistolary connections , since Benjamin had other correspondents who were not so meticulous in preserving everything he sent them . Because , with only five important exceptions , Scholem did not retain copies ofthe handwritten letters he sent to Benjamin , his half of the correspondence does not appear . Benjamin was also a paper saver ( both men were passionate bibliophiles ) , but when he fled Berlin in March 1933 , the Nazi authorities seized all his papers , and none survived . His final flight . this time from Paris in 1940 , left behind another set of papers , duly confiscated by the Gestapo , which were preserved because they were accidentally stuck into the file of the Pariser Tageszenung . At the end of the war they were transferred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Republic in Potsdam . Scholem learned about the existence of these papers and in 1966 was allowed to exatnine them in the GDR archives , where he discovered all of his own letters to Benjamin from 1933 onward . He was promised photocopies , but Communist bureaucratic caprice intervened , and it was only 11 years later , around the time of his 80th birthday , that the copies were unexpectedly delivered . Thanks to that moment of relenting on the part of a faceless bureaucracy , we possess a precious set of documents of modern intellectual history . The German edition of the correspondence , edited by Scholem , appeared in 1980 , two years before his death . Now we have the letters in a generally competent English version . It is a hook that combines brilliant philosophic and cultural speculation and argumentation with the poignancy of autobiography , holding up a mirror to dark times . T he early phase of the correspondence , before Scholem 's emigration , often has the quality ( even in its one-sided form ) of an untiring after-class continuation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , obviously responding to a series of proposals in what must have been equally voluminous letters from Scholem , pursues definitions and distinctions in an effort to understand Kant 's theory of knowledge . cubism and the status of representation in painting , Franz Rosenzweig 's theology , the nature of language , and much else . There is a certain brash confidence in Benjamin 's early letters that was no doubt shared by Scholem : the two were clearly impatient with the superficiality of most of their teachers and contemporaries , acting almost as though they were the only two good minds in the neighborhood . ( Their youthful extravagance had a good degree of . justification . ) The two-way correspondence spanning the years 1932-40 shows both men in a sober and sometimes somber spirit . This shift was equally a consequence of what was happening in the world and of their stage of life . ' Me Germans ' that had intellectually nurtured them had been taken over by the forces of barbarism . Benjamin was in exile in France , eking out a living from free-lance journalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Institute for Social Research . which had migrated from Frankfurt to New York . Sometimes he was so poor that he could barely afford stationery on which to write his letters . Because of his poverty and his persistent marginality , he contemplated the possibility of suicide as early as 1931 : with the advent of Hitler . he brooded over the prospect of a new world war in which . perhaps by means of poison gas . humanity would be annihilated . Scholem , whose beeline from Berlin to Jerusalem " ( the title of his memoir ) stood in contrast to Benja-min 's vocational zigzags , was secure enough professionally and economically in a professorship of Jewish mysticism at the Hebrew University . which was Founded the year after his arrival in Palestine . But the Zionist community there was profoundly shaken by the sustained waves of murderous Arab attacks against it that began in 1936 . Scholem wanted to cling to the idea of a binational Jewish-Arab state , but it became increasingly clear to him that there would be no peaceful solution to the conflict of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped for in the way offewish spiritual renewal seemed to he frustrated by the internal divisions , the shortsightedness , the extremism , and the strident politicking within the Zionist movement , at the very moment that Europeaniewry was being isolated and ominous's. threatened . If Benjamin was an ardent devotee of European culture utterly despairing of its future . Scholem , at least on some days , was no less despairing of the finure of Zionism . Thus , just two months before the outbreak of World War II . he writes Benjamin from Jerusalem that the experience of the last six years leaves no grounds for hope that revolution will solve mankind 's problems . " The workers ' movement as a revolutionary political factor is deader than a dead dog , there is no point in upholding any illusions on this point . " So much for Benjamin 's political pieties ( which he had finally renounced with a sense of relief after the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact , according to those close to him at the " me ) . As for Scholem 's own pieties : The future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not pretend to he invisihle ? inactive and asleep ? as others may ( perhaps ) try to do , because it will no longer have the bodily basis of an existence which is still at the disposal of the vanquished socialists . We are n't able to make alliances any longer , since there is no one left who might be interested in doing so . We must not give up on this generation . and since nothing could replace Palestine in its function for Judaism but empty phrases evocative of nothing , how should I conceive of the years to come ? In this darkness I only know how to he silent . The letters of Benjamin and Scholem are written out of a loneliness stoically sustained ? not quite isolation , but the solitariness of genius pursuing its own way against the grain of the times , making " radical demands " that political realits. would not meet . In 1930-31. after Benjamin finally renounced his long-deferred scheme of learning Hebrew and coming to Palestine , Scholem wrote three remarkable letters to his friend , of which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( It is a pity that the whole exchange was not added to this English edition of the correspondence from 1932 onward . ) In the last of these , dated May 6 , 1931 . Scholem shrewdly observes , " You are endangered more by your desire for community , even if it be the apocalyptic community of the revolution , than by the horror of loneliness that speaks from so many of your writings . " Scholem had sought to discover community in his personal return to Zion . Professionally , the endeavor was clearly successful , and by the late 1930s he can say to Benjamin with pride , and with ample justification , that a " school of Scholem " has gathered round him in Jerusalem . Politically and spiritually he remained , despite a few like-minded friends , almost as much of a queer duck among the Zionists as Benjamin in the 1930s was among the Marxists . w hat both had for compensation ? if one can speak in such cases of compensation ? was a burning sense of intellectual vocation , which held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community of their contemporaries . Benjamin turned 40 in 1932 , Scholem reached that age in 1937 ; and their letters in these years are marked by the feeling that the time had come in both their lives to produce the masterworks of which they knew themselves capable . Since the early 1920s Scholem had been doing the spadework for the modern scholarly investigation of Jewish mysticism , through a series of close textual studies and specialized monographs . Now , he told Benjamin on June 28 , 1935 , he was prepared to undertake a " fairly voluminous ... stocktaking " of these 15 years of labor . " There 'll be no lack of amazing and very amazing things , " he wrote jauntily. " and the historical observer is guaranteed to get his money 's worth . " Six years later , through the unexpected mediation of the series of lectures he had been invited to present in New York in 1938 , the stocktaking appeared as Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism one of the great modern works of the historical imagination . It was dedicated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter that announced the project that became Major Trends , Benjamin offered Scholem a tantalizing prospectus of the book he first called Passagen ( " Parisian Arcades " ) and then Pans , Capital of the Nineteenth Century : " The work represents both the philosophical application of surrealism ? and thereby its sublation Aufhebung ? as well as the attempt to retain the image of history in the most inconspicuous corners of existence ? the detritus of history , as it were . " What Benjamin meant by this gnomic formulation may perhaps be inferred from the fragments of Passagen that he actually wrote , from his essay of 1939 on Baudelaire . In that remarkable essay , the argument often proceeds through a movement of free association , like surrealist poetry . Thus , the frenetic Parisian crowd in Baudelaire 's poems carries Benjaminto the carnival mob in the paintings of James Ensor , to the brutal alliance of police and looters in totalitarian states , to the invention of the match , of snapshot photography , and of the cinema , whereby " the human sensorium lisl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of shocks . " As we are swept from Baudelaire 's poetry to the broad forces and the odd minutiae of modern history , surrealist free association is " sublated " ? negated , heightened , and sustained ? because it is made the vehicle of a rigorous historical-philosophical analysis . The project was powerfully original . Given the harried conditions of Benjamin 's existence and the anguished oscillations of his inner life , it is not surprising that it was never realized . Unlike Scholem , Benjamin was sometimes troubled by doubts about whether he would ever have an audience , whether there was any point in writing . " What will we leave behind someday . " he observes gloomily toward the end , on February 4 , 1939 , " other than our own writings with their uncut pages ? " But at the beginning of his last letter to Scholem , written from Occupied France on January II , 1940 , he urges his friend to publish his New York lectures as soon as possible : " Every line we succeed in publishing today ? no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is a victory wrenched from the powers of darkness . " The exhortation is no empty rhetorical gesture . Writing like theirs was an unflinching effort to grasp the complex dialectical nature ( a favored term of Scholem , sans materialism ) of historical reality , to define the wonderful architectonic structures that man 's imagination erects over , against , or upon the abyss of mortality and the dissolution of value that underlies human existence . At a moment when the simplifications of totalitarian ideology had displaced historical realities with schematic lies used as the warrant for a program of annihilation , the intellectual enterprises of Scholem and Benjamin were an act of cultural resistance , the delicate sustaining of precisely the legacy that totalitarianism hoped to wipe out forever . T here was one modern writer . arguably the greatest of the 20th-century architects of the abyss , who spoke profoundly to the spiritual condition shared by Benjamin and Scholem . A decade older than either of them , Franz Kafka was the lonely pioneer of a whole generation of modernist intellectuals , at least in the German-speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also marked the crucial point of intersection of Scholem 's and Benjamin 's interests . A rigorously iconoclastic modernist in the medium of fiction , Kafka embodied the new poetics of disjuncture , discontinuity. and purposeful perplexity that fascinated Benjamin . A writer hyperconscious of the categories of a Jewish tradition that had lost its authority , Kafka exposed both the power and the atrophy of tradition and theological authority that preoccupied Scholem and Benjamin . Scholem was strongly inclined to see Kafka , moreover , as a latter-day kabbalist , exhibiting deep kinship with some of the esoteric figures he had studied as a historian ; he broached the notion to Benjamin and spelled it out much later in his " Ten Unhistorical Theses on the Kahbalah . " Benjamin and Scholem express their avid admiration for Kafka in their correspondence as early as the late 1920s , when it was difficult to locate any of his works in the bookstores . In the correspondence from 1933 onward , they constantly return to the subject of Kafka . The illuminating comments on both sides are climaxed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York on June 12 , 1938 . One of his most arresting contributions to the criticism of modern literature , he hoped Scholem would show it to the publisher Salman Schocken and help him get a generous contract for a book ; but it also remains an intimate communication to a friend about a topic that mattered deeply to both of them . T he discussions of Kafka in the correspondence are accompanied by the shadowy presence . occasionally evoked explicitly , of a kind of literary twin whose contours may not be clear to the ordinary Western reader . Scholem had become friendly with S. Y Agnon. the writer who was to become the one major Hebrew modernist , in the course of Agnon 's extended stay in Germany during and after World War 1 . They both made the move to Jerusalem around the same time , and remained lifelong friends . Benjamin met Agnon through Scholem in 1920 and became a keen admirer . Reading Agnon 's stories in German translations ( a few of them done by Scholem ) , he was convinced . that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and looked forward eagerly to every scrap of his work that became available in German . some understanding of the subterranean connections Benjamin and Scholem intuited between the two writers may throw light on the evolving perception they shared of Kafka as the post-traditional Jewish writer who mapped out , above all others , the spiritual territory of the modern condition . Benjamin and Scholem shared the perception that there was a deep , imaginative kinship between Agnon and Kafka . Scholem , in a brief observation in the jiiduche Rundschau in 1928 , had broached the idea that Agnon 's fiction worked out a revision of Kafka 's Trial : both drew an apocalyptic sense of reality from their powerful realization of a child 's vision , but Agnon 's fiction managed to hold out a possibility of redemption . In conversation , at least half-seriously , the two friends raised the possibility of Benjamin 's writing a comparative essay on Agnon and Kafka . On January 18 , 1934 . Benjamin appears to propose ( at any rate , according to Scholem 's construal of this sentence ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displays mastery in every piece , and if I had become ' a teacher in Israel ' ? but I could have just as easily become an ant lion ? I would not have been able to refrain from a lecture on Agnon and Kafka . " I n Hebrew criticism after the 1950s , comparisons between Agnon and Kafka became commonplace . At least on the surface , however , Kafka and the early Agnon look like polar opposites . Agnon was the product of a highly literate Orthodox home in a middle-sized Galician town . The keen interest that he later developed in German and European culture , which he generally camouflaged in his fiction , was always that of the autodidact and the outsider . He wrote in a flagrantly archaizing Hebrew , steeped in the associations and values of three millennia of tradition . worlds away from the limpid German deliberately sealed off from the historical resonances of the language that Kafka fashioned for his fiction . Most crucially . the bulk of Agnon 's fic-tion in his first quarter century as a writer ( his earliest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performances of the voices of Jewish tradition ? tales of Torah scribes , yeshiva students , unworldly pious talmudists , craftsmen of synagogue art , suffused with intricate lore of a vanishing world of faith . These artful redeployments of traditional storytelling show no obvious Family resemblance to " The Judgment . " The Trial . " The Metamorphosis , " " In the Penal Colony . " Agnon had also written some stories and novellas of a Flaubertian cast , enacted in modern settings , and in 1935 he Published his psychological masterpiece . 4 Simple Sim , but these were not available to Benjamin in translation . And at the very moment that Benjamin was writing Scholem about the temptation to produce an essay on Agnon and Kafka , the Hebrew writer had in fact begun to publish a series of disjunct , dreamlike , " Kafkaesque " stories ( he always vehemently denied any influence ) that he later put together as The Book of Deeds , but Benjamin probably did not know of their existence . In the letter of January 18 , 1934 , Benjamin is gratefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German translation that Scholem had sent him . He singles out one piece in particular : " I have yet to find anything more beautiful in his works than ' The Great Synagogue . ' which I regard as a tremendous masterpiece . " At first glance , it is puzzling that this two-and-a-half-page tale ( never translated into English ) of the discovery of a buried synagogue by playing schoolchildren should have made such a profound impression on the critic who celebrated the modernist tensions of Kafka , Proust , Brecht , and the Surrealists . But the complications in its seemingly naive recuperation of the harmonies of pious tradition may tell us something about the Kafka whom Benjamin defined as a creator of an . ' lggadah ( lore ) without a Halakhah ( law ) , and whom Scholem characterized as the proponent of a secular , heretical kahbalah . T he bare plot outline of " The Great Synagogue " suggests a simple , perhaps nostalgic parable of the recovery of the spiritual glories of the past ? a shimmering dream , it should be noted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an allure for Benjamin , even at the height of his Marxist phase . The children , digging on a mountainside where they are playing a messianic game of pretending to rebuild the ancient Temple , discover shingles buried in the soil . It soon becomes clear that there is a whole roof just below the surface of the ground . The community undertakes a major excavation , and when it is completed . the Great Synagogue of the town ofJaslowitz stands revealed in all its antique splendor ? a structure whose very existence had been no more than a bare inference from certain geographical indications in old Hebrew responsa . This resurgence of the pious past is accompanied by a miraculous event . When the whole building is unearthed , the door is found to be locked , and no locksmith 's tool can budge it . Then a voice is heard from within chanting , " How goodly are thy tents , 0 Jacob , " the first words of the morning service , and the portal swings open . Benjamin must have admired the understated beauty with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspect he was also impressed by other , countervailing lines of force in the story . The schoolchildren are clearly not a realistic representation of Galician heder kids , but a flagrantly fanciful ideal projection . The games they play are straight out of the Bible and the Mishnah ; they undertake their rebuilding of the Temple the day after the fast of Tisha B'Av that commemorates the Temple 's destruction , singing . as they dabble in the mud , the Passover hymn that begins , " The Almighty will soon rebuild his house . " The Great Synagogue itself , moreover , is confused in the story with two antithetical structures . When only the roof has been uncovered , people think it may be the castle in which a local lord is said to have shut up all his wife 's lovers , leaving them to perish by asphyxiation . Then , as stained-glass windows are revealed , the building is thought to be an old church , and the Jews are temporarily banished from the excavation . Thus , before the full emergence of the house of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murder , promiscuity , and an alien cult ( the three cardinal crimes in rabbinic law ) . Finally , the Great Synagogue . freed from its casement of earth , is seen resplendent as in days of yore : " And as the August sun shone on the stained-glass windows , everyone was suffused with their light . Ancient days ? ancient sanctuaries . " B ut the final note of the tale marks Agnon 's perspective as a contemporary of Benjamin , and of Kafka . The old ark and its Torah scrolls have been perfectly preserved : " And twin carved doves spread their wings , the wings of the dove covered with silver , and a great prayer book was set on the lectern , a prayer book written in lovely script on deerskin . Everything was in its place , intact . Only the Eternal Light was on the point of going out . " The laconic , artful ambiguity of the last sentence is quintessential Agnon . Another miracle , the Eternal Light has continued burning underground through the years . The term used for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sun ; and so this final image oddly undercuts the previous image of the synagogue refulgent with sunlight . ( There is probably a biblical resonance ; the " lamp of God " has " not yet gone out " when young Samuel is called in the night by God in I Samuel 3 . ) An optimistic reader might infer that the Great Synagogue has been recovered just in time to replenish the Eternal Light before it gutters . Another inference , perhaps more likely , is that the Eternal Light is itself about to go out : the wondrous renewal of the past presents a soul-stirring spectacle , but it comes too late in thehistory of faith and culture . The return can no longer take place . " The Great Synagogue , " like most of the ostensibly traditionalist stories of the early Agnon , reveals not a reversal of the process of judgment in Kafka , as Scholem contended in 1928 , but its inexorable working out in the guise of tradition . To put this a little differently , in Agnon the theological enchantment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time that it is ironically subverted from within . Kafka 's case is the obverse . His gray fictional landscapes of pathetic animals and petty bureaucrats have been ruthlessly shorn of all the outward trappings of tradition . but the classic Jewish triad of revelation , law , and commandment virtually defines his imaginative world , whose protagonists can not do without these categories and yet can not understand them , tolerate them , live by them . 0 ver the years , despite vehement differences on particular issues of definition , this is a perception about Kafka that Benjamin and Scholem shared , grasping the full range of its implications , I think , better than any other of Kafka 's critics . They disagreed strenuously , for example , about whether revelation was absent from Kafka 's world , as Benjamin had intimated in his 1934 essay on Kafka . or whether it was present but impossible to fulfill , as Scholem , recalling the more nihilistic manifestations of the Kabbalah , argued in his letter of July 17 , 1934 . What is remarkable about these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year of their correspondence , is that the two men , even in partial difference , are able to carry out a process of collaborative thinking . the perspectives of Benjamin , the metaphysician without a tradition , and of Scholem , the historian of a mystical countertradit ion , beautifully complementing each other . The first extended communication between the two on Kafka is a letter that Scholem wrote , in response to an invitation from Benjamin to share his ideas on the author of The Thal. on August I. 1931 . ( The letter does not appear in the published correspondence , but it was preserved among Benjamin 's notes on Kafka , and Scholem reproduces it in Walter Benjamin : The Story of a Friendship . ) Both friends had a tendency to think about Kafka in metaphysically weighted aphorisms . In this initial document , Scholem worries away at what he calls " the theological secret of perfect prose " in Kafka . The perfection of prose is , I believe , an important dimension of the affinity between Kafka and Agnon , though they went about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a classical Hebrew redolent of the foundational texts of the early rabbis . Both writers , interestingly , were inspired by the exacting standards of the prose of Flaubert . Still , the effect that both achieved was very different from that of ' the French writer . In Flaubert 's novels , the painstakingly wrought prose is the supreme expression of a purely aesthetic impulse . the magisterial mark of the artificer on his verbal artifice . In Kafka , and in Agnon , as Scholem recognized in his 1931 letter , the perfect prose is an assertion of the voice of authoritative tradition in a world that offers no purchase for such authority : " Kafka 's linguistic world , .. ? with its affinity to the Last Judgment . probably represents the prosaic in its most canonical form . " Two years later , in a poem on Benjamin 's autobiographical One-Way Street , Scholem reflected : " In the old days all roads led /To God and his name , somehow . / We are not pious . I 4Vir sind niche fronim . I /We remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now stands : Melancholy . " For both of them , Kafka was the writer who gazed unblinking into the heart of this melancholy , but at the same time could not help seeing the ghostly lineaments of the landscape of the old days . B enjamin , for his part , picks up the notion of " the prosaic in its most canonical form " and links it with the specific narrative and exegetical literary firms of religious tradition . " It is in the attempt to metamorphize life into Scripture that I perceive the meaning of ' reversal ' I Unikehrl , which so many of Kafka 's parables endeavor to bring about " ( August IL 1934 ) . He elaborates the implications of this insight about the ambiguous weight of tradition in Kafka 's work four years later in the essay-letter : " Kafka eavesdropped on tradition , and he who listens hard does not see . " The image is brilliantly chosen , not only because it conveys so effectively Kafka 's relation to tradition , but also because to fact many of Kafka 's protagonists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and crevices to cull a garbled and imperfect version of things that perhaps are not even being said . In all this , Benjamin goes on to say , the , , " consistency of truth ... has been lost . Other modern imaginations have come to the same sad recognition , but their typical response , according to Benjamin , has been to cling to some fragment of what they want to regard as truth , regretfully conceding that it may no longer have the coherence or authority to make it transmissible . Kafka 's project was more radical . " Kafka 's real genius was that he tried something entirely new : he sacrificed truth for the sake of clinging to transmissibility , to its aggadic element . " This central notion opens several main corridors in the haunted house of fiction that Kafka built : the sense floating through the stories , parables . and novels of a " rumor about the true things ( a sort of theology passed on by whispers ) " ; the pervasiveness of folly oddly conjoined with what sometimes look like angelic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of the narratives ; the paradox of Kafka 's " radiant serenity " in shaping a fictional world that often seems to invite madness or despair . T he great letter of June 1938 was a crystallization of what the two men had been thinking together about Kafka over the previous seven years , but it was not the end of the discussion . Scholem , as we have seen , was not entirely happy with all of Benjamin 's emphases , though he encouraged him , in November 1938 , to develop his most important insight : " If you were to succeed in representing the borderline case of wisdom , which Kafka does indeed represent . as the crisis of the sheer transmissibility of the truth , you would have achieved something absolutely magnificent . " A few months later , in February 1939 , Benjamin is turning over a new idea ? that humor is the ultimate secret of Kafka 's tradition-obsessed modernist fiction . He is inclined to put this as a challenge to his friend , just as Scholem had proposed a challenge to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is likely to fall into the hands of the person who is able to extract the comic aspects of Jewish theology . Has there been such a man ? Or would you he man enough to be that man ? " ( emphasis Benjamin 's ) . While this long conversation on Kafka continues , the world is going to pieces . though only occasionally do they talk about it directly in their letters . Behind their discussions loom the Arab uprising , the British Mandate 's closing down of . Jewish immigration to Palestine , the inauguration of the concentration camp universe ( to which both Scholem 's brother and Benjamin 's were taken soon after Hitler came to power ) , Kristall- , nacht . and finally , the beginning of the tong-dreaded war . Against this grim background , the Kafka exchange epitomizes what is most humanly impressive about this correspondence . fliese friends were not scraping on a private fiddle as Rome , Jerusalem , Paris , and Berlin threaten to burn . Much is at stake for them in trying to make sense of Kafka . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the nature of totalitarianism , as their mutual friend Hannah Arendt was to he , but both saw the new century as an era in which the old sustaining structures of belief , value , and community had been shattered . Benjamin traced this process back to the twin implosive forces of industrialization and urbanization in the 19th century ; Scholem , following the internal lines of Jewish history , saw a great paradigm for the disruptive transition to modernity in the messianic upheavals of the 17th century and their radically antinomian aftermath . Neither man could conceive of humanity making its way through the wilderness of existence without the guide of a metaphysical compass . for each assumed that what made us human was our capacity to live in a community that shared wisdom , conscious of our relation to ultimate realities . Kafka 's authority for them , then , was paradoxical , and it lay in his ability to embrace without flinching the contradictions of this whole painful historical dislocation . He refuses to sever himself from the world of origins anchored in belief , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Kafka re-enacts the gestures of tradition , transmogrified , in a kind of perverse reverence , without either spoofing tradition or being piously sentimental about it . From the center of dread he plucks the possibility of humor ; and as Benjamin intimated just before the end , hoping Scholem would see some analogue in the esoteric annals of Jewish mysticism , humor might vet become the fun-house mirror in which to glimpse one of the elusive faces of God . Perhaps Kafka himself , as he suggested more than once in his diaries and his letters , was trying to achieve more than a human imagination could . Benjamin and Scholem , with their extraordinary minds , strained to catch the spiritual aim of Kafka 's trying . It still seems urgent enough a task to have undertaken as the world trembled beneath the shadow of destruction .                     