@@432337

 | Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg is an original : a prodigiously talented young violinist who lights up music from the inside and calls her profession " showbiz . " Enraptured critics have likened her to Itzhak Perlman , Cyndi Lauper and Dave Winfield ; frequent appearances on " The Tonight Show " and a " 60 Minutes " profile have brought her huge audiences all over the country . On the street or racing through airports , she gets the sort of recognition classical artists rarely encounter , but among music lovers she 's best known for her dazzling technique and daring interpretations . Conductor Michael Tilson Thomas says simply , " She is the music . " Last week , after illness prevented flutist Jean-Pierre Rampal from performing at the opening of New York 's Mostly Mozart Festival , it was Salerno-Sonnenberg , 26 , who stepped in . Her schedule was typical Df her life these days : she interrupted a Chicago engagement and flew to New York , where she spent hours practicing the Schumann quintet she would play in Chicago . Later she rehearsed Bach 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , practiced the Schumann some more and watched the Yankees on a tiny TV In her dressing room as she put on her makeup . Then she strode onstage in a black lump suit and four earrings to give an electrifying performance of the Bach . Audiences like her unconventional appearance ; they respond even more to the sometimes harrowing sense of adventure she brings to music . She plays extravagantly , even flamboyantly , but it 's never her ego on display : every moment is designed to let the music speak more vividly . Biting her lip , scrunching up her face , rocking and pulsing , she reacts with unabashed physicality to the orchestra and to her own playing . Some concertgoers have criticized her intense and visible involvement ; they prefer their music disembodied , ethereal . But for Salerno-Sonnenberg , classical music , no less than rock , is an art with guts and soul and body . Media favorite : Born in Rome but raised in New Jersey , Salerno-Sonnenberg is genial and unpretentious . She has a passion for baseball and a roster of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traits that have made her a media favorite . " I 'm not too thrilled with people thinking I do things like The Tonight Show ' for myself , " she says . " But if I represent classical music , and people are coming to hear me play because they saw me on TV , I feel very good about that . " Salerno-Sonnenberg calls herself an entertainer as well as an artist ; although purists might dislike the combination , she 's inspired by what she sees in Liza Minnelli , Maya Plisetskaya and other stars . " There are times when I become so overworked that the music itself is not an attraction anymore , and I think , ' Is this all there is ? ' " she says . " Then I watch a tape of Judy Garland singing Over the Rainbow , ' or Plisetskaya dancing . Great artists like that , from the soul . It renews me. "                     