@@487708

Judge Anthony Kennedy , the Supreme Court nominee du jour , is , according to Senator Joseph Biden , in the " conservative mainstream . " The New York Times headlined him as a " Conservative Who Has an Open Mind . " Both Republicans and Democrats predict that he will be " easily confirmed . " According to Audrey Feinberg , an attorney who testified before the Judiciary Committee on behalf of Supreme Court Watch , a project of The Nation Institute , Judge Kennedy 's decisions in the civil rights and civil liberties area " raise serious concerns about his commitment to protecting constitutional rights , particularly his discrimination decisions , which reveal insensitivity to women and minorities . " Feinberg pointed out that Judge Kennedy had joined a dissent to a decision denying an airline the right to impose weight requirements on female flight attendants based on a presumed passenger preference for slender women . He joined in an opinion , since vacated by the Supreme Court at the request of the Solicitor General , upholding the firing of a homosexual from his Federal job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has rejected employees ' claims of comparable worth , decided against Mexican-Americans who charged that their city 's at-large council elections abridged their voting rights and denied judicial access to an organization that opposed racial discrimination in housing . Where is it written that during a Republican President 's last year in office , when the High Court is divided 4 to 4 on key civil rights and civil liberties issues , a Democratic Senate ( elected in 1986 ) should grant a presumption in favor of confirming a nominee who , by common consent , will probably tip the balance to the conservative side ? Is this the way to discharge the duty to advise and consent ? JACKSON AND THE LEFT IS JESSE THE GREAT WHITE HOPE ? ANDREW KOPKIND As campaign flaps go this year , Jesse Jackson 's twenty-four-hour misunderstanding with white social democrats last month should rate only an asterisk to a footnote in a scandal-ridden season . - No questions of adultery , bastardy , plagiarism , homosexuality , misappropriation of funds , drug abuse or dirty tricks were raised . In fact , the fuss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is curious because it was a media-generated story . What happened , for the record , is that New York Times reporter Michael Oreskes wrote a story , buried deep in the bowels of the paper , that asserted- that Jackson had asked the Democratic Socialists of America  --  identified by Oreskes as " the nation 's leading Socialist organization " ? to withhold its expected endorsement of his candidacy on the eve of D.S.A. 's national convention . Oreskes , a solid city-side reporter who had recently co-written an unsettling pop psychology profile of Jackson in the Sunday New York Times Magazine , never quoted Jackson about D.S.A. but made the most of a conversation with the campaign 's new manager , Gerald Austin . " We want everybody 's help , but we do n't need- everybody endorsing ; " Austin remarked via Oreskes . Appended to the endorsement story ( " Jack-son to Shun Socialist Backing " ) was Oreskes 's short list of Jackson 's betrayals of the left : ( 1 ) Jackson recently refused to repeat a remark he had made at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Puerto Rico with the black struggle against apartheid in South Africa ; ( 2 ) he did not promise immediate deflagging of Kuwaiti tankers ( Continued on Page 790 ) over from the stock market into the banking system , is not needed . ) The principle of firebreaks should be extended to include new legislation prohibiting securities firms from trading in futures markets . It is also time to reconsider the very existence of financial futures , in view of the fact that these are fictions far removed from the basic purpose of a futures market . At a minimum , financial futures must be brought under the same regulatory formulas as stock transactions . Margin requirements  --  the proportion of hard cash that any buyer must have on hand to acquire stocks or futures  --  are currently only about 7 percent on the less-regulated Chicago futures markets , compared with 50 percent on Wall Street securities markets , allowing the same kind of undercapitalized speculation that fed the late 1920s bubble . The S.E.C. should be out front in proposing uniform securities regulations and in pressing for them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " technological " profits from hair-trigger computerized trading , which permits the computer to stay a mini second ahead of the markets in different countries as they adjust to a common price for the same stock . The postwar vision of the world economy was predicated on a degree of predictability and stability in exchange rates , which would contribute to the growth in international trade by mitigating risk and uncertainty in financial transactions . For the past fifteen years the ideology of free markets and deregulation has replaced that vision with one " that celebrates the cunning of unfettered entrepreneurialism. - Arbitragers , options traders and all manner of financial speculators have been on a feeding frenzy for the past five years . If something good is to come of the financial near-implosion of the past several weeks , it will have to be a better understanding of how the process of deregulated globalism has strengthened the symbiotic relationship betw-een stagnation and speculation , and of what governmentS need to do to begin to restore investment for productive purposes . ? White Hope ( Continued From Front Cover ) in the Persian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " debate " with all presidential candidates ; ( 3 ) uhhh . . . make that two . Those items , plus the shunning of D.S.A. , led Oreskes to conclude that Jackson was now joining the mainstream ( the gist of his Times magazine piece ) . Explicit in the article was the assumption that even the first initial of ' socialism is enough to sink a politician in that water . " The S word is definitely not something most politicians want to have anything to do with , " D.S.A. organizational director Patrick La- cefield told Oreskes . Now , The New York Times is not normally in touch with leftists or the left ( the S word is also enough to disqualify a source from its pages ) , so Oreskes could not have foreseen that his story would become an instant cause c  --  l ? bre in the admittedly small but vocal community of East Coast lefties , white left-liberals and those whom Alexander Cockburn has dubbed " pwogwessives . " The telephone messages between members of that crowd that morning had the urgency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government or the assassination of a pope . Surely it ' was not that D.S.A. 's massed membership , estimated to be about 5,000 , would mean much to the Jackson drive in the long run . But D.S.A. 's seal of approval ( or its veto ) has an effect , far greater than the size of its mailing list . Guilty liberals , closet labor radicals and various unaffiliated political activists see the organization as a legitimizer of " acceptable " leftist behavior , the kind that produces a high benefit-to-risk ratio . More than that , the possibility that Jackson was excluding an organized left-leaning group from his coalition for wholly opportunistic reasons  --  the fear of Red-baiting  --  called into question the nature of Jackson 's politics and the integrity of his project . In fact , the Oreskes story was not true , or not really true . Jackson says ( and D.S.A. leaders agree ) he first heard of his purported decision to " shun " D.S.A. when he read The Times that morning . He immediately called D.S.A. co-chair Michael Harrington and repudiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an endorsement by the organization . What was apparent between the lines of the article was confirmed as fact  --  that newcomer Gerry Austin , a Democratic insider without much feel for movement politics who had previously run campaigns for Ohio Governor Richard Celeste , had passed off his unexamined anxieties as Jackson 's position . Harrington . graciously accepted Jackson 's explanations , and D.S.A. enthusiastically endorsed the Rainbow Coalition candidate this time . A second-day story in The Times , without a byline or so much as a hint of its provenance , claimed that Jackson had " reversed " his position . The flapette had officially ended . But the larger issue of Jackson 's relations with whites on the left is unresolved and will become increasingly important as this polarized campaign intensifies . Despite what the media may think , Or some Jackson supporters will claim , Jackson has never been the automatic candidate of the progressive community . In 1984 most of the institutions that inhabit that shrunken sector of American political life declared for Walter Mondale early in the campaign . Labor leapt on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lonesome journey . The National Organization for Women supported Mondale almost a year before the ' election . D.S.A. itself remained officially neutral in the campaign , not wanting to alienate its friends in labor and feminist circles who may not have been ready for a black presidential candidate . ( Nobody on The Times ever called the S-people opportunists for that decision against Jackson . ) Some individual white radical intellectuals and labor and community organizers saw Jackson as a great white hope and joined his campaign . Imagine their chagrin when they discovered that he was a hope of a different color . Just such a one was Mary Summers , a Jackson speechwriter in 1984 who failed to interest the campaign in many of the items on her left agenda , suffered an inevitable burnout and turned this year to the opposition , charging ( in a Nation review/ essay , " The Front-Runner , " November 28 ) that Jackson was not only incorrect but insensitive on matters of class , sexism , racism and anti-Semitism ; that he betrayed principles for political advantage and took credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to fill in his ringing rhetoric with concrete prescriptions for change . Already Summers 's article has become a rallying point for pwogs who have never cottoned to Jackson but could not give a coherent reason for shunning the political movement he leads . But one of the wonders of the presidential campaign this time around is the richness and excitement of political debate , and the Summers thesis is not going unchallenged . More amazing than Gerry Austin 's dumb bungle of the D.S.A. endorsement is D.S.A. 's virtually unanimous endorsement itself . Labor is not exactly flocking to Jackson en masse , but he is miles ahead of his previous effort with both union leadership and the rank and file . Ditto with farmers and farm organizations , feminists , lesbians and gays and the range of foreign policy and anti-intervention activists from solidarity movements to the peace community . The " white piece " of the rainbow is not as wide as it might be , but it is in the visible spectrum and appears to be growing . In large measure , the success of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ titular head . A D.S.A. leader said last week that he has no illusions about whether Jackson is " an opportunist , like all politicians , " but that such a role has its advantages : " They can then be pressured  --  by us . " Jackson is who he is : no messiah , no S-person , certainly no saint , no great organizer or theoretician or team player . But even as the Summers school recognizes , he is the man with the power , a leader who fought for authenticity in an unorthodox way but won it above all others . Many white leftists would prefer RepreSentative Ronald Dellums , for instance , as " their " black leader . But they ca n't always get what they want . Opportunism works in reverse , too , and it is up to the activist constituencies in Jackson 's coalition to make the campaign into what they need . The campaign has been remiss so far in doing its share of grass-roots organizing around the country , especially in the late primary states of the West . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to miss the point of the coalition strategy . It is not meant to be a conventional liberal campaign that manipulates constituencies at the convenience of the candidate ( although some of that will inevitably occur ) but an effort that uses the heightened political consciousness of an election year to organize a kind of movement . The tension in the strategy is between the campaign and the movement . If the one defeats the other , the effort is doomed . But the one aids the other as well . Jackson did not organize the April 25 march in Washington against U.S. intervention in Central America and against white rule in South Africa , but he was invited to be a speaker and he was in fact the only presidential candidate there . The marchers that day were really arrayed in a rainbow of white and black , unionists and peace activists , women and men . Jackson is now in a sense responsible to them and their demands , to a degree proportional to their strength . Ditto for the half-million or more lesbians and gays who demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate who spoke to them , offered himself as a leader and implicitly proposed that they join a coalition " larger than themselves " to press their demands for civil rights and , indeed , for survival . He has done the same for people on picket lines in Maine and Minnesota , for local political campaigners and of course for the millions of rural and urban blacks who must make up his biggest base . Last May , Jackson spoke to health care workers at a demonstration outside City Hall in New York ; last week , the picketers ' union , Local 1199 of the Health and Hospital Employees , endorsed his candidacy . A true working coalition would make each element responsible for supporting the demands of others , with the enforcement procedure being the right to pull out  --  and damage or destroy the whole . Jackson could never be a great white hope , but he has been a black hope , which is where he gets his initial power in the peculiar configuration of American politics at this point in history . D.S.A. , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now realizes that a different color combination is needed . The black activist culture in which Jackson was raised and which informs his leadership has Many contradictions , as they say , but they are different contradictions from those found in the culture of the white left . There is anti-Semitism there , sexism , separatism and opportunism  --  in a different equation than in white radical consciousness , which also has an unhealthy share of destructive and unworthy conceits . Some whites will have a hard time crossing the cultural barrier to accept black leadership , but as this amazing political year unfolds , by the process of elimination as well as by conscious decision , they may see that they have no other choice . D                     