@@432262

 | The decade-long effort to ease EastWest tensions and expand human rights ? key goals of the 1975 Helsinki Accords ? drives home two disheartening facts of international life : 1 . Forty years after the end of World War II , peace in Europe is maintained primarily by a balance of military power between the U.S. and the Soviet Union , not by sweeping security guarantees signed with great fanfare 10 years ago in the capital of Finland . 2 . Leaders of Moscowdominated Eastern Europe have no intention of permitting Western-style individual liberties that involve the slightest challenge to Communist Party control of their nations ' political and social affairs . Celebrations in Helsinki in late July and early August to mark the 10th anniversary of the conference that produced the controversial accords will feature mainly old pomp and new promises . Center of diplomatic attention : The state of Ronald Reagan 's health and how the Soviets ' new Foreign Minister , Eduard Shevardnadze , handles his first major meetings with U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz and other world figures in the same reception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the months ahead , however , officials from the U.S. , Canada and 33 European nations that signed the accords on Aug. 1 , 1975 , will be taking a harder look at the value of sweeping agreements that have no mechanism for enforcing their high-minded principles . The coming year could prove decisive . American policymakers argue that the agreements are useful in managing East-West relations . But there is growing concern that unless they show more results , the package will go the way of well-intentioned but unrealistic disarmament agreements of the 1920s . U.S. officials warn that the fate of the accords may be decided by November , 1986 , when a conference is scheduled in Vienna , Austria , to review all aspects of the Helsinki package . If there is no progress in 1986 , says one American , " the Reagan administration is in no mood to make concessions to the Soviets to keep the Helsinki Accords alive . " For the West , the first decade of the pacts has brought more frustration than fulfillment . " They are like political holography , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for something that appears to be there , but you ca n't grab it . " A major reason for this frustration is that the grab bag of agreements was not an enforceable treaty but an imprecise trade-off of conflicting goals . In essence , the West accepted the Soviet Union 's demand for security guarantees by formally recognizing the national borders and political systems imposed on Eastern Europe by Soviet power after World War II . In return , Moscow seemed to promise to respect Western concern for liberties such as freedom of thought and religion . Other parts of the agreements were aimed at expanding East-West trade and promoting " confidence building " through advance notification of military exercises and exchanges of military observers . Soviet leaders were delighted by the accords . At the signing ceremony in Helsinki 's modernistic Finlandia Hall , Communist chief Leonid Brezhnev hailed them as " a , gain for all who cherish peace and security on our planet . " However , U.S. President Gerald Ford proved the better prophet by warning that " history will judge this conference . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promises we keep . " Self-serving activities . In the decade that followed , promises that were kept ? such as improved working conditions for businessmen in Eastern Europe ? mainly were actions that nations involved likely would have taken anyway in their own self-interest . Promises that still are ignored ? especially those concerning wider human rights ? increasingly are accepted by many analysts as unobtainable because East and West disagree so fundamentally on basic issues . Some United States officials predict that the Soviet human-rights record will get worse instead of better under Communist Party leader Mikhail Gorbachev . " He 's tough , " an American analyst explains , " and in private discussions some top Soviet officials refuse to accept the idea that human rights is a prerequisite for better U.S.-Soviet relations . " Harsher Soviet crackdowns on human-rights activists would continue a trend that has lasted with only minor interruptions for the past decade . Almost immediately after the Helsinki conference , Kremlin leaders made it plain that nothing the conferees signed there gave anybody the right to criticize the Soviet system or oppose Communist Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved quickly against groups that sprang up in 1976 in Moscow , the Ukraine , Lithuania , Georgia and Armenia to monitor Soviet compliance with the Helsinki Accords . Extent of the Soviet crackdown was underscored by the U.S. Helsinki Watch Committee , a citizens ' group that also monitors violations of the accords , in a report issued just before the 10th-anniversary ceremonies . It said : " Over the years , more than 100 people openly became members of the Helsinki groups and their affiliates . Today , 51 are incarcerated in prisons , labor camps and psychiatric hospitals , or are serving terms of exile . Four have died  | after years of mistreatment in Soviet labor camps , and one was killed in an automobile accident under suspicious circumstances . " Twenty others have been released after serving sentences but live under the constant threat of a new arrest . Seventeen have emigrated to the West because of the threat of imprisonment . The remaining members have been forced to cease their work . " Best known Kremlin victim is physicist Andrei Sakharov , a Nobel Peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gorky for criticizing Soviet policies . Arrests of political dissidents and other Helsinki-related crackdowns are only a small slice of longstanding Soviet restrictions on religious , intellectual and individual liberties . A Stalin-era law still in effect prohibits religious instruction for persons under 18 , requires church congregations to register with civil authorities and gives the state the right to promote atheism while sharply limiting freedom to preach the gospel . Borders tightly controlled . Though 5 million foreigners visit the Soviet Union annually , only a handful of Soviet citizens are allowed to go abroad except as part of carefully selected and closely controlled official delegations . There is no right of emigration . Even considering leaving is rated proof of disloyalty . Subscribing to Western publications is forbidden to ordinary citizens . All international telephone calls are monitored . Foreign mail is opened and sometimes not delivered . Radio broadcasts from the West are jammed . Customs agents confiscate any material that they consider " anti-Soviet . " A 1984 law ? adopted nearly a decade after the Helsinki conference ? imposes stiff fines for anyone providing foreigners with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rules for stay in the U.S.S.R. for foreigners . " Three international conferences held to review compliance with the accords have been dominated by acrimony over human rights . " That would n't change if you had three more conferences or 30 more , " says a U.S. specialist . " It 's an apples-and-oranges situation . The Soviets just do n't see human rights the way we do , and we are n't about to accept their definitions . " Some Western officials see at least one benefit from human-rights sections of the accords . This is in providing a forum , which even the Soviets can not completely ignore , for discussing individual liberties . Over time , say some analysts , this process can help educate the Kremlin bureaucracy in what the rest of the world considers minimal standards of human rights . Other aspects of the Helsinki Accords , though less dramatic than human rights , are considered moderately successful by officials in both the East and West . As a substitute for a peace treaty that never was signed after World War II in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world where border quarrels have frequently led to continentwide warfare . Many Western leaders have questioned the wisdom of legitimizing Soviet domination of Eastern Europe , but most recognize that the time for doing anything about it had passed long before the Helsinki conference . On the bright side . The confidencebuilding measures , though limited , are rated better than anything that existed before . Western observers , including U.S. officers , have been invited to several Soviet military maneuvers that previously would have been completely hidden . With one exception , Moscow also has met the Helsinki requirement of giving 21 days advance notification of maneuvers involving 25,000 or more troops . There also have been small improvements in working conditions for business executives and journalists in Eastern-bloc nations . Foreigners now can get multiple-entry visas for easier travel in and out of the Soviet Union . All business persons may have telex machines , and some have access to directdial telephone service . But there have been major violations of the accords , such as the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 , continued Kremlin pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Reagan administration effort to block construction of a Soviet gas pipeline to Western Europe . After 10 years , success of the Helsinki Accords is measured in small steps . Setbacks cover giant strides .                     