@@494338

RESISTERS WITHOUT A DRAFT For the last two years , every 18-year-old American male has been required by law to go to a post office on his birthday , give or take thirty days , and to fill out a postcard form registering himself for the draft . About nine million young men have done so ; something like six hundred thousand have not . Whether you find the latter number amazingly high or amazingly low depends on your point of view . The Reagan Administration is among those who find the number of nonregistrants amazingly high . In the hope of boosting the rate of compliance , it has begun taking young men to court . The score in these trials now stands , government : three , defendants : one . Enten Eller , a member of the historically pacifist Church of the Brethren , was sentenced to three years ' probation and told again to register . He again refused , and he faces another hearing in a few weeks . The second man convicted , Benjamin Sasway , based his refusal on " political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , two-and-ahalf years in jail , and he has appealed . The third man , Mark Schmucker , also a religious pacifist , drew two years of mandatory work in a home for mentally retarded adults and a $4,000 fine , The fourth nonregistrant , David Wayte , argued that he and the others indicted had been targets of " selective prosecution " by the government for their openness in opposing registration . Wayte 's contention was supported by the fact that out of the hundreds of thousands of nonregistrants , all those indicted were either " selfreporters " ? individuals who had written letters to thegovernment announcing their refusal to comply for reasons of conscience ? or others who had publicly declared their refusal to register . A transcript of an April Pentagon meeting , disclosed by The Washington Post , further deepened suspicions of " selective prosecution " by showing that the government consciously chose trial sites where incidents of protest would be relatively unlikely . John S. Herrington , an assistant secretary of the Navy , advocated picking " the right jurisdiction , so you do n't end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do end up in Omaha or somewhere like that for your first trials . " Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger , who also attended the meeting , agreed with the idea of staging the trials in areas where local citizens ( and potential jurors ) would be less apt to sympathize with the defendants . ( " Not the District of Columbia , " Mr. Weinberger advised sagely . ) The U.S. District Court Judge in the Wayte case , Terry J. Hatter , issued a court order instructing the government to produce White House and Pentagon documents relating to the prosecution policy , and another instructing Presidential counselor Edwin Meese III to appear at a pretrial hearing . The government , invoking executive privilege , refused to comply with either order . Judge Hatter dismissed the charges against Mr. Wayte , ruling in the process that President Carter had committed a technical violation of the law by cutting short the period of time between the signing of the proclamation and the beginning of registration . It remains to be seen whether this ruling will be upheld in higher courts ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft registration law is in limbo . We think that a democratic state has the right to require military service of its citizens , and thus that the government is within its rights in requiring young men ( young women , too ? but that is a separate issue ) to register for the draft . But we also think that in the absence of a functioning draft , let alone a war , depriving people of their liberty for the act of refusing to register is disproportionate and therefore unjust . Finally , we think that the registration law is flawed by its failure to provide any mechanism by which conscientious objectors can make formal note of their beliefs . A THE MOMENT , three kinds of people run afoul of the draft registration requirement . The first are those who are unaware of the requirement , or who have simply forgotten to comply . The second are those who have purposely avoided registering in the belief that by staying off the list they will avoid inconvenience , including the inconvenience of being called in the event of an actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for reasons of conscience . The peculiarity ? and the injustice ? of the present situation is that the only people who can be prosecuted and punished under the registration law are those in the third category . Those who have forgotten to register , or who did n't know they had to , will do so if reminded , and their cases would then immediately become moot . Those who have skipped registering in the vague hope of avoiding some hypothetical inconvenience in the future obviously will register as soon as it becomes clear to them that the alternative is undergoing some actual inconvenience , however slight , in the present . The only people who will persist in not registering to the point of indictment , to say nothing of trial and punishment , are those who are or claim to be conscientious objectors ? many of whom would be so classified in the event of an actual draft . The registration law , as written , is a smart bomb that hones in only on C.O.s . If there were now an actual , functioning draft ? if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being subjected to the inconvenience of interrupting their lives for a year or two of military service ? then it might well make sense to prosecute and jail those who unlawfully sought to avoid service , even including the minority of conscientious objectors unwilling to take advantage of the noncombatant or alternative service provisions of actual conscription . If there were both a draft and a war ? if young men were being not only conscripted but killed and wounded ? then it would make even more sense . In World War II , the Korean War , and the Vietnam War , thousands of men served time in prison for their pacifist beliefs . In the tradition of civil disobedience , they willingly accepted their punishment as a way of bearing witness to their religious or political convictions ? and they were infinitely more honorable and courageous than the much larger number of men who " dodged " thedraft by faking physical or mental ailments or by rearranging their careers to qualify for student or occupational deferments . At the moment , though , there is no draft to dodge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the draft law to make any tangible sacrifice , or who are placed in physical danger by it ( for even the most benign prisons are dangerous to some degree ) , are conscientious objectors . Of course , not all C.O.s refuse to register , and it may be that some of those who do refuse are merely seeking publicity or trying to become heroes in the eyes of their contemporaries . Even so , the fact remains that the only people who currently risk forfeiting something of value ( their liberty ) are those who claim to be motivated by conscience . That is why we favor amending the registration process to allow registrants to declare their intention to seek C.O. status in the event of a reinstitution of the draft , perhaps by checking a box on the registration form , perhaps by submitting a letter to be kept on file with Selective Service . In the absence of a draft , there is no need to evaluate the validity of these claims , any more than there is a need to give physical examinations . But we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only for members of established " peace churches , " such as the Quakers or Mr. Eller 's Church of the Brethren . To be sure , simple political disagreement with American foreign policy or with conscription should not , by itself , be enough to qualify for officially recognized C.O. status . But conscientious objection ought to be defined broadly enough to encompass all who genuinely object as a matter of conscience to participation in war , whether or not that objection is on narrowly religious grounds . This should be done even if it hampers the Selective Service System ? although , as a practical matter , it is n't likely to . Before and during the Vietnam War , a series of court decisions considerably expanded the boundaries of officially recognized conscientious objection ; yet the Army had no trouble filling its ranks . If past experience is any guide , even the broadest definition of conscientious objection does not prevent the armed forces from raising the manpower they need , even in the most unpopular war . I N ANY CASE , the present draft registration law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When President Carter asked Congress to enact the law in the wake of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , he did so in order to have a military ? or **27;2843;TOOLONG in his package of responses , to go with the grain embargo and the Olympic boycott . Registration was not instituted for reasons of military necessity . On the contrary , Mr. Carter 's Selective Service Director had just drafted a report rejecting the idea of pre-mobilization registration as intrusive , cost-ineffective , and unnecessary . After the decision was made , the bureaucracy dutifully came up with military justifications for it . But the fact remains that registration has little military significance ; it is fundamentally an expression of political resolve . That is why we supported Mr. Carter 's imposition of draft registration and Mr. Reagan 's retention of it . But the fact that registration has a more political than military character is another argument against bringing the full harshness of the law to bear against those whose protest against it takes the form of nonviolent civil disobedience . We think the government has an obligation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as it has an obligation , in the event of an actual draft , to make provision for acceptable alternative service . Of course , no matter what accommodations the government makes , some C.O.s will feel that they can not cooperate in any way with any law that contemplates conscription for war , and they will find a way to violate that law . But when no one is actually being drafted and the law requires nothing but the filling out of a form , prison ? or even , as in Mark Schmucker 's case , mandatory humanitarian service ? is clearly excessive . A civil fine would be perfectly adequate . A final irony of the trials is that the government already has the information it is prosecuting the defendants for not supplying : name , address , and date of birth . In fact , since most of the defendants are " self-reporters , " they themselves provided the information in their letters stating their refusal to register . The government has everything it asked for ? except a signature on a form . In Shaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleads with the Christian woman with whom he has fallen in love to save herself by placing a pinch of incense on the altar of Jupiter . She need n't abandon her religion , he tells her ; she need n't believe anything she does n't want to believe ? all she has to do is take a few seconds to carry out an innocuous formality . In the case of Enten Eller and the others like him , the pinch of incense is a signature on a postcard , and the altar in question is that of Mars , not Jupiter . But it 's still a lousy reason to feed anyone to the lions .                     