@@325999

After five 90-min. sessions in Washington , aides to both Walter Mondale and Ronald Reagan shook hands last week . And with that gesture , their debate over the televised debates ended . The presidential candidates will meet in two Sunday-evening encounters . The first , which will deal with domestic issues , will take place on Oct. 7 in Louisville ; the second , centering on foreign and defense policy , is scheduled for Oct. 21 in Kansas City . The vice-presidential candidates , George Bush and Geraldine Ferraro , will go head-to-head on Oct. 11 in Philadelphia . <P> The debates may be the Democrats ' last best hope to gain substantial political ground . The power of the President 's charm will be diminished , Democrats hope , when he speaks at length on matters of substance . Moreover , Mondale adherents dream of Reagan blundering during the debates , making some significant misstatement of fact . The White House preferred to hold no debates at all , but Reagan 's political advisers feared that an outright refusal would make their man look evasive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Staff James Baker , were most concerned about structure and tone : they wanted to avoid the kind of highly charged , confrontational exchanges that Mondale had last spring with his Democratic rivals . Mondale Campaign Chairman James Johnson and his colleagues were insistent about timing : they wanted long debates late in the campaign . Each side got what it most wanted . Said a member of Reagan 's team : " We gave up a little in terms of dates and stood our ground on the question of format . " In the debates , four journalists will each ask two questions ; the candidates , standing at a podium , will respond to the same eight questions . Reagan and Mondale will get three chances to address each topic , initially with a 2-min. answer , then with a 1-min. follow-up and rebuttal . As Mondale wished , the second presidential debate is scheduled to come after the diversionary hubbub of the World Series , and the encounters will last 90 min. apiece . Each camp is gloating over a minor tactical triumph . The first debate will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort in more than 13,000 households ; the second is scheduled to be televised opposite an N.F.L. game , which the Reaganites happily believe will draw millions of viewers away from the debate . <P> The staff discussions were peaceable . There was , however , one brief moment of high tension . In jest , a White House adviser suggested that a secret Kremlin summit was in the works . Said he of a debate date : " Maybe we can do it on the day we get back from Moscow . " After a bewildered second or two , the Democrats chuckled . Nervously .                     