@@494802

The British Empire may have been won in a fit of absence of mind , but it was certainly not won in a fit of absence of personality . In the heady and hubristic years of the so-called " New Imperialism , " the men who extended the empire 's boundaries , safeguarded its frontier ; , administered its dominions , and evoked its spirit were themselves appropr ately larger than life . There were concpering pioneers , like Sir George Taubman Goldie in Nigeria and Sir William Mackinnon in East Africa . There were soldiers of fortune , like Kitchener , Roberts , and Wolsley . There were lawgivers and proconsuls , like Curzon and Cromer , Lugard and Milner . There were the laureates of empire , like Kipling , Elgar , and Lutyens . And there was Cecil John Rhodes . In an age of imperial titans , Rhodes was the most titanic imperialist of all . His ambitions and accomplishments were such that the inevitable " colossus " epithet seemed an understatement . His character was so contradictory , his achievements so controversial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biography than it has been to complete the railway he dreamed of building from the Cape to Cairo . This is partly because there were sevvery different versions of Cecil Rhodes , each of which was individually quite extraordinary , all of which were collectively almost incredible . The first was the archetypal Victorian weakling : a man so unrobust and so unprepossessing that he would never have been awarded one of his own scholarships . He was a delicate child , of uncertain health , unpromising youth , indifferent education , and thought to suffer from tuberculosis . In adult life , his voice remained an uncontrollable falsetto . He suffered a series of heart attacks , soon aged prematurely into a gray and bloated invalid , and died too young at 48 . The second Rhodes , by contrast , was a self-made Smilesian hero of epic accomplishments . Born in relatively humble circumstances , he left for South Africa knowing almost nothing about the country and with no obvious prospect of fame or riches . Yet he had made one prodigious fortune in diamond mining before he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in gold . In his plutocratic prime , Rhodes was one of the wealthiest men in the world , and King Midas himself might usefully have taken his correspondence course . Yet he was not just a paradoxical cornpound of wimp and wunderkind : he was also a no less astonishing amalgam of dreamer and doer . From a very early age , Rhodes 's private fantasy life was extraordinarily vivid and self-aggrandizing , as was made plain in the remarkable series of wills he drew up at regular intervals from the time he was 19 , and which set out in detail his ambitions and agenda . He believed that the British were marked out by God for worldwide dominion ; he yearned for the reunification of the Anglo-Saxon races and the recovery of the United States ; and he imagined himself as the Man of Destiny who would actually bring all this about . For most people , these would have been mere idle imaginings . But Rhodes 's enormous fortune gave him the power , and the scramble for Africa gave him the opportunity , to convert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he became the dominant figure in South African politics . As the founder and financier of the British South Africa Company , he added territories to the queen 's dominions that were half the size of Europe itself . And he lavishly endowed the Rhodes scholarships at Oxford University , in the hope that future generations of ardent young imperialists might continue and complete his work . Not surprisingly , contemporaries found it impossible to agree about Rhodes . To associates and acolytes like his fellow adventurer Dr. Leander Starr Jameson , and the architect Herbert Baker , he was beyond question the greatest man they had ever known , a leader for whom they would gladly have laid down their lives . In a succession of fervently affectionate reminiscences , they admiringly depicted their revered colossus as a heroic figure of charm and charisma , vision and vigor , grandeur and generosity . For such loyal and devoted followers , belief in Rhodes was truly a substitute for religion . To his enemies , however , Rhodes was the very embodiment of the Antichrist . From the far right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corrupt , unprincipled operator , totally devoid of ideals or morality . And from the left , J. A. Hobson mounted a sustained attack in his book Imperialism , first published in 1902 , the year of Rhodes 's death . For Hobson , Rhodes was little more than an international buccaneer , a ruthless gangster , an unscrupulous villain , an unchecked tyrant , with no respect for law , for life , or for liberty , who used his ill-gotten millions to manipulate politicians , to deceive and exploit the native Africans , and to promote indefensible acts of piracy like the Jameson Raid . rTHE LENGTHENING perspective of history has only added to these contradictions and confusions . For a time , it did seem as if Rhodes 's grandiose imperial designs were gradually coming to full and splendid fruition . In 1903 the first Rhodes scholars went to Oxford , and in 1929 Rhodes House was opened ? an appropriately grandiose monument , designed by Herbert Baker . In the aftermath of the Boer War , the unification of South Africa within the empire was finally achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mother country during the First and Second World Wars . And in 1919 the British obtained a League of Nations mandate over Tanganyika ( the former German East Africa ) , which meant that Rhodes 's dream of an all-red dominion from the Cape to Cairo was finally realized . Against this background of apparently abiding , constructive achievement , successive generations of biographers , from Basil Williams in 1921 to J. G. Lockhart and C. M. Woodhouse in 1963 , continued to depict Rhodes in essentially heroic and favorable terms , as a great man , who may indeed have been tragically flawed , yet whose greatness it was impossible to dispute . By the light of the late 20th century , however , Rhodes 's achievements seem far less significant , admirable , and enduring . The reunion of the Anglo-Saxon races never came about , and the British Empire , which once seemed so permanent and so pre-eminent , has completely disintegrated . Instead of producing a succession of outstanding public leaders , the Rhodes scholarships are essentially a means whereby bright overseas students obtain a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa , the Boers wrested power from the British , intensified the policy of apartheid that Rhodes himself had effectively initiated , and in 1961 withdrew from the Commonwealth altogether . Within another decade , Northern Rhodesia had achieved independence from British rule and became the republic of Zambia , and after a longer and more bitter struggle , Southern Rhodesia eventually emerged as the sovereign state of Zimbabwe . From the vantage point of the 1980s , then , Rhodes 's crude and naive dreams have either moldered into dust or become contemporary nightmares . In retrospect , the man himself stands con-demned ? as a heinous imperialist , a racist , a male chauvinist ? for crimes against humanity . Thus , the greatest difficulty in writing a new biography of Rhodes lies in establishing consistent criteria by which to assess the life and to evaluate the legacy . To make matters worse , the Rhodes archive itself , although extensive , is not particularly rich in personal material that might illuminate his extraordinary temperament . And it requires outstanding expositional skills to tell a story that moves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kimberley to Bulawayo , from Pretoria to Johannesburg , and that involves characters as varied as Gladstone and Salisbury , Queen Victoria and the kaiser , Kruger and Bismarck , Olive Shreiner and the Princess Radziwill . Such a life also demands an unusual degree of scholarly versatility : not just a detailed knowledge of British and African history , but of psychohistory , diplomatic history , business history , and economic history as well . Appropriately enough , this latest , most ambitious , and most successful biography has been undertaken by the co-editor of the fournal of Interdisciplinary History , himself an expert on the African past and a former Rhodes scholar . Yet even he has been assisted by the psychiatrist Miles F. Shore . IN ITS outlines , the story that Robert Rotberg tells is very familiar . But there are plenty of surprises along the way . Rhodes was born in 1853 , the fifth son of a Church of England clergyman who was vicar of Bishop 's Stortford . His father seems to have been a distant and unappealing figure , for whom Cecil never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his life , he enjoyed an unusually close rapport with his mother ? which was brutally broken when the next child came along . Here , Rotberg insists , is the key to understanding Rhodes 's remarkable adult personality : the brooding , solitary figure , free from shame or guilt , whose confidence in his own powers was unassailable . Here , too , is the explanation for his lack of ease with women , and for his homosexuality , which is explicitly ( and very convincingly ) discussed in detail for the first time . Rotberg also maintains that although Rhodes was not a youth of whom great things might have been predicted , he was far from being the delicate weakling of biographical myth : he was not forced to go out to Africa for his health , and inlater life it was his heart , not his lungs , that was his real problem . For whatever reason , Rhodes left England at the age of 17 , and began working in collaboration with his elder brother , Herbert , who was farming cotton and tobacco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontier town of Kimberley , where diamonds had been discovered in 1867 . In this rough and brutal environment , Rhodes rapidly discovered his genius for business and choosing associates ( Charles Rudd in mining , Alfred Bert in financial affairs ) and acquired a reputation for cynical and unscrupulous dealing that was to stay with him all his life . Very soon he was worth over 150,000 , and promptly left the diamond fields for Oxford , where he studied intermittently between 1873 and 1881 . It has always been claimed that this was the turning point of Rhodes 's life . But Rotberg 's interpretation is far less romantic . There was , he insists , no sudden conversion to the cause of public and British imperialism . On the contrary , Rhodes 's time at Oxford was relatively humdrum : he did very little work , acquired few influential friends , made no great impact on his contemporaries , never came under the spell of Ruskin , and obtained only a pass degree . B UT DURING the 1880s his career in South Africa gathered a seemingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out most of his competitors in the Kimberley diamond mines , began to dabble in the gold that had been discovered on the Rand , and made a name for himself in London financial circles with men like Lord Rothschild . At the age of 27 he was elected to the Cape legislature , and within three years he was in the Cabinet . He soon established himself as a formidable figure , successfully urging the annexation of Bechuanaland , so as to forestall the Germans and the Transvaalers , and to keep open the road to the north for future British expansion . At the very end of the decade , when he was still not yet 40 , he scored three almost simultaneous triumphs . He overwhelmed Barney Barnarto , his last remaining rival in the Kimberley diamond fields , which meant that Rhodes 's company , De Beers , now controlled 90 percent of world production . He became prime minister of Cape Colony and ruled virtually unchallenged . And he obtained a royal charter for his British South Africa Company , which effectively gave him unlimited rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and far beyond . The years from 1890 to 1895 saw Rhodes at the zenith of his wealth , power , and acquisitiveness : Caesar , Croesus , and conquistador combined . At the Cape he lived like an emperor , with a palace for a house and a mountain for a garden . He surrounded himself with unsavory and sycophantic collaborators like Grimmer , Silverwright , and Rutherford Harris . To ensure the support of the Afrikaners in the legislature , Rhodes enacted a series of discriminatory measures that deprived the natives of their voting rights and their territorial rights : these acts were the death knell of Cape liberalism . North of the Limpopo , Lobengula was hoodwinked and deceived into signing away his kingdom , and between 1890 and 1893 , Rhodes 's agents occupied Mashonaland and ruthlessly subdued the Matabele . The inadequate and unsupervised administration of what soon became known as Northern and Southern Rhodesia was one of the most shameful episodes in British imperial history . Most of the white settlers and rulers were callous and self-seeking adventurers ; and Rhodes , who regarded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cared less . So o'erleaping did his vaulting ambition become that he even planned to topple Kruger 's regime and win the Transvaal ( and its gold ) for Britain , by sponsoring Jameson 's armed expedition on Johannesburg at the end of 1895 in support of a hoped-for local uprising against Kruger . UT THE raid was a fiasco . The upris- ing fizzled , and Jameson and his followers were easily taken prisoner by the Boers . The British government repudiated the entire enterprise , and the rest of the world condemned it . Thereafter Rhodes himself never really recovered his power or his position . His health began to give way : indeed , it may have been his increasing awareness that time was running out that had persuaded him to gamble so recklessly . He was obliged to resign as prime minister of the Cape , and although he later contemplated making a comeback , it never came about . In the aftermath of an official inquiry in London into the Jameson Raid , he was compelled to quit the board of the British South Africa Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his piracy , and the Matabele , goaded beyond endurance , rebelled in 1896-7 . His house in the Cape was burned down , and he was pursued ( and possibly blackmailed ) by Princess Radziwill , an unscrupulous and unstable Polish adventuress . The outbreak of the Boer War meant that the political initiative had now passed irretrievably to other hands . For four months Rhodes himself was virtually a prisoner while Kimberley was besieged . After obtaining his freedom , he had little more than a year to live , and he was buried in the Rhodesian mountains at a place called " The World 's View . " T HE VERY LEAST that can be said of Rotberg 's account is that it provides what is undoubtedly the fullest , the most detailed , and the best-documented survey of Rhodes 's life that we are likely to get , by comparison with which all previous biographies seem jejune and superficial . Let cliche have its way : this is an appropriately colossal book about an undeniably colossal man . More precisely , this is the first major effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him primarily from an African rather than a European perspective , and to thus lay hare the full details of his unscrupulous business methods and his callous treatment of the native populations . Above all , Rotberg has triumphantly succeeded in scraping off the rich accretions of myth and make-believe that Rhodes so assiduously manufactured , that his acolytes so loyally embellished , that his previous biographers have so credulously repeated . Only in retrospect , it turns out , did Rhodes live out the whole of his life as an imperialist visionary : until the late 1880s , in fact , he was far less purposeful and more reactive in his activities and his ambitions than it has been fashionable to suppose . Inevitably , the massive strengths of this book carry with them their share of corresponding weaknesses . In historical terms , the author is far less surefooted in dealing with the British than with the African context . To give one example : within little more than a page we learn that in the 1870s Oxford " was undergoing a vigorous intellectual renaissance " ; that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was apparent " ; and that Rhodes " would have felt the strength of the positive currents then pulsating through the mother country and its premier university . " One knows what the author means . But this is not history : it is banality . In the same way , the prodigious detail means that on occasions the book is in danger of sinking beneath the weight of its own erudition . It is all very well to show that Rhodes 's life in prospect lacked the simple sense of direction it was deemed to possess in retrospect . But it remains an essential part of the biographer 's task to give form and focus to his story . All too often , the reader of Rotberg 's work is confronted by an overwhelming mass of unstructured , inadequately signposted information . The result is that Rhodes himself sometimes disappears altogether . The treatment of Rhodes 's psychology ? clearly a subject of central importance ? is also disappointingly uneven . The portrayal of his infancy and adolescence ( especially of his relations with his mother ) is too speculative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretentious and jargon-ridden . But when Rhodes becomes an active , assertive , and better-documented adult , the author seems almost to lose interest in his patient . It does not seem very helpful to be told that Rhodes hated Kruger because he reminded him of his own stern and unapproving father . And it is especially regrettable that no effort is made to address the fundamental question : not , Was the man homosexual ? but , Was the man mad ? On more than one occasion , Rotberg rightly refers to Rhodes 's persistent delusions of grandeur and to his undoubted , towering megalomania . He presents ample evidence of his astonishing private fantasy world , of his unshakable belief that he was a man of destiny , of his unbridled ambition to rule the globe . Yet all this is lightly dismissed as little more than " flimflam " and " hocus-pocus . " Thus the Rhodes who struggles and fights his way out of these 800 pages remains a fundamentally unaltered and essentially familiar figure : our old friend ( or enemy ) , the flawed hero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cynical , corrupt , ruthless , philistine , humorless , vindictive ? a man whose prime legacy has undoubtedly been to make the agony of Africa more bitter . On the other hand , Rotberg repeatedly describes him , apparently without irony , as " the great man , " " the colossus , " " the founder , " who did many good works and even enjoyed the occasional " finest hour . " Like so many previous biographers , his conclusion is the disappointingly evenhanded verdict that Rhodes was a Janus-faced giant : part genius , part rogue ; sometimes good , sometimes bad ; and his achievements were a mixture of the ephemeral and the enduring . Rotberg 's Rhodes may be a little less of a hero than previous versions , but a hero he nevertheless remains . So despite the chapter promisingly titled " Enigma and Resolution , " the conundrum of Rhodes remains essentially unresolved . As long as historians continue to see their task as being to construct a balance sheet of his life , this is bound to remain the case . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rhodes 's character , careers , and contributions simply by examining the man himself in ever greater biographical detail . The only way to obtain a more consistent viewpoint and balanced verdict is to set Rhodes in a much broader historical perspective . For in many ways , he was far from being unique . During the last quarter of the 19th century many men made an impact as capitalists and imperialists that was good and bad , ephemeral and enduring . Robber-baron plutocrats like Carnegie and Rockefeller were suddenly ten cents to a dime . And homosexual egomaniacs like Charles George Gordon and T. E. Lawrence were often able to change the course of history . If we are to understand Cecil Rhodes more fully , it is to his time , rather than to his temperament , that we might most usefully direct our attention . We have been given the colossus close up ; we now need the colossus in context .                     