@@294228

As Chernenko gets another title , a younger leader 's star continues to rise he Soviet people know Konstantin Chernenko as a staunch fighter for Communism and peace . He has shown remarkable qualities of leadership throughout his many years of service , " and has devoted " all his knowledge to building the economy and defense potential of the Soviet Union . " That was but one of the tributes to their new leader that the 1,500 members of the Supreme Soviet , the country 's nominal parliament , heard last week as they gathered in the Great Kremlin Palace . Speaking in a mellifluous if slightly nervous baritone , the Politburo 's youngest member , Mikhail Gorbachev , went on to laud Chernenko as " a tested leader of the Leninist type " and a man of " outstanding political and organizational abilities and immense life experience . " The delegates hardly needed the glowing accolades to be persuaded of Chernenko 's virtues . No sooner had Gorbachev finished his brief nominating speech than all hands in the vaulted chamber shot up in unanimous approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision was a personal triumph for the Siberian-born party worker and propagandist who succeeded the late Yuri Andropov in February . Leonid Brezhnev , Chernenko 's longtime mentor , had waited 13 years to assume the largely ceremonial position of President , and it had taken Andropov seven months . But Chernenko , 72 , had garnered the country 's three key posts-General Secretary of the Communist Party , Chairman of the Defense Council , and now President-in only two months . As the parliamentary deputies rose to their feet and began to clap in rhythm , the stocky , silver-haired Chernenko savored the moment . He raised his right arm in a salute , then clasped his hands above his head like a victorious prizefighter . <P> Chernenko 's quick election to the post seemed to indicate that Brezhnev and Andropov had established that the party leader should also be Chairman of the Defense Council and President . In his nominating speech , Gorbachev made clear that combining the two posts was of " great importance for pursuing foreign policy . " But whether the new Soviet leader has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . <P> Looking tan and fit , Chernenko seemed very much in charge as he moved to take his seat at center stage in the <P> Great Kremlin Palace . He was flanked by the men of the Politburo 's old guard who now wield the most influence behind the scenes : Defense Minister Dmitri Ustinov , 75 , Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko , 74 , and Premier Nikolai Tikhonov , 78 . But one measure of the shifting alignment of power in the post-Andropov era was the attention paid to Gorbachev , 53 . Ever since Andropov 's death , there have been indications that Gorbachev was in effect the country 's new No. 2 man . The fact that he should be the one to nominate Chernenko for the presidency seemed to confirm that a cautious transfer of power to the next generation had begun . The same honor was given to Chernenko when Andropov got the job last June .                     