@@485731

The Justice Department 's schizophrenic attitude toward warrantless searches caused the Government to drop its prosecution of former Acting F.B.I . Director L. Patrick Gray in the Weather Underground break-ins . Last week , a Federal judge let off Gray 's subordinates , Mark Felt and Edward Miller , who had been convicted of ordering the illegal entries , with token sentences. , A number of ironies envelop the proceedings . Gray was originally supposed to stand trial with the other two defendants , but had his case severed , claiming successfully that he would be caught in a " hostile crossfire " as Miller joined the prosecutors in pointing the finger of blame at him for authorizing the- illegal break-ins . In 1978 , the indictment of retired agent John J. Kearney was dropped on the grounds that Kearney was only following " orders " of his superiors , Felt and Miller . The superiors have now been let off with fines , although prison sentences of up to ten years could have been imposed , and the case against their superior  --  the putative giver of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evidence was " unconvincing . " Thus , the buck stops nowhere . The reason for prosecuting all of these former F.B.I . officials was to eradicate the ethos of lawlessness that dominated J. Edgar Hoover 's Bureau and to break the bonds of an autonomous brotherhood that had defied accountability for its actions . The final disposition of the case is at least a moral victory for the defendants , but more troubling is the lesson that will be taken by the Bureau cadre who packed the courtroom , publicly demonstrated in their behalf and contributed generously to their defense . Miller-Felt-Gray suffered the punishment of indictment and prosecution , but will their successors have to worry about even that under a Reagan Justice Department ? PLUTONIUM PRODUCTION The Wilmington 10 4 4 t last , justice for the Wilmington . 10 , " cheered The New York Times when the Federal Court . of Appeals in Richmond , Virginia , overturned their convictions . Justice ? Ten people have been wrongly imprisoned for periods of up to four years , for which they will receive absOlutely no recompense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escaped without - even ' a reprimand ; a state trial judge issued grossly biased rulings which denied the defendants a fair trial , and then he hit them with heavy sentences ; an entire state court system approved all this not once but twice ; a state governor saw nothing unfair about the case and a Federal District Court denied any relief . The Court of Appeals ' decision may represent a triumph for justice , but not very much of one . The story begins in 1970 . A black school in Wilmington , North Carolina , was closed and the students protested . After a bomb threat to a black church and shootings by - white men from moving trucks , four days of gunfire ensued . A black and a white were killed , and a white-owned grocery store in a black neighborhood was firebombed and ' destroyed . Allen Hall , a young black described in a psychiatric report as a " borderline defective , " was convicted and - sentenced to twelve years for the arson . He thereupon turned state 's evidence and implicated the Rev. Ben @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christ , who had been invited to Wilmington by a black minister in January ; Hall also implicated eight black students and a white woman . The ten were convicted in September 1972 , almost entirely on Hall 's testimony , and given sentences of twenty to thirty years . Efforts by defense lawyers to challenge his testimony as inconsistent , biased and unbelievable were continually blocked by the prosecutor and judge . Appeals were steadily turned down even though in August 1976 , Hall recanted his testimony . In 1976 , Amnesty International designated the Wilmington 10 as prisoners Of conscience . The Federal Court of Appeals in Richmond handed down a low-keyed opinion but the undisputed facts on which it relied  --  it did n't pass on any of the disputed charges  --  speak loudly enough . After his conviction Hall had given a long statement to the prosecution  --  his second  --  which he soon changed substantially . The prosecutor and the judge kept the changed version from the defense , even though it contradicted Hall 's in-court testimony in fifteen different respects and showed that Hall was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or correct this perjury , as the law and professional ethics require , but actually facilitated it and covered it up . The prosecutor also refused to release the mental report on Hall which classified him as a borderlinedefective ; in the psychiatric interview , Hall also denied complicity in the burning . Had the denial and diagnosis been put in evidence , said the Appeals Court , the jury might well have doubted Hall 's credibility and his ability to recall with " exquisite detail " things that had happened more than eighteen months earlier . The court also noted in passing that the prosecutor may have been guilty of " knowing use of perjured testimony in connection with this report . " Finally , the court criticized the trial judge 's refusal to let the defense bring out the special privileges Hall had gotten for his testimony . Although the prosecutor said there had been " no deals , " Hall and another witness were allowed to stay at hotels and a beach house , instead of jail , and even go home ; Hall got a visit from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part-time job ; Hall 's sentence for arson was made more lenient , and more . " Above all , " said the Court of Appeals , the prosecutor brought no charges against Hall when he attacked one of his guards with a knife and threatened to kill him . All this the judge kept from the jury . For these abuses , the Court of Appeals overturned the convictions , and that 's obviously a good thing . But was the reversal much more than symbolic ? How redress long years of imprisonment ? Without some compensation  --  which the law does n't authorize justice delayed in these circumstances is truly injustice condoned . And what about the prosecutorial and judicial misconduct , instances of which are so very common throughout our legal system ? The Court of Appeals ' opinion did n't so much as hint at even a reprimand , and no bar association or other group will . Nor will the decision discourage this or any other prosecutor from again misusing the judicial system for political purposes  --  after all , this effort accomplished its purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at little cost . Our judicial system works pretty well in the run-of-the-mill case . But to those on the unpopular side of political confrontation , the system offers meager protection and sometimes poses a serious threat . Disengage Now ' early a generation ago , the Polish foreign office floated a plan for disengagement of Russian troops from East Europe . The scheme , known as the Rapacki plan , called for a staged withdrawal of American troops and armaments from West Europe . Now , with the Russians poised to intervene militarily in Poland and the United States cajoling its allies to match American increases in defense expenditure , this long abandoned plan is once again relevant . The growing confrontation in Europe is further complicated by the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan and the political-military situation in Central America , a U.S. sphere of influence . Despite this deteriorating situation , the United States and the Soviet Union have enough interests in common ( increased defense costs , internal instability caused by economic misallocation and social unrest ) to halt those steps that could unravel either nation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula that will gradually lead to superpower disengagement in Europe . The Rapacki plan can serve as a basis for such a formula . The urgency of the present crisis demands creative diplomacy and serious negotiations . , The first round of discussions could begin immediately in three forums : between the United States and the Soviet Union , between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Warsaw Pact nations and in the United Nations . Negotiations should not occur in the SALT forum since those negotiations deal exclusively with strategic weapons . Between the superpowers the issue should be couched in terms of nonintervention in Poland by Russia in exchange for a suspension by the United States of its plans to plaCe cruise and Pershing II missiles in England and Germany . This move would gain great support among our allies , and earn for the United States the undying gratitude of Poles and other East Europeans . The second stage of the discussion between the two great powers would take up the question of placing a freeze on the number of troops and weapons system 's stationed outside the borders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this action would serve as the preface to a de facto nonintervention pledge by the great powers in Europe . The third stage of the negotiations would focus on setting up joint inspection teams that would operate in the NATO and Warsaw Pact nations to insure that the terms of the freeze were being carried out . While this step-by-step process continues , further talks would be held on imposing a wider freeze and making defense-budget reductions of the kind agreed to in principle between the Russians and the United States in the 1973-74 period . These discussions , if successful , could lead to a mutual disengagement process from Europe , which in turn Would lead to a more rational international order . What would be the role of the United Nations in this process ? In international politics the little nation-states allied with larger states have often provided the spark that touched off a larger conflagration . But this precept has been modified in our time . As former Secretary General Dag Hammarskjedd once pointed out , it is the smaller countries that need the United Nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations and the U.N . to press the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan , just as they should convince the United States that its own long-term interests are best served by staying out of the military and covert intervention business in the civil wars that are now raging in the Caribbean . Is it too much to ask that the U.N . work out new rules of behavior so that an emerging world civilization is not brought down by international war or local civil wars ? MARCUS G. RASKIN Marcus G. Raskin , co-founder of the Institute for Policy Studies , is a member of The Nation 's Editorial Board . No to the Draft 4 p 4 eace means confusion and war means ; order , " says Bertolt Brecht 's corporal in Mother Courage . " It is only when you 've got a war that you 'll find proper lists and up-to-date registers . " But preparations for war and up-to-date draft registers create their own confusions . In July , a U.S. District Court declared the Selective Service Act  --  and the June registration under it  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The day before Thanksgiving a Federal judge ruled that in requiring draft registtants to give Social Security numbers , the Selective Service System has been violating the Privacy Act of 1974 . Yet it would be premature for young men and their families to give too much thanks . Pending appeals to the Supreme Court , which could not decide either case until spring , the S.S.S. is proceeding to do what one court found unconstitutional and another court illegal . It is now compiling  --  perhaps illegally and at best improperly  --  lists of draftables through faceless registration  --  i.e. , data matching of all computerized lists that it can buy , borrow or otherwise lay hands on . See Gross , " The Drive to Revive the Draft , " The Nation , October 20 , 1979 . As the registration of 18-year-old men nears , Ronald Reagan is being bombarded on all sides . Old-style conservatives , thinking they have one of his ears , remind him of his campaign statement ( partly embodied in the Republican platform ) that , except in the most extreme national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very valuet that our society is committed to defending . " Abolition of registration , they point out , is one of the few dramatic actions that Reagan could quickly accomplish on January 21 while also asking for Congressional action to foster voluntary enlistment and re-enlistment through higher military pay . In contrast , the modern militarists , who seem to have most of his mind , favor outright conscription as soon as it can be slipped through Congress . Others suggest that registration be temporarily ditched , followed by the immediate appointment of a V.F.P. commission to lay the groundwork for full-blooded conscription as soon as inlernational tensions make it feasible . Amid all this confusion , at least two things are clear . First , as a New Year 's gift from the lame-duck President , all 18-year-old men are under orders to register during the week of January 5 . Second , obedience to this order will be much less than total . In 1980 , at least a quarter-million 19- and 20-year-olds failed to register . In 1981 , through either conscious decision or'ignorance , thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both the War Resisters League and the National Resistance Committee have been circulating statements in which older people resolve to encourage younger people to abstain from registration . Such resolutions have been signed by Bayard Rustin , Linus Pauling , George Wald and more than 10,000 others . The National Resistance Committee 's resolution  --  as yet unpublished for lack of funds  --  boldly states that " we understand that our actions subject us to a possible penalty of five years ' imprisonment and a $10,000 fine . " The brave people who make such public statements are the true defenders of the right to life set forth in the Declaration of Independence . They are willing to take personal risks to defend the lives and vital interests of all people born , born again or to be born , against the powerful minorities who openly advocate or condone threats of governmental violence and terror ( rather than negotiation , d  --  tente and social justice ) as the first response to economic , political and moral problems abroad and at home . But the immediate risk of prosecution by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the S.S.S. 's constitutional and legal position at present and the President-elect 's repeated statements against draft registration . The larger risk may stem from the new Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Security and Terrorism which  --  under the auspices of Judiciary chairman Strom Thurmond  --  may revive in modernized form the attacks on civil liberties perpetrated by its predecessors , the McCarran and Eastland subcommittees . In any case , on behalf of myself , all my family , most of my close friends , many of my students and some of my colleagues , I urge all true patriots to make  --  and try to live up to  --  a New Year 's resolution along these lines : " I shall not collaborate , and I urge all 18-year-old men not to collaborate , with the , S.S.S. 's immoral , irrational and possibly unconstitutional and illegal subversion of American security by a draft registration program , which is the prelude to peacetime conscription , a foundation for renewed interventionism and part and parcel of the suicidal drive to escalate the arms race . " I urge the collection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all those willing to take this position publicly . And as an inveterate believer in the productive potential of properly conducted Congressional investigations , I urge the House Judiciary Committee  --  not yet Thurmondized  --  to start an inquiry into what additional violations of personal privacy and security are being undertaken or planned by the S.S.S. in its semi-secret program for faceless registration and computerized dossier building . BERTRAM GROSS Bertram Gross is Distinguished Professor in Hunter College 's urban affairs department . His latest book is Friendly Fascism : The New Face of Power in America ( M. Evans ) . 694 ARTICLES . MI PURGE IN HAITI Baby Doc ' Takes Charge KAREN PAYNE erhaps even Papa Doc is a comedian , " suggests a character in The Comedians , Graham Greene 's 1965 novel about Haiti .. " Oh , no , " comes the reply , " he is real . Horror is always real . " On November 28 , Papa Doc 's son and successor , Haitian President of the Republic for Life Jean-Claude ( Baby Doc ) Duvalier proved that he is no comedian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrests , Duvalier 's police swept more than 100 of Haiti 's leading independent journalists , human-rights activists and opposition party leaders into jail , where some prisoners were brutally beaten . A few were sent into exile . Most remain in - jail , where , their exiled colleagues fear , they may stay indefinitely unless international pressure is exerted to save them . In a twinkling , Duvalier has undone years of work by lobbyists and public relations firms hired to convince foreign donors , tourists and businessmen that Haiti is a peaceful , stable society progressing toward democracy and human rights . By silencing every voice of responsible moderate criticism , Duvalier has claimed carte blanche for whatever he decides to do . Observers are uneasy about the consequences for the imprisoned leaders of Haitian society , the Haitian refugees ejected in November from the tiny Bahamian island of Cayo Lobos , the thousands of Haitians scheduled soon for forced repatriation from the Bahamas and the millions of impoverished people Duvalier rules . Upon his arrival at Miami 's International Airport , exiled journalist Pierre Clitendre , shielding his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Everyone who could speak out has- been taken , and nothing is left but a great void . " The swollen , gashed face and bloodshot eyes of Clitendre , a senior editorial writer for Haiti 's leading independent newspaper , Le Petit Samedi Soir , bore eloquent testimony to the ordeal he had suffered during four days in Duvalier 's Dessalines Prison in Port-au-Prince . Clitendre was sent into exile with nine others : Christian Socialist Party of Haiti leader Gregoire Eugene , economist Jean-Jacques Honorat , physicians Dr. Gregy Eugene and Dr. Nicole Magloire , and journalists Marcus Garcia and Elsie Etheart of Radio Metropole , Michele Montas and Richard Brisson of Radio Haiti-Inter- and Jean-Robert Herard of Le Petit Samedi Soir . The exiles said they were placed by twos and threes in Karen - Payne is a reporter for The Miami News . tiny , windowless cells in Dessalines Prison . Their clothes were taken away , and they were forced to sleep on thin mattresses on damp , chilly concrete floors in cells infested with mice , cockroaches , mosquitoes and bedbugs . Clitendre and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other prisoners , but so far the United States has balked at granting visas . Those who left  --  nine for New York and Miami and one for Canada ? accepted exile unwillingly , according to Garcia , who was news director of Radio Metropole . " We do n't want to become exiles , " he said . " We can stay outside Haiti for a while , but we want to go back , to be there , to be present  --  even if we ca n't work as before . We ca n't do anything outside . " Ironically , Duvalier recently proclaimed his wish to " stand before the tribunal of history as the person who set Haiti on an irreversible path to democracy . " Just three days before the arrests , Foreign Minister Georges Salomon , in Miami for a conference on Caribbean development , boasted-of Haiti 's progress toward freedom of the press . " We intend to consolidate that progress , " he said . But starting at noon on November 28 , police violently attacked the press , smashing the equipment at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technicians and visitors  --  at independent Radio Haiti-Inter , where a recording was left to play over and over on the air until someone thought to shut it off . Both stations remain closed . As the days went by , the ranks of prisoners were swollen by leaders from every sector of society . Among them , were attorney Lafontant Joseph , a founding member of the Haitian League of Human Rights , and authors , economists , students , professors and political partisans . Haitian officials remained incommunicado after the arrests , but government statements issued four days later spoke of " a network of agitators " who were " of Communist obedience " connected to the media . However , the free press in Haiti has always been considered an " opposition " press by the Duvalier Government . ( The official press prints only what the regime approves ; thus , any effort to gather information from nongovernmental sources would , by definition , oppose the regime . ) As independent radio journalist Ivens Paul put it before the recent coup , " As journalists , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Paul was arrested and tortured by Haitian police in October , and was in hiding at the time of the raids . U.S. officials protested the crackdown as " a setback to democratization . . . of grave concern . " Said State Department Haiti desk officer Howard Davis : " The independent press was very valuable , and we would certainly hope independent media activities would be allowed to resume as before . " Disappearance of the free press , he said , " does not augur well for the future stability of the country . " The United States made a symbolic gesture of disapproval by refusing to send a delegation from Washington to the December 8-10 meeting of the Organization of American States Joint Donors Committee in Port-au-Prince , but the local U.S. Agency for International Development representative attended the meeting , where $148 million in aid for Haiti was approved . The Haitian Government prevented the U.S. and Canadian representatives from commenting on recent human-rights developments in Haiti . On the whole , the U.S. response to Duvalier 's coup was mild . Ambassador Henry Kimelman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " no reason " for refugees to leave Haiti except economic betterment , was not in Port-au-Prince . A senior U.S. Embassy official admitted that for several days U.S. protests were delivered to only one Haitian minister because others could not be reached . The State Department was surprised , Davis said , when no questions were asked about Haiti in a briefing less than a week after the purge . But by then journalists were preoccupied with Poland , El Salvador and the Reagan transition . The arrests in Haiti have come at a time when relations between the United States and Haiti are already strained in several ways . A Haitian diaspora has occurred since Francois ( Papa Doc ) Duvalier took power twenty-three years ago . As many as one-fifth of Haiti 's people now live outside their country . By 1965 , some 80 percent of Haiti 's qualified professionals ( doctors , lawyers , teachers , engineers , public administrators ) lived in the United States , Canada or Africa . The exodus continues . In recent years the influx has been concentrated in south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's peasant class . The U.S. Government resists granting political asylum to Haitians . Last spring , U.S. District Court Judge James King of Miami ruled that Haitians should be considered for asylum . He found " an absenCe of a rule of law " in Haiti , which is " essentially closed to information gathering from the outside world , " a place where there is " no political freedom . " King 's decision remains on appeal . In early December , the Government dusted off its plan to ship refugees to Puerto Rico for exclusion hearings , but flights were temporarily stopped by a Puerto Rican judge . South Floridians are not anxious to receive any more refugees . U.S. officials are said to fear another influx like that from Cuba when the Government of the Bahamas begins forced repatriation of its more than 20,000 Haitians . According to Foreign Minister Salomon , the refugees will try to head for " anywhere but Haiti . " The U.S. Government allocates about $18 million annually in loans and grants to Haiti ; military aid was cut off earlier this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Department has " discussed increased aid levels in connection with reforms , but the discussions have not yet borne any fruit . " Haiti 's rulers may feel they can afford to wait . The Government has been unable to distribute all the aid it gets to the Haitian people because of administrative incompetence , corruption and poor planning , according to a 1978 Congressional Research Report . The New York Times recently noted that three development projects  --  a sugar mill , a fishing fleet and a vegetable processing plant  --  are of dubious or nonexistent economic value . Despite the large amount of aid Haiti receives from other nations and international agencies , the country is experiencing cash-flow problems . Duvalier 's Government was bailed out by a $41 million International Monetary Fund loan a week after the November 28 purge . Other major donors , in addition to the United States , include the International Development Bank ( $17 million in 1979 ) , West Germany ( $9 million ) , the World Bank ( $7.6 million ) , the O.A.S. , France , China , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Investments by American companies in Haiti total more than $130 million . These lenders , if they had cared to look , could have seen that tension between Duvalier and his critics had been building almost since he took office in 1971 . After Duvalier promised an " economic revolution " and greater freedom , independent journalists at Le Petit Samedi Soir , Radio Haiti-Inter , Radio Metropole and Radio Cacique began broadcasting nonofficial news . In 1975 , Ezechiel Abelard of Radio Metropole was arrested . He died after a year in prison , during which time he was not charged with any crime . In 1976 , the body of Gasner Raymond , a reporter for Le Petit Samedi Soir , was found by the side of a road , and the Government was blamed for his death . " His death was very dramatic , and it was done to terrorize the journalists , " said Marcus Garcia . " But we were n't afraid . We continued our work . And little by little , the rest of the country started to participate . " Official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ciments d'Haiti ( cement workers ) , elected new boards and began to protest working conditions . Some union leaders were killed and these deaths , too , were blamed on the Government . Then community action councils began to formulate demands for the peasants they - represent . Finally , in February 1979 , opposition political parties were formed . They added to the growing barrage of criticism directed at the Duvalier regime .                     