@@334647

" We 've been on the battlefront for Israel too long for anyone to throw that crap at us . " That was the reaction of Hyman Bookbinder , 71 , a longtime leader of the American Jewish Committee , to Israeli criticism of U.S. Jewish leaders in the wake of the painful case of Jonathan Jay Pollard , 32 ; the American intelligence analyst was sentenced to life imprisonment earlier this month as an Israeli spy . Few could remember a previous dispute that had produced such tension between Israel and its closest friends in the U.S. But then , as Morris Abram , chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations , said on Israeli television , " We never expected that an American citizen would be spying for the state we love . " <P> In spite of the unprecedented flak he was getting from the 65 U.S. Jewish leaders who visited Israel last week , Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir still insisted that the Pollard affair had been a " rogue " operation undertaken without the government 's knowledge . Two weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to investigate the case , but failed to give it the power to subpoena witnesses . Last week the committee appeared to be near collapse after an attorney for three Israelis implicated in the case advised his clients not to testify . In the meantime , a second official inquiry , conducted by the Knesset 's intelligence subcommittee , was reportedly making progress in secret session . <P> The Pollard affair has led to renewed criticism of Shamir and his Labor partners in the national unity government , Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin . One newspaper , Yediot Aharonot , published photos depicting the trio under the caption " Everyone covering up for everyone . " In Ha'aretz , Commentator B. Michael wrote that the spy case , along with the Israeli role in Iranscam , was part of a pattern in which Israeli leaders have taken the position that " We did not know , did not hear , did not see , did not report , and we are not responsible . " <P> Other Israelis lashed out bitterly at U.S. Jews for failing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Jerusalem Post , came from Political Science Professor Shlomo Avineri , a former director general of the Israeli Foreign Ministry . Addressing U.S. Jews , Avineri declared , " When the going gets tough , your leaders react like trembling Israelites in the shtetl , not like the proud and mighty citizens of a free democratic society . . . America , it now appears , may not be your promised land . " Days later the Post reported that U.S. Senator David Durenberger had said privately that the Pollard affair may have had its roots in a 1982 decision by CIA Director William Casey to recruit an Israeli to spy on Israel , thus setting a precedent for espionage between the two countries . Israeli officials denied the story , and Durenberger later characterized his remarks as " speculation . " The CIA refused to comment .                     