@@494088

SOLIDARITY RIVEN EVEN BEFORE General Jaruzelski 's military clamp- down , Solidarity had been approaching a crisis of its own . That is probably one cogent reason why Jaruzelski considered the moment ripe for taking the risk of a massive confrontation , which may yet be followed perhaps by a general strike , perhaps by a mutiny of Polish soldiers refusing to shoot at strikers , and , in the end , perhaps even by Russian intervention . The first major test for Jaruzelski 's party-cum-army coup against the Polish people will be Solidarity 's ability to recover from the shock and to respond with widespread industrial action . If the rank and file of the trade union movement , spontaneously or under the guidance of the skeleton Solidarity leadership , can be mobilized into making an overpowering gesture of disruptive protest , despite the military 's threat of penalties , including death , then the next frightening stage will have been reached : the Polish Army will be required to use force against the people . If a substantial number of Polish soldiers refuse , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Czechoslovakia , and , above all , the Soviet Union ? may well believe it is time to intervene . if not , Solidarity will demand on its own terms ? through its strike weapon ? the end of martial law and the retreat of Jaruzelski 's government . If that were to occur , Solidarity itself in effect would be taking over the government ? hardly an eventuality to produce Kremlin approval . Yet apparently the reason Jaruzelski took drastic action now is because he hoped to forestall the Russian invasion that would , according to his calculations , have been inevitable later . For those of us who still wish to see Poland continue to grow toward a greater measure of pluralism , freedom , and independence , the picture is not yet irredeemably bleak . Jaruzelski is presumably hoping to shock the Solidarity leadership ? or at least the more amenable part of it ? into the accommodation he has been seeking for the past two months . That means no more Solidarity requests for free elections or for referenda in which the Communist Party ( to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would certainly be humiliated ; no more requests , in short , for Solidarity to have a formal veto over government , let alone to take it over , as some Solidarity radicals had recently been demanding . If Jaruzelski 's brutal conditions are met , then he would argue that the odnowa ( " renewal , " the Communist euphemism for what , in fact , has been a revolution ) can continue its process of liberalizing both the politics and economy of Poland , but within strictly defined limits . Can Lech Walesa and Solidarity accept that ? The trouble is that although the vast majority of Poles support Solidarity and virulently oppose communism as preached and practiced by the heirs of Stalin , they are uncertain exactly what kind of system they are for . Widespread anti-Soviet and anti-Russian feeling is strikingly obvious to any visitor to Poland . But as Jaruzelski became increasingly frustrated in his attempt to forge a kind of overseeing national caretaker council in conjunction with Solidarity and the Church , the Polish people began to question what the role of Solidarity should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal debate by pouncing at a moment when the movement 's own internal questions had not yet been resolved . C OME POLES wanted Solidarity to come to an 4 .. ) accord with Jaruzelski , while others ? the majority , I would say ? wanted to push the government further into a corner , to extract promises of elections in which the Communist Party would be obliterated , and to wrest a measure of independence from the Soviet Union that would have been laughed off as ridiculous if suggested a year ago . Jaruzelski 's clampdown is meant to take advantage of this tactical division within Solidarity in order to drag the moderates into a grudging accord with government , while leaving the radicals out in the cold or in prison . It was particularly significant that Jaruzelski has not , so far as we know , arrested Walesa himself , who had been pleading with the rank and file of Solidarity to impose self-restraint . It is very difficult , however , to see how Jaruzelski 's precipitate action ( and it is not yet clear whether in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will stem the revolutionary Polish nationalist tide without appalling bloodshed unless he backs at least part way down . The momentum of Solidarity is probably too great to be halted peacefully by coup , by manipulation , or by the cleansing and rejuvenation of Polish communism . No Pole will be impressed by the token arrests of Edward Gierek , the former Communist leader , and a few of his henchmen . The Polish Communist Party is politically dead and can not be revived except as a vehicle of Soviet coercion or terror . That , indeed , is one of the reasons why Jaruzelski had to resort to the strong arm of the Polish army . The question is whether he , or more likely the Soviets , will be forced to embark on a long reign of repression , or whether Solidarity will simply submit in the face of its exemplary warning . C LEARLY , COMMUNIST revisionism in Poland ? performed within the Communist system ? seemed to be an increasingly hopeless task . The " liberal " wing of the party , epitomized by Deputy Premier Mieczyslaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloc standards were astonishingly generous . It was whispered that small , " safe " parties such as the Peasants Party and the Democratic Party , which were already technically in coalition with the Communists , would be granted greater independence . Official democratic parties , and perhaps even a Christian Democratic Party , might be tolerated . Parliament might even be divided into two chambers , with a freely elected lower house dominated by known Solidarity supporters and with an upper chamber or senate in which the Communists would retain blocking power . But for most of Solidarity these compromises smacked of too little , too late . By the end of last month the apparently unstoppable momentum of Solidarity dictated that neither the Communist Party nor any represenative of Moscow could be allowed to have the final say in Polish politics . The pace of events was illustrated by the changing opinions of one of Solidarity 's cleverest and most levelheaded advisers , Jacek Kuron , founder of the recently disbanded Committee for Workers ' Defense , itself a sort of think tank for Solidarity policymaking . Three months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to parliament , for fear of provoking Russian intervention . But when I spoke to him a few weeks ago , he had decided that only by submitting to free elections ( and to the disgrace of communism at the polls ) could the Soviets restore stability in Poland ; and that stability , plus Polish guarantees to stay within the Warsaw Pact and grant full military facilities to the Soviet Union , was the best reward the Soviets could now expect . But now it appears that the Kremlin considered such a " reward " to be insultingly inadequate . And Kuron is behind bars . So Solidarity will have to decide whether to act within a newly reinforced straitjacket or whether to confront Jaruzelski with all the might of the strike weapon . This is essentially a tactical dilemma , not an ideological one . But even if there is a last-minute compromise and martial law is lifted , Solidarity will face the same longer-term political questions . The need to identify the nature of the movement will become stronger . At present , it is notable that outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ band of pro-Moscow Communists ) and the international right ( apart from the bankers ) claim Solidarity as their own . Does Solidarity have an ideology at all ? At first , of course , the movement denied overtly political aspirations and admitted only to an interest in material benefits and right of worker trade unionism . That , in the context of East Europe , was revolutionary enough . Then it began coyly to call itself a " social movement . " But eventually the political dynamism at the guts of Solidarity began to assert itself . ( See " Solidarity 's Dilemma , " by Abraham Brumberg , TNR , November 25 . ) A visit to the regional headquarters of Solidarity in Warsaw instantly revealed the movement 's rampant anti-Sovietism , expressed in the extravaganza of slogans and cartoons festooning the walls . " Workers of the world , forgive me , " reads a bubble emerging from Karl Marx 's mouth . Another cartoon is captioned , " The Economic Disaster : A Tragedy Written Produced and Directed By The Polish Communist Party , Now In Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tanks , no thanks , " or even , in mockery of official anti-Solidarity phraseology , " Creeping Counterrevolutionary " or " Antisocialist element . " B UT , despite the unity of sentiment against the Soviets , ideological divisions within the movement have been growing . Oddly , the " laic left " ( 1yewica 1aica ) has been pitting itself against the self-proclaimed " true Poles . " The former includes a few Trotskyists but are essentially social democratic , pragmatic , and secularist . The latter are more bellicose , romantic nationalists , strongly Catholic , harking back to the symbols of pre-Communist Poland : church and state . On the extreme nationalist wing , there is a tinge of anti-Semitism , which sections of the Communist Party have also tried to exploit . Yet even on the right there is a curiously egalitarian tradition : there is little desire to make state industry private or to raise ceiling of land possession above the present 50 hectSre limit . Though liberal market economists have begun to be heard , what is more noticeable on the right is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force Solidarity into calling the Russian bluff again and again , demanding an increasing measure of independence from Moscow . The danger has been that threats from the Party and Moscow had lost credibility : their bluff had been called once too often . That , perhaps , is one reason Jaruzelski has tried to prove that the Party still has the heart to call in men and guns . The laic left hadbeen warning the foolhardy against such provocation , but the romantic right ? with firm cogency ? pointed out that only by such " foolhardiness " did Solidarity make the gains that had hitherto been considered inconceivable . An issue that illustrates the breadth of ideological differences within Solidarity is the argument over " worker self-management . " The left interprets this catch phrase as real grass-roots worker self-rule : workers should run their own factories . But the right argues that self-management merely means the decentralization of industry : factories would become more efficient if freed from the constraints of Russian-style centralized planning . The right and the left agree that the phrase can be easily emptied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word for an attack on tromenklatura , the noxious custom whereby Party hacks are appointed to all managerial positions regardless of professional qualifications . A FIANDFUL of Solidarity activists and some commentators in the West still feel the Communist system can reform itself from within , that a rigorous form of socialism is in principle laudable , and that its implementation under misguided Russian tutelage has been at fault . Jaruzelski and the approving Russians presumably still hope to restore Poland to a stability based on communism , with a moratorium placed on immediate liberal political change . The heart of Solidarity , right and left , is loath to accept such a compromise . They have tasted a little too much freedom in the past year . But Walesa and Jaruzelski may yet try to persuade the Polish people that this ? for the moment ? is the best offer . Walesa is a man of enormous stature , though quite a few of the moment 's leftist intellectuals unfairly accuse him of lacking ideological depth . What they mean is that he is a pragmatist less interested in political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polish nationalism and Russian sensitivity , the possibility of the disease of freedom proving contagious in East Europe . More important , however , is Walesa 's need to constrain the old-fashioned nationalism within Solidarity . This thought , by no means socialist in any sense of the word , has created the dominant mood within Solidarity during the past few months . If Jaruzelski agrees to draw back from confrontation leading to a bloodbath and a Soviet invasion , Walesa will be challenged with his most arduous and delicate task to date : postponing the desire of the Polish people for real independence . And that , of course , is what they have been tirelessly seeking for 200 years .                     