@@431997

 | Fernando Belaunde Terry and democratic rule both made dramatic comebacks in Peru last week . As Rosalynn Carter and representatives of 82 other nations watched , Belaunde was sworn in as the country 's first elected President since 1968 ? when Belaunde was ousted by the military . The 67-yearold architect , who favors closer ties with the United States , immediately freed political prisoners and returned newspapers and television stations to their private owners . Soon after the happy swearing-in was over , however , Belaunde and other Andean Pact leaders had to deal with a grim contrast : the recent military coup in Bolivia . The Andean group called for " the re-establishment of democratic institutions and human rights . " Both of those goals seemed far off Although resistance to the junta appeared to be guttering out , the new regime 's ruthless campaign of repression showed no signs of flagging . Up to 2,500 " undesirables " ? priests , labor leaders , leftists , journalists ? were arrested . Olivier Rebbot , a free-lance photographer on assignment for NEwsWEEK , was detained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three days without explanation , beaten ? then kicked out of the country . Some politicians were kidnapped , ' others were killed . NEWSWEEK 'S Larry Rohter , who visited both Peru and Bolivia in the past two weeks , reports on the reasons behind Bolivia 's latest upheaval .. T he golpe led by army commander Luis Garcia Meza was an act of unprecedented cynicism carried out with unusual brutality and dispatch . It now promises to usher in Bolivia 's most repressive regime in this century . But the significance of the coup goes far beyond the borders of Bolivia , for this impoverished nation has become a battleground in the ideological struggle between the northern and southern nations of South America . All of Bolivia 's neighbors to the south are ruled by authoritarian right-wing regimes . To the north , all the rest of Spanish-speaking South America is governed by democratic civilian regimes . " The Argentines and the Chileans see the dangerous ideology of democracy arriving at their borders , and they do n't like it , " one Andean Pact diplomat told me . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now rather than have to fight at home later . " C Rations : There is much evidence of Argentine involvement in the July 17 coup . Journalists detained by the military say they were interrogated by officials with Argentine accents . Miners found Argentine-made ammunition and C rations after one clash with Bolivian troops . Analysts say the Argentines are obsessed with the idea that Bolivian leftists have been supporting Argentine terrorists ? and that a leftist President , even a moderate like Hernan Siles Zuazo , whose expected election sparked the coup , would offer terrorists a base . Another sinister aspect of the coup is the role played by Bolivia 's rich and powerful drug traffickers . Some Bolivians are already calling this " the cocaine coup . " The illegal cocaine trade , which is estimated to have earned more than $500 million for a few lucky Bolivians in 1979 , is based in Santa Cruz ? which is also the stronghold of the right-wing groups that helped Garcia @#  | Meza oust interim President Lidia Gueiler Tejada . In mid-June , the same paramilitary groups went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all records of narcotic cases . Rudy Landivar , kingpin of a powerful right-wing coalition , is an army major ? and , according to drugcontrol agents , a key figure in the cocaine trade . The agents say drug traffickers routinely finance and arm military men with political ambitions . One rancher in Santa Cruz told me , " It is perfectly obvious to me that this coup has been bankrolled by cocaine money ? lots of it . " Dark Secrets : The civilian governments that ruled Bolivia in the past year promised to crack down on the cocaine trade Earlier this year , a plane was seized with a cargo of 1,540 pounds of pure cocaine , worth millions on the street . The plane belonged to Norberto Salomon , once chief aide to General Hugo Banzer , a former President of Bolivia . The government of Siles Zuazo was expected to press this and other drugrelated investigations , which could tarnish the armed forces while exposing some dark secrets . " Forget politics , " says one Santa Cruz businessman . " For people here , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade ? " The deeper question is whether Garcia Meza can hold power longer than his predecessors . So far , only four governments have recognized the new Bolivian junta : Paraguay , Brazil , Argentina and Taiwan . The United States is withdrawing its eightman military mission , sharply reducing the 112-member American Embassy staff , cutting off most of its $200 million in economic and military assistance ? and strongly supporting the efforts of the Andean Pact nations ( Venezuela , Colombia , Ecuador and Peru ) to return Bolivia to the democratic fold . So the junta seems well on its way to becoming an international pariah . Even so , Garcia Meza can count on help from Argentina and other friends in South America . " God save Bolivia , " said President Gueiler in her mournful resignation speech . At this juncture , a miracle may well be the only way to turn things around .                     