@@432425

 | For months , the only news was bad news ? or worse ? in the view of Ayatollah Khomeini 's lieutenants : Stalemate on all fronts of the war with Iraq ; missile attacks hammering civilian morale in Teheran ; the move toward an international embargo on arms sales to Iran back on track . Iran 's own twin strategies of cowing Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf sheikdoms into meek submission and frightening American lawmakers into withdrawing the U.S. Navy task force from the Persian Gulf had gone totally awry . Even their Hezbollah allies in Lebanon were taking a beating from the rival Amal militia . The Ayatollah 's answer : Ratcheting up the terror campaign and sprinkling a few new mines in the Gulf in the hope of winning some cheap victories . When the smoke cleared last week , all the victories had gone to " Satans " great and small ? the U.S. Navy , Iraq and Kuwait ? and none to Teheran . And the price was anything but cheap . A quixotic attack on the American fleet left 20 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afloat . A surprise Iraqi offensive swept 50,000 Iranian troops off the strategic Faw Peninsula , which had been captured with great loss of life just two years ago . And the world was applauding tiny Kuwait for refusing to knuckle under to Iranian-aided terror in a record 16-day hijacking that ended when the killers cut a deal for their own lives , freed their last 31 hostages and flew home to Beirut . Rise of Teheran radicals What in Allah 's name is Iran up to , anyway ? Analysts trace its behavior back to a combination of external setbacks and intensified internal political scuffling over who will inherit the Islamic Revolution when the Ayatollah Khomeini dies . Some experts fear that the more radical elements in Iran 's leadership ? those committed to spreading the Shiite Islamic Revolution by war and subversion ? have recently gained the upper hand over a more pragmatic group . With the Ayatollah 's men now unanimous in claiming that Iran was the victim of a joint U.S.-Iraqi offensive and calling up the country 's national reserves , a quickening of the pace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Gulf appear to be the likely outcome . Antiterror and counterterror experts in the United States and around the world were bracing for the consequences . They say that the pattern of Iran-sponsored terrorist incidents carried out over the past two years indicates that the Iranians have strengthened their ability to strike targets in the Middle East ? but are either less able or less willing to act in Europe . One expert says it matters little : With no lack of American targets in the Middle East and the Gulf , the Iranians do n't have to reach beyond that region to get the message of their hatred across . The Iranian actions in the Gulf last week clearly surprised ? and delighted ? Pentagon strategists . In recent weeks , Navy sources say , Iran secretly sowed  | new mines in the Gulf . Mines are blind : The victim could just as easily have been a tanker or merchant ship or even a native dhow . But on April 14 , the Navy frigate Samuel B. Roberts hit one of the spiked , World War I-vintage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 sailors were wounded . In Washington , President Reagan and his advisers ordered retaliatory attacks on one particularly aggressive Iranian Navy frigate and three Iranian oil-production platforms that are also used by Revolutionary Guards ' spotters to pick out targets among the civilian shipping traffic . The White House told congressional leaders about plans for what most agreed was a measured response , similar to the strikes against other oil platforms last fall after a Silkworm-missile attack on the U.S.-flagged tanker Sea Isle City . That raid provoked only rhetoric ? and greater caution on Iran 's part . Late Sunday , Adm . William Crowe , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , who would spend 26 straight hours in the Pentagon operations center monitoring the action , flashed the go order . Shortly after 1 a.m . EDT , Navy assault groups warned Iranians aboard the Sassan platform and a platform near Sirri Island to evacuate . Both platforms were then shelled ? and Marines boarded the Sassan platform and set explosive charges to finish the job . Before the Americans could get around to the third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to do battle . By 10:17 a.m. , it was all over . Taking out a killer ship The Iranian frigate Sahand was hit by Harpoon missiles and laser-guided bombs and left on its side , sinking . The frigate Sabalan ? designated a special target because of its vicious record of targeting crew quarters during attacks on unarmed tankers ? tried to play a catand-mouse game , firing and then ducking between two oil tankers to shield itself from return missile fire . A Navy A-6 jet put a laser-guided bomb down the Sabalan 's smokestack , leaving it abandoned and afire . The two frigates are thought to have been the last two large Iranian warships still operational . The Americans also sank the 154-foot fast patrol boat Joshan and took out three of the Revolutionary Guards ' fast launches . Iranian casualties were heavy , with at least 44 dead . Total U.S. losses : One Marine Cobra helicopter missing with its two-man crew . Why did the Iranians send out their Navy ? Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci says he is " not sure it 's explainable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | frequently mentioned possibilities : That , by coincidence , the U.S. retaliatory strikes were launched even as waves of Iraqi troops and tanks were overrunning Iranian positions on the Faw Peninsula . The surprise Iraqi attack was apparently a complete success , driving upwards of 50,000 Iranian soldiers and volunteers off the strategic finger of land that has been one of the chief prizes in the eight-year war . It was Iran 's first major defeat ? and a token of Teheran 's failure to get together enough volunteers and supplies to mount a major offensive of its own for two years running . Iran 's capture of Faw in February of 1986 put its Silkworm missiles within reach of neighboring Kuwait ? a supporter of Iraq and the nation that invited the American patrols into the Gulf . Some in the Teheran leadership ? where paranoia is no stranger ? clearly saw the Faw attack and the U.S. reprisal raids as an escalation of the war on two fronts . Hitting a raw nerve Other analysts say the panicked Iranian response could have more to do with Washington 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field are far more important to Iran than a single platform anywhere else . The field accounts for 10 percent of Iran 's total oil production ? and the island is a major transshipment point . Foreign tankers unwilling to risk Iraqi air raids at the main loading facilities off Kharg , further north , load instead at Sirri . The raid near Sirri may have touched a raw nerve . " For all the Iranian leadership knew , it might have been an attack against Sirri Island , and for them that would be a quantum leap , " says Middle East analyst Robin Wright of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace . Barry Rubin , a consultant on Iran for the U.S. government , agrees . " They may have jumped to the conclusion that it was all-out war with the U.S. " The truth may never be known outside the highest councils in Teheran . But one thing is certain , says House Armed Services Committee Chairman Les Aspin ( D-Wis . ) : " The lull is over in the Gulf . We are back to confrontation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have overreacted to the mine incident and played into the hands of Iranian fanatics . At week 's end , President Reagan and his aides were pondering changes in the scope of the Navy mission in the Gulf ? changes that may well broaden protection , now limited to U.S. flag vessels , to include all American-owned ships . Or possibly even all ships that come under Iranian attack ? if the patrol responsibilities of allied European navies can be similarly broadened , getting the allies to take a larger share of the burden ? the U.S. task force now totals 29 ships and costs $15 million a month to operate ? has been a chief goal of Gulf policy critics like Senator Sam Nunn ( DGa . ) . Nunn says , " We 've got to make sure that we do n't convert this into a U.S.-Iranian war . We 've got to re-examine our policy . " Says Admiral Crowe of the Iranian setback : " In certain respects , there 's a decreased threat ? but that could be an incentive for them to do other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could opt for more mines , use their Silkworm missiles " or go to terrorism . " Some State Department officials believe the Iranians have already chosen to play the terrorism card . They predict a dramatic increase in Iranian-sponsored terror and note that over the past three weeks , the Iranians have mounted a series of attacks against Saudi Arabian interests worldwide , bombing Saudi offices in Frankfurt , Karachi , Tokyo , Kuala Lumpur , Lagos and inside the Gulf kingdom itself . The offensive may be tied to a Saudi refusal to accede to demands that 150,000 Iranian Moslems be allowed to make the pilgrimage to Mecca this summer . Iranian pilgrims , acting on orders from home , rioted in the streets of the holy city a 8 year ago , and over 400 of g them were killed before order was restored . The Saudis set a limit of no more than 45,000 Iranians on the Haj this year . Middle East intelligence sources likewise feel that what they see as a relative lull in Iran 's state-sponsored terrorism for the last two years dating back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well be at an end . They say that Iranian Parliament Speaker Hashemi Rafsanjani ? purportedly leader of a pragmatist faction that favors an end to the costly and devastating war with Iraq in order to focus money and attention on rebuilding the nation 's economy ? kept the lid on the shadowy terror networks that operate on Iranian money and instructions . The Ayatollah fades away Domestic political jockeying for position has reached fever pitch this year , with parliamentary elections earlier this month and an election for a new President scheduled later in the year . Analysts fear that the radicals , citing two years of reverses suffered under moderation Iranian style , are in the ascendancy . Western analysts who once believed that Ayatollah Khomeini might live to rule Iran well into his 90s now feel that the outcome of the power struggle this year may be of critical importance because of Khomeini 's failing health . The 87-yearold Ayatollah is believed to receive regular dialysis treatment for partial kidney failure and to be suffering from prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of his body . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Great Satan " ? are now carefully limited to only a few minutes .  | One of the hardest of the hard-liners , Interior Minister Ali Akbar Mohtashemi , is in charge of approving parliamentary candidates and counting the votes . According to intelligence sources in the Mideast , he stacked the deck in favor of radicals in this month 's elections , giving them an edge wherever possible , while forcing many conservative incumbents into runoff elections . Mohtashemi 's rise has Washington worried . As ambassador to Syria between 1982 and 1986 , he turned his embassy into " terror central , " coordinating a wave of incidents in Lebanon , including the Beirut bomb attacks against the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Marine barracks . Mohtashemi could challenge Rafsanjani for the Speaker 's job or possibly even seek the Presidency . Terrorism may be a growth industry in Iran , whoever comes out on top . A leading administration counterterrorism expert notes : " There is no disagreement among Iranian leaders that terrorism is a legitimate form of Iranian foreign policy . " Khomeini himself reportedly took a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic Republic , and to this day , says one intelligence analyst , " no top Iranian official gains promotion without proving his mettle in the practice of terrorism . " Iran 's machinery for the kind of bloody outrages so repugnant elsewhere is well established , well oiled and fully operational . Flow chart for terror For the last six years , an official state body called the World Institution of Islamic Liberation Organizations has provided the loose umbrella under which Iran 's overseas terrorist networks are operated . Until mid-1986 , the institution was run by Mehdi Hashemi , a close friend of Mohtashemi 's and related by marriage to Ayatollah Ali Montazeri , Khomeini 's designated successor . Hashemi resisted orders to cool the terror campaign and was arrested , tried and executed by firing squad . His successor is Ayatollah Sayed Hadi Kohosrow-Shahi , former ambassador to the Vatican , where he helped direct terrorist networks in Western Europe . Counterterror experts say that Iranian embassies and cultural centers around the world provide logistics and direction for terrorist operations and are vital in recruiting candidates to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hard evidence of this has surfaced in incidents over the last two years in France , West Germany and Tunisia . Analysts say that Teheran may have temporarily slowed its terror campaigns in Europe out of fear that if it were directly tied to the attacks some valuable sources of arms for the war with Iraq would dry up . Funding for the institution , which is estimated at over $60 million a year , is drawn primarily from the Shahid ( Martyrs ) Foundation . One Washington analyst claims that this is only the tip of the iceberg ? that Iran spends as much as $30 million a month on its many tentacled subversion-and-terrorism network in Lebanon alone . That includes some $6.5 million a month to Hezbollah , a shadowy 4,000-member terror army . Within Hezbollah , some 300 to 400 of the most dedicated fanatics are organized into secret cells that comprise Islamic Jihad ? and it is from the Islamic Jihad elite that Iran draws most of its terror commandos . Another analyst says this largess buys Teheran something beyond strong influence but short of direct control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lebanon among sympathizers , groups targeted for infiltration , Lebanese students selected for special education in Iran and the families of those killed in action . Teheran 's Middle East sabotage and terror operations are often carried out by secret networks of the fundamentalist Al Dawa group in Gulf states with large Shiite populations ? Bahrain , Kuwait and Saudi Arabia in its heavily Shiitepopulated eastern provinces . Iran also provides money , guns and safe haven for non-Shiite radical groups like the Oman Liberation Front , Bahrain Liberation Front and the Revolutionary Organization for the Liberation of the Arabian Peninsula . With help and encouragement from Libya 's Muammar Qadhafi , Iran is reported to be establishing a new network of terror cells among Shiite communities in West Africa , focusing on countries such as Sierra Leone , Guinea , Liberia , Mali and Burkina Faso that are generally isolated and beyond easy reach of Western counterterrorist operations . Confident Americans American experts say confidently that , despite all this , Iran 's capability of launching terror strikes decreases markedly the further it strays from its own region . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of years , " says Assistant Defense Secretary Richard Armitage , " including an active antiterrorism and counterterrorism effort by the United States and its allies that increases the difficulty for terrorists to cross national boundaries . " Perhaps ? but Paris-based Iranian exile Amir Taheri , author of a critical biography of Khomeini , argues compellingly that the West can not defeat what it does not understand . " The aims of other forms of terrorism are to enter into the current world system , " he says . " Islamic terrorism does not accept today 's world ; it seeks to destroy it . The Khomeini movement represents the 12th century . It seeks to destroy our civilization . "                     