@@330870

The world may someday end with a whimper , but evidence is mounting that the dinosaurs went out with a bang . According to the much debated theory proposed by the father-son team Luis and Walter Alvarez in 1980 , an asteroid or comet slammed into the earth at the end of the Cretaceous period , 65 million years ago , spewing so much dust into the atmosphere that sunlight was blocked for months . Temperatures plummeted , plants withered , and many species , including the mighty dinosaurs , perished en masse . <P> Now chemists at the University of Chicago have added an important new twist to this version of the apocalypse . Edward Anders and his colleagues reported in the journal Science last week that they had found evidence of a global firestorm that raged about the time the dinosaurs disappeared . The conflagration , they say , suggests that the consequences of a great Cretaceous impact were even worse than the Alvarezes had dreamed . <P> Like many other spectacular discoveries , Anders ' finding was serendipitous . He and his co-workers had simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of rare noble gases , like neon and xenon , in the layer of Cretaceous clay deposited during roughly the same period that the dinosaurs became extinct . They were seeking to identify the nature of the object responsible for the impact . Because noble gases collect in carbon particles , the scientists isolated the carbon in Cretaceous sediment taken from Denmark , Spain and New Zealand . To their surprise , all three samples contained carbon that had been deposited at a rate 10,000 times as great as carbon in the layers immediately above and below them . It was bunched together in the fluffy patterns characteristic of common soot . Says Anders : " It 's like the stuff you see in the flame of a candle . " He believes that the soot almost certainly is a remnant of vegetation consumed by fires . <P> Disaster began when the celestial intruder crashed into what is now the Bering Sea , possibly creating a crater some 100 miles wide . The stupefying force of the impact , estimated at 100 million megatons , would have generated an enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the speed of sound , igniting forest fires from North America to Asia . Several hundred billion tons of plants and animals would have been incinerated , sending great scarves of black smoke to join the impact dust in the stratosphere and circulate around the globe . What is more , because soot does not rain out as easily as dust , the protonuclear winter would have lasted much longer than it would through obscuring dust alone . Most plants and large animals that survived the blast , the fire and the lethal clouds of carbon monoxide would have succumbed to the climatic changes . But smaller creatures could have slipped into caves and hibernated until sunlight returned and they emerged to repopulate the earth .                     