@@494692

It is more than a half century since Ralph Barton Perry published his magisterial and worshipful Thought and Character of William James . and for many years since then philosophers have hoped that someone would critically re-examine the thought of William James with a less adoring attitude than Perry 's , and , of course , with less ignorance and misunderstanding than one finds among authors who have written about James with only the foggiest ideas of what he stood for intellectually . Students of the history of American culture have similarly hoped that the life of William James would be carefully re-examined by a scholar who could not only understand James 's intellectual contributions , but could also evaluate the hypotheses advanced since the appearance of Perry 's book by literary critics , historians , and psychiatrists who have bravely delved into William 's complicated personal relations with his father Henry , his brother Henry , his sister Alice , and his wife Alice . In partial fulfillment of these high hopes , the philosopher Gerald E. Myers has written the most informed study of William James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , Myers writes about James 's life only briefly , but with sympathy and understanding , and without regarding William as the victimized son of Henry Sr. , the victimizing brother of Henry Jr. , the erotically flirtatious brother of his sister Alice , or the neurotically fugitive husband of his wife Alice . Myers 's first chapter is a scholarly and penetrating discussion of William 's life among the Henrys and the Alices ; Myers rejects the more extreme views of a number of Freudians , but always with the serious inquirer 's advantage of having read pages and pages of Jamesiana in the Houghton Library at Harvard , and the logically acute philosopher 's advantage of knowing what it is to support a belief by supplying cogent evidence for it , Such knowledge leads Myers to pour cool , but not icy , water on the view that Henry Sr. caused William 's first neurotic symptoms by urging him to choose science rather than art as a vocation ; it encourages Myers to question the view that throughout his life William harbored a deep animus against Henry Jr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engagement precipitated his sister Alice 's mental breakdown . Myers 's measured reflections on these and related matters help him avoid questionable hypotheses about what James was like as a human being . He shows us how this seemingly sunny " adorable genius , " as Whitehead once called him , handled his depressions and exhausting bouts of anxiety , and how he fought his way to become the foremost American philosopher of his time while suffering intensely painful backaches , insomnia , eye trouble , and other ailments that , according to Myers , have been dubiously diagnosed by amateur and professional psychiatrists , who have exaggerated the psychosexual significance of James 's symptoms . The image of James as a self-absorbed , enigmatic , depressed neurotic , " though not strictly incorrect , is lopsided , " says Myers . James , he continues , wrote prolifically , traveled in Europe , attended concerts and the theater , visited museums , hiked , spoke before large and enthusiastic audiences , mixed with distinguished company , and proudly fathered five children . Although he tries hard to tone down some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Myers 's interest in James 's emotional life is altogether secondary to his interest in James the thinker . Once Myers has had his sensible say in chapter one about James 's life with father , brother , sister , and wife ( mother , for some reason , is no big problem for the biographers ) , he quickly moves on to a very different sort of discussion of James 's philosophy and psychology . Myers is not systematically concerned with the intellectual influences on James 's thought , nor with the general cultural atmosphere in which he worked ; he therefore says little about the philosophical connections between James , Peirce , and Dewey , and little about the impact of other thinkers on James . But even without the extra volume or two that Myers says he would have needed for a study of this impact , his book contains about 130 single-spaced pages of footnotes , which follow 480 pages of a text that teems with philosophical and psychological explanations . Certainly , therefore , Myers has every right to be pleased by the formidable amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no right to claim to have discovered a " previously unknown " manuscript , " The Foreboding Meeting ; or , The Artist 's Fate , " in which James describes , with the help of his own charming drawings , an encounter with Emerson that is thought to have taken place in 1864 ; the fact is that this manuscript was reproduced photographically in 1920 by William 's son Henry in The Letters of William James . Luckily , however , for Myers , who needs a transition from his introductory biographical chapter to his discussion of James 's ideas , James explicitly linked his mental troubles to his philosophy when he indicated in 1870 that he had been helped out of a severe depression by adopting the view that the will is free . At the age of 28 , James seems to have emerged from an early bout of his recurrent ailment after accepting the view of Charles Renouvier that we have free will insofar as we can sustain a thought because we choose to , when we might have other thoughts instead . James announced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my life , " that he would assume that he had free will in Renouvier 's sense and that his first act of free will would be to believe in free will . Myers 's account of this famous episode of 1870 enables him to move smoothly from his one biographical chapter to 13 critically expository chapters about James 's views on consciousness , sensation and perception , space , time , memory , attention and will , emotion , thought , knowledge , reality , self , morality , and religion . Of course , not all of James 's beliefs on these topics are regarded by Myers ( or by James ) as curative in the way that James 's beliefs on free will were supposed by him to be , but Myers rightly points out ? as Perry did before him ? that much of James 's thinking was dominated by the idea that philosophy , if taken seriously , can alter one 's life ; and Myers naturally observes that this goes a long way toward explaining why he was so popular a philosopher and so important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to probe James 's views in psychology and philosophy with an eye on more recent work in both of those disciplines . His determination to examine his subject exhaustively leads him to write much that is informative and illuminating , but also much that is repetitious , scattered , and confusing . Myers seems to have read virtually every word written by James and an astonishing amount in the commentaries on him , but too often it is either difficult to understand what Myers 's main points are , or it is all too easy to do so because he keeps making them over and over again . This is especially true when Myers treats certain sections of James 's two-volume masterwork , Principles of Psychology ( 1890 ) . While discussing these sections , Myers often drives his reader to the writings of James himself , not only for enlightenment about what Myers is trying to say but also for comic relief . After all , how many psychologists illustrate their ideas by pointing to the similarity between the sounds of " Pas de lieu Rhine que nous " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Myers can at times be repetitive and verbose , many readers of his book will take to paddling through it selectively . They may feet quite justified , for example , in seeking other waters after reading : " When James said , ' Space is really an indeterminate vastness , ' what did he mean ? Because his treatment of this topic is minimal , we must conjecture somewhat . " A conscientious reader should feel only minimally guilty about letting Myers conjecture here by himself , for even such a reader , like a reviewer who is not granted an indeterminate vastness of space , will prefer to concentrate on more central ideas that worried James throughout his philosophical life . Although James is now the subject of renewed and energet-ic attention , when I was a stu-dent he was not regarded as a philosopher to be reckoned with very seriously . He was ac-knowledged to be a fascinating figure in the history of Ameri-can thought , the author of a great work in psychology , a delightful stylist , and a remark-ably generous man , but in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and John Dewey , at . least in the philosophical circles in which I traveled . Peirce was celebrated in those days as the anticipator of logical positivism , and as the author of a version of pragmatism that was thought to be superior to that of James ; Dewey was widely heralded as a theorist of in-quiry , as a philosopher of progressive education , and as a liberal political think-er whose ideas counted more heavily than James 's in the world of action . Influ-enced in part by such views and attitudes , I did not come to realize James 's greatness as a philosopher until the late 1940s ; and now , stimulated by Myers 's rich and im-posing work , I want to focus on some of 26 THE NEW REPUBLIC J , 313105 'S philosophical views that I think deserve special emphasis today , I N MY OPINION , James 's greatest contribution was to lay special emphasis on the role of experience and of emotion in his reflections on the tasks of science , philosophy , and religion ; and , as he grew older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what he called intellectualism or rationalism . Yet in Principles at Psychology , James made many concessions to rationalism . He spoke there of abstract ideas or universals , such as redness and blueness as the meanings of the predicates " red " and " blue " ; and he maintained that some statements , such as " No red thing is blue , " may be seen to be true merely by inspecting these abstract ideas or meanings , and without observing concrete physical objects . Accordingly , he was in some parts of his writing a dualist who thought that there were two radically different kinds of truths , some of them a priori and necessary because they do not require testing by sensory experience , and others a posteriori and contingent because they do . The truths of pure mathematics , he often said , fail into the first group , whereas the truths of natural science fall into the other . But there is an opposing strand of thought in James 's Pragmatism ( 1907 ) , a strand to which I think Myers pays insufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adumbrated an epistemology that serves to undermine his own dualism of a priori and a posteriori truth , even though he subscribed to the very same dualism in other parts of the work . At one point in Pragmatism James observes that every individual who settles into a new opinion comes to it with a stock of old opinions , and that sometimes a new opinion will emerge after a new experience subjects the stock to a strain . The new experience means trouble for the inquirer , who tries to escape from it by modifying the stock . But , James continues , he does so by trying to change opinions that resist change variously . Some of them , James says , are held very firmly , and are abandoned late in the day if at all ; others are more quickly surrendered . When James speaks in this way , he seems to replace his sharp distinction of kind between a priori and a posteriori truth with a gradualistic distinction , or a distinction of degree . According to this sort of distinction , even the supposedly necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he neces sary and immutable . To use James 's own word , they are " plastic , " in the sense of pliable ; some of them are what he called " older truths , " to which we remain loyal but which we may alter or surrender if the need to deal with the challenge of experience becomes pressing enough . According to this strand in James 's philosophy , the process of coming to regard a new opinion as true is one in which we seek to Find an opinion that will mediate between the old stock and the new experience ; and in this process any belief in the old stock , even one in mathematics , logic , or metaphysics , is at the mercy of experience . If we focus on this anti-dualistic element in James 's wobbly thinking on this subject , we can see how he anticipated ideas advanced by philosophers in our own time who have attacked the positivistic distinction between analytic and synthetic truth . And if , in the same spirit , we emphasize that in his gradualistic moods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are analyzed in so-called analytic statements , we may better appreciate why James sometimes insisted , as Myers points out , that his pragmatic theory of truth was not an effort to define the essence of truth , or to but rather a " genetic " theory that specifies the motives that impel us to apply the word " true . " 1f ? in spite of some of James 's own misleading words ? we approach his theory of truth in this way , we can better understand why he regarded the believer as " a whole man " whose emotions play a part in deciding what beliefs to accept as true . When James says that a new experience will stimulate an individual to accept a belief that conveniently " marries " that new experience with a stock of old opinions , James construes the notion of new experience very broadly . Such an experience , he says , occurs when somebody contradicts the old opinions , or when the individual discovers in a reflective moment that they contradict each other , or when the individual " hears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when " desires arise in him which they cease to satisfy . " Note well that last clause about unsatisfied desires , since it is an opening wedge for emotion in James 's views on science , metaphysics , and religion . When discussing the method of science , James says that if two new opinions or theories that accommodate a new sensory experience are equally compatible with our previous stock of beliefs , we may accept one of them simply because the other fails to satisfy our desire for elegance , simplicity , or economy . His inclusion of taste or elegance as a claimant in the process of deciding which of " two equally well-evidenced " opinions to accept could hardly have outraged students of scientific method among his readers . But James went much further . After noting the desire for scientific elegance in his discussion of the process of accepting beliefs , he militantly argued that all sorts of beliefs could he granted respectability under license of other emotions ? chiefly certain metaphysical and religious beliefs that 19th-century positivists and agnostics such as Huxley and Clifford had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its philosophy . J AMES PUSHED HARD on this opening wedge as he pressed the claims of " the whole man within us . " Probably the most brilliant example of his use of such pressure occurred in his discussion of free will after Renouvier had supposedly awakened him from his neurotic slumbers . James held that our choices are not determined , caused , or necessitated , but he did not think that he could defend his view by using sensory experience or logic alone . He regarded determinism and the belief in free will as two metaphysical opinions between which he had to choose ? since he regarded them as incompatible ? but he held that because neither logic nor sensory experience gave the palm to one of them , he had a right to rest his case for free will on desire , passion , and emotion . James did not argue that indeterminism is a simpler theory than determinism , as he might have argued if he were choosing between two competing scientific theories . Rather , he confronted his reader with a vividly described murder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends that he would not refrain from condemning it simply because metaphysical determinism ? which his rationalistic opponents regarded as immutable and a priori ? asserted that the murderer 's choice was determined from eternity , because every event has a cause , which has a cause , which has a cause , and so on forever . James vigorously denied that determinism had to be accepted in spite of clashing with what he felt as a moral right , or even obligation , to condemn the murderer 's decision . He assumed that he could not morally condemn a determined decision , since he believed that condemning it presupposed that the choiceneed not have been made . Therefore he felt obliged to give up determinism , which was , in his view , not an immutable truth but a plastic opinion that could be abandoned in the face of an opposing feeling . By looking at the debate between determinism and indeterminism in this way , James tried to give the heart a powerful voice in a traditional metaphysical debate , a voice that he used throughout his life against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned the tables on the bullies . He argued that determinism was deemed by them to be rational merely because it satisfied their desire for parsimony , for an economical and simple way of looking at the universe . It gave them relief , he said , merely because they felt the charm of believing that every event has a necessitating cause . But , James insisted , it relieved him to think that a wanton murder may be condemned , so why should n't he pit his desire to condemn the murder against the determinist 's desire for simplicity ? Once James construed the bout between himself and the determinist ( or the advocate of what was called " uniformity of sequence " ) as a clash of desires , he thought that the issue could be seen for what it really was . That is why he wrote : If a certain formula for expressing the nature of the world violates my moral demand , I shall feel as free to throw it overboard , or at Least to doubt it , as if it disappointed my demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being , so far as I can see , quite as subjective and emotional as the other is . Since I think that James 's main philosophical contribution was to urge that we may follow the lead of emotion when logic or experience can not decide between conflicting beliefs , I think it fair to ask whether he was correct in identifying the cases in which logic or experience can not decide , the cases in which we may appeal to emotion or feeling . Few scientists would deny that they often can not choose between competing theories on the basis of logic or sensory experience alone , and that in such cases they may , while they respect their feelings , choose the more elegant theory . Yet in spite of the long history of controversy about free will , and in spite of the failure of metaphysicians to agree on that subject after more than 20 centuries of debate , many still think that the issue can be settled in a knockdown way merely by logical analysis , and without appealing to moral feelings . I think thatthey are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right one , not because I accept James 's indeterminism but because I think he was right in urging that metaphysicians ought not decide whether to accept determinism without respecting the feeling that we have a right or an obligation to judge an act such as the Holocaust or the atom bombing of Japan . I happen to doubt that respect for this moral feeling will of itself spell decisive victory for the indeterminist . Still , like James , 1 think that this feeling is relevant in the debate between determinism and free will . Determinism , like any other plastic opinion , may be abandoned by one who thinks that certain moral feelings call for its abandonment . Moreover , this view of James 's helps explain why so many philosophers have contended with each other for so long without reaching any consensus about free will . Once we recognize that the determinists and the indeterminists respectively rest their cases on different feelings that move them in opposing directions , we free ourselves , as James urged us to do , from a misconception of what the real issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OTHER HAND , I do not think that James was equally successful when he appealed to feeling in theology , where he persistently pitted his emotional faith in the existence of God against the views of agnostics . His Varieties of Religious Experience ( 1902 ) is one of the greatest works ever written on the psychology of religious belief , but his philosophical arguments in defense of religious belief are distinctly inferior to his arguments in favor of free will . I have never been able to understand why James was so hard on Kant in Varieties of Religious Experience . James remarks on the strangeness of Kant 's saying that we should believe , for practical reasons , in a God of which no one " can form any notion whatsoever " ; James even goes so far as to refer to " this particularly uncouth part of Kant 's philosophy . " Now I certainly have no desire to defend Kant 's theological views , but it seems to me that when James argues on practical grounds for the existence of an unseen , supernatural world " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained , " he is not very different from Kant . I hope it is clear , therefore , that I have not focused on James 's antipathy to rationalism because I sympathize with all manifestations of it in his thinking . Furthermore , as Myers rightly reminds us , James appears to hold that the philosopher , unlike the psychologist , is concerned to extract " the essence of consciousness , " a task that seems to require no more than rational reflection on abstract concepts . Myers also points out that the radical empiricism advanced by James at the end of his life was an effort " to analyze consciousness in terms of a notion of neutral experience , " and to show that " minds and bodies are reducible to pure experiences , both made of the same kind of stuff . " Yet how can we explain James 's adoption of this seemingly rationalistic view of the task of the philosopher , who is here supposed to extract " essences , " to " analyze , " and to " reduce " the notions of body and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizing that James was not consistent on this fundamental philosophical issue . There are , as I have said , two opposing strands in his thinking : first , the rationalism that is present in his Principles of Psychology and even in parts of Pragmatism ; and second , the anti-rationalism in Pragmatism ? and in A Pluralistic Universe ( 1909 ) ? that led him to say that in fixing our beliefs , we try to accommodate both our sensory experiences and our emotions without resting on any supraempirical insights into essences or meanings . I think that James 's anti-rationalism represented him at his best . In attacking rationalism he espoused a gradualistic theory of knowledge that led him to deny that there was a gulf between the method of philosophy and the method of science , or between the method of philosophy and the method of thinking used in ordinary life . J AMES 'S INSISTENCE upon such epistemological continuity was intimately connected with his view of pragmatism as a democratic philosophy , as a philosophy that could be of service " in this real world of sweat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophized not only about passion but with passion , while speaking out courageously on the political and social issues of his time . James was a Dreyfusarcl ; he was sympathetic with the reforming muckrakers of his day ; he was publicly concerned with the plight of minority groups , including American blacks and Jews ; he spoke out bravely on the status of immigrants , the care of the insane , vivisection , imperialism , militarism , the Spanish-American War , and the annexation of the Philippines . He was , as Walter Lippmann said in 1910 , the most tolerant man of his generation . And although he was often foolishly caricatured as a celebrant of American commercialism because he said " You must bring out of each word its practical cash-value , set it at work within the stream of your experience , " he also complained about " the moral flabbiness born of the exclusive worship of the bitch-goddess SUCCESS . " He was not a philosopher for yuppies , inside traders , or double-talking politicians ; and it is very hard to read Myers 's book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painfully aware of how many Americans , both young and old , have abandoned the November marked the beginning of Marianne Moore 's centennial year . In her lifetime Moore was a " famous American poet . " Those who read no poetry at all knew about the poet from Brooklyn who tossed out the first ball of the 1968 season at Yankee Stadium and who exchanged letters with the Ford Motor Company about naming the Edsel . The slim figure in long cape and tricorn hat graced the pages of Life and Sports Illustrated . But those who did read poetry often scorned this celebrity and the verbal theatricality of Moore 's poems in the New Yorker , But there is another , less well-known Marianne Moore , a poet admired by her contemporaries William Carlos Williams , Wallace Stevens , T. S. Eliot , W H. Auden , and others , a poet whose importance lies not in her impact on American journalism but in the many ways she challenged and led forward an American literary modernism . As Eliot said in his introduction to her Selected Poems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her time . The Complete Prose of Marianne Moore indicates precisely how broad , committed , and judicious that service was . Moore devoted a substantial portion of her career to writing essays and commentaries , interrupting poetry for many years while she edited The Dial.moral ideals of this great thinker and good man , whose word " pragmatic " has been so debased by callous opportunists and demagogues . Yet it is also very hard to read William James without being encouraged to think that someday ? and the sooner the better ? the candor and generosity that he personified will be more honored than they are today .                     