@@296139

Richard Stone 's first lesson in the delicate art of diplomacy was a rough one . In February the Administration dispatched him to persuade El Salvador 's leaders to advance the date of their elections as an earnest gesture of democratic progress . It was deemed desirable that the U.S. role be secret , so that the move would seem to be a Salvadoran initiative . But on the flight back to Washington , a Tampa reporter sitting near by overheard the former Democratic Senator from Florida and his aides discussing the mission . The reporter confirmed the story with a flustered Stone , and the resulting furor embarrassed the Administration and nearly scuttled the plan . <P> But the convivial and outspoken Stone , 54 , is ready to try again , this time as President Reagan 's special envoy to the roiling governments of Central America . Stone 's daunting new job , says Deane Hinton , the American Ambassador in El Salvador , will be " to wander around Central America and straighten everything out . " Although most State Department officials bristled at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career diplomat , one defended Stone as a " doer " with the proper credentials : " A great big foot , a thick skin and a great big mouth . " <P> The selection of the millionaire Spanish-speaking lawyer was greeted with restrained enthusiasm by many of his former congressional colleagues . Some were troubled by his hard-line ideological views , the same views that endear him to his Administration supporters , National Security Adviser William Clark and U.N . Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick . Stone 's work in 1981 and 1982 as a paid lobbyist for the right-wing Guatemalan government of General Fernando Romeo Lucas Garcia , a regime with an abysmal record of human rights abuses , also disturbs some members of Congress ; they fear that this connection will hurt his credibility with Salvadoran leftists . Reagan shrugged off such concerns , saying , " It just adds to the experience he 's had down there . " Despite the grumbling on Capitol Hill , Stone is likely to win easy confirmation . Said Massachusetts Democratic Senator Paul Tsongas , a member of the Foreign Relations Committee : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start off with a disposition in his favor , and nothing that has come out overcomes that . " <P> Born in New York City and raised in the Miami area , Stone is a cum laude graduate of Harvard University and Columbia Law School . Although not considered a heavyweight during his single Senate term , he was a personable and conscientious politician . He had a conservative voting record but , as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee , was a vociferous advocate of the Panama Canal treaties . After working with Reagan as one of three Democrats on his transition team , Stone was defeated in his re-election bid in 1980 and joined the Washington office of a major law firm . Last year Reagan named him vice chairman of the Presidential Commission on Broadcasting to Cuba .                     