@@494446

antinuclear demonstrations in West Germany were front-page news in the United States , this latest signal of the remarkably broad French consensus on nuclear defense was at least worthy of note . But the French bishops ' state ? ment , entitled " Win the Peace , " was excerpted only on the Wall Street Journal editorial page , the home of such dubious propositions as the gold standard and Arthur Laffer . The bishops ' message was n't dubious at all . They reminded the many in the West who have forgotten that " It is to avoid having to wage war that one wants to show oneself capable of waging it . " They noted that in the conflict of ideologies , communism is uniquely aggressive . They took care , as true defenders of deterrence do , to stress that deterrence must be used only for self-defense , that it must avoid over-armament , and that it be accompanied by con ? structive policies to reduce the dangers of nuclear defense . The West need not apologize for relying on deterrence , they said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aggressor by inspiring in him a minimum of wisdom . The threat of violence does not constitute violence . " We only wish that more people had been given a chance to hear them . CENTS AND SENSIBILITY : " Anguish and me are part ? ners . . . . The more I know the m ? tier , the more I live in anguish . . . to reach that new height . . . . I live like a monk . " Thus the artist . And thus his friend : " He ca n't eat . He ca n't drink . He does n't sleep . . . . He sits in a chair , shakes his head , does n't talk , does n't walk . Nothing . For many hours , for days . . . . We have to wait , that is all . . . . Then one day it works . He starts with sketches . . . . " You would not know from all this that the scene is the Fau ? bourg-St . Honor ? , circa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist is Yves Saint Laurent , whose clothes are receiving their just deserts in a retrospective at the Met ? ropolitan Museum of Art . And more than their just de ? serts , too ; the organizers of this show , and Saint Laurent 's army of affluent admirers , have broken creative new ground in hype for the occasion . They all speak as if what is hanging from the smartest racks on Madison Avenue is a product of late Romanticism . It is not the elegant design ? er 's fault . The real accomplishment of the event is to extol not the dresser but the people he dresses . It is an aesthetic apotheosis of society . The Duchess de Guermantes is in ? voked a lot . It seems that Proust may have backfired ; he made high art of society , from which society had conclud ? ed that it is high art . The giveaway is the failure of Saint Laurent 's chic customers to mention the element of his work that is as essential as his mind , namely , their money . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that the design ? er does for them . What is taking place at the Metropolitan is a confirmation of the central thesis of the society pages : that beauty comes with wealth , that the consequence of an enormous fortune is an exquisite sensibility . Alas , but art seeks a different sort of elite . Surely Saint Laurent 's silks and wools have lost none of their appeal ; but part of their appeal is that they are an island of imagination in a sea of vulgarity . THE MAJOR TV networks will spare no effort or expense to provide glimpses of the President at work or play ? to the extent of toting telescopic cameras to a mountaintop to catch him horseback riding at his ranch . The networks cover Congress almost as an afterthought , and surely as a sideshow . PBS 's " Lawmakers " program has been making up for this dereliction for the past four years , providing a detailed weekly report on major Congressional activities and unique commentary on the institution and its mores . Unfortunately , the show has lost two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't or wo n't throw it a lifeline . Unless a major private under ? writer turns up soon , or C.P.B. reconsiders , " The Law ? makers " will die December 31 . If you are rich , you might consider saving the program yourself ; if not , you might write to the C.P.B. ( 1111 16th St. N.W. , Washington , D.C. 20036 ) . TWENTY YEARS AGO IN THE NEW REPUBLIC : ? " This is the time when the red kettles of the Salvation Army remind us that the poor are still with us , something many people would prefer to forget . Yet if the poor in America did not exist it might almost be necessary to invent them , because for years they have been used as the classic refutation of Marxism : instead of increasing they manifestly have been diminishing , whereas the middle class has grown . Now , however , it looks as though the poor are multiplying again as the Sixties move inexorably toward the Seventies . If this happens , it will not mean that Marxists were right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ( " War on Poverty , " The Editors , December 28 , 1963 . ) ANYONE who is dogmatic on the subject of quotas does n't understand it very well . Let me cite my own intuitions . I am very glad that some fifteen years ago I joined in Harvard Law School 's efforts to dramatically increase the number of blacks in our student body . Yet I find wrong the argument made in some parts of our educational community that increasing the number of black tenure track professors is far more important than maintaining the standards of academic and scholarly ex ? cellence which make the education worth having . I am not shocked by the New Zealand constitution , which guaran ? tees Maori representation in the legislature ( and anyone is a Maori who cares to call himself one ) or by the constitu ? tion of the West German state of Schleswig-Holstein which carries similar assurances for ethnic Danes . Both societies are , I am sure , admirably decent and democratic . Yet I feel no such tolerance for the attempts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mold by making the success of black candidates the measure of electoral fairness . ( And I note that the Voting Rights Act includes a clause specifically ruling out any requirement of proportional representation . ) That the President should make special efforts to find blacks or Hispanics ( or , for that matter , women ) to fill high government posts seems to me reasonable . However , the commission given by a 1969 Executive Order to something called the Office of Federal Contract Compliance to enforce racial and gender goals and timetables on virtually anyone who does business with the federal government ( i.e. , most substantial and many smaller private businesses and institutions ) seems to me to have brought forth a system of regulation at once mindless , complex , intrusive , and administered by one of the least competent bureaucracies in the federal govern ? ment . Is it possible to discern any pattern and principle in this tangled and troubled area ? CRUCIAL , I think are the distinctions between public and private , and between rights and aspirations . The power of government should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on private institutions and persons primarily to assure that we treat each other justly ? and that includes not making discriminations implying the inferior worth and dignity of any person . Now if you go on to choose a black associate for the very purpose of proclaiming this equal dignity of all persons or of confounding bigotry , you go further than justice requires , and you use the discretion which is your right to promote one goal among the many a decent man or woman may pursue . It is at the heart of politics ? in the best sense ? to make such choices , to order priorities and to proclaim national aspirations . That is why Presidents make special efforts to appoint black or women judges and visit black churches . But it is the essence of a liberal state to allow private persons and private institu ? tions to pursue their own goals , order their own priorities , so long as they do so fairly and decently . Thus the battle over quotas implies several different controversies . One is a political controversy about national priorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I suspect that this President has not made more senior black appointments solely because of the relative paucity of blacks in public life who share the rest of his political views . And I suppose it is a matter of priorities how far he will compromise these views to make a statement I am sure he would dearly love to make . Now it is a fair ques ? tion whether our aspirations for justice are indeed ever best proclaimed by manifestly choosing persons because they belong to a particular race , even a race which is the object of bigotry . But passing that question , there still remains the issue whether a black chosen on such a basis enjoys his advantages as a right . And here is the crux of the argument about quotas . If these preferences in reverse discrimination arise from as ? pirations only and not as a matter of right , then the impo ? sition of quotas , goals , and timetables by government on private institutions represents an assertion of state powerwith major implications , implications which I believe should be resisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it insists that language instructors have Ph.D . degrees , thus failing to attain some numerical pro ? portion of minority teachers in its Romance language de ? partment ? Or does a manufacturer of laboratory equip ? ment violate rights in requiring certain educational attainments of its technicians with the same demographic effect ? If these criteria are not used by employers for the purpose of excluding members of minority groups , then to demand that employers override their own sense of how to run their institutions in order that they attain a fixed racial proportion is to assert a general power in the state to draft the private sector in pursuit of the state 's goals . And thus what starts out as a demand for the simple justice of nondiscrimination ends up ? if nondiscrimination does not deliver the numbers soon enough ? as a claim to re ? make the substantive goals of universities and businesses . In order to satisfy the newly constituted , frankly political goals , the sums must come out right . Now as everyone knows , governmental priorities are implemented throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inducements , scarcely veiled threats , and direct commands . Defense contracts ? a notorious ex ? ample ? are let to firms in favored regions , and tax incen ? tives distort investment decisions in so many ways that it is hard to know where the fiscally neutral benchmark might be . So an absolutist argument about public and private , inducement and coercion , is obviously not avail ? able . But it is a non sequitur of major proportions to pass from this demonstration of nonvirginity to a charge of total promiscuity . I IS AN IMPORTANT feature of our national life that private institutions enjoy a large measure of auton ? omy . And that autonomy would be no autonomy at all if not enjoyed as a matter of principle . As a matter of princi ? ple the state and the public put up with private individuals behaving in ways and pursuing goals which the majority may find silly or even wrong . Every assertion of power by the state , therefore , to fold private institutions into public schemes of public policy raises this major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not ? again ? some supposed " racist " tendencies which were at stake in the sorry mess about the Bob Jones University tax exemption . ) Intellectuals are in ? clined to recognize this issue of principle and to value diversity and liberty where it relates to activities in which they themselves engage , and so they miss the significance of a claim by government to socialize ( i.e. , to subject to public determination ) the terms and qualifications for the large majority of most citizens ' jobs , in enterprises which express the preferences and creativity of those who are not professors , journalists , or perhaps lawyers . A similar premise underlies another major thread in this tangled skein : the claim that goals and quotas are a matter of justice and rights after all . The justice , however , is not justice to the individual who happens to benefit . If justice is done it is done not to the individual but to the race . Now we might believe that in our political system all advan ? tages are procured by maneuvers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so for once the fortunate black applicant is part of a successful maneuver , a winning coalition . But that is not the same as justice . What , then , does justice to a race , not its individual members , mean ? Once again we are in the presence of a deep controversy about the status of individuals and groups . If an individual is merely an instance of a larger group identity , like a particular performance of a great sonata , then the idea of group rights peeping through the veil of individual entitlement has some force . The black vice president holds her job at the bank in the way an ambassador is shown deference at a state ceremony ? as a representative and not in her own person . If this idea appeals to you , you might want to consider some further questions : how do we determine what constitutes a group , who makes that determination , and how do we know who may speak authentically for such a group ? Should we perhaps have a legislature constituted on group lines ? So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of the propriety of governmentally imposed priorities or as an issue of group rights , some of the deepest questionsabout ourselves and our society are raised , questions which are deeper even than the issue of race which occa ? sions them . Politicians are not philosophers , and the most we can expect from them in these controversies is that they intuit , evoke , and implement a vision . Judged by this standard of fidelity to a vision , this President has done well . His positions have a clarity and reverberation which President Carter could never attain . If we look behind the posturing of members of Congress and journalists in the matter of the Civil Rights Commission appointments , we at least should discern serious issues about what we will be like as people twenty or fifty years from now . Will there still be private institutions to conceive and carry out pri ? vate goals , or will all significant striving be channeled in and through politics ? Will the individual still stand as the primary constituent of social life , the fundamental bearer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the groups to which one is assigned ? Will we be only creatures of politics ? DID JOHN F. KENNEDY exist ? The question is not facile . It is the natural response of anyone who fol ? lowed the nation 's month-long observance of the twenti ? eth anniversary of his assassination . From the scores of network and local television programs , from the millions of words that appeared in newspapers and magazines , from the books pasted together for the occasion , we ought to have been able to learn more of the man and the political ? cian , of the achievements of his Administration , and per ? haps above all , more of the meaning of the legend of Camelot to the American people now . With very few ex ? ceptions , we learned nothing at all . And what we did learn was that Kennedy has not yet been placed in the American mind : that the legend of Camelot has faded , and the reali ? ty of those years has not yet been grasped . USA Today opened what Adam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its " cover story " carried the headline , JFK : A MONTH OF MEMORIES BEGINS , with a predictable color photograph of the young Caroline Kennedy leaning on her father 's shoulder . From then until November 23 the floodgates were open . It is not curmudg eonly to ask why so much attention was paid to this anni ? versary . Franklin D. Roosevelt was a far more important President . But go back to the newspapers for April 1965 : they passed over his death twenty years before . None of my researches has discovered any brooding in 1921 over the assassination of William McKinley , although the fact that he was shot in 1901 by an anarchist ought surely to have invited many conspiracy theories . ( But then one must again acknowledge the influence of television . It is unlikely that the television series " Dallas , " a drama of violence and intrigue , would have been given such a set ? ting without the assassination ; one can not imagine a simi ? lar television series called " Buffalo , " where McKinley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me from his own investigations that in 1885 little was written to recall the assassination of Abraham Lincoln . Why were Ken ? nedy 's life and death so celebrated ? One thing can be said abruptly . The fact that Kennedy was assassinated is less significant in the memory of the nation ? there have been Presidential assassinations before ? than that the assassination at once became and                     