@@331957

This week 's cover story , on the massive influx of South American drugs into the U.S. , reports the ominous conclusion of a new Government study : the size of coca crops is increasing in countries that account for much of the illegal drug flow . TIME 's own wide-ranging look at the insidious traffic began last October , when Los Angeles-based Correspondent Jonathan Beaty undertook to find out how the trade had changed in recent years . Beaty visited Central and South America , where he had , as he puts it , " whispered interviews with cocaine traffickers in Rio nightclubs , a clandestine meeting with one of Panama 's most influential smugglers , and spirited political discussions with coca plantation owners in Bolivia . " But given the sheer size , profitability and economic importance of the dope trade , Beaty says , " it was n't surprising that some of my most secret meetings were held not with cocaine barons but with hard-pressed Latin American prosecutors or opposition politicians , who described the involvement of their country 's military and political establishment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pico Iyer , drew on materials provided by Reporter-Researcher Edward Gomez and on reports on the drug trade from twelve Latin American and Caribbean countries . Coordinating much of this coverage was Rio de Janeiro Bureau Chief Gavin Scott , who is responsible for TIME 's reporting in most of South America . His own travels took him to , among other places , Bolivia 's two-mile-high capital of La Paz . There he interviewed Deputy Minister of the Interior Gustavo Sanchez , the country 's top law- enforcement official , who has earned the enmity of cocaine racketeers and therefore keeps a machine gun handy by his desk . Mexico City Correspondent Ricardo Chavira investigated Panama 's role as a transshipment point for drug traders . <P> Another key contributor to this week 's story was Caribbean Correspondent Bernard Diederich , who has reported on Latin American drug trafficking for the past 20 years , first from Mexico City and now from Miami , one of the main U.S. entry points for cocaine . Says he : " From Mexico 's Sierra Madre , where I covered opium-eradication programs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which I visited late last year , the mark of the drug trade is the littered wreckage everywhere of smugglers ' planes that did n't make it . " The drug trade has apparently also wrecked the image of Colombians . Says Diederich : " A Colombian told me that because of the way U.S. Customs officials deal with his countrymen , he feels like a fourth-class citizen whenever he has to present his passport . Dope has marked every Colombian , even the law-abiding ones . "                     