@@487680

On December 22 , 1976 , Edward J. Nevin 3d was browsing through a newspaper while waiting for a train to his San Francisco law office . A reporter had just unearthed information that the Army had secretly conducted a germ warfare test over San Francisco in 1950 . The bacteria had been implicated in the infections of several people and the death of one . Midway through the article , Nevin read that the deceased victim had been a retired pipe fitter , a patient at Stanford University Hospital . He died there on November 1 , 1950 , and his name was Edward J. Nevin . " I suddenly realized that they were talking about a story very close to me , " Nevin recalls . As he learned the details of his grandfather 's death , he says , " I felt incredible shock . " Shortly afterward , Nevin met with some of his relatives : " Everyone agreed that the government had exceeded all legitimate bounds in its effect on their lives . " The sixty-seven survivors of the first Edward Nevin sued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year-before a Federal judge in San Francisco . Evidence was presented that the Army had blanketed the San Francisco region with a microorganism called Serratia marcescens and that the outbreak of disease Leonard A. Cole is a political scientist who writes on ethnic politics and the politics of science . He is currently working on a book about the Nevin case . had begun four days after the test . Witnesses testified there was a " strong probability " that the Army 's bacteria had killed Nevin 's grandfather . The judge ruled against the Nevin family , accepting the government 's contention that the relationship between the test and the death could not be proved thirty-one years later . The case is now on appeal . The Nevin trial offered a revealing look into the Arniy 's secret program of bacterial testing , which was carried on for two decades before it was ostensibly halted in 1969 . Worried about the effects of lethal germs that might be sprayed by the Soviet Union on an unsuspecting American public , the Pentagon had decided to unleash its own , supposedly harmless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their windblown journeys until they settled into the lungs of American citizens . During the years the Army experts were measuring air currents and the survivability ' of bacteria , no precautions were taken to safeguard the survivability of the millions of people exposed . The dangers of such a program were outlined by one expert called by the plaintiffs , Dr. Stephen Weitzman , who explained that " there - is no such thing as a nonpathogenic bacteria . " So-called nonpathogenic bacteria can cause life-threatening diseases , he said , especially in " compromised hosts " ? that is , elderly people , newborn babies , people who suffer from diabetes , lung disease , heart failure , cancer and the like . " In these kinds of patients so-called nonpathogenic bacteria commonly cause illness and death , " Dr. Weitzman emphasized . - Critics of the test were numerous , yet the scientist who had been in charge of it was adamant about its safety and importance . Dr. Charles Phillips , former director of the physical defense division at Fort Detrick , Maryland ( the Army 's center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he was concerned , Serratia marcescens is harmless . If he were still in charge , he said , he would spray San Francisco today . In saying this , he ignored mounds of evidence that Serratia marcescens can be a killer . Indeed , as far back as 1952 a secret memorandum prepared by the Army revealed its concern that these bacteria were causing disease . There is some comfort in knowing that Dr. Phillips has retired , but it is difficult to be sure about the Army 's present policy on so-called " vulnerability tests " involving bacteria . The Reagan Administration 's budget for chemical and biological warfare stands at just over half a billion dollars  --  up from $157 million in 1980 ? but most of its details are shrouded in secrecy . Only the high priests of the Administration know if such tests are being planned or will be renewed , and they are n't telling . Recent conversations with government officials and a review of available documents leave doubt that the public can discover whether or when it is going to be sprayed again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's commission on bioethics , under , present rules the Army could be spraying and the public would not know . At Senate hearings in 1977 , the Army explicitly did not rule out further testing . Lieut . Col. George A. Carruth of Over the years the Army 's germ tests were carried out in any number of ways  --  organisms pumped into buildings or ' sprayed into the street from moving cars  --  but one of the most bizarre experiments involved releasing bacteria into the New York City subway system . Thanks to a Freedom of Information Act suit by the Church of Scientology , the Army released its report on that test in 1980 . The document is wonderfully instructive . Replete with maps , tables and anecdotal bluster , the , seventy-one-page report details how the Army attacked New York City from June 7 through June 10 , 1966 . Bacillus sub tills was dumped into the heart of the subway system in midtown Manhattan during peak travel hours . More than a million people were exposed , many breathing in enormous numbers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for distribution by being loaded into light bulbs . Each bulb contained as many as 87.5 trillion bacilli . The bulbs were shattered on ventilator grillsin the sidewalks above the stations ? " When the cloud engulfed people , " the report says , " they brushed their clothing , looked up at the grating apron and walked on " ? or tossed directly onto the roadbed from moving trains . The experiment was a huge success . Everyone was breathing the bacteria and no one was ever aware of it . The report remarks in passing that the bacteria are harmless . But it cites no evidence to support that claim even though it finds room to list studies about aerosols and aerial warfare , details about the number of bacilli counted at various stations and a tiresome register of subway car numbers . The Army 's conclusions are in line with the rest ' of its Land-of-Oz experiment . The major finding : " Test results show that a large portion of the working population in downtown New York City would be exposed to disease if one or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a period of peak traffic . " The mind is strained to think that to reach this conclusion the Army had to expose more than a million New Yorkers to countless trillions of bacilli , at a cost of unknown illnesses , deaths and dollars . The Army report also suggests countermeasures against an attack using the same means , including instructions for police and subway personnel to " look for signs of covert use of biological agents . " ( Should passengers carrying light bulbs be considered suspicious ? ) Another proposed countermeasure : " At critical political periods . . . doors of coaches could be locked to prevent movement of passengers between ! coaches . " ( What counts as a critical political period ? Watergate ? the Falklands crisis ? ) A final proposal suggests " immunization of key personnel with vaccines available for potential biological agents . " ( What about all the passengers ? ) As to the bacteria used in the subway test : how dangerous is Bacillus subtilis ? It is dangerous indeed if one happens to be allergic to it , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very anything that classifies a person as a compromised host . Might such people have been riding the subways ? Of course . But beyond that , the exposed commuters became carriers , and took the bacteria with them as they traveled to their homes , to their offices or to hospitals to visit .. elderly relatives . One charming quality about Bacillus subtilis is that it can take on a nearly indestructible form as a spore , developing an armor-like coat that allows it to survive fOr a century or more . The Bacillus subtilis that was deposited in the subway system was in spore form . One may doubt whether , amid the dirt and chewing gum , a few trillion extra germs would bother anyone . But it is jarring to realize that most of the bacteria dropped in 1966 are still- there and may remain there into the second half of the twenty-first century. , - If few specialists now think that poses a danger , few in 1950 guessed that Serratia marcescens would turn out to be a hazard thirty years later . In the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surge of infections and deaths caused by Serratia marcescens . Dr. - John Mills of the University of California Medical Center estimated that the occurrence was five to ten times the national average . He wondered whether the 1950 Army test " could have seeded the Bay Area environment " with germs . We may be asking similar questions years from now about the New York City test . It is not likely that the people who run our biological warfare program , however , will be asking such questions . They seem to be quite sanguine about vulnerability tests . Larry Ware , the chief of scientific information at the biological warfare laboratories at Fort Detrick , has a soft voice tinged with Southern gentility . A microbiologist who has been at Fort Detrick since the early days of the open-air tests , he remains a strong supporter of the program . In a recent interview he made clear that people should not be - disturbed by such tests . Ware 's optimistic views , not surprisingly , parallel those of Dr. Phillips . " These organisms have never , been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marcescens might cause " some debilitation " in a terminally ill patient , he allows , but certainly can not be considered pathogenic . Ware does not acknowledge that further bacterial spraying is being contemplated , but " of course we ca n't tell all of our secrets . " He tries to be reassuring . " You are far more at risk riding the buses in Philadelphia , or Washington , D.C. , or New York City than you would be in those areas where we had exposed the community . " After a thoughtful pause he explains : " Because when you get on the bus in Philadelphia or New York , you 're going to be riding with a bunch of people -- the Chinese , the Vietnamese , the blacks , the lower-class Irish and all these people  --  that may have tuberculosis and never know it , and be coughing in your face , and end up exposing you-to a far more serious type of organism than what was being sprayed about in the air . " Ethnic considerations aside , Ware 's comment overlooks a fundamental ethical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of air they breathe . They should not be the unwitting recipients of however many trillion bacilli the Army may decide to deal out to them . ? 