@@324403

A death sentence draws fire <P> From the very first , the trial had seemed more a political charade than an exercise of justice . The defendants complained that they were unable to obtain proper counsel because more than 50 lawyers , fearful of South Korea 's repressive political climate , refused to represent them . When they proposed to introduce a long list of character witnesses from Japan and the U.S. , the request was turned down . Ultimately , the prosecution 's own case rested almost solely on a series of " confessions , " which the defendants repudiated , testifying that they had been extracted by torture . Thus when the four generals of the military tribunal in Seoul pronounced their verdict last week at the end of the month-long trial , it was a grim , foregone conclusion : South Korean Opposition Leader Kim Dae Jung , 54 , was found guilty of conspiring to overthrow the government and sentenced to death by hanging . His 23 codefendants , a group of Christian ministers , university professors and students , were given prison terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the swift , six-minute sentencing , relatives of the defendants burst into an impassioned chorus of the national anthem . Plainclothes police hastily dragged them from the courtroom . Kim , pale and wan from 60 days of solitary confinement and constant interrogation that he said had driven him to the brink of insanity , attempted to smile bravely as he was led away . The immediate reaction in South Korea , still under tight martial law , was muted . But the verdict evoked outrage in other countries . In Japan , trade unions and student organizations mounted a series of protest demonstrations . In West Germany , Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher warned of " difficult consequences " if the sentence were carried out and appealed for international pressure against it . Said U.S. Secretary of State Edmund Muskie : " We obviously have strong feelings about the extreme verdict which has been handed down . " <P> The show trial was widely interpreted as an attempt by President Chun Doo Hwan , the general who emerged earlier this year as South Korea 's new military strongman , to muzzle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kim had won 46% of the vote against President Park Chung Hee in the country 's 1971 presidential election . Afterward , in voluntary exile abroad , he became an active spokesman against Park 's authoritarian rule . In 1973 he was kidnaped from a Tokyo hotel room by the Korean Central Intelligence Agency and dragooned back to Seoul . He remained under house arrest and later imprisonment until 1978 . In the brief hiatus of political relaxation that followed Park 's assassination last October , Kim was considered the foremost candidate for the free presidential elections that the military-backed transitional government promised to call in the near future .                     