@@331253

The countdown to disaster had already begun . On Monday , Salvador ( " Doy " ) Laurel , 57 , marched into the office of the Philippine Commission on Elections ( COMELEC ) and filed as a candidate in the Feb. 7 presidential election . On Wednesday , Corazon ( " Cory " ) Aquino , 52 , did the same thing . With the ink on Aquino 's registration papers barely dry and with only hours remaining before the midnight filing deadline , there was only the dimmest hope that the two opposition leaders would patch up their differences and revive plans that had collapsed three days earlier to run on a single ticket . The possibility loomed that the opposition vote would be split in the snap election  --  and President Ferdinand Marcos , 68 , would be assured of victory . <P> By early Wednesday afternoon , Aquino and Laurel had each met separately with Jaime Cardinal Sin , the influential Archbishop of Manila , who has been a frequent critic of the Marcos regime . Sin encouraged both to subordinate their personal ambitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Laurel met at the house of Maur Lichauco , the sister of Aquino 's husband , slain Opposition Leader Benigno ( " Ninoy " ) Aquino . In just 20 minutes , the two candidates agreed to revive their deal for a unified slate . At 10:30 p.m. , Aquino and Laurel returned to COMELEC and re-registered . By agreement  --  and to Aquino 's obvious delight  --  the new papers listed her as the presidential candidate and Laurel as her running mate . For Laurel , there was the satisfaction that the ticket would be fielded under the banner of the party he had spent years building , the United Nationalist Democratic Organization ( UNIDO ) . <P> The rescue came not a moment too soon . Earlier that day , the 8,462 delegates attending the nominating convention of the ruling New Society Movement ( K.B.L. ) had assembled at the Manila Hotel to submit the party 's nominations for the presidency . As expected , Marcos ' was the only name offered . Formalities concluded , the President entered the hall , borne triumphantly on the shoulders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps superstition , he wore the same striped short-sleeved shirt jacket that he had worn to the 1965 K.B.L. nominating convention at which the stage was set for his first successful presidential bid . After the cheers of " Marcos still ! " had quieted , the President stepped to the microphone and launched into a sonorous denunciation of the opposition . He accused his political foes of slander , corruption , godlessness and collusion with " leftist killers . " <P> Then Marcos did something he had not done for more than a decade : he designated a Vice President , a post he had abolished after he declared martial law , evidently for fear that any understudy might someday try to hasten his departure . To the surprise of many , he picked as his running mate Arturo ( " Turing " ) Tolentino , 75 , a party maverick who was sacked as Foreign Minister nine months ago for espousing views " incompatible " with the President's.                     