@@432031

 | Only here on the occupied West Bank of the Jordan River does the enormity of problems working against Jimmy Carter 's drive to secure an Arab-Israeli peace become fully apparent . This contested region ? a mix of lush orchards and arid , rocky wasteland ? is the key to a final Mideast settlement . But talks with farmers and village merchants , with common laborers and city mayors make it clear that it is here that Carter 's ambitions almost certainly will be tripped up . Palestinians are virtually unanimous in their determination to cast off what they see as a yoke of Israeli military ? and civilian ? occupation . No Palestinian , not even in private conversation , believes that Carter 's mid-April meetings in Washington with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin will produce a compromise acceptable to the 1.2 million Arabs living on the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip . There is very little common ground on which the Israelis and Palestinians can meet . , Karim Khalaf , mayor of the town of Ramallah , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israelis do n't want peace . They want a piece of land . " The Camp David accords that were concluded in September , 1978 , by Carter , Sadat and Begin call for home rule for Arabs living in occupied lands . Palestinians interpret this to mean complete self-rule , leading eventually to independence . To Israel , it means watered-down , but continued , control of territory it seized during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war . Anti-Americanism is intense all across the West Bank , and most Palestinians are openly contemptuous of the Camp David agreements . The most  | damaging event in their eyes was the President 's flip-flop in first voting for a United Nations condemnation of the Israeli-settlements policy on the West Bank and then disavowing that vote . They view this as Carter 's naked capitulation to the Jewish population in the U.S. during a presidential-election year . According to Mayor Fand Kawasmeh of Hebron : " Carter is always talking about human rights . But is he talking about human rights on the moon ? Look at us . We 've been under Israeli occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent in the dusty towns and villages of the West Bank is increased Palestinian resistance to the building of new Jewish settlements and the expansion of older ones . Israel 's most recent move to establish two Jewish schools in this major Arab city sparked a near-total commercial strike throughout the West Bank . In almost every community , protest marches and the stoning of Israeli soldiers are commonplace . In one incident , an Israeli student living in a West Bank settlement was killed by Arabs in what many believe was revenge for the earlier shooting deaths of a Palestinian boy and girl who had harassed Israeli military patrols . Behind this unrest is the spreading conviction of Palestinian leaders that issues dividing them and Israel are so basic that Carter never can persuade Begin to make real concessions . A case in point is the dispute over control of West Bank public services and facilities . Israel insists that its security lies in tight control of water , electricity and roads , and it refuses to consider any participation by Palestinians . West Bank leaders charge that Israel is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Bank dependent on Israel . Here in Hebron , for instance , requests to build a new electrical plant repeatedly have been turned down . In Ramallah , officials have saved 15 million dollars to dig new water wells but can not get an O.K. from the Israelis to start the projects . There seems almost no chance that Begin ever will agree to Sadat 's proposal for creation of a single legislative-executive council to govern the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . Israeli officials in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv insist that virtually all West Bank political leaders are aligned with the Palestine Liberation SYRIA Organization , which they consider to be a terrorist group . Their fear is that if the West Bank were given full self-rule , it quickly would become a radical PLO-dominated region dedicated to the destruction of the Jewish state . PLO connection . There is no doubt about the close affinity of West Bank Arabs to Yassir Arafat 's PLO . Says Mayor Mohammed Milhem of the town of Halhoul : " We saw what happened for 30 years by relying on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , the PLO has done more to benefit the people on the West Bank than anyone else . " Palestinians here also insist that Israel must pull its military forces off the West Bank if autonomy is not to be a total sham . Today , Israeli military security is tight throughout the region . Roadblocks between major cities cause frequent traffic jams , and Palestinians on the streets often are asked to produce identification . " Nothing to discuss . " A Begin aide flatly rules out swift change in Israel 's military policy , saying : " Only we know what our security needs are , so nobody is going to tell us where to put troops . On that , there is nothing to discuss . " One of the most intractable problems involves East Jerusalem , the Arab half of the Holy City , annexed by Israel after its victory in the 1967 war . Palestinians make clear that they consider East Jerusalem 's 100,000 Arabs to be residents of the West Bank , not Israel , and they insist that East Jerusalem Arabs should vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But every Israeli government since 1967 has vowed never to give up control of the city . As evidence of this , more than 50,000 Jews have been settled in new suburbs east of the city where virtually none lived before 1967 . Now under construction is a 10,000-unit apartment complex that will complete a ring of Israeli civilian enclaves around Jerusalem . A circle of encampments further out also is being built . Another mine field blocking Palestinian self-rule is Israel 's radical religious group who claims , as does Begin , that Jews can settle anywhere on the West Bank because it is part of ancient Israel . Even if the government decided to halt settlement on Arab land , such organizations as Gush Emunim ? Bloc of the Faithful ? likely would refuse to obey . This tiny , conservative element led by Rabbi Moshe Levinger already has built one illegal settlement in the former Jewish hospital at Hebron . Enjoying Begin 's tacit support , Levinger vows to resist any move to limit West  | Bank enclaves . " Any government that does that is not protecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that happens , we have no choice but to fight . " Increasingly , Palestinians also seem willing to stand up to the Israelis in the confrontation over what they consider to be their homeland . Israeli military commanders recently warned Mayor Kawasmeh of Hebron that he would be punished if he persisted in what Jerusalem claims is incitement to violence . Warnings also were given Moslem clergymen in other Arab towns . To many Israeli officials , prospects of a lasting settlement with West Bank Arabs seem almost as bleak as they do to the Palestinians themselves . Although Sadat has argued that total autonomy is the only way to convince Palestinian political leaders to join peace negotiations , there is little indication that Begin has such a plan . In fact , Israeli officials disclosed shortly before the Israeli Prime Minister was scheduled to leave for Washington that Begin had no intention , in his talks with Carter , of altering his position on Palestinian self-rule . So far , Israel has agreed only to give elected West Bank leaders control over such minor , noncontroversial areas as schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even be discussed seriously , at least until the end of a five-year transitional period and that even then unrestricted statehood for the West Bank is not in the cards . To the death . According to one government insider : " One thing everyone ? the U.S. , the Palestinians and Sadat ? should get used to is that as long as any Israeli government is alive , there never will be an independent Palestinian state on Israel 's borders . " Despite hard-line attitudes inside the Israeli government , there is evidence that some thaw may be coming among a critical group : The Israeli electorate . One recent poll of Jewish voters found that almost half opposed the building of any more Israeli settlements on Arab land , compared with 35 percent who approved . A major reason for the opposition within Israel is the burden of governing the 825,000 Palestinians on the West Bank and the 400,000 in the Gaza Strip . Added to this is reluctance to meet the cost of new settlements during Israel 's period of 160 percent inflation . Beyond that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab land as offensive . As a result of this and a worsening economy , Begin 's political popularity has plummeted , and there is speculation he may be forced to call new elections . In the face of rising Palestinian militancy , there is little doubt that the half measures proposed by Begin in talks with Sadat and in his meetings with Carter will not be enough to ease increasingly dangerous tensions . As one Arab leader here on the West Bank sums up the situation : " Right now we do n't consider what 's on the negotiating table to be even a good first step . We need a miracle , or everybody will soon wonder where all the Palestinian moderates went and where all the riots came from . "                     