@@327285

After three days of intense , sometimes emotional debate , the time had come to vote . Normally , delegates in the U.N . General Assembly cast their ballots electronically , pushing buttons at their desks and watching the results  --  green for yes , red for no  --  wink up instantly on two display boards overlooking the hall . This time , 18 Arab countries insisted on a voice vote as well . By a draw of lots , Britain went first , and abstained . Next came Uruguay , with a decisive si . Soon there was a oui and a da , then the Arabic assent na'am . As the U.N . ' s six official languages rang out , a chuckle began to rumble through the chamber . The exhausted delegates seemed to have found a release for pent-up tension in the very sounds they were hearing . By the time China offered the Mandarin affirmative zan cheng , the chuckles had widened into open laughter . <P> Despite the nervous mirth , the vote was thoroughly earnest . By a resounding count of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal to grant a visa to Yasser Arafat so that he could address the General Assembly . The Arab- sponsored resolution gave Washington 24 hours to " reconsider and reverse " its decision . As expected , Secretary of State George Shultz , who made the decision in the first place , refused to yield , reasserting that Arafat , as chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization , was an " accessory " to terrorism and consequently barred under American law from entering the U.S. Two days later the General Assembly passed a second resolution , by a vote of 154 to 2 , announcing a plenary session in Geneva , Dec. 13 through 15 , for the express purpose of hearing Arafat speak . <P> For the P.L.O. , the timing could not be more favorable . The meeting will come only a week before the first anniversary of the Palestinian intifadeh in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip . That uprising , more than any other event , has thrust the Palestinian issue to the forefront of the international agenda . Just as repressive Israeli measures altered some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cause , Shultz 's refusal to grant a visa put Arafat in the headlines and renewed debate on whether the U.S. should acknowledge the P.L.O . as the sole representative of the Palestinian people . <P> If Shultz intended to depict Arafat as a common terrorist , he failed . Arafat emerged from the confrontation with his reputation enhanced  --  as something of a martyr to Shultz 's intransigence . If the Secretary sought to deny Arafat the kind of prominence that a U.N . visit would bring , he produced the opposite : a publicity bonanza for the chairman . " Had the U.S. let him come , he would have been news for a day or two , " said an Arab diplomat . " Now he will be a hot news item for weeks . " When the General Assembly convenes in Geneva , Arafat can expect to bask in the warmth of considerable international sympathy and unified Arab support .                     