@@432039

 | The Church of England was shocked , a century and a half ago , when a group of Oxford dons led by John Henry Newman published a series of tracts demanding that Anglicans return to sacrament and apostolic authority ? trademarks of the Roman Catholic Church . After Newman himself became a Roman Catholic priest ( and eventually a cardinal ) , the Oxford Movement died . Today dissident Episcopalians and disenchanted evangelicals are trying to revive the Oxford spirit in the United States . Their rallying point is the New Oxford Review , a thoughtful and often cheeky monthly aimed at welding Catholic tradition and evangelical earnestness into a new Christian orthodoxy . And their champion , appropriately , is Pope John Paul II . The Review speaks primarily for some 25,000 disaffected Anglo-Catholics who have split from the Episcopal Church over its 1976 decisions to ordain women priests and to modernize the Book of Common Prayer . It also voices the aspirations of evangelicals and former fundamentalists ? most of them college teachers and students ? who want more tradition and ritual than a bare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , New Oxford houses ? comprising student residences and chapels ? have sprung up on the campuses of Yale , the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa and the University of California at Berkeley . In addition , many evangelical colleges have at least a small fellowship of New Oxford Christians bent on adding sacraments and liturgical worship to their Bible-only background . " Episcopalianism is weary of its blandness , " says theological historian Robert Webber of Illinois 's Wheaton College , the alma mater of Billy Graham . " And evangelicalism is weary of its superficiality . " Like the National Review , whose views it often echoes , the three-year-old New Oxford Review ( circulation : 5,000 ) brandishes the banner of Christian " orthodoxy " in its monthly battle against trendy " modernisms . " Throughout its pages , liberal theologians like Father Hans Kling and Edward Schillebeeckx are assailed for teaching heresy , and liberal churchmen are condemned for sanctioning abortion or pop liturgies . Often , the authorities whom the Review cites with approval are such pre-Vatican Council II Roman Catholics as Newman , G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Church of England . But the Review 's undoubted paragon is John Paul II . " In moments of vanity , I think the Pope is implementing the editorial line of the New Oxford Review ! " declares editor Dale Vree , a former student radical at Berkeley . " . . . The Pope seems determined to revive Catholic authority and reunite it with evangelical fire . " Ceremony ' : The real significance of the New Oxford movement is the attention it has drawn to the campus reaction against evangelicalism 's emphasis on personal salvation to the neglect of church tradition and authority . " Evangelicalism is me getting saved , my soul and God , and me thumbing through the New Testament , " says English professor Thomas Howard , a convert to Anglo-Catholicism who teaches at Gordon College , an evangelical school outside Boston . But , he adds , " human beings are made for ceremony ? and if you chase it back historically you do find that the church was liturgical , authoritative and sacramental at the very beginning . " The yearning for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peter Gillquist , not to the Roman tradition but to the Eastern Orthodox faith . In 1968 Gillquist abandoned the soul-saving simplicities of evangelist Bill Bright 's Cam-together with 70 other sojourners , began searching for an authentic church . As Crusade evangelists , Gillquist complains , " we called ourselves an arm of the church , but we were really amputated . We would bring kids to faith , but then we could n't baptize them . " Today Gillquist is presiding bishop of a new " bridge " denomination the Evangelical Orthodox , Church , which hopes soon to become an archdiocese of the established Orthodox Church in America . " Our larding goal , " says Gillquist , " is to make the orthodox more evangelical and the evangelicals orthodox . " In these quests for a usable past , the New Oxford Review is not always a reliable guide . At its best , it exudes a childlike exuberance in demonstrating to evangelicals , who have a tradition of anti-intellectualism , that Christianity 's heritage includes poets like Dante and T. S. Eliot as well as pulpitpounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nostalgia for Christian orthodoxy leads it to condemn some of the most enlightened Christian thought simply because it challenges authority . In a Review symposium on the Kung controversy , for example , editor Vree endorsed the papal sanctions taken against the Swiss theologian and then added : " When the Holy Father has routed the last heretic out of positions of responsibility in the Roman Church ? and may that day be hastened ? his job will only have begun . " Magnetism : Meanwhile , if the New Oxford movement is to survive as a reconciling force , it may have to do more than praise the present Pope and trumpet the return of an authoritarian church . Yet the personal magnetism of John Paul II has made the throne of Peter immensely attractive to the movement 's Anglo-Catholics . The claims of the Roman Church , says Howard , " present themselves as almost inevitable ? so much so that I would be one of those people for whom the big question is whether I 'm not morally obligated to become a Roman Catholic . " In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the new Oxfordians end their search for a safe ecclesiastical port and ? like their nineteenthcentury forebear , Newman ? drop anchor in Rome . **25;266;TOOLONG                     