@@432097

 | The only thing most lovers of Bach and Beethoven know about electronic music is that they hate it . They think it 's nothing but burps , squeals and thuds . They think it 's impersonal . They think genius ca n't be programed , and they believe , on principle , that scientists should not mess with music . They would not be reassured by a walk through the Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics at Stanford University . Looming high in the hills above Palo Alto in a curved redwood building that resembles a grounded spaceship , the center has the most sophisticated sound system on earth . It bristles with hardware . But if the Bach lover pauses in the central listening room , he may hear some shockingly human music ? something like " Silicon Valley Breakdown " by graduate student David Jaffe , which sounds like a high-tech hootenanny . It begins with a banjolike A , speeds through some crazily fast picking , soars into a tinkling stratosphere and shoots with a dramatic glissando down into earthshaking chords ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jaffe 's teacher and the director of the center , " that you 'd get if you plucked the cables of the Golden Gate Bridge . " Today composers of electronic music have left behind the scifi sounds of the 1950s . They compose everything from the agonized to the playful , from the far-out to the mellow , from the highly formal to the improvisational . Some create only barrages of sound ? what serious composers dismiss as " electronic doodling . " Others , like Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen in Europe and Princeton University 's Milton Babbitt , were initially attracted to electronic music because of its unprecedented precision and control of sound . Although Stockhausen , for one , quickly succumbed to electronic music 's " coloristic " allure , Babbitt has remained a serialist first and an electronic composer second . Still others , the sonic artists , create collages of marvelous new sounds , in which sounds themselves are the basic building blocks of the music . There are no recognizable melodies , no sonata forms , no harmonic rules ? only an ever-changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electronics has created a new esthetic tradition in music . Lush : Such music is increasingly generated not on huge , expensive machines tucked away in isolated labs but on small , portable synthesizers that sell from $5,000 down . All levels of musical taste have joined in the revolution . Rock groups that ca n't read a note sweeten their brew with Minimoogs , Casiotones and other sleek electronic toys ( page 47 ) . Movies like " Chariots of Fire , " with its best-selling sound track by Vangelis , wrap audiences in the lush sound of synthesizers . Classical composers on both sides of the Atlantic are now routinely writing music that combines live instruments and prerecorded tapes . At the most basic level this represents a sea change in the way sound sounds . For hundreds of years music was a matter of established pitches and harmonic relationships . Then scientists cracked this sound barrier . Using devices that generate and modify sound electronically , they turned sound into a matter of its scientific components ? of frequencies and envelopes and the like . A note like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , acoustically speaking , 440 oscillations of sound per second . By varying the frequency of an electronic oscillator , that A can be changes instantly into an A-flat or any other pitch Thanks to electronic filters , it can be made to sound like a piano A one minute and a violin or oboe A the next . Besides imitating musical tones , the electronic devices car . also produce a vast array of completely nen sounds . Thus , instead of being limited to conventional orchestral instruments , a composer now has an infinite spectrum of electronically generated sounds at his command . As electronic technology has evolved , it has brought with it ever more sophisticated ways of tinkering with sound ? and fundamental changes in the music itself . In the @# @#  | late 1940s a French school called musique concrete recorded natural sounds lik , - dogs barking or rain falling . Then came the heyday of the tape recorder . By the late ' 50s composers had begun to appropriate oscillators and filters from labs . Because musical sounds are incredibly complex ? there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one cello note alone ? giant analog synthesizers cause into being that contained row upon row of these devices . Mimic : There were disadvantages to the original analog synthesizers . They cost too much , and they were too complex ; many composers fled from their awesome control panels . This problem was solved with the introduction of integrated circuits , which allowed small , inexpensive synthesizers to be built and played live in the concert hall . ARP 's and Moogs ( the invention of Robert Moog , page 10 ) proliferated like rabbits ; with their simple keyboards anybody could make music on them Serious composers , meanwhile , hooked up multisynthesizer setups . Electronic music boomed . A second major problem remained , that of the " canned " quality of the sound . Despite their complexity , the giant analog synthesizers were neither big enough nor precise enough to produce perfect musical timbres . " Composers exploited the obvious and very quickly exhausted the available sounds , " says Chowning . It remained for Max Mathews of Bell Laboratories to invent a way of producing even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed as a telephone-testing technique , the digital process ? subsequently applied to commercial digital synthesizers -- -scans sound waves at the rate of 40,000 to 50,000 bits per second and then reproduces any microscopic amount on command . It can be programed to mimic any sound known to man or to produce oddities like circular sound . With the arrival in the late ' 70s of " real time " or instant-playback digital synthesizers , the sole remaining handicap of computer music ? that composers had to wait as much as several hours to hear what they had programed -- was gone . The attraction of musicians to electronics is not really surprising ? of all the arts , music is the most mathematical . One of the earliest of the new scientist-musicians was Vladimir Ussachevsky , 70 , a director emeritus of the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center who helped establish electronic music in the United States . Born in China , he came to America intent on becoming an electrical engineer . Instead he switched to music and studied composition with , among others , Otto Luening at Columbia . " When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says . " I think the roots lie in my early interest in electricity , and in my interest in the harmonic consequences of complex sounds . " In October 1952 an uneasy audience at the Museum of Modern Art in New York witnessed one of the first concerts to include tape music ? works by Ussachevsky and Luening in which there was nothing onstage but a loudspeaker . Like many of his later works , Ussachevsky 's " Sonic Contours , " presented at the concert , is hardly threatening . It 's a delicate pastiche of gently tampered piano sounds that reflects Ussachevsky 's late-romantic Russian leanings ? and is , perhaps , the first lyric piece in the electronic medium . Ussachevsky and Luening subsequently collaborated on several pioneering works that combined live performers and tape . Improvisations ' : In contrast to the " academic " electronic composers ensconced in their labs were the rebels like Robert Ashley and David Behrman . Strongly influenced by John Cage , whose iconoclastic " Cartridge Music " ( 1960 ) with contact microphones was the first live electronic music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theater and performing . By the mid- ' 60s , Behrman was performing on simple instruments made with transistors and resistors . His music , and that of the other Sonic Arts Union members , was much more limited than the Columbia-Princeton variety ? " more like improvisations on sounds , " says Behrman . But their emphasis on performance , and their more accessible-sounding music , has had a lasting effect on electronic music , most notably on the New Wave composer-performers of today . For sheer musical flamboyance , no one can match Morton Subotnick , 49 , the first sonic virtuoso . Subotnick became intrigued with tape and electronic music in 1959 after composing a musique concrete score for a " King Lear " in San Francisco . " But I did n't want to do electronic music in the academic  | sense , " he says . " I was more performanceoriented . " He pooled his equipment with some fellow composers and co-founded the freewheeling San Francisco Tape Music Center . He also began working with California composer and instrument builder Donald Buchla on what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the first of Buchla 's amazing Electric Music Boxes . A portable studio-in-one , it contained everything that a composer like Subotnick needed to make highly complex music ; its touch-sensitive plates controlled every variable from pitch , intensity and attack down to the duration and decay of every tone . The records Subotnick subsequently made using Buchla 's instruments have an extraordinary energy and strange beauty that match their titles ? " Silver Apples of the Moon " ( 1967 ) , " The Wild Bull " ( 1968 ) , " Sidewinder " ( 1971 ) . By painstakingly isolating " inspired " bits of sound and then recording them onto a master tape , he created sounds that merge and dissolve and occasionally " explode " at the listener as if from a vast sonic distance . Today digital synthesizer music , which is rapidly taking over the field from analog synthesizers , flourishes in two discrete worlds . In the state-of-the-art computermusic centers at Stanford , IRCAM in Paris ( which Pierre Boulez modeled after Stanford ) and the University of California at San 47 Diego @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on exploring the limitless sounds they are capable of making and the way human listeners react to that sound . One leader in acoustic research is physicist-composer Jean-Claude Risset . " At first the acoustics book had just one recipe for each instrumental sound , " he says . " We had to learn that sound is n't steady ; it varies . It 's only recently that we 've been able to reproduce the sound of the human voice . We do n't want to replace the voice ; what 's intriguing is to try and figure out how to get with a computer the emotional response you have to the sound of a singer . " But the greatest recent advance in the field has been its movement out of the labs anti into the concert hall . It 's no longer uncommon for a conductor to point to a sound booth and have a computer tape suddenly begin playing along with the orchestra . There are novel ways of integrating the old and new ; Subotnick is currently composing a piece for the Juilliard Quartet in which a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made . Works like Robert Ashley 's video opera " Perfect Lives ( Private Parts ) " blend video and electronics and live performers in a unique high-voltage hybrid . New Violin : So far the new shift to live performance is problematic . Sophisticated instruments like the digital Synclavier are more suitable for composing and perform-ing dense musical structures than for play-ing a single virtuosic solo line . " A good computer always wants to do new things , so it 's hard to perform on it , " says Subotnick . But the day of the first computerized Hei-fetz may not be far off . Max Mathews has designed a new violin , resembling a 21stcentury crossbow ; Buchla has invented a bodyless electric cello ; Ussachevsky , now composer-in-residence at the University of Utah , has recently written a work for the Electronic Valve Instrument , designed by Nyle Steiner , which can mimic anything from a flute to an oboe to brass . So where , in all this flurry of instrument building and sound processing , are the elec-tronic and computer masterpieces , the Beethoven Fifths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there are n't any ? yet . Electronic music is only 30 years old , after all , whereas traditional music has hundreds of years behind it . But it has come along at a perfect time . Just when twentiethcentury music seemed hopelessly adrift between worn-out romantic conventions and esoteric serial music , electronic music appeared and offered an alternative path . It has brought with it an amazing sense of new territory opening up , of sonic worlds as yet unexplored . It may not be wishful thinking for F. Richard Moore , director of San Diego 's Center for Music Experiment , to say , , " The computer is to music what the tele-scope was to Galileo. " @#                     