@@338953

Plays with political agendas have largely passed out of fashion . Revivals of work by such impassioned advocates as Ibsen and Arthur Miller are often met with weary resistance , and few contemporary writers seek to emulate their manifestos . On one subject , however , the theater is ablaze with social concern : the deadly viral disease known as AIDS , which as of last week had claimed 4,906 lives and is worsening . At least seven productions around the country have dealt with its impact , particularly on the major risk group , male homosexuals . Actors from coast to coast have performed Jeff Hagedorn 's monologue One , which begins , " I have acquired a disease that means I am going to die . " In 1984 Atlanta 's Seven Stages Theater produced Warren , a portrait of a victim , which later played in San Francisco and Hawaii ; also in San Francisco , the long-running The aids Show surveys the effects of the disease on the whole gay community . <P> In New York City , two tense and touching works are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tirade at the supposed inaction of government , the press and even the potential victims , is off-Broadway at the Public Theater ; William Hoffman 's As Is , depicting one male couple 's ordeal , opened last week on Broadway . <P> All of these AIDS plays reach out to heterosexuals , both for help in combatting the disease and to warn that it is spreading into the " straight " population . The authors also wrestle with basic questions of the sexual revolution : Is it liberating to be a libertine ? Does promiscuity debase the spirit ? How does one balance momentary , if intense , pleasure against sustaining a lifelong commitment ? Is happy monogamy the ideal state of man ? But Kramer and Hoffman are dramatists as much as propagandists . What makes As Is and Normal Heart so deeply affecting is that they portray anguish and doom in individual human terms and enable audiences of every sexual inclination to grasp a common bond of suffering and mortality . Oddly , yet persuasively on the stage , both plays are also very funny . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes of a querulous but sincerely righteous gay activist . Audience members may feel inclined to tune out during the protracted debate over the direction of gay political movements , and Playwright Kramer belabors his belief that the proper response to AIDS is universal sexual abstinence , at least among gays . But he captures the panic and self-hatred that AIDS has unleashed . He dishes up highly imaginative invective , not least toward a character based upon himself . And he creates a complex , interesting romance between his surrogate , played by Brad Davis ( who starred in the film Midnight Express ) , and a New York Times fashion reporter , portrayed with appealing directness and believability by D.W. Moffett . The reporter , who contracts AIDS , speaks the focal line : " There is not a good word to be said for anybody 's behavior in this whole mess . "                     