@@334257

For a man who once publicly condemned Iran as a member of an " international version of Murder Incorporated " for sponsoring terrorism , Ronald Reagan was far more conciliatory in private . Perhaps the President 's most unusual secret overture to Tehran was highlighted last week when Hojatoleslam Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , the speaker of Iran 's parliament , confirmed that Reagan had sent an inscribed Bible as a sign of friendship . Rafsanjani gleefully displayed the leather-bound book bearing Reagan 's signature beneath a passage from St. Paul 's letter to the Galatians ( Galatians 3 : 8 ) . It read , " And the scripture , foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith , preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham , saying , ' All the nations shall be blessed in you . ' " <P> The disclosure raised questions about who delivered the Bible and just what the presidential inscription meant . Since Muslims , Christians and Jews all view Abraham as their common ancestor , the passage was apparently intended to show that Americans and Iranians are , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the inscribed book  --  an Open Bible issued by Nashville 's Thomas Nelson Publishers  --  was " almost certainly " delivered to Iranian representatives in West Germany by Lieut . Colonel Oliver North . <P> Speakes claimed that North , who was fired last November from his National Security Council post for diverting funds from secret U.S. arms sales to Iran to the Nicaraguan contras , came up with the idea of presenting the Bible . Reagan signed the book on Oct. 3 , 1986 , in the Oval Office . <P> The inscribed Bible was one of several apparently bizarre details of U.S. contacts with Iran that Rafsanjani first disclosed last November . Others included the fact that American representatives brought the Iranians a cake and traveled to Iran on false Irish passports . Like the tale of the presidential Bible , the accounts were at first dismissed as apocryphal by the White House , and have since been confirmed .                     