@@494682

SAVING THE ' CONTRAS ' THIS COULD HAVE been a time of high morale for the Nicaraguan contras and their American supporters . With congressionally approved military aid arriving at last , a training program under way with the help of U.S. military professionals , and plans laid for major new operations inside Nicaragua in January , this is the contras ' chance to prove at last what they can do . But the Iran-contra arms scandal has undermined the rebels ' support in Washington , even within the Reagan administration . When senior officials are telling the New York Times that the scandal is " probably a non-recoverable disaster for the contras , " you can smell the panic in the air . Is the situation recoverable ? It is , but only if the contras produce some successes , if the administration will learn from its mistakes , and if the Congress will exhibit enough forbearance to let the contras prove whether or not they can hack it . Some mistakes by the Sandinistas also would be helpful . The most crucial element of the equation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and diplomatically . Administration officials say that within six months they expect the contras to have 10,000 to 12,000 troops operating " all over Nicaragua , " except in Pacific Coast areas where Sandinista control is strongest . Specific target selection is being left to contra commanders , but what kind of targets to hit is being decided by an interagency task force in Washington headed by Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams . Abrams refuses to confirm that role , but he does acknowledge views on what the contras should and should n't do militarily . " I do not believe they have to take a city and hold it . That would be stupid ? suicidal , in view of the Sandinistas ' superiority in firepower . " The Sandinistas have 150 tanks , 12 HIND and 35 HIP battle helicopters , and 70,000 troops backed up by hundreds of Soviet bloc advisers and technicians . The contras will have no tanks or combat aircraft , only anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons . T HE ADMINISTRATION says the contras will have to succeed as a guerrilla force , engaging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time goes on , " including Sandinista supply depots , military communications centers , and headquarters of the internal security police . Administration officials will not say whether they are pressuring the contras for " spectaculars , " but contra leaders say they feel pressure . Everyone involved acknowledges the danger of overreaching and committing errors ? either getting clobbered or killing innocent civilians . A third of the American training for contra officers by U.S. advisers is said to concern human rights and treatment of civilians . The lessons are derived from the U.S. training program in El Salvador , where abuse of civilians is down markedly . Meanwhile , the contra political front , the United Nicaraguan Opposition , is supposed to start this month operating Radio LiberaciOn , a clandestine station reaching all over the country . The station is to provide anti-Sandinista propaganda and convey the promise that " when the contras win , Nicaragua will be a democracy . " The most important political message will be delivered by contra troops , though ? showing Nicaraguans that they can fight , remain in the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diplomatically , the administration hopes that UNO will become able to attract verbal support from neighboring countries ? at least to the extent of having them criticize the Sandinistas and urge negotiation . Administration officials insist they are not trying to produce a military victory by the time President Reagan leaves office , although some of them speculate almost openly about how many American troops that would take . There is little support in the U.S. military for an invasion , and there would be hell to pay in Congress unless the Sandinistas provided a dazzling provocation . Nor is there likely to be a sudden collapse of the Sandinista regime . The prospects are that victory will come slowly , if at all ? a process that will require patience . But patience is in short supply in Washington . If Congress were in session right now , there almost certainly would be riders on urgent legislation to cut the contras off . Democrats expect such measures to come up immediately when Congress reconvenes in January . Fortunately for the contras , however , the opponents ' first realistic shot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to disapprove the last $40 million of the $100 million it granted for this fiscal year . But a motion of disapproval would have to be voted by majorities in both houses . Then Reagan could veto , and separate two-thirds majorities would be needed to override . So the flow of money through the rest of this fiscal year is probably safe . Military aid was approved 53-47 by the Senate in August and 221-209 by the House in September . It 's generally agreed that the 1986 elections changed the congressional balance of power on the contra issue very little . However , if a majority of either house votes against contra aid in February , this will cause significant damage . Administration officials are hoping that the retirement of House Speaker Tip O'Neill and the elevation of Representative Jim Wright will reduce the intensity of House opposition . Still , only one poll has ever shown anything close to a majority supporting Reagan 's Nicaraguan policy . A Roper poll released just before the Iran scandal showed two-thirds support for some aid to the contras , but only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Since the Iran disclosures , the New York Times/CBS News poll has shown that 58 percent oppose contra aid while 25 percent approve , and a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll showed 65 percent opposition . O NE REASON for this is that contra policy from the beginning has been cloaked in clandestinity . The public was not trusted with the truth , and in turn the public believed the policy was something to be ashamed of . At times , it was just that , as when contra training was initially delegated to the dregs of the Argentine military . Then the contras became a project of the CIA , whose director , William Casey , consistently alienated his congressional overseers . The CIA was responsible for the harbor-mining fiasco that led Congress to cut off funding in June 1984 . Then the contras became a project of Lt. Col. Oliver North , who reportedly wanted at first to conduct an above-board international fund drive but was overruled because White House aides thought it degrading to have the president making charity appeals . It also might have interfered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the administration chose the covert route . Honduras never wanted it official that the contras were based there , although the whole world knew . The CIA got the program because the Pentagon did not want it ; the Reagan doctrine of anti-communist liberation fell afoul of the Weinberger doctrine of unanimous consent for any military involvement . But now , saving the contras will require openness . The administration needs to be clear , for once , about what its aims are , which means being clear in its own mind . At various times , the justification has been interdiction of supplies to El Salvador guerrillas , pressuring the Sandinistas to negotiate , forcing them to fulfill their 1979 promises of democracy , and simply overthrowing them . These are all defensible reasons , as is the notion of harassing , diverting , and containing the Sandinistas so they can not spread their revolution elsewhere in Central America . In the White House , Patrick Buchanan wants Reagan to go on the offensive and put the matter in stark , one-sentence terms : " The Sandinistas , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them out of there . " He thinks the country will buy that and Congress will be forced to go along . Other White House aides fear the president will lose popularity if he takes such a stand . I do n't think the administration can or should win public support if it is not absolutely clear that Nicaragua will be a democracy if the contras win . But whatever the administration believes it 's doing in Nicaragua , it 's got to tell everybody . And the selling should not be left to Reagan , Buchanan , and Abrams , or limited to the several weeks before a crucial congressional vote , as has been the case up to now . When the Carter administration wanted to sell its Panama Canal treaties to the public , and when the Reagan administration wanted to sell tax reform , there was coordinated planning . Potential allies were sought around the country . The only public support groups for the contras are right-wing ideologues and one neoconservative organization , Prodemca , which is self-appointed and badly funded . Last March , Prodemca rounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ads , but the administration did no follow-up to organize the signers into a permanent lobby . Left-wing opponents of contra aid have thrashed the administration in the propaganda battle on campuses , in churches , and in the press . The Sandinistas invite sympathizers and reporters to visit Nicaragua ; meanwhile , it 's still not possible for U.S. reporters to verify that the contras are getting human rights training . Once serious fighting starts next year , it 's imperative that the press be permitted to accompany the contras ; otherwise , Sandinista atrocity allegations will go unanswered . It 's remotely possible that the administration policy will be helped , as it has been before , by Daniel Ortega . A large-scale invasion of Honduras ( as opposed to the recent border scuffles ) might be used by the administration to justify U.S. bombing or invasion , or at least win congressional backing for the contras . But opponents of Reagan policy are warning the Sandinistas of the danger . Senator Chris Dodd of Connecticut , the new chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on Latin America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would tell the Sandinistas , " Do n't count your chickens . A Democratic takeover of the Senate does not mean that there is a green light for them . " He said , " I do n't know what the Soviets and the Cubans are telling them , but I hope they 're not urging that they take advantage of Reagan 's weakness . " Thus warned , the Sandinistas probably wo n't overreach . If they are smart , they will concoct an inviting new paper peace offer to further undermine American resolve . The administration had better be ready with more than a flat rejection . 