@@487900

t is generally agreed by experts on both sides of the Iron Curtain that neither the United States nor the Soviet Union could achieve a victory in a war in Europe and its surrounding waters . Although each side enjoys some advantages in this region  --  the Soviet bloc in tanks and artillery , the United States and its allies in antitank missiles and naval firepower  --  they are not sufficient to insure success in either a nuclear or a conventional war . Accordingly , much of the current debate about Soviet capabilities concerns its military potential in other areas of confrontation , such as Africa , Asia and the Middle East . It is in these parts of the world that war is most likely to break out , and it is there that the Russians are suppOsed to have made their greatest gains in recent , years . The Defense Department 's report " Soviet Military Power " devotes considerable discussion to the strength of Soviet forces in these areas . In military terminology , units whose primary mission is ' fighting overseas are called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warships ( aircraft carriers , cruisers , destroyers , etc. ) , amphibious assault forces and marines ; overseas-based ground forces and tactical aircraft ; airborne and rapid-deployment forces ; and strategic mobility forces ( i.e. , transport planes and ships used to carry these forces to the area of conflict ) . The armies of allies and proxies are customarily included in a nation 's overall power projection capability . , . Although these capabilities are generally given less weight than nuclear forces and European-based ? ground elements in calculating the East-West military balance , the authors of " Soviet Military Power " pay an enormous amount of attention to them . In the preface , Secretaryof Defense Caspar Weinberger warns that " Western strategic- interests " are especially threatened by the intrusion " 91 , Soviet power far from Soviet shores " and by Moscow 's " use of proxy forces to support revolutionary factions , and conflict . . . . " This concern with Moscow 's expanding presence in the Third World constitutes a major theme of the Pentagon 's study and reflects a growing U.S. preoccupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Soviet Military Power " tells us far moretabout American priorities than it does about Soviet capabilities and objectives . The most startling revelation of " Soviet Military Power " concerning Soviet power projection forces is that the Russians have any at all . With obvious reluctance , the authors of Michael T. Klare is a fellow of the Institute for Policy Studies and author of Beyond the Vietnam Syndrome : U.S. Interventionism in the 1980s ( I.P.S. ) . the study admit that as recently as ten years ago , the Soviet Union had no overseas capability whatsoever . With regard to naval forces , for instance , they say : " Over the past two decades the Soviet Navy has been transformed from a basically coastal defense force into an ocean-going force designed to extend the military capability of the USSR well out to sea . . . . " Then , speaking of amphibious forces , the authors note that the Russians now " have in hand , or are developing , the elements necessary to provide a formidable projection into distant waters . " ( Emphasis added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union entered comparatively recently an area where the West has long enjoyed a virtual monopoly ; indeed , it is the simple act of entry , rather than the size of the forces , that most alarms U.S. strategists . What forces have the Russians built up in this area in the past ten or twenty years , and how do they stack up against U.S. forces ? " Soviet Military Power " devotes considerable attention to the new classes of surface warships recently introduced into the Russian fleet . These include the Kiev-class VSTOLT ( vertical/short takeoff and landing ) aircraft carrier , the Kirov-class nuclear-powered guided missile cruiser , the Sovremennyy-class guided missile destroyer and the Udaloyclass antisubmarine warfare ( ASW ) destroyer . As the Pentagon study notes , these are large , powerful warships that are the equal of American vessels in these categories . But the , study neglects to mention that in their determination to produce modern , ocean-going warships , the Russians have reduced the rate of surface warship construction . As obsolete ships are retired ( many Soviet destroyers , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their service life ) , the total size of the Russian fleet will actually decline . The United States mothballed most of its older warships in the 1970s , and with a major ship construction program underway , the U.S. Navy is now expanding rather than contracting . ( One of the few revealing bits of information in " Soviet Military Power " is that the Russians have only twelve major surface warships under construction  --  compared with forty-two for the United States . ) Also missing from the Pentagon study is any acknowledgement that the Soviet Navy lacks true aircraft carriers . The Kiev-class VSTOL carriers and the older Moskva-class helicopter carriers are described in a section titled " Aircraft Carriers " as if they were equivalent to America 's multipurpose - attack carriers . But the Moskva-class carries only ASW helicopters , and the Kiev-class can carry only helicopters and a small number of VSTOL planes of limited range and questionable utility . Neither can accommodate high-performance combat planes with a deep-penetration attack capability like U.S. carrier-borne A-6s and A-7s . What is more , previous predictions that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are downgraded from probable to possible by the Pentagon . And , as the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff noted in their " Military Posture Statement " for fiscal 1982 , " the lack of sea-based tactical air support greatly limits Soviet ability to carry out amphibious landings against heavy opposition . " We find a similar pattern of exaggeration in the report 's section on naval infantry and airborne forces . The Soviet Naval Infantry is admitted to be " small by comparison " with the U.S. Marine Corps ( at one-sixteenth the size-12,000 men compared with 189,000 men ? " minuscule " would be more appropriate ) , and then is incorrectly described as the " second largest marine force in the world . " ( Taiwan , South Korea and Thailand have larger forces , with 31,000 , 23,000 and 14,000 marines respectively . ) The seven Soviet airborne divisions are jointly equivalent in size - to the two U.S. airborne divisions ( the 82nd and the 101st ) , but they lack the helicopter mobility and combat " staying power " of their U.S. equivalents . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Pentagon study notes : " While lightly equipped and not suitable for operations against a well armed adversary , the combat elements of an airborne division . . . could overwhelm the indigenous forces of a number of less developed countries , at least in the initial stages of an assault . " As could be exForce , the report fails to mention the Rapid Deployment Torce , a large U.S.-based formation committed to overseas operations , for which there is no equivalent in the Soviet Union . As far as tactical airpower is concerned , we learn that the Russians have , a large and modern air combat capability , most of which is committed to Eastern Europe and the Chinese-Russian border . These forces could be used in Third World areas adjacent to the Soviet Union , as they have been in Afghanistan . But because , unlike American planes , they can not be refueled in flight  --  a fact the report neglects to mention  --  they can not easily be redeployed to combat theaters elsewhere . And the 775 combat planes in the Soviet naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the combined U.S. Navy and Marine Corps air forces , most of which can be launched from aircraft carriers . Finally , though the Russians have a large and growing amphibious and strategic airlift force , we are not told that the equipment is vastly inferior to that of the United States . With 600 aircraft , the Soviet air transport fleet is roughly equivalent in size to the U.S. fleet , but Soviet transport planes are smaller than and inferior in performance to their American counterparts , and they lack an air-refueling capability ( a crucial liability that goes unmentioned in the Pentagon ' study ) . The Soviet amphibious fleet outnumbers the U.S. fleet ( ninety-three Soviet ships versus sixty-five U.S. ships ) , but even the Pentagon admits that only twenty-five of the Soviet ships are true " ocean-going " vessels , and the largest of these , the 13,000-ton Ivan Rogov , is no match for our 40,000-ton Tarawa-class helicopter assault ships . These comments do not , of course , represent a thorough comparison of Soviet and U.S. projection capabilities , but they do indicate that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pentagon claims it is . Thus , while there is no doubt that the Russians have a greater capability for intervention abroad than they did a decade ago , it falls far short of what the United States can bring to bear and , given Moscow 's lack of true aircraft carriers , could not be used against any well-armed opponent . To be sure , the Russians could employ the proxy forces of their allies and clients in overseas operations , but such forces have many liabilities and , in any case , could be neutralized by the forces of countries aligned with the United States , such as Britain , France , Israel , Egypt , Morocco , Pakistan , Indonesia and Thailand . *There is no evidence , therefore , that " the correlation of forces has shifted in Moscow 's favor . " Indeed , if we consider Russia 's loss of former allies like Indonesia , China , Somalia and Egypt , plus the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan , the evidence would appear to suggest the opposite interpretation . The Soviet Union may be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when compared with the United States , it is a relatively feeble one . ?                     