@@480919

On November 9 , 1984 , Arthur Ochs Sulzberger , publisher of the New York Times , inadvertently shed fresh light on one of the all-too-settled questions of American life : Who decides what is news in America ? that is , who tells us what we know about our country 's ongoing political life ? The enlightening occasion was a speech that Sulzberger delivered at Yale University , warning of new dangers to liberty in America . Silently and relentlessly , the Reagan administration was expanding official secrecy , intimidating the press , and constricting public access to public information . " The disdain toward the Walter Karp , a Harper 's Magazine contributing editor , is the author of Liberty Under Siege : American Politics , 1976-1988. press displayed in the Grenada action was part of a frightening information policy by the administration , " said Sulzberger . What made that policy even more insidious , he added , was that it had " gone largely overlooked by the general public " ? including the readers of the New York Times , which had covered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any inkling that the installments added up to a policy and that it was frightening indeed . Now the eminent publisher had spoken ; surely his newspaper would speak out , too . What could possibly stand in the way ? Is the American press not powerful and autonomous , famously accountable to no one ? is it not , as we so often hear , a " shadow government , " a " second adversarialgovernment , " a " newsocracy " that exercises , in the words of former publisher Walter H. Annenberg , " at least as much power in determining the course of the republic as the executive , legislative , and judicial branches set forth in the Constitution " ? Virtually every media study says so ; the entire political spectrum says so . Our press is " imperial , " says William Rusher , publisher of the National Review , a voice of the right . It exercises " perhaps the greatest power there is in politics : the power to define reality , " says Mark Hertsgaard , a voice of the left . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says David Halberstam , a voice of the center . And one of his five ruling " powers " is none other than Arthur Ochs Sulzberger . Who can possibly doubt CRITICISM 55 his power over the news ? He is a leading member of Hertsgaard 's " class of super-rich and powerful businessmen who ultimately controlled the U.S. news media , " a class whose members " have virtually unlimited power and can suggest , select , and veto stories whenever they choose , " says Herbert Gans , a sociologist of the news . Nor is Sulzberger a mere absentee capitalist . On the contrary , notes Rusher , he is one of the relatively few media chieftains who " still exercise a major editorial influence " as " an owner in the ' hands-on ' tradition . " Since " subordinates learn by habit to conform to owners ' ideas , " says Ben Bagdikian , former ombudsman of the Washington Post , and even " overreact " to them , according to Gans ? what diversity of opinion in America ? ? was it not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nearly four years must soon itself become nationwide news ? Moreover , on the issue of the government 's " frightening information policy , " Sulzberger had right as well as might on his side . As a matter of principle the press has a " constitutional obligation to act as a check on the government , " claims Tom Wicker , a New York Times columnist . It is " the vehicle through which we learn about government , " notes Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institution . A free press enables " a free citizenry ... . to play an intelligent part in the political process , " says Rusher . Yet here was an American president trying to prevent us from playing that part . What could be more newsworthy than that ? " The journalist 's role is to serve as an advocate or celebrant of consensual values , " says Daniel Hallin , a professor of communications quoted by Hertsgaard . And what consensual value could be more authoritative in America than democracy , which Sulzberger , armed cap-a-pie with right and might , stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What happened ? Nothing at all . The " frightening information policy " remained almost as " overlooked by the general public " four years after Sulzberger 's speech as it had been the day he delivered it , although the policy remained unaltered and even grew bolder for a time . Just three days be-fore Sulzberger spoke , the administration had proposed new regulations that made it a felony under the export control laws for a Defense Department official to " export " to his fellow Americans any non-classified technical information ? for example , by talking to a newspaper reporter . Heavy fines and long prison terms would await the public servant who gave his countrymen documentary evidence of waste and fraud in the administration 's waste- and fraud-ridden military buildup . To this latest installment of the frightening information policy Sulzberger 's editors replied on November 10 : " Casting a penumbra over all non-secret scientific and technical information will deny the Pentagon the benefit of valuable public criticism . " What frightening policy ? What policy at all ! The Reagan administration was not trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of underestimating its benefits . So said the editors of the New York Times , tacitly rebuking citizen Sulzberger . The mighty publisher of the mighty Times had dared champion liberty , and his own editors sided with its powerful foes by casting a penumbra of servile blather over their plans and ambitions . So let us start afresh and ask again : Who decides what is news in America ? he answer lies right on the surface , as obvious as Poe 's purloined letter . Reporters themselves know the answer , and talk of it candidly enough in their memoirs . Newspapers carry the answer in almost every news story they publish . What keeps us looking in the wrong direction , as 1 recently discovered while wading through an ample supply of media studies and books by working journalists , is a deep-seated linguistic habit . Instead of speaking of news , we speak of " the press " and " the media " ? corporate entities with wealthy owners , paid employees , profits , holdings , forests in Canada . And , thinking of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press " doing this or that which is exactly what hides the purloined letter . For to say that the press does things conceals the fundamentaltruth that the press , strictly speaking , can scarcely be said to do anything . It does not act , it is acted upon . This immediately becomes clear when one considers how and where reporters find the news . Very few newspaper stories are the result of reporters digging in files ; poring over documents ; or interviewing experts , dissenters , or ordinary people . The overwhelming majority of stories are based on official sources ? on information provided by members of Congress , presidential aides , and politicians . A media critic named Leon V. Sigal discovered as much after analyzing 2,850 news stories that appeared in the New York Times and the Washington Post between 1949 and 1969 . Nearly four out of five of these stories , he found , involved official sources . Had Professor Sigal limited his study to national political news , and had he been able to count all the stories that had been instigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of five would probably be closer to the truth . The first fact of American journalism is its overwhelming dependence on sources , mostly official , usually powerful . " Sources supply the sense and substance of the day 's news . Sources provide the arguments , the rebuttals , the explanations , the criticism , " as Theodore L. Glasser , a professor of journalism , wrote in a 1984 issue of the Quill , a journalist 's journal . To facts derived from sources , reporters add " a paragraph of official-source interpretation , " according to Wicker , for powerful people not only make news by their deeds but also tell reporters what to think of those deeds , and the reporters tell us . David Broder , in his recent memoirs , recalls that while covering the Democratic party for the Washington Post in the late 1960s he learned that the grass-roots rebellion against President Johnson and the Democratic party establishment , as he then put it , " degrades the Democratic Party " ? having been told so by his sources , that is , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , and local party officials . Covering Congress means talking to the most powerful legislators and their legislative aides . For 56 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE 1 JULY 1989 years , recalls Broder , the Associated Press covered the House of Representatives for scores of millions of Americans through daily chars with Representative Howard W. Smith , a conservative Virginia Democrat who chaired the powerful Rules Committee . Covering the White House means dancing daily attendance on the President 's aides and spokesmen . " We 're in small quarters with access to only a small number of official people , getting the same information . So we write similar stories and move on the same issues , " says a White House correspondent interviewed in The Washington Reporters . A dozen great venues of power and policy ? Defense , State , Justice , Central Intelligence , FBI , and so on ? form the daily beats of small claques of Washington reporters " whose primary exercise is collecting handouts from those informational soup kitchens , " as Alan Abelson once put it in Barron 's . Sources are nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puppets . They simply respond to the pull of the most powerful strings , " Lyndon Johnson once said . Reagan 's secretary of state , Alexander Haig , explained to an interviewer in March 1982 that " even if they write something that I think is terribly untrue , 1 do n't consider that it was a writer who did it . It 's always someone who gave that writer that information . " So pervasive is the passivity of the press that when a reporter actually looks for news on his or her own it is given a special name , " investigative journalism , " to distinguish it from routine , passive " source journalism . " It is investigative journalism that wins the professional honors , that makes what little history the American press ever makes , and that provides the misleading exception that proves the rule : the American press , unbidden by powerful sources , seldom investigates anything . Under the rule of passivity a " leak " is a gift from the powerful . Only rarely is it " an example of a reporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted in these pages more than thirty years ago . " Exclusives " are less a sign of enterprise than of passive service to the powerful . When Reagan 's State Department wanted to turn its latest policy line into news , department officials would make it an " exclusive " for Bernard Gwertzman of the New York Times , former State Department spokesman John Hughes recently recalled in the pages of TV Guide . Hughes could then count on " television 's follow-up during the day , " since TV news reporters commonly used the Times reporter as their source , knowing that he was the trusted vessel of the highest officials . It is a bitter irony of source journalism that the most esteemed journalists are precisely the most servile . For it is by making themselves useful to the powerful that they gain access to the " best " sources . So passive is the press that even seemingly bold " adversarial " stories often have the sanction of the highest officials . In December 1982 , Time questioned President Reagan 's queer mental equipment in a cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first such story given prominence in a major news outlet . Yet the story 's source , it turned out , was none other than the President 's own White House aides , who thought it would help them club Reagan awake . Without White House approval the story would never have run , as the Time editor involved , Steve Smith , told the inquisitive Hertsgaard . Five months later , with an economic summit conference scheduled for Colonial Williamsburg , the same White House aides set about repairing any damage to Reagan 's image they might have inflicted in December . To make sure that the President 's fictive competence would be the media 's line at the conference , Reagan aide Michael Deaver invited Hedrick Smith , a star reporter at the Times , to lunch at the White House in order to press home the point . This kind of source journalism is almost irresistible to a reporter . As Wicker tells us with admirable candor , " I regret . . to say I have on too many occasions responded like one of Pavlov 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House official ; whatever information he had for me , I usually grabbed and ran , " knowing full well that it was almost certain to be " a self-serving bill of goods . " Hedrick Smith , author of The Power Game , did likewise . " A few days later the Times ran a page-one story on President Reagan 's vigorous preparations for the summit , ' the Wall Street Journal reported . " But the real payoff was how Mr. Smith 's piece set the tone for the television networks ' coverage of the summit . All of the TV broadcasts conveyed the image of a President firmly in charge . " As Lyndon Johnson once remarked , " There is no such thing as an objective news story . There is always a private story behind the public story . " While serving as Reagan 's treasury secretary , James Baker promoted Third World debt policies that were profitable to himself . Yet that gross impropriety , though part of the public record , went completely unnoticed by the press for nearly two years , and continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as secretary of state . The new secretary had no sooner entered tional news is usually found in Congress . The powerful sources seen darkly through the glass of news are congressional leaders telling the press what to think and say about anything that happens in the capital and anyone who matters in the capital ? excluding themselves . " This is a well-known ' secret ' in the press corps : Washington news is funneled through Capitol Hill , " notes Hess , rightly italicizing a secret well worth knowing : that congressional leaders make and unmake the nation 's news . As long as Congress made aid to El Salvador contingent on improvement in human rights , Salvadoran death squads and political crimes were news in America . To keep well supplied , the Times put a local investigative reporter on its staff . As soon as Congress lost interest in El Salvador , in 1982 , the murderous regime virtually ceased to be news ; the Times investigative reporter ? Raymond Bonner ? was promptly replaced by a reporter more amenable to the new congressional line . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available to the press in the uncommonly graphic form of $660 ashtrays and $7,622 coffeepots . Yet this well-documented information lay in a sort of journalistic limbo until mid-September 1984 , when certain political leaders held a well-orchestrated Senate hearing on Pentagon waste . Thus licensed as news , outrageous ashtrays became common knowledge and struck home with extraordinary force . The entire country was so enthralled and appalled that the wanton arms buildup stood in political peril . Something had to be done to stanch the flow of enlightening news . At the urgent request of congressional leaders ( frightened perhaps of their own temerity ) , President Reagan established in mid-1985 a bipartisan commission to take charge of investigating Pentagon procurement . In typical mock deference to lofty presidential commissions ? those black holes in political space ? Congress fell silent about defense corruption . No official source remained but the Pentagon soup kitchen , which ladles out no news of Pentagon malfeasance . Once again minus its congressional news license , Pentagon waste and corruption disappeared into journalistic limbo . On matters of public consequence , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide what is news and how it will be played . Do we harbor a clear and distinct impression about national affairs Quite likely it comes from congres-sional leaders . " To a large extent , the reputations of Presidents and their top political appointees ? cabinet mem-bers , agency heads , etc. ? are made or broken on Capitol Hill , " Broder notes in his memoirs . The " news " that Presi-dent Carter failed to " consult with congressional leaders " came to us from congressional leaders . ( The truth of the matter was quite another story . ) Similarly , the preposterous " news " that President Bush was hap-lessly " adrift " six weeks after his inau-guration was whispered to reporters by congressional Democrats and " Repub-lican insiders " ? leading politicians of both parties . That is surely Herts-gaard 's " power to define reality , " and just as surely , that power is not in the hands of a passive press and its source-bound reporters . The myth of media power is nothing more than a political orthodoxy that conveniently masks the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our national news to suit their inter-ests . It should not come as a surprise that an orthodoxy so useful to the powerful ( not to mention flattering to the press ) has achieved Th the prominence it has . he passivity of the press is commonly ? and mistakenly ? called " objectivity , " the ruling principle of American journalism ever since World War I put an end to the Progressive revolt against oligarchy , monopoly , and privilege . The code of " objective journalism " is simplicity itself . In writing a news story a reporter is forbidden to comment on his own , or draw inferences on his own , or arrange facts too suggestively on his own . Yet even in the most " objective " story , as Wicker notes , nothing can he said " unless some official-enough spokesman could be found to say so . " In 1984 , the President and Congress were in agreement that a large voter turnout in El Salvador 's presidential election would prove that " a step toward democracy " ( as the New York Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massive aid to the ruling faction . The turnout proved large ; the results were hailed and Congress voted increased military aid at once . In the vast farrago of El Salvador news one fact was missing : voting in El Salvador is compulsory . What rule of objectivity kept the American press from telling us the simple , salient , objective fact that gave the lie to the whole futile policy ? None . On February 25 , 1986 , the New York Times reported , a presidential panel investigating the crash of the space shuttle Challenger proved incapable of explaining the cause of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's apparent insistence that the liftoff proceed on Jan. 28 . " According to the Times , the panel was baffled by NASA 's " changed philosophy " of launch safety and puzzled by its sudden decision to put engineers " in the position of proving it was unsafe to launch , instead of the other way around . " What went unmentioned in the Times story of official bafflement was a fact formerly known to all ? that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deliver a State of the Union paean to " America moving ahead " ( in the words of a Reagan aide explaining why the speech was postponed ) . What rule of objectivity required the Times to omit mention of this " coincidence " and so shield its readers from the blatant dithering of a presidential panel ? None , of course . There is no public information more objective than an official government document , yet " few Washington news operations have their own facilities for serious documents research , " notes Hess . Even when there is time , there is a ' shunning of documents research . " What rule of objectivity accounts for the shunning of unimpeachably objective sources ? None , yet even the most newsworthy documents disappear into journalistic oblivion at the mere behest of the powerful , On February 26 , 1987 , Reagan 's " special review board , " known as the Tower Commission , issued its long-awaited report on the Iran-contra scandal . An hour 's reading revealed a president obsessively concerned with , and intensely curious about , Iran-contra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of close personal advisers . To the press , however , the three members of the commission said exactly the opposite . In public statements , interviews , television appearances , and private meetings with leading editors , they insisted that Reagan was victimized by a " management style " that kept him in complete ignorance of everything blameworthy . That disgraceful lie , which in effect accused the President of his own defense , was endorsed at once by Democratic leaders and duly became the day 's news , as if the report had never been written . When the Iran-contra committees of Congress issued their report on the scandal , congressional leaders told the press at once that the whole sordid chapter was closed . The press did as instructed and closed the books at once on the most extraordinary abuse of power in presidential history . The report itself was ignored ; a wealth of newsworthy information , impeccably " sourced , " sank into journalistic limbo . The report termed Reagan 's private war against Nicaragua " a flagrant violation of the Appropriations Clause of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blazing headlines , was scarcely noticed in the press and ignored entirely by the Times . What rule of journalism dictates such base servility to the powerful ? No rule save the rule of the whip , which political power cracks over the press 's head . " Aggressive challenges to the official version of things " arouse what Wicker calls " Establishment disapproval " and bring down the Establishment lash : " lost access , complaints to editors and publishers , social penalties , leaks to competitors , a variety of responses no one wants . " " To examine critically the institutions and mores of government , " notes Leonard Downie Jr. , managing editor of the Washington Post , " might mean breaking friendships with trusted government contacts , missing the consensus front-page stories everyone else is after , or failing to he followed down a new path of inquiry . " Punishments need nor be draconian . " Manipulating access , " says Wicker , " is the most standard means of stroking and threatening , and by all odds the most effective , even against bold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political leaders do not scruple to use them . When Halberstam 's Vietnam reporting for the Times angered President Kennedy , his White House henchmen whispered to Wicker " the slander that Halberstam was a Saigon bar-hopper who had never been to the front . " Twenty years later , Robert Parry 's Central America reporting for the Associated Press ran afoul of Reagan 's State Department , which launched a whisper campaign against him , accusing Parry of being a Sandinista sympathizer disguised as a journalist . Self-serving politicians bully and threaten the publishers ' employees , hinder their work , and weaken their stories , yet almost no audible protest comes from the " super-rich and powerful businessmen who ultimately controlled the U.S. news media . " Slandered by State Department hatchet men , Parry discovered that , as he told Hertsgaard , " if you do n't succumb to all that , you get the line from your editors that maybe they should take you off the story , since you seem to be pursuing a political agenda . When the government attacks you , even your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the A. P. to the Pentagon beat in the 1960s , a young reporter named Seymour Hersh sidestepped its informational soup kitchen , found his own high-ranking official sources , andduly infuriated Assistant Secretary of Defense Arthur Sylvester , master of the soup kitchen at the time . Sylvester phoned Hersh 's boss to complain about the " little ferret , " as he was known in the Pentagon , and out went the inquisitive Hersh . The fact that his stories were impeccably " objective , " that A.P . ' s member newspapers had been pleased to publish them , meant absolutely nothing . The Pentagon had spoken , and A. P. obeyed . The obligation of a free press to " act as a check on the power of government " is checked instead by the power of government . Fearful of losing access , " beat reporters must often practice self-censorship , " notes Gans , " keeping their most sensational stories to them-selves . " Fearful of offending the mas-ters of the soup kitchens , they " have little contact with an agency 's adver-saries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become servile in spirit , like prisoners who come to side with their jailers . ' You begin to understand , " as 1 . E Stone once put it , " that there are certain things the people ought not to know . " For nearly twenty years reporters covered the FBI beat without reporting that the bureau was engaged in massive do-mestic spying under the transparent guise of " counterintelligence . " For ten years reporters covered the CIA without reporting on the agency 's own illicit domestic spying operation , although they surely had wind of it . For the " myopia of a Washington po-litical beat , " says Broder , " there is no sure antidote . " Were the power of the media anything more than a shabby fiction , there might be some hope . In fact , there is none . the political whip that falls on reporters also falls on the media " powers that be . " The publisher or broadcaster who allows his reporter to delve into the forbidden mores of government or to challenge the official version of things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says Wicker , " is likely to be denounced for ' irresponsibility . ' " His patriotism may be questioned , his advertisers roused against him . He can be held up to public contumely as a prime example of unelected elitist power , with what effect on profits the " powers that be " do not wait to find out . " All too many of them are fundamentally businessmen , " says Wicker , and nothing scares more easily than a billion dollars . After President Nixon assailed the Times for publishing the Pentagon Papers , " the nation 's most influential newspaper , " as Rusher calls it , grew so frightened that " we bent over backwards trying to cultivate Nixon , " in the words of Max Frankel , now the executive editor of the newspaper . After the Reagan White House publicly scolded CBS for its vivid prime-time documentary on the plight of the poor in 1982 , " CBS News management , " reports Hertsgaard , " began pressing journalists . . . to tone down criticism of President Reagan . " CBS was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telltale stories of political power and the national news media . On October 27 , 1972 , CBS News carried a fourteen-minute survey of the Watergate scandal as it stood after four months of brilliant investigative reporting by the Washington Post , which had dared treat the break-in as a crime to be solved , even without official approval . Elsewhere in the media , however , the story had been " bottled up , " notes Halberstam in his account of the episode . The rest of the press treated it as mere partisan bickering ; the Times , for its part , was still " bending over backwards . " Now , millions of CBS viewers heard Walter Cronkite describe in detail " charges of a high-level campaign of political sabotage and espionage apparently unparalleled in American history . " A second installment on laundered money was scheduled to follow . At the White House , a coarse-minded scoundrel named Charles Colson was in charge of intimidating the press for the President . The day after the broadcast he telephoned the great power-that-be William S. Paley , board chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paley did not stop the second program , warned Colson , CBS would be stripped of the licenses to operate its five lucrative television stations . A frightened Paley tried his best to carry out the White House order . His news60 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE/JULY 1969 people , to their credit , resisted , and a compromise was reached : the second show was cut nearly in half and substantially weakened . That was not compliant enough for the White House , however . A few days after Nixon 's re-election , Colson called up Paley 's longtime lieutenant , Frank Stanton , to issue a still more sweeping threat : If CBS persisted in broadcasting hostile news about the President , the White House would ruin CBS on Wall Street and Madison Avenue . " Well break your network , " said tyranny 's little henchman . Stanton suppressed his rage . Paley , deeply ashamed , told no one of Colson 's threats . Why did n't these two media magnates turn those threats into news ? What else is a free press for if not to help a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a president grossly abusing the power of his office ( which was newsworthy in itself ) in order to censor the news ( which was doubly newsworthy ) so that the electorate might not hold him accountable at the polls which was newsworthy three times over . In John Adams 's thunderous words , a free people has " an indisputable , unalienable , indefeasible , divine right to that most dreaded and envied kind of knowledge , I mean , of the characters and conduct of their rulers . " Now a ruler was subverting our inalienable right to dreaded knowledge of him . Surely that was newsworthy , yet it did n't become news . It rarely does . The news media in America do not tell the American people that a political whip hangs over their head . That is because a political whip hangs over their head . " The Washington politician 's view of what is going on in the United States has been substituted for what is actually happening in the country , " former president of the A.P. , Wes Gallagher , pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press enjoyed a brief hour of post-Watergate freeness . And why would Washington politicians want us to know that our knowledge of them comes from them ? That is the kind of knowledge that awakens a sleeping people , that dissolves political myths and penetrates political disguises . To keep all such dreaded knowledge from the rest of us is the " information policy " of those who rule us . And so it is we hear , from the left as well as the right , the steady drone about media power . rom the " frightening information policy " to the impeachable offenses documented in the shunned Iran-contra report , the private story behind every major non-story during the Reagan administration was the Democrats ' tacit alliance with Reagan . It is this complicity , and not the Reagan administration 's deft " management " of the news we hear so much about , that explains the press 's supineness during the Reagan years . As usual , it was Congress that was managing the news . " It was very hard to write stories raising questions about Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of an opposition party , " said A.P . ' s Parry , explaining to Hertsgaard why the press seemed to be " on bended knee " during the Reagan years . Congress , said Leslie Stahl of CBS News , " has not been a source for the press in the whole Reagan administration . They do n't want to criticize this beloved man . " Even good stories fell flat , said Jonathan Kwitny , a Wail Street Journal reporter at the time , because " there is no opposition within the political system . " When the Times , to its credit , reported on August 8 , 1985 , that White House aides were giving " direct military advice " to the President 's private contra army , Reagan replied at a press conference that " we 're not violating any laws . " Democratic leaders asked the President 's national security adviser , Robert McFarlane ( later convicted for his answer ) , whether the President was lying , after which they assured the press there was nothing to the report . And for many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " just went nowhere , " as Larry Speakes , Reagan 's press secretary , boasted to Hertsgaard . Even stories with eminent sources " just went nowhere " during the Reagan administration , because the political leadership in Congress , unwilling to challenge the President , refused to license them . For nearly six years New York 's Senator Daniel Pat-rick Moynihan charged in numerous speeches and Op-Ed articles that our present paralyzing budget deficits were deliberately created by President Reagan and his faction . By slashing taxes ( not to mention doubting military spending ) , they planned from the start to " create a fiscal crisis , " Moynihan said , and use that crisis to force the country against its will to reduce " social spending " for years to come . The indictment was truly grave : an American president conspiring to deceive the American people in order to achieve goals he would never have dared avow . The would-be source was impeccable : a prominent senator , respected , reflective , and uncommonly eloquent . Yet Moynihan 's indictment never became news , not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astonishing memoirs substantiated that indictment in dense and vivid detail . Instead of turning the former budget director 's memoirs into momentous news , Washington 's press corps attacked Stockman for writing them . " In all this torrent of comment about the book , " noted James Reston of the Times , " there is very little analysis of his indictment of the methods and men who are still deciding the nation 's policies . " The press fled from the story , Moynihan said , because " the political class can not handle this subject . " Against a political establishment resolved to keep dreaded knowledge from the country , not even an eminent senator can make that knowledge news on his own . For eight years the Democratic opposition had shielded from the public a feckless , lawless president with an appalling appetite for private power . That was the story of the Reagan years , and Washington journalists evidently knew it . Yet they never turned the collusive politics of the Democratic party into news . Slavishly in thrall to the powerful , incapable of enlightening the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press , the " star " reporters , the pundits , the sages , the columnists passed on to us , instead , the Democrats ' mendacious drivel about the President 's " Teflon shield . " For eight years we saw the effects of a bipartisan political class in action , but the press did not show us that political class acting , press , we scarcely knew they existed . So it has continued day after day , decade after decade . Our rulers make the news , but they do not appear in the news , not as they really are ? not as a political class , a governing establishment , a body of leaders with great and pervasive powers , with deep , often dark , ambitions . In the American republic the fact of oligarchy is the most dreaded knowledge of all , and our news keeps that knowledge from us . By their subjugation of the press , the political powers in America have conferred on themselves the greatest of political blessings ? Gyges ' ring of invisibility . And they have left the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics than any people on earth . Our public realm lies steeped in twilight , and we call that twilight news .                     