@@487005

With both presidential candidates running to  --  ward the center ( when their campaigns are not busy running negative ads ) , neither seems willing to own up to , campaign on or elaborate the core difference that distinguishes them  --  namely , the difference between the C.I.A. , which George Bush directed , and the A.C.L.U. , whose card Michael Dukakis carries . Consider that , as Speaker of the House Jim Wright pointed out , David MacMichael , a former C.I.A . analyst , told the World Court under oath that the C.I.A . ' s anti-Sandinista actions were undertaken in the hope that " the Nicaraguan government would clamp down on civil liberties within Nicaragua , arresting its opposition . " , , There you have it . The C.I.A . is for covert ac  --  tion , the A.C.L.U. is for civil liberty . The C.I.A . is in the disinformation business , the A.C.L.U. is in the freedom of information busi  --  ness . The C.I.A . is involved in the manipulation of the democratic process , the A.C.L.U. is dedicated to protecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires deception , the A.C.L.U. 's mission requires revelation . The C.I.A . believes that the ends justify the means , the A.C.L.U. believes that the means ca n't be disentangled from the ends . The C.I.A . takes it as its duty to subvert alien ideologies , the A.C.L.U. argues for the right to hear them . The C.I.A . plays the assassination gime , the A.C.L.U. opposes the death penalty on principle . The C.I.A . finds the Bill of Rights an inconven  --  ience , the A.C.L.U. regards it as inviolate . Even those sympathetic to the A.C.L.U. may be reluctant to frame a campaign in these terms because the union , after all , has only 250,000 members . To these faint hearts we say , How many members/employees does the C.I.A . have ? The answer is that it 's a secret , and that , after all , is the point . If it were not for Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and Tehiya Party leader Geula Cohen , Rabbi Meir Kahane might still be just another obscure Orthodox rabbi giving Hebrew lessons Flat bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two were van ' of a covert cabal that helped make the mil  --  itant leaderof - the Jewisli'Defense League an in  --  ternational ' figure and ' a ' force to be reckoned With in Israel : ' Shamir and Cohen were at the , center of a group that masterminded the league 's often violent campaign against Soviet targets during its heyday in the late 1960s and early 1970s , seriously threatening d  --  tente , according to'former J.D.L. officials , sources in Israel and America who were involved in the operation and documents obtained by the author . What 's all the more startling about Shamir and Cohen 's once-close relationship with Ka  --  hane is that just about the only thing that their parties and the left agree on these days is pre  --  venting Kahane 's anti-Arab Kach Party from running in the November 1 Knesset elections . With his popularity surging in response to the Palestinian uprising , Kahane could win as many as seven of the 120 seats , making him the leader of the third largest party in Israel , according to polls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the expected stalemate at the polls be  --  tween Labor and Likud occurs ? the Brooklyn-born rabbi would be in a position of considerable ( Continued on Page 42O ) ' 0 377535 6 Secret Economics t is impossible to know from the words of the presidential candidates , and from the media that transmit them to a dazed audience , that the United States is well into a condition of extreme economic distress . Most analysts who are not actively promoting George Bush 's election or defending Ronald Reagan 's Ad Ministration see a recession in the country 's future . Opinions . , , , ? ........ .... vary only insofar as its predicted date of arrival , length of term and severity . And yet Bush sings Everything 's Coming Up Roses ( unless they take it away ) and Michael Dukakis admits only " sectoral " problems that can be painlessly remedied by hard work , compassion and corporate-labor collaboration . Looking deeper into the abyss , many economists perceive permanent decline in America 's ability to control its own economic destiny as debt and deficit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks . More and more the United States looks like a Third World debtor nation whose populace will be subjected to austerity , labor discipline and circumscribed sovereignty as the off  --  shore creditors act according to their own interests , their own policies and their own whims . The real problem is not foreign ownership or investment in fixed assets in this country- as Dukakis claimed the other day in Missouri , when he spoke to workers at an Italian-owned factory ( 000ps ! ) . That kind of long-term investment is not going to go away , nor is it particularly sensitive to will-o ' - the- wisp course corrections by Eurobankers and Japanese economists . Rather , the danger lies in the mountain of short-term debt commanded by a few central banks and used by the U.S. Treasury to finance militarism- and to pay interest at high rates on the body of debt itself . By manipulating that kind of debt , America 's economic allies can in effect do what its political enemies have never done : decide how well ordinary Americans are going to live , how much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy an administration can pursue-indeed , how much democracy is permissible in American economic affairs . None of that translates well into sound bites , " hot buttons " or one-line zingers , so it rarely seeps into the rhetoric of the presidential campaign . And since it is considered political suicide to talk economic sense to the American people , the politicians have given over the task of policy planning to a small group of worried men who meet in secret to build a consensus for the " tough choices " the candidates are too squeamish to mention in public . Like new taxes . Like restrictions on Social Security , Medicare and- other welfare entitlements . Like measures for restraining consumption and encouraging saving . Like methods for easing the in  --  evitable slide into the next recession and cushioning the trauma of unemployment . In other words , they are drawing the outlines for the " new austerity " that will surely mark the next Administration , as greed and profligacy characterized the one now ending . The vehicle for such weighty considerations and momen  --  tous plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and championed by Mario Cuomo and his economic guru , Felix Rohatyn , and sneaked into law last December by their pet Senator , Daniel Patrick Moynihan . Reagan bristled a bit but signed the enabling bill and ap  --  pointed a " bipartisan " membership headed by Democratic power-broker Robert Strauss and Republican honcho Drew Lewis . Members include Caspar Weinberger , Lane Kirk  --  land , former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , Republi  --  can Senator Pete Domenici and other tribunes of the people . The group promises to come out with a report between the election and the inauguration , which will explain the economic realities facing America and allow the next Presi  --  dent to propose programs he specifically promised to shun like the plague , or at least to avoid before arriving at some ' fantastic last resort . The commission , which meets in secret and seeks to im  --  pose policies by fiat rather than evolve them out of democratic debate , seems much closer to Dukakis 's political  --  cal sensibility than to Bush 's . It is virtually a paradigm ofthe neoliberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dialectics of democracy . But the Democratic campaign has had its problems with the group ; during the vice-presidential candidates ' debate in , Omaha , Lloyd Bentsen was obliged to break publicly with his fellow Texan Bob Strauss on the issue of taxing Social Security benefits- one of the ideas the commission ' is expected to propose , and which Strauss leaked before the debate . And Bush , whose Reaganite base hates the idea of raising taxes and limiting consumption , may well turn out to be the beneficiary of the commission 's work if he ever has to build a new constituency for austerity . Certainly the subjects the commission is charged with considering are worthy of expert analysis . The trouble is that the frame has been tacked together by ideologues in the bipartisan elite who accept the shape , vectors and purposes of the economy as they are perceived to be right now by the , conventionally wise . In other words , ' notions ' such as economic= justice , redistribution and quality , of work are simply not up for deliberation in the secrecy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body promulgates will have enormous consequences for everyone for many years to come . There ought to be a way to shed more light on the commission 's work , and to make the politicians who set it up and will follow its proposals accountable to its victims as well as to its beneficiaries . - The AIDS Quilt he AIDS Quilt is composed of 3x6-foot graveT. conght groups can any eight . These be assembled in shaped fabric panels , sewn together in groups of figuration . The first panel was made eighteen months ago by gay community organizer Cleve Jones , in memory of a friend who had died . ' There are now nearly 8,500 panels , many commemorating more than one person . To see the entire quilt , which was arranged in a vast polygon over Columbus Day weekend on the Ellipse behind the White House , one had to thread one 's way through five miles of walkways . The quilt coordinators - a San Francisco-based group with thousands of volunteers nationally , who make up the NAMES Project-claim no political purpose . They say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quilt is itself politics , a masterpiece of grass-roots community organizing and a focus for further organizing wherever it appears . Utter  --  ly nonauthoritarian , the coordinators give the quilt 's makers total latitude ; there is no emotional or creative impulse the quilt can not contain . - The range of colors , fabrics , designs - and personal mythologies is staggering . Anything might get ? stitched in . Stars of David , crosses and hermetic symbols lie side by side , along with photos , poems , jokes , flowers , old jeans pockets , crushed Budweiser cans , teddy bears , measuring spoons , Harvard flags , ballet shoes ; an air-conditiciner vent and a fabulous black sequined diess . Many wom  --  en and children have panels too , and a mail who was Elinor Fuchs is a New York City-based theater critic who teaches in the theater and film studies department at Emory University in Atlanta . Reversing Brawley he Tawana Brawley affair eludes all conventional interpretations , even though a New York State grand jury has now found that the black teen-ager was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a gang of white men who then wrote racial slurs on her body and smeared her with excrement The case can not be measured by legal canons , official justice or received morali ty , nor can it be resolved by the prosecution of those directly involved in the great public deceit . The authorities , from New York Attorney General Robert Abrams on down , are trained , so to speak , not to understand what is happening ; the , law must be regarded as sufficient unto itself . The grand jury has responded to the technical questions of the case , weighing the evidence but necessarily blind to its deeper meanings . - In cultural perspective , if not in fact , it does n't matter whether the crime , occurred or not . Tawana Brawley 's handlers  --  the ' Rev. Al Sharpton and lawyers C. Vernon Mason-and Alton Maddox ? must know this . They simply reversed the predicament black Americans find all too familiar : the use of false charges to rationalize the maiming and murder of countless ' blacks in-the United States ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a his  --  tory of being abused . She understands evasion , the need to dissimulate for the sake of survival , a mark not only of the oppressed but a familiar style in white-collar American society as well . The crime that did not occur was described with skill and controlled hysteria by the black actors as the epitome of degradation , a repellent model of what actually happens to too many black women . The perpetrators supposedly in  --  cluded more than one white law enforcement officer , also echoing a social fact and creating the occasion for in  --  dicting once again the system of white justice . This re  --  versal moved some white officials to suggest that Brawley 's advisers were trying to brand New York a racist state , having in mind , of course , the letter of the law and avoiding the reality of black experience , including the contemporary wave of racism and disadvantage that stretches from the grim black ghettos to the mean white streets of Howard Beach , Queens . Mason , Maddox and Sharpton ( the reverend mimicking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceeded in mobilizing black anger ? stole it , one might say , and used it for their own notoriety and enhancement . Knowing the law , and the vulnerabilities of their an  --  tagonists in the white establishment , they were also able to avoid the immediate grasp of white justice while sheltering the- victim and her mother , Glenda Brawley , south of the MaSon-Dixon line . - Jesse Jackson and almost all other black leaders , national and local , have tiptoed around the case , conspicuously refraining fibril criticizing the Brawley advisers and their tactics . These leaders well know that if they speak out in op  --  position they could be charged with denying the reality of the rage that Tawana 's principal defenders had opportunis  --  tically deployed . What is most remarkable about this faked- crime is that traditional victims have re-created themselves as victims in a dreadfully plausible situation . Although oppressors have imprisoned and murdered designated victims throughout history ? rationalizing their acts with false charges , fake trials and manufactured evidence  --  the Brawley case is the opposite and is rare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the white community to excuse the Brawley deceit ; but they misunderstand it at their peril . STANLEY DIAMOND Stanley Diamond is distinguished professor of anthropology and the humanities in the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research . Doubts about whether President Dan Quayle can deal effectively with So  --  viet leader Mikhail Gorbachev inten  --  sified today after President Quayle in  --  terrupted his first superpower summit meeting three times in one day to phone his dad . White House aides were quick to play down the importance of the calls , which f , .. occurred on the second day the two leaders met with no one else present except their inter  --  preters . But few foreign policy specialists were reassured by the White House statement that " President Quayle did what any normal world leader would do . " Gorbachev did hot ' Call his dad at all . The question of whether Dan Quayle is up to dealing , with Mikhail Gorbachev has , of course , been uppermost in the minds of Washington observers ever since Quayle succeeded to office on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  ing an eighteen-wheeler ? a career change for Bush that was described by some as the crowning success of his effort to - become a regular guy and by others as " some serious over  --  compensation for the wimp thing . " It is unclear how effective Bush himself would have been at a summit with Gorbachev . While he was Vice President , Bush had been given the opportunity to spend a few moments with the General Secretary during the Reagan-Gorbachev summit in Washington . The two men reportedly got along well , although Soviet diplomats have indicated that Gor  --  bachev remains puzzled by what the then-Vice President said to him : " Hi , guy . Where 'd you prep ? " There is now some speculation in Washington , though , that the Bush resignation was brought on partly by the ap  --  proach of the summit . Apparently , what began as a simple habit Bush had of emphasizing his common touch by drop  --  ping the " g " at the end of " - ing " words when talking to blue-collar audiences ( " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) had been carried to the point of becoming a serious handicap to communication . The progressive nature of Bush 's habit was fiist noticed in a speech on September 6 , 1988 , to a factory audience in Oregon . In talking about the effect of inflation on personal savings , he said that inflation could eat up " a guy 's savin ' " ? dropping not only a " g " but also an " s . " People who worked in the Bush White House now say that the reason Bush almost never spoke in public during the last few weeks of his Administration was that the letter-dropping had gradually progressed , letter by letter , to the point at which he would have had to face Gorbachev with a limited number of nouns and yirtually no verbs at his disposal . Whatever the reason for Bush 's resignation , there was widespread feeling in Washington that it should have.meant the postponement of this summit . Quayle was faced not only with the sudden assumption of the burdens of the presidency but also with a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Apparently , the wealthy Indiana newspaper family that Quayle comes from did not , in fact , arrange for the trucking job that supposedly lured Bush from the White House , although the " two ' or three routine calls " they acknowledge making may have had something to do with his getting the coveted Worcester-Spartanburg run . Apparently , the SOviet ambassador to the United Nations did not ask his American counterpart , " What does it mean when it 's said in English someone ' does n't have a whole lot upstairs ' ? " What concerns American observers at the summit about tilt calls to the senior Quayle is the possibility that they were not , in fact , calls for advice or assistance . Some people see the calls as confirmation of a disturbing rumor regarding the still-secret summit negotiations . Thdy believe that Quayle may be trying to explain to his family how , after the first day of one-on-one discussions , Gorbachev somehow ended up with not only Alaska but also controlling interest in the Indianapolis Star . Oddly enough , the incident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most effective move , according to the Soviet camp . After the first day of the summit , Quayle , to the astonishment of American reporters , managed to repeat , word for word , what he had said on September 8 , 1988 , in Chicago , when he deviated from his prepared text during a speech'on defense policy : " Bobby Knight told me this : ' There is nothing that a good defense can not beat a better offense . ' In other words , a good offense wins . " Apparently , the Russians were so baffled by this state  --  ment that they were temporarily thrown off stride . Some . Soviet journalists sought out their American colleagues for clarification , and then gathered around the American inter  --  preter to ask precisely what it means when it 's said in English that someone " does n't have a whole lot upstairs . "                     