@@487774

During the last eighteen months , a tiny group of U.S. entrepreneurs has managed to place the future of the world 's premier international satellite communications system on the bargaining table in Washington . The satellite system at issue is owned by the International Telecommunications Satellite Organization ( Intelsat ) , a 109-nation consortium initiated by the United States in 1962 . By proposing separate trans-Atlantic satellite systems to serve major multinational corporations , these entrepreneurs have prompted the Reagan Administration to reconsider America 's twenty-two-year commitment to making Intelsat 's facilities available throughout the world on an equitable basis . The majority of consortium members , particularly developing nations , have not looked kindly on Washington 's policy change . Their concern has been voiced with increasing fervor by Richard Colino , ironically the first American to head the global organization . Last summer Colino dismissed the consortium 's would-be competitors as no more than " lawyers and word processors , " but a few weeks later Intelsat issued a memorandum concluding that it had the authority to strip the United States of its vote if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization economically . As evidenced by Colino 's remarks , the clash between Intelsat and the government over alter-native overseas satellite systems has become in-creasingly contentious . Proponents of the new satellites argue that they will provide special-ized services now unavailable ( for example , by linking cable television systems in Western ( Continued on Page 679 ) it as an evil . Next they campaigned against the slave trade , then against the extension of slavery and finally against the institution itself . They combined immense patience and moral intensity with an ability to make alliances and think in stages . The bomb is harder to fight , in a way , because this minute , it is not annihilating cities . The evil envisaged is prospective , just over the horizon . But that very fact also gives us time . Many activists become discouraged because they expect too much too fast . The atmosphere is so grim that we forget how bleak it has looked in the past . In 1956 Adlai Stevenson was ridiculed when he dared campaign against H-bomb tests . In 1960 liberals were paralyzed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact that today the American Catholic Church lambastes the arms race , that men like Bundy and McNamara oppose the first use of the bomb , is , for all the limitations of their positions , immensely encouraging . The peace movement has to see itself as a fixture of social life in the far-foreseeable future . The nuclear arms race is powered by deep forces centuries in the making . To speak of endurance , then , goes to the heart of the matter , which is that rational people trapped in short-term logic think the bomb solves problems . The " realists " are the wishful thinkers . We " utopians " have to take seriously the reasons the great powers make their homes at the edge of the precipice , and we have to find the safer terrain on which realism and vision meet . ? Intelsat ( Continued From Front Cover ) Europe and the United States ) , sharply reduce overseas transmission costs and maintain U.S. leadership in the satellite communications market . But Intelsat , which has a de facto monopoly on overseas satellite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet the international needs of U.S. businesses . Moreover , it claims that the newcomers would lure away traffic on the most lucrative trans-Atlantic routes , forcing the organization to raise its rates on lightly used routes to developing countries . ( About 50 percent of Intelsat 's revenues are earned on just 10 percent of its routes . ) Thus , for many countries , the American corn , pany 's proposals raise the specter of a fragmented interna-i tional satellite network , with private satellite " condominiums " for the rich and increasingly expensive Intelsat leases for the poor . But more than economics is involved in the current controversy . By offering all countries equal access to a single satellite system , financed chiefly by private American capital , Intelsat has been able to establish valuable communications links with the vast majority of developed and developing countries , thereby confining the only alternative Gregory C. Staple is a communications lawyer in Washington . worldwide satellite system , Intersputnik , to the Soviet Union and its allies . Today , Intelsat 's fifteen satellites provide service through 650 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 150 countries . In 1983 the system handled more than $5 trillion in electronic fund transfers and connected roughly 1 billion telephone calls  --  about a quarter of them to and from the United States , which has approximately 38 percent of the world 's 290 million telephone subscribers . Intelsat satellites also carried live television coverage of the " free enterprise " Olympics from Los Angeles to a world audience of more than 2 billion people . Because of the central role Intelsat plays in transmitting international voice , data and video services , the controversy over competing U.S. satellite systems has become part of the larger North/South dispute between industrialized and developing countries over the world 's information resources . A modern telecommunications system is widely viewed as one of the most powerful engines of economic progress . The International Telecommunications Union ( 1 . T.U. ) , a U.N . overseeing body in Geneva , has estimated that as much as half the world 's population still is not " within reasonable walking distance-2 hours there and 2 hours back  --  from an ordinary telephone . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern telephone exchanges and the satellite links necessary to connect them with the rest of the world has assumed a growing urgency . These countries are concerned that Intelsat may be destabilized by the United States just as they are beginning to enjoy its benefits . What touched off this critical policy debate on Intelsat was the formation of a novel American company , the Orion Satellite Corporation . Founded by Thomas V. McKnight and Christopher J. Vizas , two Washington lawyers who became consultants after leaving their jobs with the Federal government , Orion first made headlines in March 1983 by asking the Federal Communications Commission for authorization to place two satellites in orbit over the Atlantic Ocean by 1987 . Before Orion , no American company had directly challenged the U.S. commitment to route all basic overseas satellite communications traffic via Intelsat and its U.S. representative , the Communications Satellite Corporation ( Comsat ) . In contrast to Intelsat , which leases its facilities as a common carrier , Orion proposes to sell its satellite communications circuits as condominiums to prospective customers . Orion also proposes to let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so as to permit direct rooftop-to-rooftop service between Europe and North America via dish antennas linked to the satellite . That would eliminate the need for the present expensive connecting loops to gateway earth stations . The company estimates the cost of its two-satellite system ( with a spare on the ground ) at $250 million . To understand better the advantages Orion expects to enjoy vis- ? - vis Intelsat , some background is helpful . Behind the regular overseas telephone and telex contacts with Europe and the Middle East , which many Americans take for granted , lies an extremely complex set of international agreements and pricing policies  --  arrangements which , prior to Intelsat , were dictated by a few Western countries ( mainly Great Britain and France ) which controlled undersea cable landing rights . Before a New York-to-London telephone call crosses the Atlantic , it must traverse an intricate series of landline and microwave links to an international switching center . Depending on customer preference and circuit availability , the communication is then routed to a cable head end or to an earth station owned by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes to an earth station , it is transmitted ( " uplinked " ) to one of Intelsat 's satellites orbiting above the Atlantic Ocean and then retransmitted ( " downlinked " ) to a gateway station owned by British Telecommunications ( B.T. ) , where it is switched over another set of terrestrial paths to a London telephone exchange . Before 1965 , when Intelsat 's first satellite , Early Bird , was launched , the only direct telephone service from the United States to Europe ( or to Africa and the Middle East ) was via undersea cable . Each link in the New York-to-London transmission chain gives rise to a separate charge for consumers . Intelsat charges B.T. and Comsat , the only U.S. company authorized to deal directly with the consortium , $390 a month for each telephone half-circuit between an earth station and one of its satellites . Because Intelsat is required to average its rates , the charge is the same whether the circuit links the United States and Great Britain , or Bolivia and Mali . Comsat , in turn , leases the Intelsat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &T.; and R.C.A. for $1,060 a month . The carriers lease individual lines to their best customers for telephone , telex and other services for $2,000 to $3,000 a month . Thus , although the cost of transmitting the New York - to- London telephone call is remarkably cheap ( about $1.08 per hour ) , the cost of the earth station and terrestrial loops increases the cost roughly eightfold . Those additional costs  --  the charges added by companies like Comsat and B.T. throughout the world  --  are mainly what Orion claims it can save large customers by enabling them to communicate directly with one another via rooftop dish antennas . Orion was not alone in recognizing that private international satellites make economic sense for large users . Spurred by the Reagan F.C.C. 's deregulatory agenda , more established companies began to bid for the international sat- , ellite market . The next contender , in August 1983 , was In- ternational Satellite Inc . ( I.S.I. ) . Four more companies -- followed suit within the year . Like Orion , I.S.I . proposes to launch a two-satellite system for specialized trans-Atlantic services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its condominium plan to be in competition with Intelsat , I.S.I . addressed the political implications of its proposal head-on . To meet America 's legal obligations to Intelsat , I.S.I . says , the Administration should first comply with the nonbinding consultation procedures contained in Article XIV(d) of Intelsat 's basic charter . That provision requires any consortium membf ? that introduces a non-Intelsat satellite system to show that it is " technically compatible " with Intelsat 's " use of the radio . . . spectrum and orbital space " and will " avoid significant economic harm " to the global system . The question of whether I.S.I . and other companies can meet the two-part requirement has generated considerable controversy . To satisfy the " technically compatible " criterion , the new companies have selected radio frequencies and orbital locations that are not being used . In the face of increasing concern about the scarcity of geosynchronous orbital slots , Orion et al . have also pressured the F.C.C. to register their plans in advance with the International Telecommunications Union , which maintains a list of frequencies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these American filings as " pre-emptive . " Earlier this year , at Colino 's urging , the organization 's members overrode U.S. objections and voted to advise the I.T.U. that the consortium planned to use one or more of the orbital slots proposed by the Americans . The geosynchronous orbit-22,300 miles above the Equator  --  provides a critical parking place for communications satellites because satellites at this altitude , orbiting the earth at the same rate as the earth rotates , in effect become stationary antennas for relaying communications . Equitable access to that orbit has , since the late 1970s , thus been one of the most insistent demands of developing nations and is a key subject of a World Administrative Radio Conference to be held next summer in Geneva . The rules that determine whether Intelsat , the United States or another country can use a given orbital slot may well be hammered out at that conference . The second requirement of Article XIV(d) ? showing the absence of significant economic harm to Intelsat  --  also has generated conflicting claims . The new entrants argue that they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not offer overseas telephone service , which provides about 75 percent of its revenue . I.S.I . claims that at most its system would divert about 0.5 percent per year of Intelsat 's revenue . The organization disputes those assertions . A comprehensive study by its own consultants shows that Orion and I.S.I . alone could divert as much as 30 percent of Intelsat 's revenue if the full circuit capacity of their satellites was used . The broad range of communications , trade , defense and foreign policy issues raised by the Orion and I.S.I . proposals led the Administration in mid-1983 to ask the F.C.C. to withhold action on these applications pending review by an interagency task force . But as a result of months of bureaucratic infighting between the State Department , which appears sensitive to Intelsat 's basic mission , and the Commerce Department , which seems most interested in the commercial benefits competition may bring U.S. multinationals , the task force 's work was not approved by President Reagan until this November . Moreover , although the President concluded that separate international satellite systems were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to bar new satellites from providing public telephone service and to require that Article XIV(d) 's consultation procedure be followed with Intelsat for each satellite system . In short , although the President 's policy gives the go-ahead for Orion et al. , it is an amber light , not a green one . Nevertheless , in anticipation of growing competition , Intelsat has begun to take a more aggressive role in the marketplace and to reassess its strategy . To demonstrate its sensitivity to Western corporate interest in flexible " single-hop " communications links , Intelsat has expanded its business services by positioning one of its new satellites over the Atlantic instead of the Indian Ocean . In addition , it has announced more than one hundred cable television and broadcast offerings designed to facilitate multicountry networking . To complement those economic initiatives , Intelsat has started a lobbying campaign . Following Colino 's confirmation as director general , several influential Washington law firms were hired to advance the organization 's case before Congress and the Administration . Gray and Company , a powerful Washington public relations firm ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporter ; Alejandro Orfila , who heads its international division , is former Secretary General of the Organization of American States ) was placed on a $120,000 retainer . Intelsat has also solicited support from Hughes Aircraft , the $642 million prime contractor for the newest generation of Intelsat satellites , as well as from Ford Aerospace , the group 's other major supplier . And to counter proponents of laissez-faire in the Administration , two former State Department officials , Phillip Trezise and Bert Rein , were commissioned separately to address the political problems the United States might face if it tries to implement new trans-Atlantic satellite systems unilaterally . Rein 's 103-page study cautions against U.S. efforts to press competitive satellite services on European allies , given the foreign policy problems the Carter Administration faced in deregulating international airline services . International aviation , like telecommunications , notes Rein , requires cooperation among sovereign governments , each of which has the exclusive right to regulate services within its territory . Accordingly , Rein concludes that the United States risks a serious confrontation , which could disrupt existing communications services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Geneva , unless foreign operating agreements are negotiated with the Europeans before the United States licenses any new trans-Atlantic satellite systems . Significantly , Rein 's basic advice  --  that one or more overseas governments agree to the new satellite systems in advance  --  was accepted by the Administration in its recommendation to the F.C.C. As alternatives to Intelsat proliferate , however , there are signs that the Administration may use them as " bargaining chips " to reform the global organization . In particular , it seems likely that the United States will use the threat of competition to seek renegotiation of the rate averaging principle written into Article V of the charter . That would mean lower charges on the trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific routes , most heavily used by the United States and its major trading partners . Many countries believe that any such departure from Intelsat 's cooperative pricing practices would hinder the consortium 's ability to underwrite the development of Third World communications systems . There are strong political reasons , therefore , for the United States to approach any economic reform of Intelsat gingerly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increasingly valuable orbital slots , Intelsat deflects the more radical claims of some equatorial countries that are demanding control over the geostationary orbit arcing above their territory . Especially on the eve of the 1985 radio conference , it would be counterproductive for the United States to antagonize Intelsat 's large constituency in the developing world . The high technology of satellite communications , nevertheless , has been a mixed blessing . On the one hand , satellites have allowed many countries in Africa and the Middle East to break the communications monopolies on international traffic held by their former European rulers . In pre-Intelsat days , telephone calls from Abidjan , Ivory Coast , to Dakar , Senegal , went via Paris ; calls from Lagos , Nigeria , to Nairobi , Kenya , were routed through London , and so forth . Vestiges of such " communications colonialism " remain . A.T . &T.; routes U.S. telephone calls to Angola via Portugal , which receives a 20 percent cut of the toll charges ; U.S. calls to Benin are routed via France , which receives roughly $3 for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as compared with cables , satellite communication facilities are quite vulnerable . During the Iran hostage crisis , the U.S. National Security Council seriously considered disabling Iran 's Intelsat earth station outside Hamadan before cooler heads prevailed . Likewise , as documented by James Bamford in The Puzzle Palace , even when it is encrypted , satellite traffic can be intercepted readily and probably provides the United States and its rivals with some of their best intelligence . ( To combat such electronic eavesdropping , the Reagan Administration recently proposed that government agencies and major U.S. corporations be equipped with thousands of sophisticated telephones for scrambling sensitive conversations . ) Thus , for any country , dependence on satellite facilities has its risks . It is likely , however , that far more mundane economic considerations will determine the fate of Orion and other entrepreneurial satellite companies . International communications traffic is growing at only about 11 percent annually , and Intelsat is operating at only 50 percent of capacity . Moreover , in 1988 , A.T . &T.; and a consortium of foreign carriers will bring into service a fiber-optic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to 38,000 circuits . In addition , two new American companies ? TelOptic and Submarine Lightwave Cable  --  have announced plans to lay across the Atlantic at least three fiber-optic cables with a total capacity many times that of TAT 8 . For security-minded corporations and users of high-speed digital data communications , such cables are likely to be preferred . Given those developments , some industry observers believe there is a fairly short period , roughly 1986-92 , when independent trans-Atlantic satellites would be profitable . After that , the market could pass them by . But Intelsat is taking nothing for granted . Because the Reagan Administration seems committed to guaranteeing large U.S. corporations the same kind of competitive options for overseas communication  --  whether by cable or by satellite  --  that they enjoy at home , Intelsat is bracing itself for a protracted struggle . Many of its members fear the organization 's central mission is at stake . If the Administration succeeds , they say , Intelsat will soon be transformed from a progressive global communications cooperative into one of several regional satellite companies increasingly forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world : in short , a satellite system for the poor . Although the satellite consortium 's concerns may not be front-page news yet , as international digital data streams begin to rival the economic importance of the flow of oil , it seems likely that the politics of Intelsat will soon be as closely watched as the politics of OPEC are today . ?                     