@@480199

" The problem with the United States , " a young French economist was telling me , " is that there is too much freedom . " It was almost nine at night . The man pointed to a building across the street from my lower-Manhattan apartment , to a crowded , fluorescent-lit third-floor factory loft where a couple of dozen Oriental women could be seen bent over rows of sewing machines . They had been there , as usual , since about eight that morning . They were still there at nine that night , and every night . I had often watched them from my window as they turned out yards of sportswear for a firm whose name I can not pronounce . I admired their ceaseless laboring , the apparent ease and speed with which they turned a bolt of fabric into a dozen shirts or skirts or pairs of pants , and their common sense in shooting the finished product down a taut rope strung between the fire escape and a NO PARKING sign on the street below , where it was loaded onto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are victims of a system with too much freedom , " my visitor said , motioning toward the little sweatshop . " Exploitation . " I asked him what he meant . But just as the Frenchman began to declaim on freedom 's excesses , a large semitrailer truck roared up the street . The driver gunned his motor as he passed and muffled the monologue . " You see ! " my friend shouted as the diesel disappeared into the night , " that 's exactly what I mean . That man has too much freedom . He should n't be allowed down this street . " " But , " I protested , " that 's why I moved to this neighborhood . I happen to like trucks . You 're saying I should n't be able to listen to them ? " " Four he exclaimed , brushing aside this " eccentricity , " and continued his romp through the history of freedom 's excesses . HEN THIS CONVERSATION took place in late 1978 ? it seemed almost anachronistic.The " conservative backlash " was then the new rage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was replacing spendthrift Congressmen and cheering every call for deregulation . That November a fellow named Ed Clark carried the banner of the sixyear-old Libertarian party into California 's guhernatorial election and found almost 400.000 voters willing to support his proposals for the dismantling of government . A Democratic President was usurping traditional Republican principles and presiding over the deregulation of the airlines and the price of natural gas . Today , in 1980 , Mr. Carter eschews wage-andprice controls ( even in the face of double-digit inflation ' , and Milton and Rose Friedman are on all the bestseller lists with a book , Free to Choose , that complains not of too much freedom but of the nation 's course " down the ' road to serfdom . ' " Even the Supreme Court , guardian of civil liberties , has been subject to criticism for hastening the erosion of freedom . Last fall Sidney Zion , a former New York Times reporter and assistant U.S. Attorney , berated the Burger court for trifling with inalienable rights . " It seems safe to say , " Zion wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently , most Americans believed they possessed certain rights that were so fundamental no governmental authority would dare challenge them , much less take them away . They went without saying , these beliefs ? they were the " givens " of our American heritage . Among those rights he said are in jeopardy : the right to a trial by jury , the freedom of the press , the right to legal counsel , the right to privacy , the right to be free from slander by government officials . " We do not have the rights we thought we had , " said Zion . " Indeed , we are told we did not have them in the first place . " The Supreme Court is a sterling example of how rocky the road to ? or away from ? freedom is , how it is pitted by special interests and the prejudice of custom . In 1905 , for example , the high court struck down an 1897 New York law that had established a maximum sixty-hour work week in bakeries . And it ruled succinctly that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intelligent men may labor to earn their living are meddlesome interferences with the rights of the individual . " That seemed like a valid expression of the " givens " of the American heritage . In fact , as Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan has pointed out , " from the last decade of the nineteenth century into the fourth decade of the twentieth century the Supreme Court repeatedly declared that the due-process clauses forbade labor legislation . " But suddenly it all changed . Congress passed the Fair Labor Standards Act in 1938 , the high court reversed itself , and now , after forty years of " statutes ... limiting the hours in which grown and intelligent men may labor , " Americans have come to consider minimum-wage and maximum-hour laws as guarantors of rights , not infringements of them . In 1928 the first wiretapping case came to the court with Olmstead v. U.S. Read today , that decision would horrify a civil-libertarian . But at the time Chief Justice William Howard Taft and the majority found no infringement of freedom . They believed that the reasonable view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with connecting wires intends to project his voice to those quite outside , and that the wires beyond his house and messages while passing over them are not within the protection of the Fourth Amendment . Despite Justice Louis D. Brandeis 's famous dissent ? " As a means of espionage , writs of assistance and general warrants are but puny instruments of tyranny and oppression when compared with wiretapping " ? the Olmstead decision was not reversed until 1967 . F THE DRAMATIC SWINGS of the country 's constitutional oracle illustrate freedom 's tenuous state , then it is no wonder that the nation con- stantly debates whether its problems are a result of too much , or too little , freedom . It would be reassuring if there were some fixed principle of freedom around which the world turned . Justice George Sutherland tried to say that there is in the high court 's landmark decision in 1926 upholding the constitutionality of zoning regulations . He argued that while the meaning of constitutional guaranties never varies , the scope of their application must expand or contract to meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of their operation . In a changing world , it is impossible that it should be otherwise . That may sound like judicial eloquence , yet one still wonders how a constitutional guarantee can be unvarying even as it contracts and expands . It seems more true , though less reassuring , to say simply that freedom adapts to a world in flux . And , in doing so , its meaning changes . Thus when , in 1898 , passport clerk Gaillard Hunt wrote a history of this peculiar travel document ( American Passport ) , he remarked proudly that " in time of peace a law-abiding American citizen has always been free to leave the country without the permission of the government . " Had he been around in 1978 , Mr. Hunt might have been shocked when Congress , for the first time in American history , made it illegal for U.S. citizens to leave the country in peacetime without a passport . " The reason for making them mandatory , " a spokesman for the State Department told me , " was because most foreign countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travelers . " Would Mr. Hunt have been impressed with the rationale ? Without ever relinquishing freedom as a goal ? or doubting its present reality ? each generation fashions its own definition of freedom . Seldom does the goal seem clear or its meaning exact . " As they use the term , " Robert L. Heilbroner wrote of Milton and Rose Friedman , " economic freedom means the right to pursue one 's livelihood in the marketplace , and the allied right to enjoy as little public restraint as possible in that pursuit . " Heilbroner , author of The Limits of American Capitalism , is not against freedom ; he simply believes " there is another view . " Economic freedom can take the form of laws that set men free from the pressures of the marketplace , for example by enabling them to demand a legal minimum wage , or to go on welfare rather than perform distasteful work . Thus goes the bout between the velvet glove and the invisible hand , freedom being each contestant 's trainer . It may be impossible to discern which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , to know which is ascendant . T IS CERTAIN that since 1900 the road to freedom has become increasingly dangerous for those who prefer to mark their own path and safer for those fearful of highwaymen . In the past eighty years hardly an individual prerogative has not succumbed to public restraint through the machinations of government . Individuals have tossed their private freedoms into a common pot and given government the responsibility of redistributing them as it sees fit . In this century , property owners have been put in the ambit of zoning commissions , and banks have bowed to a Federal Reserve System , employers to minimum-wage laws , and employees to " union security contracts . " Parents have been given tax exemptions for bringing children into the world and then compelled to send them to school . Farmers have been made to carry their federal marketing cards , aliens their visas , workers their Social Security cards , travelers their passports , poultry-handlers , architects , tattoo artists , photographers , miners , and social workers their licenses . A government permit has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wilderness . Turning out our purses , we find a nest of indispensable plastic cards strung together by an endless line of numbers that begins and ends at a computer terminal one hopes is not called Big Brother . Two years ago U.S. News &; World Report claimed that there were " about 11,000 computers of all sizes and types , " which were " scattered throughout the bureaucracy , " and the government was then buying or leasing new systems at a rate of better than 1,500 a year . Some 3.9 billion records on individuals now are stored in the personal-data systems of 97 federal agencies . . Most of these records are available at the touch of a button and , in combination with records of other agencies , can produce a full picture of the financial , medical , political , and personal life of almost any American . One of the more phenomenal examples of the way we have controlled the exercise of freedom in this century is through licensing mechanisms . Occupational licensure has enjoyed such popularity during the past eighty years that now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local , state , or federal body for permission . Federal income taxes are also , on a continuing basis , new to this century , and now absorb some 15 percent of America 's gross national product . But whatever the macroeconomic impact or their merits as a means of redistributing income or their value in public services rendered , income taxes have also spawned a huge subterranean and illegal economy that has made criminals of much of the population . They have created a monstrous loophole industry of lawyers , accountants , and tax specialists . With their incentives and deductions and exemptions , the authors of tax laws pass out endless numbers of permissions and privileges in much the same way that eighteenth-century French monarchs had to hand out privileges to authors before their books could be published ( a practice that also nourished a large underground industry ) . Americans may now buy state and municipal bonds or invest in foreign corporations , charitable organizations , and farmers ' cooperatives and not pay the penalty of a tax on the dividends ; they may change their residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they may travel and eat and sleep if the job requires it ( and deduct the exgenses ) ; they may open an Individual Retirement Account ( and deduct their payments ) , or buy into " regulated " investment companies and real estate investment trusts ( and not be taxed on their dividends ) . These , and the thousands of other deductions and exemptions handed out since 1913 , are actually domestic-activity passports . T 0 COMPILE A COMPLETE LIST of the laws and regulations that now shape our freedoms would be a physically possible task . It would entail reproducing the entire voluminous set of Public Laws , the floor-to-ceiling shelf of the United States Code , the dozens of tomes of the United States Code of Federal Regulations , and the thousands of pages of Supreme Court decisions , state laws , and city ordinances . In Congress and legislative and judicial halls across the country this mass of closely printed procedure and proscription is being updated daily . And at a dizzying pace . It is remarkable to consider how feeble and frail that list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see how it has evolved into something so serpentine . So accustomed have we become to the pulse of regulation and the whir of the computer that life would be unimaginable without Form 1010 , SS #540-60-8302 , DL #104506231 , Green Cards , W-2 forms , drug prescriptions , passports , IRA exemptions , Keogh plans , H &; R Block , certified public accountants , EPA-approved exhaust systems , licensed architects , federally approved levels of toxicity , the ICC , the FCC , the CAB , the FTC , marriage licenses , minimum wages , maximum hours , building permits , income taxes , sales taxes , gasoline taxes , gift taxes , death taxes , quotas , subsidies , and parities . The chronology that follows is my attempt to suggest how thickly the body politic has wrapped itself in red tape in less than eighty years . It is not complete , but it is not random either . I began my research in a manner that might be called directed free association , and , gathering up some of the myriad regulatory strings that attach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their origins . If the trail led to a point earlier than 1900 , I abandoned it ( though I was surprised how many got their start in this century ) . Every attempt was made to discover the beginning of the trail , but in many instances it was impossible to find ; it was also hard to locate secondary sources willing to assert that a particular law was " the first " of its kind . ( / found that many regulators , while expert at sifting through the maze of current law , are at a loss when it comes to a regulation 's pedigree . ) As much as possible , however , every entry is meant to represent a precedent , a freedom previously unregulated , an activity that theretofore was unrestricted by legislation . Finally , this chronology is intended to represent only those " events " with some bearing on the present . RUIFS TO IN BY With morticians and animals leading the pack , the licensing fad is beginning . By this time some twenty-four states require undertakers to have licenses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years earlier New York made dog-owners get them . E By 1969 all fifty states were licensing embalmers , while forty-four also licensed funeral directors . Horseshoers , meanwhile , had fallen on hard times and by 1969 warranted attention in only three states . ) New York State gives villages the right to " prohibit the pursuit or exercise without a license of . . . the running of public carriages , cabs , hacks , carts , drays , express wagons , . . . auctioneering , hawking and peddling , . . . the doing of a retail business in the sale of goods of any description , from canal boats , ... circuses , theatres , ... the keeping of billiard saloons , bowling alleys , shooting galleries , . . . the giving of exhibitions . " Connecticut restricts automobile speed to 12 miles per hour in cities and 15 m.p.h. in the country . ( In 1973 President Nixon asks that a national maximum highway speed of 55 m.p.h. be imposed . ) New Jersey passes an " act to regulate the practice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all fifty states . ) The Supreme Court upholds a Massachusetts law requiring smallpox vaccinations . ( Today all states have immunization laws , most of them requiring vaccination against diphtheria , polio , tetanus , pertussis , measles , and rubella . ) Guns purchased in Mississippi must be registered . ( In 1938 Congress made the registration of guns a federal law . ) The federal Food and Drug Act says that all manufacturers of patent medicines that contain opium must label their products accurately . Osteopaths must be licensed in New York ( a requirement of all fifty states today ) . Automobile drivers in Connecticut need licenses . Coal miners in Pennsylvania need certificates of competency . A federal corporate excise tax exempts nonprofit religious , charitable , educational institutions . In 1918 foundations for the " prevention of cruelty to children or animals " are exempted ; in 1921 , literary trusts ; in 1954. groups " testing for public safety . " ) No smoking in New York City subways . In 1890 a Louisiana court upheld a New Orleans ordinance prohibiting smoking in streetcars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. . caused to a great majority of the people using them material annoyance , inconvenience , and discomfort . This is particularly so in the winter season when the cars are closed . There is not only discomfort , but positive danger to health from the contaminated air. - ( Despite periodic prohibitions , smokers prevailed until the watershed years of the late Seventies . Between 1975 and 1978 thirty states passed forty-two different laws limiting smoking in public places . ) Customhouse brokers must be licensed by the federal govern . ment . By this time Wisconsin is licensing doctors , veterinarians , pharmacists. midwives , nurses , embalmers , and barbers . By 1969 more than eighty occupations , from abstractor to wildlife-exhibit manager , had been added to the list . ) III Columbia University says that its beginning medical students must have high-school diplomas. - .. ? ? ? ? M ; Building Districts and Restrictions notes that " if the plan had been presented only a few years ago the protestants would doubtless have been legion . A great change has come about in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of being regarded as confiscatory , unconstitutional , arbitrary , and impractical , is now generally regarded as reasonable , obvious , and absolutely necessary for the preservation of the city and of the property interests affected .... No plan for the development of public facilities can be complete and effective unless there goes with it a comprehensive plan for the control of building development on private property . " ( The commission was right . No major American city , except Houston , is now without its zoning code . ) California says that real estate brokers must have licenses . ( A requirement of all fifty states today . By 1969 California was licensing aquatic-plant dealers , automobile dismantlers , garbage feeders , rainmakers , and more than 100 other occupations . ) Individuals may deduct charitable contributions from their income tax . Everyone must now go to school . The first mandatory school-attendance law had not been passed until 1852 in Massachusetts . Oregon adopts a gasoline tax . By 1929 every state had followed suit . Construction and operation of water projects like dams , water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federal government . Iowa adopts a tax on tobacco . The federal government had received significant revenues from a tobacco tax since the Civil War . An immigration quota system is established . The number of foreign nationals entering the country is limited to 3 percent of the foreign-born people of that nationality who were living in the United States in 1910 . No federal law regulated immigration until 1875 , but even at that time , and up to 1921 , the legislation was limited to the exclusion of specific nationalities ? e.g. , the Chinese and Japanese ? or paupers , polygamists , and epileptics . Aliens entering the United States must have visas issued by American consuls abroad . By this time every state requires licenses of those who want to marry . Maine had passed the first such law in 1858 . ( Today , paradoxically , fourteen states still officially recognize the validity of common-law marriages . ) A federal gift tax is imposed " upon the transfer by a resident by gift . . . of any property wherever situated . " The law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in 1932 . The Air Commerce Act makes it illegal to " navigate any aircraft . . . in interstate or foreign air commerce unless such aircraft is registered , " and illegal to " serve as an airman in connection with any aircraft registered as an aircraft of the United States . . . without an airman certificate . " 1 Thirty states now have miscegenation prohibitions on the books . ( The Supreme Court did not rule such bans on inter-racial marriages unconstitutional until 1967 . ) Six states now have a general sales tax . ( By 1937 the number had increased to twenty-four . ) A federal gasoline tax is imposed , of less than 1 cent per gallon . By 1979 the tax was 4 cents a gallon , but the Carter Administration was considering raising it to 50 cents within ten years . ) The Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution is repealed . Nine states immediately write minimum-age drinking laws . ( Today all states have minimum-age requirements and more than 400 counties still prohibit the sale of alcohol . In 1979 Americans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make beer and wine in their homes without paying a tax or asking permission from federal authorities . ) All farmers producing tobacco , corn , wheat , cotton , and rice are given mandatory marketing quotas . The Secretary of Agriculture has authority to set acreage allotments and penalize farmers for producing more than their quota . Farmers must show proof of their planted acreage and its yield with such things as marketing cards . ( Much of the marketing-quota program is still in effect . Other federal programs since 1938 have expanded regulations for " setting aside " otherwise productive land , though not without giving farmers financial incentives . ) All agents or representatives of foreign businesses , political organizations , governments , or private persons must register with the Secretary of State . The Fair Labor Standards Act sets the maximum work week at forty-four hours for those employed by firms engaged in interstate commerce ; sets a mandatory minimum wage of 25 cents per hour ; sets minimum-age requirements . About 11 million workers ( some 30 percent of the labor force ) are affected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum wage $3.10 per hour , and the law applicable to 54 million workers , more than half the labor force . ) Foreigners living in the United States must be registered and fingerprinted . Anyone operating a motorboat weighing fifteen gross tons or less and measuring less than sixty-six feet in length and carrying passengers for hire must be licensed by the Coast Guard . As early as 1871 licenses were required of pilots , engineers , and watchmen on steam vessels operating in waters under federal jurisdiction . The Parimutuel Racing Law of New York State creates a horse-racing commission to license and set rules for betting . Armed Forces service flags and service lapel buttons may not be sold without a license . The Opium Poppy Control Act provides for the licensing of the production and sale of the opium poppy . No one may transfer or receive in interstate commerce , manufacture , produce , transfer , acquire , possess , use , import . or export any atomic utilization or production facility without a federal license . Anyone whose principal activity is lobbying Congress must register @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now underway to expand the definition of a lobbyist . ) The Council of State Governments reports that at least seventy different occupations now require licenses from state authorities . Minnesota allows income tax deductions for political contributions up to $100 . Companies that want to promote and assist the growth of small business concerns need licenses from the Small Business Administration . Presidential Proclamation #3279 : No crude or unfinished oil may be taken from a warehouse for consumption nor may finished products be taken except by persons licensed by the Secretary of the Interior ( now under the jurisdiction of the Department of Energy ) . Social Security numbers must be entered on individual income tax returns . The Federal Trade Commission rules that the term " Mouton Lamb " can he used only to describe " the skin of a lamb which has been sheared , the hair straightened , chemically treated , thermally set to produce a moisture ? repellent finish . " Professional football . baseball , basketball , and hockey teams are exempted from antitrust laws when they pool their resources to negotiate telecast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sports organizations exemptions from antitrust laws , but this was the first time Congress made any exemption explicit . The Newspaper Preservation Act says that no joint operating arrangement between two or more newspaper owners for publication of two or more newspapers may be made without prior written approval of the U.S. Attorney General . Wig and hairpiece manufacturers must label their products indicating whether the hair is of animal , human , or synthetic origin . Federal authorities are empowered to regulate work conditions in all work areas of the United States , and to enter and inspect " any factory , plant , establishment , construction site , or other area , workplace or environment where work is performed by an employee of an employer . " Anyone buying , selling , or transporting eggs must have permission from the Department of Agriculture . The FTC rules that " tapered candles and irregularly shaped decorative candles which are either hand dipped or molded are exempt from the requirements of section 500.7 of this chapter which specifies that the net quantity of contents shall be expressed in terms of count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extent that the diameter of such candles need not be expressed . " The U.S. Parks Service requires " back-country " permits for the use of some federal wilderness areas . Manufacturers can not distribute any new product without first notifying the Consumer Product Safety Commission , describing the product , and certifying that it conforms to all applicable consumer-product-safety standards . The Hobby Protection Act : All imitation numismatic items ? coins and bills ? must be " plainly and permanently marked icopy . " The Employee Retirement Income Security Act puts almost all private pension plans and employee health-insurance plans under federal rules , regulating the incorporation , organization , operation , and termination of such programs . The use of X-ray security systems at U.S. airports is authorized . States and localities are given permission to use the Social Security number in the administration of any tax , general public assistance , driver 's license , or motor vehicle registration law for the purposes of establishing identity . With certain exceptions , all Americans who leave and enter the United States must carry a passport . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress in 1950 ) is made the coordinating body for amateur athletes competing in major international games , and is given the right to establish eligibility requirements and to recognize one particular organization in each sport as " the national governing body " for that sport . Congress appropriates $16 million for the training of amateur athletes under USOC auspices . Anyone convicted of robbery , bribery , extortion , arson , assault with intent to kill , violating a narcotics law , or perjury is prohibited from working with a labor union or with an employee-pension-plan program , or from acting as a labor-relations consultant , without first obtaining a Certificate of Exemption from the U.S. Parole Commission . A study being conducted by the Labor Department finds that some 350 different occupations are now licensed by state authorities and another 500 occupations require state certification or registration . A cross section of jobs that now need licenses includes falconry , hairdressing , well-pump sales , weather modifying , social work ( fifteen different categories ) , hunting and trapping guide , shampooing ( hair ) , television-antenna installation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cesspool cleaning .                     