@@480670

From the lesson plan for the " Polygraph Examiner Training Course " taught at the U. S. Army Military Police School at Fort McClellan , ' Alabama . The school trains lie-detector examiners for all federal agencies except the CIA . This lesson plan was used from February 1984 to November 1985 ; it was suspended after a General Accounting Office survey found that examiners were being taught to ask questions not strictly limited to security matters , as federal law requires . Under a new executive order , some 150,000 government employees will be subject to random polygraph exams . OBJECTIVES OF THE EXAMINATION The requesting office should be contacted by the examiner in order to determine what type of assignment is involved in the examination . It stands to reason that a person assigned to a highly sensitive position such as in our embassy in Moscow would very definitely receive a more extensive examination than a clerk in a motor pool . ADVISEMENT OF RIGHTS The examinee should be advised of his applicable constitutional rights by the examiner . The examinee will also be informed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the examination is part of a " routine background check . " The examinee will also be told that other obj ectives of the examination are to determine any sympathy for or participation in Communist activities , and to determine if any incidents in the examinee 's life might leave him open to blackmail . ORGANIZATIONS Ethnic organizations . The examinee may belong to organizations as a direct result of his ethnic background . In many cases , his parents or close relatives may also belong to them . This area should be explored with care , not only because these organizations may have Communist or Fascist motivations , but also because the subject may resent deeply any supposed bias or tactlessness on the part of the examiner . Typical among ethnic organizations would be Polish-American clubs , Japanese community clubs , etc . In some cases , the examinee 's parents mayhave enrolled him in Communist or Fascist ethnic organizations merely because the organization operated a life insurance program . Racial organizations . Many persons belong to or have made financial contributions or contributions of their time to racial pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Communists , or are motivated by Fascist principles , participation in such groups should be discussed thoroughly . It is also mandatory that the examiner exert the utmost tact and delicacy to avoid offending the subject . In general , Negroes may be expected to have belonged to groups such as the NAACP . Political organizations . Membership in either of the two major political organizations or affiliated organizations will not be discussed during the interview . Other organizations will be discussed and the degree of activity of the examinee will he determined . Membership in minor political parties and splinter organizations will be reviewed with the examinee . Any work for a foreign political or military organization must also be covered fully . This would include membership in organizations attempting to restore a former government or king , caring for refugees , or sending propaganda into a foreign country . PERSONNEL SCREENING QUESTION POOL Have you ever had a mental breakdown ? Have you ever been confined to a rest home ? Have you ever thought of committing suicide ? Have you ever used any drugs illegally ? Have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drugs ? While under the influence of alcohol have you ever done anything you are ashamed of ? Have you ever resided with anyone other than your immediate family ? Do you have any friends who live in a foreign country ? Do you have any foreign pen pals ? Do you know of any reason why you should not have this job ? Have you ever brought discredit to a company ? Have you ever used a company vehicle for private purposes ? Do you owe anyone any money ? Have you ever owed a bar bill ? Have you ever falsified an application for credit ? Do you know anyone who would not give you a good character reference ? Have you ever assisted in the commission of an immoral act ? Are you a name dropper ? Have you ever belonged to a hobby group ? Have you ever been tempted to steal from an employer ? Have you ever belonged to a group which supported any foreign activity ? Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party ? Have you ever belonged to any group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Do you correspond with anyone in a Communist-controlled country ? Have you ever subscribed to any and-American publications ? Have you ever condemned our constitutional form of government ? Have you ever been sympathetic to the theory of communism ? Have you ever engaged in a sexual act with another male ( female ) ? Do you desire to engage in unnatural sex acts ? Do you desire to continue engaging in unnatural sex acts ? Have you engaged in sex acts with animals ? Have you ever received sexual stimulation in a crowded area ? Do you receive sexual satisfaction through means other than bodily contact ? Do you have a normal sex life ? Have you ever done anything for which you could be blackmailed ? Have you ever revealed classified information to unauthorized persons ? Do you believe you would be a good security risk ! Do you believe in background security investigations ?                     