@@432416

 | France has turned from ideological conflict to pragmatism . Until recently , any self-respecting French voter was either of the right or of the left . In between there was nothing , except for a few dithering souls who never expected to taste power . Then , two years ago , by a mischievous electoral twist , right and left found themselves obliged to share the task of running the country . The experience helped the French shrug off their ossified ideological divisions . When they get down to electing their President this month , it is a safe bet that whoever wins will govern from near the center . The strong favorite , the polls say , is the man who has held the job for the past seven years , Francois Mitterrand . The President of France is no longer the absolute monarch he was 20 years ago in Charles de Gaulle 's time . But even in commoner clothes , he is the most powerful figure in the land . As France has changed during the 1980s , so has the 71-year-old Mitterrand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the right-wing opposition defeated his Socialists and won a majority in the National Assembly . Thus began the period of forced partnership ? a curious arrangement called cohabitation ? in which Mitterrand remained President while Jacques Chirac , a conservative neoGaullist , held the job of Prime Minister . Mitterrand had to allow Chirac to run the country and make domestic policy ; the President hovered above and took charge of defense and foreign policy . There was occasional conflict , some of it serious . But the country liked the results of centrist power sharing in which each side prevented the other from imposing divisive , partisan schemes . Under Mitterrand 's rule , France put in place a free-market economy championed by the right while maintaining a high level of social welfare favored by the left . 4 They want it all . Cohabitation has selfdestructed , however , with the coming of the presidential election . Victory for Chirac would amount to winner take all because he would control both the Presidency and parliament . A big win for Mitterrand , who is running as the Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hope of displacing the pro-Chirac majority in the Assembly though he also has the option of naming a rightish Prime Minister to his taste . Time has turned Mitterrand into a national father figure , despite a reputation for cunning since he entered politics at the outbreak of World War II . He relishes his popular nickname of Tonton , meaning favorite uncle . Still , his style is strictly intellectual , and he has found a way to reach the people in keeping with it . Picture a leading candidate for President in this audiovisual age bent over a lamp writing a 60-page political testimony in longhand . The " letter " was published ? for a price ? by a dozen dailies . Mitterrand is a man of the democratic left who admires Britain 's radical-conservative Margaret Thatcher while supporting Europe 's social-democratic movements . It is hard for his opponents to cast him as a barrier to economic liberalization , since he presided over the Chirac government 's rush to privatize state-owned industry and abolish financial controls . He has also renounced further nationalization . The third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who served as  | Prime Minister at the end of the 1970s . Less than a year ago , French opinion polls showed the plump economics professor as the favorite to win . The public seemed ready to entrust him with the economy . But Barre 's serious , plodding campaign has failed to excite even his own supporters on the moderate nonGaullist right . His hopes of surviving into the final round of voting are fading fast . French elections are held in two rounds . The first , on April 24 , amounts to a knockout primary between Barre and Chirac , with the winner facing Mitterrand in the runoff on May 8 . Chirac , 55 , who was mayor of Paris before he took over the PM 's job , campaigns with the fire Barre lacks . As mainstream conservatives , both risk being bruised by a vaudevillian candidate barging around France on their right , Jean-Marie Le Pen of the extremist National Front . Racism sells . Le Pen 's rough humor has struck a chord with lower-middleclass and blue-collar voters who have been defecting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and big industrial centers . Le Pen 's fear-mongering about France 's becoming an " Islamic republic " excites his crowds most . Many native-born French seem all too ready to blame their 4 million immigrants , largely Arab North Africans , for such problems as crime and unemployment . Both Chirac and Barre disown this openly racist bluster . But Le Pen can take revenge by withholding his support ( now about 12 percent ) from whoever advances into the second round . Mitterrand has far less to fear if two weak , feuding Communist candidates penalize him in the same way . A would-be French President does not concern himself with detail , not until he is safely inside the Elysee Palace . Accordingly , none of the leading candidates is strong on specifics ? with minor exceptions like Mitterrand 's plan to restore a modest wealth tax . They hardly differ in their approaches to an economy now shorn of most of the barnacled controls long favored by France . Inflation is down to a respectable 3 percent , and growth , at 2 percent plus , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gap remains France 's most serious economic problem . Yet none of the main candidates embraces protectionism . All three see France 's next challenge coming in 1992 , when the 12-nation European Community is due to transform itself into a totally free internal market ? something like the United States without the political bonds . And all three favor a stronger European defense within NATO , to which none would officially recommit the French forces that were withdrawn by de Gaulle in the mid-1960s . For months , Mitterrand has been running 10 percent or so ahead of either Chirac or Barre . Chirac has begun closing the gap , but not dramatically . If Tonton Mitterrand wins a runaway victory , he will have a strong incentive to call new parliamentary elections capable of producing a Socialist majority on his coattails . Even a narrow victory could lead to rapid parliamentary elections , since Chirac is fed up with cohabiting . Short of an astonishing upset by Chirac , France may be in for a lot of democratic limb stretching before it celebrates the bicentennial of the 1789 Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can get along without a government . Their economy has prospered while assorted coalitions have tumbled into and out of office , too weak and too short-lived to govern . Yet when Ciriaco De Mita stepped in last week to form a new center-right government , most Italians were hoping he could make it last . The point is that the undisciplined economy , which lately has made Italians richer than many of their European neighbors , urgently needs direction . Strong leadership has had a bad odor in Italy since Mussolini . Politicians who have tried to assert authority have aroused suspicion . Since 1945 , Italy has had 48 governments , including De Mita 's newborn coalition , compared with 35 in France and 13 each in Britain and West Germany . Bettino Craxi , the ambitious Socialist chief , set a record by keeping a coalition in power for three years . Cartoonists now portray him in jackboots . The bland De Mita , who heads Italy 's perennial bulwark of coalitions , the Christian Democratic party , could walk down Rome 's Via Veneto without being recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the past month , luring four smaller parties , including Craxi 's Socialists , into a coalition whose first aim is to endure . A lasting government is vital , Italians now believe , because the country has a budget deficit proportionately worse than that of the U.S. and equally hard to tame . The entrepreneurial ingenuity of Italians ( which also is reflected in a black-market economy representing about 20 percent of gross national product ) brought about the country 's economic revival . Now the deficit and other long-brewing problems threaten to abort it . Italy 's public services ? transport , health and mail ? are among the worst in Europe . Milan 's industrialists mail their letters from next-door Switzerland . Having turned against nuclear power , Italy has no energy policy . Only a government with time to make decisions and carry them through can tackle these issues . The same goes for constitutional reforms to streamline a 13-party Parliament . De Mita 's hopes of a strong government surviving until the next legislative elections in 1992 rest largely on Craxi , who remains Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only 14 percent of the vote a year ago against the De Mita party 's 34 percent , Craxi holds the balance of power . The able Socialist would like to become Premier again himself . It would be " a miracle , " he observed , if the De Mita government lasted four years . Did he mean wonderful or unlikely ?                     