@@432021

 | New approaches in treatment and care are providing more hope for cancer sufferers , and in laboratories , scientists are finding new clues about how this disease starts and spreads . At an annual seminar of the American Cancer Society , medical specialists reported the following : Customized drug treatment . A cell-culture test using a patient 's own tumor cells can determine the specific drug that may be most effective in treating that individual . The test , developed by Dr. Sydney E. Salmon of the University of Arizona Cancer Center , was used on more than 200 patients . In two separate studies , it accurately predicted ? 60 percent of the time ? which particular drugs would induce remission for a variety of cancers , including melanoma , multiple myeloma and cancers of the ovaries , breast , lung , colon and thyroid . With an even greater accuracy rate ? 97 percent ? the test predicted which drugs would not be effective , thus sparing patients potential side effects and expense from drugs that were of no benefit . Breast-cancer research . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is carried from generation to generation by a single gene . At the University of California at Berkeley , geneticist Mary-Claire King identified 13 extended families , averaging 150 members each , that appear to carry genes specific to each family that increase susceptibility to breast cancer . Although an estimated 15 percent of all breast cancers may be associated with familial predisposition , this is the first demonstration that a specific gene may be at work among a minority of these patients . Gene-linked breast cancer in these families tended to strike women in their late 40s , on average , and develop in both breasts . The women with these genes faced a 90 percent chance of developing the disease , but their sisters who did not carry the genes appeared to face no increased risk . Cancer preventive . Latest laboratory research offers hope that ways can be found to keep cancer cells in early stages from growing into malignancies . At the Fels Research Institute of Temple University in Philadelphia , Dr. Arthur G. Schwartz has made a synthetic analog to a naturally occurring adrenal steroid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tumors and lung cancer , causes weight loss and delays aging . Additional research is needed before it can be made available for human use . Combination drugs . In an experimental program , for patients with advanced breast cancer , Dr. Edwin C. Cadman at Yale University found that treating patients with the drug methotrexate before administering standard anticancer drug regimens greatly enhanced the beneficial effects of therapy . Eleven of 17 patients responded favorably to this treatment strategy , showing noticeable shrinking of the tumors . One patient achieved a complete remission . Under way are more extensive studies to test this combination therapy . Transforming cells . For the first time , a biologist has succeeded in converting normal human cells into cancerous cells by using X-rays . This is said to be a major step toward trying to reduce the uncertainties of bodily damage that may result from low levels of radiation , and in evaluating compounds that might protect against radiation damage . Dr. Carmia Borek of Columbia University 's College of Physicians and Surgeons subjected human skin cells in a glass dish to heavy doses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiation , produced tumors in mice injected with the cells . Scientists for years have been bombarding animal cells with X-rays to measure the hazards of developing cancer , but until Dr. Borek 's breakthrough they had been unable to transform healthy human cells into a malignant state with radiation . Radiation vs. drugs . Evidence is growing that children with acute lymphocytic leukemia who undergo radiation of the skull to prevent the disease from spreading to the central nervous system are likely to suffer brain damage as a result . " We are finding out more and more that children age 6 or under at the time of radiation have later learning difficulties , " says Dr. Anna Taback Meadows of the University of Pennsylvania 's School of Medicine . It is estimated that up to 80 percent have some noticeable impairment ; more than half require special learning facilities . An alternative to radiation therapy may be treatment with the drug methotrexate . Preliminary studies suggest that for some children , periodic administration of low doses of this drug into the spine may be effective in preventing disease of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperative study to evaluate this new strategy is in progress at 13 medical centers . Cancer and jobs . Many recovered cancer patients who go back to work after treatment encounter major problems on their jobs , according to studies by Frances L. Feldman at the University of Southern California , Los Angeles . In a study of 127 white-collar workers , 25 percent experienced discrimination including loss of jobs , refusal of promotions , pay cuts and downgrading of working conditions and insurance coverage . Of 120 blue-collar workers studied , one quarter had lost their jobs or could not move to different ones ; one third had been demoted or denied cost-ofliving raises , and more than 80 percent reported work problems related to having had cancer . On average , white-collar workers miss nine weeks of work because of cancer ; blue-collar workers , five months . Pointing out that the public seems to have an aversion to cancer patients , Feldman explains : " It stems from the archaic attitude that cancer is a dirty disease . It carries a stigma . Some people even think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               