@@432118

 | President.Reagan 's red-ink budget is ringing alarm bells in America 's business community . Analysts in private forecasting firms , banks and brokerage houses now see this prospect : The recession that began last summer will end within three or four months . But any rebound may be aborted soon after it begins . Unemployment is expected to surpass the post-World War II high of 9 percent ? idling nearly 10 million people ? then ease only gradually . Interest rates , on the rise recently , may dip by 2 or 3 percentage points within six months . But there 's danger of a renewed surge later . Inflation should range between 6 and 7 percent for the rest of 1982 , the best performance since 1977 . Housing and auto sales could receive a temporary boost at midyear and then tail off if no substantial progress is made in taming borrowing costs . Spongy securities markets will be hard pressed to mount a sustained rally . " The bond and stock markets are mesmerized by interest rates and the budget deficits , " contends Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gordon of Dreyfus Corporation , a New Yorkbased investment house , says : " There 's serious concern as to whether the economic recovery could be strangled by the persistence of high interest rates . " Behind the worry lies fear that the whopping deficits outlined in Reagan 's budget ? 273 billion dollars in fiscal years 1982-84 and more later ? may force interest rates to remain at stifling : evels . If this occurs , analysts worry , business borrowing needed for job-creating investment would be " crowded Jut " by Uncle Sam 's appetite for cash . " Collision course . " It 's for this reason that Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker warned Congress on February 10 that failure to restrain the deficits will place the central bank 's restrictive monetary policy on a " collision course " with the recovery . Suggests Timothy Howard , chief financial economist for Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco : " If we do n't get some meaningful relief on interest rates , another correction ? or recession ? would be a likelihood in 1983 . " All this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Reagan in his budget and in his economic report , sent to Congress on February 10 . The President 's advisers predict that a " brisk " snapback from the recession , beginning in the spring , will launch the economy on several years of robust , uninterrupted growth . Reagan and his Council of Economic Advisers reject contentions that mounting deficits will translate into economic woes . In the President 's words : " Although these deficits are undesirably high , they will not jeopardize the economic recovery . " Reagan says the deficits are the result of recession , lower inflation , higher interest payments by the Treasury and a balky Congress . Some backers . A sprinkling of support for Reagan 's forecast has surfaced outside the government . The U.S. Chamber of Commerce predicts a swift recovery , beginning in April , and a prime interest rate of 9 percent in 1983 , down from 16% percent now . Adds Jerry Jasinowski , chief economist for the National Association of Manufacturers : " Our members are cautious , but optimistic . " Still , concern is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who heads a New York consulting firm bearing his name , foresees a jump in business output " surprisingly soon " as firms finish reducing inventories and place new orders . But he fears high interest rates will nip further expansion . Even Republican advisers to Reagan outside the government voice skepticism . " Nobody believes the administration projections as the most likely forecast , " says consultant Alan Greenspan , in New York . Critics of the President 's plan complain that the economic assumptions underlying the budget are riddled with " contradictions and unrealities , " as Allen Sinai of Data Resources , Inc. , a Lexington , Mass. , forecasting firm , puts it . In the budget , the President calls for economic growth averaging 4.4 percent annually from 1982 to 1987 . This expansion , economists note , would exceed the average yearly rise of 3.7 percent between 1959 and 1979 . Included in this scenario is a 5.2 percent growth rate in 1983 . " I would n't want to count on growth that high next year , " states Volcker . More likely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both 1983 and  | 1984 . Other private economists see even skimpier advances . Reagan 's forecast of steadily receding interest rates over the next two years is viewed as questionable , too . In recent weeks borrowing charges have moved higher , even though some economists have spotted signs that the economic plunge may be bottoming out . Interest costs on 13-week Treasury bills rose to a five-month high of 14.099 percent on February 8 . Still , some relief is forecast . Mortgage rates , now in the 17 to 18 percent range , are expected to slide to 14 to 15 percent and remain there . Many analysts see other lending charges falling 2 to 3 percentage points by summer . But even that relief is viewed as insufficient to solve for very long the problems of such key industries as housing , autos and savings . Mirroring this concern , William O'Connell , president of the U.S. League of Savings Associations , told Reagan in a February 10 letter : " Unless interest rates come down significantly and stay down , the stimulating effects of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this outlook is the administration 's proposed string of budget deficits , starting with 98.6 billion dollars this year and 91.5 billion for the fiscal year beginning October 1 . Even those totals could be understated , many contend . One reason : Reagan bases his fiscal ' 83 deficit on the assumption that Congress will approve 55.9 billion in spending cuts , hikes in taxes and fees and the weeding out of waste . " Too optimistic , " responds Ben Laden , chief economist for T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore . More realistic , he says , is a 120-billion-dollar deficit in 1983 . Economist Henry Kaufman of Salomon Brothers investment house believes it may reach 150 billion over all . Still another point of contention is the savings rate of American consumers . The administration forecasts that the second phase of Reagan 's incometax cuts ? 10 percent , effective July 1 ? will vastly increase the pool of mone : . available for lending . But some economists are dubious They believe that hard-pressed consumers may spend , rather than save . much of what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration is wrong in assuming that " some kind of whistle will blow on July 1 and the economy will turn back up again , nice and neat , " thus solving the problem . Instead , economists feel that lendable funds wo n't rise enough to meet business demands while financing federal deficits . Business economists and the administration are closer to agreement on other economic bench marks . " Bright spot . " Inflation is expected to remain stable for the rest of 1982 " Inflation is the main bright spot , " says Laden . Beyond Christmas , though , analysts are somewhat more pessimistic . Unemployment , meanwhile , will probably rise from the current 8.5 percent rate . Economists for both Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company believe joblessness will top 9 percent soon and stay there in 1982 . Reagan 's forecast of an 8.9 percent average this year is in line with many forecasts . As for individual industries , the depressed auto and housing sectors may get a temporary shot in the arm from the tax cuts , analysts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loosen their purse strings . If that occurs , it will be none too soon for the construction industry . Housing starts during 1981 plunged to a 35-year low . Builder and subcontractor bankruptcies jumped 56 percent from a year earlier . Sales in the next few months may pick up , say analysts Still , Sinai of Data Resources says : " I do n't think there will be a big rebound at any time in the next few years . " Auto manufacturers ? and their workers ? are looking for relief , too . Sales rose , but were sharply below a year ago in January . Indefinite layoffs stood at nearly 246,000 . Car purchases . believes E. F. Hutton 's chief economist Edward Yardeni , could bounce upward during the July-September quarter . but then settle back again . All in all , say analysts , the nation 's economy is in a fragile state . Contends Norman Robertson , chief economist for the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh : " Without quick and decisive action to reduce the deficits , the American economy will remain trapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recession . " Reagan 's Economic Script for 1982 The nation is on the verge of sustained economic health , the administration believes ? if inflation keeps easing . The Council of Economic Advisers foresees this scenario , from the President 's Economic Report to Congress on February 10 Economic performance : The recession ends during the AprilJune quarter . Income-tax cuts and a rise in Social Security benefits give the economy a boost this summer . As a result , growth in the final half of 1982 exceeds 5 percent , at an annual rate . Expansion continues at a 5.2 percent clip in 1983 and in the 4 to 5 percent range between 1984-87 . Inflation : Prices paid by consumers rise 6.6 percent this year , down from 1981 's 9.4 percent . In 1983 : A 5.1 percent rise . Unemployment : Improvement lags behind the business pickup . The current 8.5 percent jobless rate climbs to around 9 percent this spring , then edges back down as the economy gradually moves up again . However , joblessness still averages 8.9 percent in 1982 ? highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rates still above 7 percent . Interest rates : Some moderation is forecast . Treasury bills , reflecting short-term market rates , average 11.7 percent this year . Currently , Uncle Sam pays about 14 percent on such securities . In 1983 , rates dip to 10.5 percent . Housing : It could provide momentum for the recovery after two miserable years . Starts on new units may rise as high as 1.5 million , at an annual rate , by the fourth quarter , far above the 1 million level of last year . Autos : Lower interest rates and the second stage of incometax cuts combine to boost sales . Trade : As business strengthens , imports rise . Exports , meanwhile , fall in reaction to a stronger dollar abroad . Over all , say Reagan 's advisers , 1982 should begin several years of " prosperous growth . " The only potential stumbling block : Lack of progress in controlling inflation beyond 1982.                     