@@330954

During the first century and a half of this republic 's existence , nobody really expected the press to be fair . Papers were mostly shrill , scurrilous and partisan . In the Hearst press , Roosevelt 's New Deal was constantly referred to , not only on the editorial page but in the news columns , as the " raw deal . " Despite this repeated hammering , readers kept re-electing Franklin D. Roosevelt anyway . Roosevelt has since won his revenge . It 's called the Fairness Doctrine . <P> At first it applied only to radio , then to television , both of which came under Government regulation on the grounds that channels were scarce and airwaves crowded . Stations were required to devote some broadcast time to public issues and to allow contrasting points of view a chance to be heard . It seems only  --  well , fair  --  does n't it ? <P> For years radio and TV have complained that they are therefore not as free as the printed press . They feel hampered even when not really hurting ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcasting licenses come up for renewal . FCC Chairman Mark Fowler , being a Reaganite who believes in less government , wants to abolish the Fairness Doctrine . He knows he wo n't be allowed to . Too many pressure groups from right to left enjoy the Government-granted chance to have their say . In vain do broadcasters protest that with the spread of cable television , there are plenty of TV channels available , and that nearly 10,000 radio stations exist . What has become scarcer is the independent newspaper , of which there is usually only one to a community . When it comes to fairness , broadcasters have a point . <P> Newspapers , under the well-known New York Times vs . Sullivan Supreme Court decision , are allowed to be unfair , and in some circumstances even inaccurate , in order to ensure " uninhibited , robust and wide-open " public debate . Yet oddly enough the unregulated printed press has become as tamely balanced in its coverage and comment as are radio and TV . For fairness has caught on with the public ; this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of journalism is lively vituperation still to be found  --  on a newspaper 's sports pages and in political journals of left and right . In cities that are newspaper monopolies ( as most are ) , editors feel an obligation to represent all elements in the community . The largest newspaper chain , Gannett , lets its 86 dailies be Republican or Democratic as they please . Gannett calls this local autonomy , though it could also be described as commercial opportunism . Gannett editors choose their own columnists but are advised to seek an ideological balance . That spectrum attitude somewhat diminishes the columnist , who is seen to be not so much speaking for himself as reflecting a point of view . It 's like the phony balance of man-in-the-street interviews on TV , characterized scornfully by ABC News President Roone Arledge as " one for , one against , and one funny . "                     