@@332051

The Administration seemed squarely at odds with itself last week over the prickly issue of refugees from Central America . In Florida , Perry Rivkind , the district director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service , said that he would not deport citizens from Nicaragua who seek political asylum in the U.S. In Arizona , the Justice Department wound up its prosecution of eleven church workers accused of smuggling aliens from El Salvador and Guatemala into the U.S.  --  even though these illegal immigrants also claimed that they feared persecution in their home countries . <P> The two cases reinforced the widely held impression that a double standard exists in the treatment of aliens seeking sanctuary in the U.S. In fact , the Administration has made it plain that it takes a more sympathetic view of the persecution claims of anyone fleeing a Communist country . The Justice Department is considering a new interpretation of the 1980 Refugee Act that would establish a " presumption " that aliens fleeing a Communist regime have a well-founded fear of persecution that would meet the requirement for political asylum . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight Nicaraguans in Miami last week , apparently jumped the gun on the policy shift , since Attorney General Edwin Meese has yet to sign off on the new interpretation . <P> The Administration 's changing sanctuary policy may well run afoul of Congress . " I think it is unfair as hell to permit blanket asylum for Nicaraguans and not for Salvadorans , " protested Arizona 's Democratic Senator , Dennis DeConcini . He has a bill pending in the Senate Judiciary Committee that would give Salvadoran refugees the same status as that being considered for Nicaraguans . <P> In Tucson , the tumultuous six-month " sanctuary " trial went to the jury last week . Lawyers defending the church workers pleaded with Federal Judge Earl Carroll to let them point out the inconsistency of the Government 's asylum policy to the jurors . The judge ruled that this was irrelevant . Earlier , he had banned any testimony about persecution in the refugees ' home country or about the religious and humanitarian motives of the defendants in providing sanctuary . Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald Reno doggedly confined the prosecution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smuggle aliens into the U.S. and thus violated immigration laws . " These people are protesting against U.S. law , " he said in his closing argument . " They have every right to do that , but they have no right to smuggle aliens into this country . " <P> The defense claimed that the Government had violated the First Amendment rights of the defendants by sending informers into their religious meetings and secretly tape-recording their conversations . The defense also managed to establish that the defendants  --  a nun , two priests , a minister and seven lay workers  --  were hardly criminal types . Whatever the verdict , the trial apparently has strengthened rather than discouraged the sanctuary movement . Partly because of the publicity surrounding the case , 16 U.S. cities and the state of New Mexico have proclaimed their territories sanctuaries for anyone fleeing political repression or armed conflict in any Central American nation .                     