@@487751

ployers of expatriate labor have slashed their spending and forced as many as 500,000 Egyptian workers home . Mubarak must discover a way of closing an overall pay  --  ments deficit that the I.M.F . projects at $1.3 billion for 1985 . That will not be an easy task . Word of Egypt 's prob  --  lems is already beginning to affect its ability to borrow . For example , the British government 's export finance agency has dropped Egypt 's credit rating to the poorest-risk category .. In managing the domestic economy , the Egyptians play a game similar to the one they play in foreign affairs . Recent Egyptian governments have talked about self-sufficiency and independence , but in practice they have taken on as much debt and foreign aid as possible in order to avoid hard decisions . Sadat allowed imports to increase 20 percent an  --  nually during the fat years of the late 1970s , and in the four months prior to last year 's parliamentary elections Mubarak permitted a 30 percent jump in food imports to put his con  --  stituents in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , year on subsidies that stimulate consumption and benefit the rich as well as the poor because the government has never bothered to limit distribution of subsidized items , such as 2 cent loaves of bread , to the neediest . Now that the lean years are here Mubarak must deal with the consequences of past inaction . He has brought in his third Prime Minister in four years , Ali Lotfi , an economics professor , who is reputedly an austerity-minded budget cut  --  ter . The government is holding its first serious negotiations since 1978 with the International Monetary Fund , whose pressures for austerity are widely blamed for the riots that followed the increase in food prices in 1977 . In hopes of se  --  curing a $1.5 billion loan , Lotfi is promising to cut the sub  --  sidies and provide more incentives for foreign investment . There is no reason to think that pain will be any easier to sell in 1985 than it was in 1977 . Mubarak 's standing is no better - now than Sadat 's was then , and in 1977 there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they were being asked to make sacrifices for the benefit of . the rich and Egypt 's American creditors . On the popular black market , the Egyptian pound , always a good barometer of the-nation 's mood , has already given Mubarak a vote of no confidence by plunging to its all-time low against the dollar . Mubarak enters what promises to be the most trying period of his presidency in poor shape . Although few doubt either his honesty or his good intentions , his handling of both the Achille Lauro and the Egyptair hijacking have re  --  vived the old questions about his leadership . More trou  --  bling , he has yet to carve out a constituency for himself . Those who thrived under Sadat mistrust him , while the Nas  --  serites and other leftists will never accept him until he com  --  pletely repudiates Sadat 's policies . Even the military offi  --  cers , who should be his most reliable supporters , are smart  --  ing from their bungling of the Malta raid and unproved charges that they leaked Mubarak 's plans for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and diplomatic miracles , Mubarak faces stepped-up pressure from the leftists , the liberals and the Islamic fundamentalists , who , although incapable of toppling him , are already making his job difficult . It is not hard to foresee a chaotic political atmosphere developing that might provoke an impulsive move by Mubarak or someone else . q I= SUPPLY-SIDE KNOWLEDGE Information ? A Shrinking Resource HERBERT I. SCHILLER 1 ike McDonald 's and Lee Iacocca , the informa tion industry in this country seems beyond criticism . The major media are dazzled by sur face phenomena : the undeniable technical wiz ardry of the new electronic systems of data and image pro  --  jection , the increasing number of jobs being created in the information industry , the utilization of sophisticated " in  --  structed " equipment . Adding to the general bedazzlement is the blinding rapidity with which computers have been in  --  stalled in government bureaus , commercial offices and serv  --  ice industries . Artifacts of the information age have become a routine sight  --  product scanners in supermarkets , cash registers that resemble the control panels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of room keys in motels , computer terminals replacing card catalogues in libraries . The commercial utilization of information has become a central force in our society , yet there has been an almost complete absence of discussion of the political and policy issues it raises . One of the most important of those issues is the danger posed to a free society by private ownership of information . Businesses now vie for a greater share of the nation 's information supply . Facts have become profitable commodities , a resource to be owned , like oil , iron ore or land , and made available only on an ability-to-pay basis . As a result , a silent struggle is being waged between those who wish to appropriate the country 's information re  --  sources for private gain and those who favor the fullest availability . The latter have been in steady retreat . Two of the major generators of information , the Federal govern  --  ment and the universities , are succumbing to the forces of privatization . In 1981 , alarmed by this trend , the American Library @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on information , with the apt title " Less Access to Less Information By and About the U.S. Government . " The drive to privatize public information has been enor  --  mously facilitated by the Reagan Administration 's commit  --  ment to dismantling the government 's social welfare func  --  tions . It has pursued chat objective from within the bureau Herbert I. Schiller is professor of communication at the University of California , San Diego . He is the author of Information and the Crisis Economy ( Ablex ) . cracy , through the Office of Management and Budget , which has been elevated to a superagency , presiding over the plans , programs and information activities . of all the other agencies . The O.M.B. is spearheading the effort to reduce the government 's traditional responsibility to collect , - com  --  pile and disseminate information . By O.M.B. edict , many government publications that serve the needs of the general public have been discontinued see Ralph Nader , " Do n't Let the Sunshine In , " The Na  --  tion , November 7 , 1981 . Further cutbacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a large part of the national information supply , the Departments of Labor , Commerce ; Agriculture , Energy , Health and Hu  --  man Services et al. , are being compelled to justify their statistical and data-collection projects to a generally hostile overseer . Meanwhile , private companies are demanding , with the encouragement of the O.M.B. , the right to acquire , organ  --  ize and disseminate what they regard as the most profitable items in the national data stockpile . As the influence and range of the private firms expand , there is a corresponding diminution of the role of bodies that have traditionally served the public interest . The role of the Federal Depository Library Pro  --  gram in collecting and circulating government publi  --  cations is being undermined by the unavailability of those documents . Budgetary constraints have prevented it from acquiring the latest electronic equipment for information delivery . The scholarly riches reposing in the National Archives have been made less accessible because of funding cutbacks . Federal libraries , which set the standard for libraries across the nation , are starved for funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to private firms . Another raid on the national information stockpile , still in the experimental stage , may come in the initial stage of data collection . The government has approved pilot pro  --  grams in which private contractors manage the electronic fil  --  ing , processing and dissemination of data that businesses and individuals are required to submit to government agen  --  cies and commissions . The data include the more than 100,000 applications that the Patent and Trademarks Office receives annually and the disclosure documents that publicly held companies must file with the SecUrities and Exchange Commission . These private arrangements raise a host of questions . Will they affect the accuracy and quality of the data ? Who will decide what will be stored and what discarded ? How will public access to this material be insured ? Who owns the data after it is processed by private firms ? Such queries were raised by Representative Glenn English , chair of the House Subcommittee on Government Information , Justice and Agriculture , at hearings in March 1984 . Public access to government information is further dimin  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  secrecy mania . Exemptions from the Freedom of Informa  --  tion Act have been multiplying . Classification of govern  --  ment documents is booming . Export controls have been clamped on a growing body of technical data at the behestof the Pentagon . A security blanket has been wrapped around the proceedings of nongovernmental scientific meetings , with the Defense Department intervening to classify papers as " sensitive . " In November , Samuel L. Morison , a Defense Department employee , was sentenced to two years in prison under the Espionage Act for leaking photographs of a Soviet aircraft carrier to the British publication Jane 's Defence Weekly . The only information that has become more available is personal data on-individ  --  uals collected by government agencies and private com  --  panies , for instance insurance and credit bureaus , which combine their disparate holdings by " matching files " in different computerized data bases . At the nation 's universities , too , the dynamic of informa  --  tion commercialization is at work . " The relationship be  --  tween academe and business is more cordial than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The Chronicle of Higher Education . " The sectors are increasingly resembling each other . " The crucial connection is information . Corporations aim to siphon off the findings in the aca  --  demic laboratories and institutes for their own profit . With few exceptions , administrators of the top schools , squeezed ' by declining Public support , have welcomed corporate of  --  fers of money , computers , laboratories and research facili  --  ties , and contributions to the salaries and upkeep of market  --  able professors . As proprietary interests take precedence over free scholarly exchanges , a wall is erected between the public and new ideas , discoveries and controversies . Cor  --  porations do n't fund research to have the results circulated to all comers . In sum , the national information supply is an endangered resource . Public custodianship is being curtailed . Corporate control , which allows access only to those who can afford to pay for it , is being promoted . The flow of ideas from aca  --  demia is being diverted into restricted , corporate channels . And the militarization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over what should be publicly available information . Although the press could examine these dismaying devel  --  opments and alert the nation to them , it has been of little help . Media owners , busily linking disparate communica  --  tion resources into giant chains and networks , have no in  --  terest in informing the public of these trends . Recently , Charles Kinsolving , the vice president for marketing/new technology of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau , predicted that by 1295 " 90 percent of all communication facilities , in. - eluding newspapers , broadcast outlets , cable systems , tele  --  phone lines , relays and satellites , will be in the hands of fif  --  teen companies . " But in the face of the overwhelming evi  --  dence of increased concentration in the communications in  --  industry , the Federal Communications Commission fanati  --  cally continues on its deregulatory course . The commission points to the existence of nearly 10,000 FM and AM radio stations , 1,200 educational and commercial television sta  --  tions and about 10,000 newspapers in arguing that there is no need to enforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time ( for opposing views . Competi  --  tion , it ' claims , will insure diversity of opinion . The trend toward conglomerate ownership of those out  --  lets makes the statistics of their apparent abundance mean  --  ingless , however . It is fantasy to say that each of them is autonomous . One might as well say that General Motors has no control over its Chevrolet , Buick and Cadillac divisions . Not only does the awesome concentration of ownership of the media have a numbing effect on diversity of expres  --  sion in news and entertainment ; it endangers the political process as well by raising the price of participation . Can  --  didates depend on television coverage , radio announce  --  ments , computerized direct-mail drives and opinion polling to wage a successful campaign . Those who can not , afford such accouterments of the modern campaign are left to speak on street corners . But robust democracy requires that access to the informa  --  tion apparatus be available to all on an equal basis , not just to those who can pay for it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time was given to all can  --  didates should not be a consideration . The current system requires candidates for national office to raise millions of dollars to purchase television and radio time , making them beholden to the wealthiest interest groups and political action committees . While media barons exact their tribute from political can ? ' didates , corporations claim- that their commercial state  --  ments are entitled to the protection of the First Amendment . Because they have the money to buy media access , their speech overwhelms individual expression . Thus , while people have a harder time getting the information they need to vote , to make intelligent consumer decisions , to understand their world , corporate speech , invested with full First Amendment privileges , saturates the media . A national debate about the character , objectives and di rection of the information society is long overdue . The political task ahead is to develop strategies for expanding the public information supply without resorting to the ability-to , pay mechanism .. Social accountability must be restored to broadcasting , which means reversing the deregulatory fever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The chilling role of the O.M.B. should be recognized for what it is : an assault on the social responsibilities of government , particularly information gathering and dissem  --  ination . Finally , the Pentagon 's dominant position in the in  --  formation sector , resulting from massive spending on re  --  search and development , must be undercut . Only then will the wave of secrecy and , classification begin to subside . Does sufficient vigor remain in the political system to reverse the present trend ? One can see signs of growing dis  --  sent . The presidents of a dozen of the most prestigious na k tional engineering and scientific societies recently wrote a letter to Caspar Weinberger cautioning against the " new controls being applied by the Department of Defense to un  --  classified technical information . " The American Library Association continues to defend the principle of free access to information . A few Congressional committees have begun to explore information issues . The extent to which these few groups and voices can be multiplied and transformed into unified , politically effective expression will determine whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doctrine ( Continued From Front Cover ) begun to develop strategy and tactics for low-level warfare , and the Army has commissioned a study of combat require  --  ments for any U.S. force that might be sent to fight in Cen  --  tral America . As in the heyday of counterinsurgency , the military press is full of theoretical studies of antiguerrilla warfare . In the January 1985 issue of Military Review , the journal of the Army 's Command and General Staff College , Col. James B. Motley wrote , " The most important security challenge confronting the United States . . . is to improve its military capabilities for low-intensity conflict . " The growing popularity of L.I.C. doctrine stems from two interrelated phenomena : the armed services ' desire to develop a publicly acceptable formula for the use of force in regional conflicts , and the Reagan Administration 's desire to build public support for its military campaign against pro-Soviet forces and regimes in the Third World . Both of those drives have encountered resistance from many Ameri  --  cans who remember the Vietnam War with considerable dis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have sparked a compre  --  hensive government effort to devise a persuasive rationale for military intervention . That is what L.I.C. doctrine is in                     