@@325408

Brandt irks his comrades by molding a movement to his image <P> After fighting broke out in El Salvador , a group of West European Socialists dodged bullets to meet with leftist rebel leaders . During the siege of Beirut , a delegation of Social Democrats picked its way through rubble to confer with Palestine Liberation Organization Leader Yasser Arafat . When they are not touring global hot spots , representatives of the Socialist International , the umbrella organization for 49 Social Democratic parties in Europe , Asia and the Americas , meet frequently to make pronouncements that , they hope , will be heeded by an estimated 15 million party members worldwide . <P> Yet when 300 ranking Socialists from 70 countries converged on the Portuguese resort of Albufeira last week , the focus was less on their ample advice for world leaders than on the movement 's considerable problems . In the past 19 months , five European Socialist parties , including West Germany 's , have lost their places in government coalitions . Among those that remain in power , France 's is confronted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile , the Socialist International has become riven by internal squabbles , mostly centering on the contentious role played by its president , former West German Chancellor Willy Brandt , 69 . <P> The meeting was marred by the assassination of Issam Sartawi , the P.L.O . delegate , in a hotel lobby Sunday morning . The gunman escaped . Sartawi 's presence in Albufeira had been a contentious issue . If all had gone according to plan , the Socialists would have held their 16th biennial congress in Sydney , Australia . But last February , at Brandt 's request , Portuguese Socialist Leader Mario Scares extended a formal invitation to the P.L.O . to send an observer . The Australian Socialists , led by newly elected Prime Minister Robert Hawke , objected strenuously , since they did not want to give the impression that they were " instant radicals , " as one Australian at last week 's meeting put it . Thus the Congress had to be moved to Portugal at the last minute . <P> As chairman of the West German Social Democratic Party , the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bureaucracy and his personal prestige to expand the movement 's influence in the Third World . He has got 16 leftist movements and parties , including those of Guatemala , Venezuela and Costa Rica , to join . But , to the dismay of some of his colleagues , he has imprinted the Socialist International with his own ideological stamp . The Socialist International routinely condemns human rights abuses in South Africa or South Korea , but delegations heading for East European capitals often steer away from controversial subjects . When Poland 's General Wojciech Jaruzelski declared martial law in December 1981 , Brandt issued a bland statement of regret noting that " unwanted advice and strongly worded declarations will not help the people of Poland . " Brandt has also drawn fire for his calls for " revolutionary change " in El Salvador .                     