@@322008

A week of conflicting signals ends in an Iranian standoff <P> " To prevent any misunderstanding , we declare that the Revolutionary Council should take the hostages , or the American spies , from us and do with them what they think best ... " <P> With that surprising announcement , broadcast over Iranian television and radio , the militants at the U.S. embassy in Tehran last week declared that they were now willing to turn their 50 American hostages over to the ruling Revolutionary Council and newly elected President Abolhassan Banisadr . That was still a long way from saying that the hostages would be released immediately , though it sounded like the best news the U.S. had heard from Tehran since the hostages were seized more than four months ago . But the Carter Administration reacted to the announcement with extreme caution-and , as it turned out , the caution was amply justified . <P> Word of the prisoners ' possible transfer to government custody defused some of the criticism aimed at the White House for its handling of the hostage crisis . Specifically , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militants by approving a special United Nations commission proposed by Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim . The job of the five commissioners-lawyers from Algeria , France , Sri Lanka , Syria and Venezuela-was to investigate Iranian grievances against the deposed Shah and his U.S. supporters , and also to check on the health and safety of the American hostages . <P> In the beginning , the U.S. had thought that the commission 's visit would lead to the freeing , or at least the moving , of the hostages . On arrival in Tehran , the commissioners discovered that the militants were locked in a bitter power struggle with President Banisadr and Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh . For ten days the militants did everything they could to prevent the commission members from seeing the hostages ; they argued that the visit had not been approved by the ailing spiritual leader of Iran 's revolution , Ayatullah Ruhollah Khomeini . But then , as the commissioners prepared to leave for New York City , their mission a failure , the students suddenly announced that they would surrender control of the hostages to governmental authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hostages was imminent . " You are jumping too far ahead , " he told reporters . Nonetheless , as a Western diplomat in Tehran noted , " Once the hostages are in responsible hands , a big obstacle to a final settlement of the dispute will have been removed . " In Washington , the White House and the State Department remained uncomfortably silent , as if they feared that the slightest American enthusiasm could wreck the deal . They were weary from reacting to all the contradictory stop-and-go signals that have characterized the crisis and were waiting for a sure sign of progress . They were also fairly certain that Banisadr , who is believed to be anxious to get the matter settled once and for all , would be unlikely to free the hostages until Iranian public opinion had been prepared for so dramatic a move .                     