@@432254

 | Mexico 's controversial midterm elections , tainted by charges of fraud inside the country and meddling by Americans from outside , signal possible new strains between the United States and its southern neighbor . A widespread view among top government officials here : While Washington steered clear of direct intervention in the July 7 voting , some influential Americans , including key Republicans , were openly plugging for the more conservative political opposition . In the words of one leader here : " We are being punished for not toeing the U.S. line on Central America . " The balloting produced no surprises , however . The iron grip that President Miguel de la Madrid 's Institutional Revolutionary Party ( PRI ) has wielded over the country for the last 56 years remains by and large unchallenged . Although PRI 's political rivals contested thousands of ballots ? and hundreds took to the streets in sporadic protests in Monterrey and other cities ? the ruling party claimed overwhelming victory . It captured all of the seven contested governorships and maintained its overwhelming control of the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces ? the " dirtiest election in years , " some charged ? was matched by the undercurrent of resentment in government circles over America 's suspected role here . President de la Madrid himself was seen joining in the criticism when he declared pointedly during the campaign : " We do not need lessons in democracy from abroad . " Policy differences . Although U.S.-Mexico ties have been traditionally strong and Mexican leaders insist they remain so , relations have become increasingly strained in recent years . One reason is de la Madrid 's refusal to endorse President Reagan 's hardline policy against Communists and other leftists in Central America . Senior officials cite the unremitting U.S. criticism of Mexico 's stance as evidence that Reagan Republicans preferred the conservative , minority National Action Party ( PAN ) to the entrenched PRI , a coalition of labor unions , business groups , civil organizations and the military that together run Mexico as a corporate state . PAN was founded in 1939 by Catho- lic-backed business groups to counter the political left . The PAN party is a constant critic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tune with the Reagan administration 's than are many of PRI 's . Also cited as an example of a " tilt toward PAN " was the invitation extended to its representatives to attend last year 's Republican national convention . Continuing contacts since then between PAN and U.S. business and conservative groups have fed the air of suspicion in the de la Madrid camp . By far the most contentious issue between the two countries is Reagan 's tough policy toward Nicaragua 's Marxist regime . Mexico 's civilian leaders share American concerns about the security threat posed by Managua . But they are convinced that Soviet and Cuban influences should be eliminated through negotiations , not force . " Unwarranted " pressure . While Mexico 's resentment of U.S. muscle flexing over Central America is the major irritant , many other problems are likely to be exacerbated by unhappiness over what is regarded as other unwarranted U.S. pressure . This includes American criticism of Mexico 's handling of illegal cross-border drug trafficking . Mexican officials , for example , chafe at U.S. charges that they have been negligent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are involved in the trade . The charges have spurred authorities to action , however . After the murder of a U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency officer earlier this year , the Mexican government fired 427 agents in its special crime-fighting unit because of suspected links to drug dealers . Still , the dispute over Mexico 's handling of the murder case prompted the U.S. to virtually halt cross-border traffic into the U.S. temporarily ? a move that embarrassed officials here . Washington leaned hard as well on Mexico after several American tourists were killed during visits to Mexico earlier this year . The State Department took the unusual step of announcing that the U.S. was considering issuing a travel advisory ? in effect , a warning ? to Mexico-bound tourists . Although the advisory was never issued , Mexico 's tourism business , which reaped nearly 2 billion dollars in 1984 , declined . Mexican officials are hoping that a probable summit meeting this fall between de la Madrid and Reagan will ease tensions and resolve other bilateral issues . Pending a de la Madrid-Reagan meeting , Mexican officials are urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite the charges of fraud in the July balloting ? confirmed by numerous foreign observers at the polls ? the largely peaceful vote underscored the basic stability of this country . On Election Day , police assigned to keep order were backed by 90,000 soldiers deployed around the country . Scattered incidents of scuffling and protests , particularly in northern states near the U.S. , were fewer than expected . Long before the elections , de la Madrid faced serious problems that some experts thought could weaken the PRI political stranglehold . One erupted in 1982 when economic mismanagement led to 100 percent-plus inflation and an 80-billion-dollar foreign debt that has risen to even higher levels today . There were reports of widespread official corruption in the handling of Mexico 's oil income , estimated at more than 15 billion dollars a year . Bankers and businessmen , who consider themselves part of the PRI system , were further alienated that year when outgoing President Jose Lopez Portillo nationalized private banks . Says a Monterrey businessman : " We lost our property . It could happen again . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by de la Madrid has cut living standards of most Mexicans by 40 percent . People on both the political right and left have consequently turned against the PRI in favor of the ? opposition ? though not in sufficient numbers to threaten PRI 's domination . Mexicans are even more cynical now , in the aftermath of the elections . Few believe that the corrupt government practices of the past will disappear despite de la Madrid 's own emphasis on restoring public morality . The economic future is bleak . With the economy in tatters , the peso , which was valued at 26 to the dollar in 1981 , is now 300 to 1 on the black market . Personal misery is deepening . Hunger is growing worse in urban slums and rural areas . The crime rate is rising . People often barricade themselves in their homes for fear of robbery . Last fall , de la Madrid loosened his do . austerity program to allow for more spending on public works and social welfare , especially in Mexico City and the north where the PAN opposition was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy and raised the risk of a new inflationary cycle . Oil woes . Plunging oil revenues add to the sense of desperation . The $1-abarrel cut in the price of oil announced on July 10 means the country will earn less abroad . That will add to pressures to reintroduce austerity , producing more suffering . Many business executives today are urging a change in Mexico 's economic and political life . They want a freemarket economy instead of the present state-dominated mixed economy . Mexico , they also argue , should endear itself to the prosperous U.S. by publicly embracing an anti-Communist policy . For now , at least , that is not in the cards . More bickering seems the likelier prospect .                     