@@432368

 | It was past 3 p.m. when the climactic moment finally arrived . The last debates over , the final arguments heard , 38 delegates to the Federal Convention lined up in the Philadelphia State House ? northernmost states first ? to sign the new " Constitution for the United States of America . " Typically , the venerable and voluble Pennsylvanian Benjamin Franklin , 81 , had the last word . As the final few filed toward the silver inkstand ? the same one that had served the 1776 signing of the Declaration of Independence ? Franklin said that , during the painful negotiations of the past four months , he had often wondered whether the haYf sun painted on the back of the convention president 's chair represented dawn or dusk . " Now , " he declared , " I ha de the happiness to know that it is a rising , not a setting , sun . " Some are calling the events at Philadelphia a mirage . From the start , the odds seemed stacked against the crravention 's success . Many powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Articles of Confederation , which since 1781 had united the 13 states in " a firm league of friendship . " Virginia firebrand Patrick Henry , for one , said he " smelt a rat , " and flatly refused to attend . And those who did come seemed unlikely to agree on much of anything . They represented Northern interests in conflict with those of the South , big-state concerns at odds with the small . Farmers , merchants , lawyers and bankers ? all had their own agendas . Meanwhile , the stakes were enormous -- nothing less than the survival of the infant United States . Perhaps because the stakes were so high , 55 delegates showed up in Philadelphia to spend 4 sweltering months ? at least 5 hours a day , 6 days a week ? hammering out the new Constitution . Some of the greatest statesmen were absent . Thomas Jefferson and John Adams , for instance , stayed at diplomatic posts in France and England . But Jefferson himself called the meeting " an assembly of demigouis , " and there is no doubt that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grace a single room ? from Frankliui and G.:orge Washington , erstwhile commander of the Co .. ? ei.tal Army , to brilliant young theorists like New York 's Alexander Hamilton , 30 , and Virginia 's James Madison , 36 . SignifiLantsy , many of them already had considerable expefia ce in politics at the national level , Twenty-one had fought in the Revolutionary War , and 3 out of 4 had sat in the Continental Congress . In the end , they were able to bridge the deep divisions among them , and to invent nothing less than a new form of government . Most important , the Constitution would vest strong new national power in three separate branches ? legislative , executive and judicial ? designed to bring cohesion to the contentious states . Nine of the 13 must ratify the  | document before it becomes law , and a tough fight looms . The document has carefully avoided direct confrontation with some of the issues that most deeply divide the states , such as the existence of slavery in the South . But for the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words of Pennsylvania delegate Gouverneur Morris : " This generation will die away and give place to a race of Americans . " That will not happen easily . Confederacy in Chaos At present , the nearly 4 million Americans ? among them , about 650,000 blacks , mostly enslaved ? have little but the Declaration of Independence to unite them . The Articles of Confederation do not define a nation : Instead , they simply set rules for relationships among the states . Under them , the United States in Congress Assembled can raise no taxes for the common good . Congress must issue periodic appeals for funds ? and some states pay , some do n't . A vivid example of the danger came in 1783 , when several former officers of the Continental Army got tired of waiting for Congress to give them pensions ? and plotted a coup . Luckily , Washington heard of the scheme , and was able to squelch it . Congress operates on the one-state , one-vote principle ? and usually can not even muster a quorum . And it has proven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sectional rivalries and crushing debts ? both private and public ? continue to mount . Several states maintain customs services , taxing the goods of their neighbors . Nine have their own navies . New York claims ownership of Vermont , which has declared independence ? and has even , alarmingly , negotiated separately with the British to win recognition as a separate entity . Meanwhile , Connecticut and Pennsylvania are feuding over the Wyoming Valley . Hard cash is almost nonexistent , and attempted solutions to debt problems have proven disastrous . Rhode Island 's policy has been to print paper money ? and to demand that creditors accept it in payment . That has led to wild inflation within the state and ferocious protests from outsiders who trade with Rhode Islanders . In 1786 , debt policies in Massachusetts led to armed rebellion . Farmers , forced by merchants to pay hard money for goods , first closed down the courts ? then followed a former Army officer named Daniel Shays in an uprising that was quickly quieted by the state militia . Meanwhile , there are growing threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her former colonies , and Spain is exploiting their weakness by prohibiting westward expansion . Many elder statesmen have long viewed the situation with alarm . In a letter last year to John Jay , Congress 's Secretary  | of Foreign Affairs , Washington wrote : " I am told that even respectable characters speak of a monarchical form of government without horror . . . . What a triumph for our enemies to verify their predictions ! " To put an end to such talk , Washington and other champions of republican government have been urgently recommending reform . It was a fairly minor matter that finally led the way to Philadelphia : A dispute between Maryland and Virginia over the use of the Potomac and Pocomoke rivers . A meeting of delegates from the two states led to a second assembly at Annapolis last year ? and that , in turn , produced a call for a convention " to take into consideration the situation of the United States . " In February , Congress blessed such an undertaking " for the sole purpose of revising the Articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a stronger national government thought that the real agenda had to go far beyond amending the Articles ? and their opponents knew it . As a result , the naming of delegates was a prickly matter . Radical little Rhode Island refused to send anyone . New York Governor George Clinton , a staunch defender of the status quo because of his state 's relative wealth and power , deliberately stacked his state 's delegation : He counterbalanced the appointment of centrist Hamilton by naming Robert Yates and John Lansing , Jr. , who could be depended upon to resist any national encroachment on states ' rights . The Washington Factor Washington himself ? eager to stay in private life at his Mount Vernon estate after his long Army service ? was reluctant to attend as a Virginia delegate . But Madison and others realized that his presence ? and the enormous respect he commanded among all factions ? would be critical to the convention 's success , and persuaded him to change his mind . Washington 's triumphal arrival in Philadelphia seemed to prove their point . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? led by 300-pound Maj. Gen. Henry Knox ? then escorted to the nation 's largest ( population : 40,000 ) and most cosmopolitan city by Philadelphia 's Light Horse Cavalry . Cannon , bells and cheering crowds applauded his approach . The start of the convention , set for Monday , May 14 , had to be delayed . It was not until May 25 that a quorum ? seven states ? was present . The delegates slogged through a downpour to the State House , then took up their positions in the 40-by-50-foot East Chamber . Madison took a seat at the front . From there , he was able to hear and observe almost everything that went on , and he spent the summer taking detailed notes in a shorthand of his own invention . Franklin Intervenes The first order of business was the election of officers . Well aware that any competition between the convention 's most illustrious members ? Washington and Franklin ? was potentially divisive , the Pennsylvanians had come prepared . Franklin , plagued by gout and kidney stones , was too sick to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had to be carried to the State House each day in a sedan chair he had imported from France , borne by inmates from the nearby Walnut Street Jail . But on Franklin 's behalf , Robert Morris ? a rich speculator known widely as the " financier of the Revolution " ? proposed George Washington for convention president . The motion was seconded by " Dictator John " Rutledge , a powerful South Carolinian , and Pennsylvania 's gracious gesture was unanimously adopted . Then the delegates turned to the rules . The most important called for utter secrecy of the proceedings . " Gentlemen agreed " not to speak or write of what was going on until it was over . The scrupulous Washington even gave up entering notes in his diary . Jefferson , when he heard of the rule , was furious . He argued , by mail , that the debates should be open . But savvy political heads , who knew that secrecy was the only way to insure that the delegates would speak their minds , prevailed . Pennsylvania posted sentries around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And his fellow delegates kept careful watch over the garrulous Franklin , who ? at the round of teas , dinner parties and tavern drinking bouts that entertained the delegates in off-hours ? was given to indiscretions . The debate was heated from the start . The Virginians had arrived early and taken advantage of the delay in opening ? plus Madison 's detailed study of history and law ? to put together a 15-point plan of action . Edmund Randolph , 34 , the handsome Virginia governor , presented it to the convention . The plan called for a two-house national legislature , with both houses apportioned on the basis of state population , and an executive to be chosen by the legislature . One day later , the convention took a remarkable vote : " Resolved , that a national government ought to be established consisting of a supreme Legislative , Executive and Judiciary . " The delegates had taken a huge step ? effectively deciding to forget about the Articles of Confederation , and to come up with something new . But little states like Delaware and Georgia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objected strenuously to apportionment by population . New Jersey 's William Paterson offered an alternative : A one-house legislature in which each state would have a single vote . The debates grew ever more bitter . Tempers were not helped by Luther Martin , a hard-drinking delegate from Maryland , who  | delivered the first in a series of boring harangues ? for which he invariably seemed to choose the hottest , most insect-ridden days . The convention threatened to fall apart . Franklin , in his role as sage and conciliator , suggested prayer : " If a sparrow can not fall to the ground without His notice , is it probable that an empire can rise without His aid ? " But not until July 16 did a compromise emerge . The Connecticut delegation proposed a two-branch legislature , a lower house to be apportioned by population ? and to have sole jurisdiction over raising revenue ? and an upper house in which each state would have an equal vote . That did the trick ? although Madison and the other centrists saw the compromise as a dangerous defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Early in the deliberations , Pennsylvania 's James Wilson , a distinguished , Scottish-born lawyer , argued that a single person should constitute the executive . This , Madison reports , caused " considerable pause . " Virginians Randolph and George Mason , a great patriot and longtime friend of Washington 's , protested that a oneman executive would constitute a " fetus of monarchy " : Though he was not invoked by name , the specter of George III hung heavily over the proceedings . But Wilson 's proposal was adopted , and after fierce debate over how the executive should be chosen and how long his tenure should be ? Hamilton suggested that it should be for life " during good behavior " ? the matter was turned over to the Committee on Postponed Matters , which included many of the finest minds at the convention . On August 24 , the committee recommended a " President of the U.S. of America . " The delegates accepted the idea ? and settled on a four-year term for the President , who would be chosen by electors selected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the convention turned matters over to another committee ? " of Style and Arrangement " ? for a new draft . Madison , Hamilton and Gouverneur Morris took part , along with Massachusetts ' eloquent Rufus King , 32 , and Connecticut 's William Samuel Johnson . The dashing , rather arrogant Morris had made more speeches during the convention than any other delegate , stomping his wooden leg ? gossip had it that he had lost his limb while escaping from an irate husband ? to punctuate his points . Fittingly , it was he who did most of the writing . Saturday , September 15 , was the convention 's longest day , as the delegates debated the committee 's handiwork . Randolph , Mason and Elbridge Gerry of Massachusetts expressed the deepest dissatisfaction . All worried about the absence of a bill of rights , and all , too , about the strength of the central government . Mason predicted that the Constitution , as drafted , would lead to " monarchy or a tyrannical aristocracy " ? he was n't sure which . Two days later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their minds . The ailing luminary ? so often able to soothe passions during the long debates ? had written out a diplomatic set of arguments against dissent , which he asked James Wilson to read . But it failed to move the dissidents . All three refused to sign ? a step , said Randolph , that might be " the most awful " of his life . Hamilton 's argument ? that " a few characters of consequence , by opposing or even refusing to sign the Constitution , might do infinite mischief " leading to " anarchy and convulsion " ? fell on deaf ears . Unfinished Business The final wording of the document ? artfully phrased by Franklin ? stated that it had been approved " by the unanimous consent of the States present " ? thus avoiding the painful issue of the dissenting delegates . Hamilton alone signed for New York , Yates and Lansing having left the convention in disgust . At the conclusion of the signing ceremony , the delegates voted to send the Constitution to the Congress with a recommendation that it be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 4 p.m. on September 17 , they adjourned to the nearby City Tavern to celebrate their accomplishments over a farewell dinner . The objections of the dissenters are sure to come up again in the battle for ratification . Randolph predicts that the nine states necessary will never ratify the new Constitution ? and Gerry goes even further , hinting that the passions dividing federalists from localists could lead to civil war . One of the main issues to be debated in the months ahead will be whether the document gives too much power to the central government . Another will doubtless be the absence of a bill of rights to insure individual liberties against the central government 's proposed new power ? a piece of business the miracle workers in Philadelphia have left unfinished .                     