@@432247

The TWA hijacking crisis and its rabidly anti-American roots reminded all sides that the United States stands today as the most admired , most hated nation on earth . Why do Americans trigger such wild extremes in sentiment ? Stanley Hoffmann , Harvard University professor of international relations and an authoritative analyst on world behavior , observes : " Much of the ambivalence toward the U.S. stems from the contradiction between official U.S. ideology ? the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights ? and American actions at home and around the world . Many see what the U.S. is doing and conclude it does not practice what it preaches . " Even teenage Moslem extremists who held the plane hostages in Beirut were ambivalent toward their sworn enemies . " They all loved Dallas , ' " recalls Clinton Suggs , 29 , a Navy diver . " They 'd lie on our mattresses with us and watch it . " Notes Bernard Pelissier , manager of a shopping center in France : " America is a mixture of all that is best and worst in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , free enterprise and the possibility of self-realization . Its worst : Ignorance of and indifference to others . " Around much of the globe , the U.S. is prized for loyalty to its allies ? at a cost of some 520,000 American dead since the start of World War II . No less appreciated is the country 's generosity in times of severe economic stress ? a total of about 238 billion dollars in assistance over the last four decades , not counting millions more in public and private help for victims of the current African famine . Yet while individual Americans often are welcomed even in hostile lands as generous and friendly people , many foreigners find endless flaws in current U.S. government policies . Even release of the hostages , seen at home as a triumph of presidential determination , showed others around much of the world that America was vulnerable to terrorist blackmail . " The fact remains , " said Geneva 's daily La Suisse , " that a small group of terrorists today can defy powerful America with impunity . " Echoed a Financial Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that terrorists called Mr. Reagan 's bluff and found few aces in his hand . " Like it or not , there is no escaping U.S. influence . America exports 218 billion dollars ' worth of goods a year ? 12 percent of the world 's total ? and imports 341 billion dollars ' worth , or 16 percent of global shipments . U.S. corporations employ ? or exploit , depending on the viewpoint ? more than 7 million foreign nationals overseas . Some 339,000 foreign students attend college in America . Nearly 524,000 American military personnel are posted in at least 25 nations . For all the resentments fueled by American wealth , millions abroad seek to live the American dream . In the streets of Moscow , it might be a pair of blue jeans ; in Haiti , the latest Michael Jackson tape ; in Paris , a fashionable cowboy hat . America e bella , " says Adriano Gregori , a newspaper vendor in Italy . " It may be violent , but it 's rich and more advanced . " Evidence of the way America is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to the United States . Waiting lists for immigrant visas exceed 336,000 in the Philippines ; 329,000 in Mexico ; 155,000 in India , and 123,000 in South Korea . U.S.News &; World Report staff members talked with experts and with ordinary people around the world to assemble this kaleidoscopic glimpse of how America is viewed today : THE MIDEAST " America must persevere in its policies in the Middle East ? but with the realization that it will continue to serve as a central symbol of the Ayatollah Khomeini 's powerful ideology . America will remain a tar- get of violence , legitimated by his peculiar views and interpretations of Shiite Islam . " ? Marvin Zonis and Daniel Brumberg of the University of Chicago in the New York Times Millions of Moslems accept the portrait painted by Iran 's Khomeini , depicting America as the " great Satan " responsible for all the woes afflicting the Middle East . Khomeini at every turn blames Washington for leading what he condemns as the Western World 's erosion of Islamic fundamentalism . " It is our belief that America is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khomeini proclaims . " ... May the hands of the superpowers and all their adherents be severed . " While they may not support extremist terrorism , most people in the Arab world bitterly resent American support of Israel and reflect that resentment in endless burnings of American flags in street demonstrations . Even in Egypt , which has benefited from billions of dollars in U.S. aid , there is a feeling that Washington has ignored local sentiments . " The United States got what it deserves " in Beirut , comments a translator in Cairo . " Americans only see things from their own perspective . " As for Israel , its deep links with the U.S. remain intact despite tensions over the Israeli detention of Shiite prisoners that prompted the hijacking . Still , even some Israelis are critical . Yitzhak Zeller , assistant director of a Jerusalem youth hostel who left the U.S. two years ago to find his roots in Israel , says : " America today is vile and corrupt . It 's a new Roman Empire , at its peak of greatness from which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World governments have reacted strongly against what they consider an overwhelming American presence , against the growing influence of American capital and the American culture and mores that have come with it . " Paul Kennedy , Yale history professor and author , in Harper 's Magazine For impoverished millions eking out survival in the developing world , the United States towers as a prosperous giant locked in a wasteful arms race while they languish in misery . In India , where 762 million people live an average of 20 years less than Americans , the U.S. often is blamed for doing too little to alleviate a desperate situation . " We admire the U.S. for many things , " explains an Indian official . " But why must you insist that we always pattern ourselves on Western models in our efforts to develop our country ? " American companies may be vital to develop poor economies , but critics contend that U.S. firms operate on a double standard . " Portrait of a Killer Corporation " was offered to readers by the Delhi-based Patriot newspaper after poison gas leaked from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Populous but without power , the poor see America calling for justice while practicing the opposite . " In our world of doublespeak , " said Nigeria 's daily New Nigerian , " the misery brought on by imperialist support for unpopular dictatorships " has produced hijackings that are " bedeviling the world . " White South African Darren Scott , 21 , says it 's " O.K. for the U.S. to give advice , but it should n't meddle with South Africa as much as it is at the moment . " Still , in the Third World , many envy America 's opportunity . Syed Mushtaw  | Murshed , a civil servant in New Delhi , has seen his chauffeur 's son win a scholarship at Princeton . " I 've advised him to stay on there , " says Murshed . " No other country offers such scope to talent . I 'm told I would be a second-class citizen if I went there ? but I 'd still go . " LATIN AMERICA " Successive United States administrations have followed the same dialectic of friend or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship with submission .... The epithet of subversive or communist is applied immediately to any who do not submit . " ? Guillermo Ungo , president of the antigovernment Democratic Revolutionary Front of El Salvador in an article written for Foreign Policy magazine Nowhere is Uncle Sam portrayed in more menacing tones than in neighboring Latin America . Massive indebtedness , a legacy of economic exploitation and distrust of Reagan 's aims in Central America all shape an attitude of deep suspicion . Twenty-eight of 77 antiU.S. terrorist acts last year came in Latin America ? the most of any region in the world . " Another Vietnam awaits you , " warned leftist guerrillas in El Salvador after murdering 13 people , four of them U.S. Marines , at a sidewalk cafe . Hostility is spreading across a region saddled with a 300-billion-dollar debt that forces nations to export almost 28 billion dollars annually to foreign banks . Says Lucio Garcia del Solar , Argentina 's ambassador to the U.S. : " That is a greater danger to the security interests of the U.S. than guerrilla wars in Central America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Russia has , " asserts Ernesto Sa- bato , an Argentine author and investigator of human-rights violations by the former military regime . " The government of the United States does everything in its power to push all the poor countries of the world into the arms of Russian Communism . " In Brazil , where the U.S. Constitution served as a model , American success in forging one nation from many peoples is admired . Says one Latin observer : " The U.S. is extremely important for having provided a spirit of freedom in the world . Its founding was important , and it is important today that the U.S. continue to lead the world ... in this sense . " THE PACIFIC " There 's nothing wrong at all in what the United States believes in and aims for in dealing with world affairs . But ... Washington tends to impose unilaterally what Americans think right on other allies without giving due heed to their views . " ? Norishige Hasegawa , chairman of the United States-Japan Economic Council Across the Pacific , where trade is life 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready , willing and able to buy products made in Asia . Whether it be in China , Japan or the Philippines , many people believe that the American marketplace ? and the American dream ? is within reach . So topsy-turvy have things become that Chinese leaders in late June were taking delivery of a fleet of Cadillac limousines not far from where " capitalist roaders " had been denounced a decade before . Jerry Barican , 42 , a Philippine banker , calls the U.S. " the land of opportunity where anything is possible . " But he adds : " It 's terrible to be old in America unless you 're very rich . " In Japan , the U.S. enjoys such high regard , both as an economic force and as a dependable ally , that close ties are seen as invaluable . A senior government official in Tokyo says that America stands " as world leader of democracy , a common value vital to free human life and free world trade . " Notes Nobuhisa Iwasaki , 25 , in Tokyo : " The frank and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their words . " Not everything is rosy . Many Japanese resent Washington 's insistence that Japan open its doors to U.S. products . Says Eriko Hattori , 22 , a student at Tokyo 's Kokugakuin University : " They should realize made-in-America brand alone does not automatically lead to any big sales these days . " Some are even more blunt . Says Marita Manuel , an aide to Philippine First Lady Imelda Marcos : " The U.S. entered our history and made us their chattel ... while at the same time looking down at us as little brown brothers in a very condescending way . " WESTERN EUROPE " It is always comforting to have friends who are rich , powerful and generous , and the Americans are certainly all three . But when your friends become too rich and too powerful , they can be very difficult to live with and to like ? especially when their need to feel appreciated requires constant reinforcement . " ? Adm . James Eberle , director , Royal Institute of International Affairs , London Clinging to a continent dominated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atlantic with double vision . In times of worry , they see a defender of last resort . In times of comfort , they see a bumptious country cousin who luckily made good . Says a French diplomat : " I admire the U.S. as a young society where people are still mobile and can do something . " " There are many things in America that I as a Swede dislike , " says Monica Fuchs of Sweden Now , an English-language magazine . " But I still love the way of life in America and the warmth of the ordinary people there . " Quips a London taxi driver about Americans : " They are so naive , like big spoiled children . When you think they form the most powerful nation in the world , it 's a bit scary . " Most agree , although perhaps silently , with the Swiss government official who says : " Many Swiss like myself see America above all as a great power the West needs to counterbalance Soviet influence around the world . " Europeans recognize that their troubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fabrizio Colletti , a bank economist in Italy : " If the economy of the U.S. turns around , you see the effects everywhere . " Polls show West Germans the least anti-American in Europe . Yet Gebhard Schweigler , in a study for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , found : " American claims to be the model for the world " were " met with indignant disbelief and resentful rejection . " Just as elsewhere , to know America is to find flaws . A popular novel in Sweden , Journey to the Earth , portrays a drunken " President Raygun " sitting in the White House in 2017 with his finger over the nuclear button . A teacher in London recently was rebuked for instructing pupils about injustices resulting from America 's " military and economic stranglehold on the world . " An article in Britain 's Daily Mail warned that anti-Americanism is " just below the surface and liable to flare into active life without warning . " In Greece , officials fear that Reagan 's criticism of airport security at Athens may jeopardize the flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's a tendency in his administration , " grumbles a midlevel  | official in the government of Socialist Premier Andreas Papandreou , " for people to slap us down when they get a chance . " Despite such frustrations , Europeans remain tolerant . " Why are we so ready to query American motives and actions ? " asks Woodrow Wyatt , writing in the Times of London . " Jealousy . " THE SOVIET UNION " U.S. propaganda may point to the religious and moral principles underlying American society and invent stories about religious persecution in socialist countries . But pervasive moral dissoluteness in the United States . shows the groundlessness of the claim that American democracy is superior . " ? Soviet Prof. Valentin Zorin in his book How It Looks From Moscow Not surprisingly , criticism of the U.S. is nowhere more fervent or frequent than in the Soviet Union . Whether portraying Americans as international bandits using a hijacking to cover a military buildup in the Middle East or citing India 's Bhopal disaster as an example of U.S. firms that pursue " profits at all costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lifetime of listening to the official line takes a toll . Says a would-be Soviet emigrant : America " possibly has too much freedom and should pay more attention to law and order . " Despite unceasing government attacks , ordinary citizens remain insatiably curious about America . A U.S. tourist strolling in Leningrad or Moscow invariably is approached and asked if he wants to sell his blue jeans , shirts or running shoes . One American student reports : " I sold a shirt with holes in it for $50 . " " There is much to admire about America , " says an official at the Soviet Academy of Sciences . " When I was there last , I was impressed by the openness of discussions between professors and students . I was appalled by street crime . " Americans concerned about stirring such sharply conflicting feelings among other peoples might find some solace in the words of Harvard 's Hoffmann : " In history , you would never find the top dog universally liked by everyone . Whatever the nation at the time , it is always resented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . You ca n't have it both ways , despite America 's mania for wanting to be loved . " Where U.S. Still Rules : Movies , Television Right in the middle of the recent TWA hostage crisis , the Hollywood film " Rambo : First Blood Part II " opened in Beirut . In a war-torn city where the U.S. flag is routinely burned and spat upon , this movie about a fiercely patriotic and violence-prone American adventurer promptly set a boxoffice record . " It proves , " says a Hollywood publicist , " that even if they hate America , they love our films . " Around the globe , U.S.-made movies and TV shows are proving to be America 's most influential exports , providing millions of foreigners with intimate glimpses of the U.S. ? both favorable and unfavorable . In France , Minister of Culture Jack Lang once called for a " crusade " against American entertainment , which he condemned as " a financial and intellectual imperialism that no longer or rarely grabs territory but grabs consciousness , They love Rambo in Beirut . ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Premier Laurent Fabius is among that nation 's avid viewers of " Dallas , " which regularly attracts up to 25 percent of the TV audience . When " Dallas " character Bobby Ewing died , a big French newspaper , France-Soir , headlined : " Tragic Loss . " Last year , " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom , " another adventure movie , emerged as the favorite film in many countries , including Japan and Australia ? both with big movie industries of their own . Leading ratings . Thirteen of the 20 top TV programs in South Africa were made in the United States . Even programs with black stars , such as " The Cosby Show " and " Benson , " are popular among all races in that strife-torn nation . Viewers in many regions do not seem to care if TV shows are new or old . In India , the long-completed " Star Trek " series is widely admired , and Britons still watch " Kojak . " Behind the iron curtain , too , the " made in America " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hit in East Germany , courtesy of TV transmissions from West Germany easily and eagerly viewed in the Communist East . " Dr. Seuss " and " 60 Minutes " are now shown in China under an agreement signed by CBS . Sales of American movies abroad totaled some 2 billion dollars in 1984 , compared with about 4 billion in the U.S. , according to the showbusiness publication Variety . Art Murphy , a University of Southern California professor who writes for Variety , explains that American films continue to make an impact overseas because they concentrate on good stories and action . " Escapist and adventure pictures are the most popular in America , " says Murphy . " They are the most popular in foreign countries , too . American film makers always have one eye on the world market . "                     