@@333658

Astronomers have struggled for years , and in vain , to answer a nagging , fundamental question : Why is the universe lumpy ? Some regions of the cosmos are crowded with giant clusters of galaxies , millions of light-years across . Other , even vaster spaces seem to be largely empty of matter . Scientists have assumed that this unevenness resulted from irregularities in the big bang that began the universe between 10 billion and 20 billion years ago . But that greatest of all explosions was almost perfectly uniform , as evidenced by its leftover radiation , which radio telescopes can detect in every part of the sky . Then how did such a smooth start result in a chunky cosmos ? <P> The answer may be provided by a fantastic new theory reported last week in the Dutch journal Physics Letters B. In their report , two renowned Princeton scientists and a graduate student suggest that the pressure of electromagnetic radiation , emanating from dense " threads " of pure energy called cosmic strings , could have been responsible for making the universe lumpy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , piling it into thin shells and leaving huge voids in the cosmos . " If this theory is correct , " says Astrophysicist Jeremiah Ostriker , the theory 's co-author , " our views about cosmic-scale structure will be radically changed . " <P> Indeed , the theory could explain not only the large-scale structure of the universe but also the origin of galaxies and other puzzling celestial phenomena . It combines some of the most advanced ideas in astrophysics and elementary-particle physics , and joins the independent research of Ostriker and Physicist Edward Witten . The unifying element : the cosmic strings  --  bizarre , hypothetical entities that are thinner than an atomic nucleus , as long as the universe is wide , and so dense that a mile-long segment would weigh as much as the earth . <P> Strings first popped up unexpectedly in the mathematical models of particle physicists . Right after the big bang , the mathematics suggests , the rapidly cooling cosmos underwent a phase transition , roughly analogous to the sharp change that occurs when water turns into ice . And just as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from uneven freezing , the universe too might have developed flaws  --  in the form of strings . These strings would try to straighten and contract , often whipping about and getting tangled in the process . When a string crossed itself , the resulting loop would pinch off from the main string and go vibrating away on its own . <P> Ostriker was thinking not about strings but about the structure of the universe when in 1981 he co-authored a theory on the formation of new galaxies , which are huge islands of billions of stars . Aware that entire galaxies can erupt in explosive bursts of energy , Ostriker had suggested that the force of such mighty blasts would drive away surrounding dust and gases , leaving vast regions of the sky virtually empty and compressing the expelled gases and dust into shells around the voids . It was from this compressed matter , he said , that new galaxies might form .                     