@@322109

And some of its most lustrous liberals are shown the door <P> The results surprised even the most optimistic Republicans . They had counted on a gain of maybe four or five seats in the Senate . They ended up with an eleven and possibly twelve-enough to give them control of the chamber for the first time since 1954 . And victory was all the sweeter since the election toppled most of the Senate 's leading Democratic liberals : George McGovern in South Dakota , Frank Church in Idaho , Birch Bayh in Indiana , John Culver in Iowa , Warren Magnuson in Washington , Gaylord Nelson in Wisconsin , and John Durkin in New Hampshire . Only a few liberals managed to keep their seats : California 's Alan Cranston and Missouri 's Thomas Eagleton won easily , while Colorado 's Gary Hart barely beat back his Republican challenger , Mary Estill Buchanan and Vermont 's Patrick Leaky seemed to have won by a hair . Two other Democrats refused to concede defeat on Election Night : Elizabeth Holtzman of New York and Incumbent Robert Morgan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a far different place , with more moderate Democrats facing more conservative Republicans . Savoring a big re-election win in Kansas , Republican Robert Dole observed : " The liberals in Congress are going to have to learn a lesson . There is a kind of liberalism that does n't wash any more . " At the same time , the high turnover will probably make the Senate even more independent and self-willed . While its majority will share the basic outlook of the conservative President-elect , a Republican 97th Senate could prove to be just as balky as its predecessor . <P> The victorious Republicans received a lot of unsolicited help from the various right-wing organizations that have sprung up to combat liberalism , like the National Conservative Political Action Committee . But it is questionable how much these groups accomplished . For the most part , the G.O.P. candidates rejected their strident tactics , fearing a backlash . In general , the Republicans won because their opponents had grown too liberal for their states . Yet the conservative groups may have become a permanent feature of the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moral Majority supported a born-again Catholic , State Senator Don Nickles , who overcame the favored Democrat , Andy Coats . <P> Elsewhere , Republicans were carried to victory by the surging Reagan tide : in Pennsylvania , former Philadelphia District Attorney Arlen Specter edged out former Pittsburgh Mayor Peter Flaherty ; in North Carolina , John East , a professor of political science at East Carolina State University and protg of Republican Senator Jesse Helms , came from behind to unseat Democratic Incumbent Robert Morgan ; in Georgia , Herman Talmadge was upset by Businessman Mack Mattingly . Ironically , the man who next to Reagan is most identified with conservatism almost lost . Arizona 's Barry Goldwater , 71 , seemed infirm to many voters but managed to eke out a narrow victory . Some of the key Senate contests :                     