@@338951

In the sometimes arcane vocabulary of the space program , the oft-repeated phrase " Roger , Houston , " uttered with a kind of professional jauntiness , has always sounded reassuringly familiar . But as plans for defense-oriented space missions begin to take shape , it is apparent that future military astronauts communicating with ground control may punctuate their messages with the more mellifluous " Roger , Colorado . " The reason is the Air Force 's $1.15 billion , 640-acre Consolidated Space Operations Center , now rising on the barren prairie just outside of Colorado Springs . <P> The spartan-looking facility is designed to be the nerve center of military space activities . When complete , CSOC ( pronounced see-sock ) is expected to command and control most military satellite missions and space shuttle flights , jobs that are currently performed at the Air Force Satellite Control Facility in Sunnyvale , Calif. , and the Johnson Space Center in Houston . According to the Air Force , the first phase of construction ( a subsidiary of Bechtel Group , Inc. , alma mater of Defense Secretary Caspar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contract ) will be finished by the end of 1985 , enabling CSOC to begin taking charge of satellite missions . By the 1990s ground control for military shuttles would shift from Houston to CSOC . To add to all this activity orbiting around CSOC , the Pentagon has selected Colorado Springs as the home of the U.S. Space Command , which will direct all defense-oriented space activities , including those at CSOC . This would make the once sleepy town at the base of Pikes Peak the military space capital of the U.S. <P> Founded after the Civil War by a Union general as a refined refuge for the well-heeled , Colorado Springs ( pop . 259,000 ) has long enticed tourists with attractions like Pikes Peak Highway and the elegant Broadmoor Hotel . But in more recent years it has become a magnet for military installations . To the east of the city is Peterson Air Force Base ; to the north is the U.S. Air Force Academy ; to the south is the Army 's Fort Carson ; and buried deep in Cheyenne Mountain to the southwest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aerospace Defense Command ( NORAD ) . Notes retired General James E. Hill , president of the local Chamber of Commerce and former commander of NORAD : " It 's not like all of a sudden we 're a new glamour girl . " Military activity currently provides 30,000 of the city 's 187,000 jobs and about a third of the local economy . Some 12,500 retired military personnel have been drawn to the city by its mild climate ( year-round golf ) , recreational opportunities in the Rocky Mountains and well-stocked PXs . " In Colorado Springs , " says Garland L. Anneler , chairman of the United Bank of Colorado Springs , " generals are as common as dime-store clerks in other towns . "                     