@@336848

The dramatic crackdown against insider trading has been haunted by a strange irony : no specific statute outlaws or even defines the crime . Using the broad antifraud provisions of federal law , prosecutors have been expanding the reach of prohibitions against insider trading on a case-by-case basis . Over the past few years they have won decisions in numerous courts , but none of those precedents have been explicitly endorsed by the U.S. Supreme Court . <P> Last week the court came close , upholding the mail- and wire-fraud conviction of R. Foster Winans , a former Wall Street Journal columnist who was paid by stockbrokers to leak information about upcoming stories on particular companies . The court also let stand his conviction on a securities-law violation . Investigators had feared that an adverse decision in the Winans case could cripple their efforts to go after big-time insider traders like Ivan Boesky and Dennis Levine . The high court 's action , said Gary Lynch , head of enforcement for the Securities and Exchange Commission , " is tremendous news . It 's an affirmation of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecutors a big lift , it left the law that governs insider-trading cases as murky as ever . By a vote of 8 to 0 , the Supreme Court ruled that Winans had violated general laws that prohibit wire and mail fraud . On the separate issue of whether Winans had been correctly convicted of breaking federal securities laws , the court split down the middle , 4 to 4 , a decision of no value as a legal precedent . Thus the court has still not settled the question of when insider trading is a violation of the securities statutes . At the same time , though , the Justices ' broad interpretation of the wire- and mail-fraud laws has given companies a powerful new weapon for preventing employees from leaking all kinds of information , not only to stockbrokers but also to rival corporations and journalists . <P> The legal controversy over insider trading dates back at least to the beginning of the century . In 1909 the Supreme Court held that a corporate director could not legally profit from buying his company 's stock based on information about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But that case was too narrow to serve as a model for other insider-trading cases . The nearest thing to a definition is a provision in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that prohibits using a " manipulative or deceptive device " in connection with the purchase or sale of a stock . In recent years , prosecutors have developed their own broad definition of an insider trader : almost anyone who uses information he knows to be confidential to make a profit from the stock market . This applies not only to corporate officers but to lawyers , investment bankers and others who do work for companies and frequently have access to inside information .                     