@@432128

 | When the Frenchman Louis Daguerre made his first photographs in 1839 ? still lifes and portraits preserved on the metallic surface of his tiny " daguerreotypes " by a silver iodide solution ? he astonished and scandalized the world . The few stores in Paris that sold the newfangled cameras were mobbed , but a German newspaper editor recoiled at Daguerre 's blasphemous attempt to capture divine reflections . " Could God have allowed . . . a Frenchman to give the world a devil ? " he asked . Since then , one " devilish " invention after another has heightened the medium 's ability to detect and record nature , with lenses that permit finer and finer degrees of resolution . In the schools the history of photography is normally presented as a linear chart of technical progress ? toward quintessential realism . Photography is made to seem a process of making better and better mirrors . But photography is also the product of fantasy and imagination , as a sudden wave of books and exhibitions is now proving . Each is dedicated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Daguerre 's one-of-a-kind plates . Patented by William Henry Fox Talbot in England in 1841 , the calotype ? a name taken from the Greek word kalos , meaning " beautiful " ? was practiced and admired by thousands of artists , critics and collectors in the 1840s and 1850s . Talbot 's discovery ? that a sheet of chemically prepared paper could act as a " negative , " producing an infinite number of " positive prints " ? did n't create the sensation that the daguerreotype did . But it was warmly welcomed by artists because it permitted not only duplication but extravagant , highly individualized prints ? short on realistic detail , perhaps , but long on romantic effects . If scientists like astronomer John Herschel complained that the calotype process produced " fog " in its prints , artists like Charles Negre , one of its major practitioners , would reply : " Where science ends , art begins . " The renaissance of the calotype in the 1980s has been promoted by a new generation of revisionist scholars , curators and historians who agree with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last fall at George Eastman House in Rochester , N.Y. , when curator Janet Buerger finally displayed the museum 's large but little-known collection of calotypes . It includes Maxime Du Camp 's dramatic pioneering photographs of Egyptian monuments and albums published by the extraordinary printer Louis BlanquartEvrard , who so refined Talbot 's methods that his paper photographs resembled etchings in their richness . Buerger 's exhibition was followed by " Paper and Light , " a major project launched jointly by Anne Tucker , curator at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston , and Richard Brettell of Chicago 's Art Institute . Devoted to the sepia-hued " esthetic " of the calotype , the show focused on the 30 major artists who practiced the process , led by Talbot himself . Luscious Lineup : Just this month the Princeton Art Museum mounted the most effective attack yet on the tradition of the photograph as mirror . Entitled " Masterpieces of the French Calotype , " it displays a luscious lineup of prints from the vaults of Andre Jammes , a legendary French collector . It offers , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprising young @#  |p76E  historian Eugenia Parry Janis ( " The Art of French Calotype. " 284 pages . Princeton. $75 ) that includes detailed biographies of the calotype 's first practitioners. * The merest glance at the Princeton installation reveals the gap between the realists and romanticists of early photography . Instead of clear , bright lines and knife-edge details , we see warm sepia and yellowbrown tints , large planes of dark brooding color , massive figures and misty landscapes . A " Shy Model " by Julien Vallou de Viller neuve is posed against a soft , painterly background , a shadow veiling her downcast face . A hand by Charles Negre floats in a mysterious sepia sea ? more dreamlike vision than real object . A whole wall of HenriVictor Regnault 's landscapes merge sky and land , light and shade , figures and trees into glimmering , ethereal washes . Chemicals : We do n't know how the early calotypers achieved all these effects : Regnault , for example , may have taken his camera outdoors only on dim , cloudy days . But it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choices . The artist selected from a variety of papers for both the negative and positive , often opting for rough , hand-made sheets that blotted out sharp details . He could paint on the negative , darkening the skies to make them come out pure white on the positive . Gustave Le Gray waxed his negatives , heightening the translucent effect of his ghostly seascapes . Often the photographers would display their paper negatives as independent works of art ? a custom revived in the Princeton and Chicago shows . Most important of all , the photographer could vary the nature of the chemicals used in processing the final image on the paper , thus achieving a remarkable range of surface hues , from reddish-brown to purple and gray ? what Francis Wey , an early photography critic , called " the feeling of color . " The calotype did not thrive for long . The . i . Invention of an easy-to-use glass negative in 1851 was the beginning of the end , and within a decade the calotype had almost completely disappeared . The public demanded " progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieving smooth and uniform images . Le Gray resisted as long as he could . He tried to endow the new glass-plate print with the old " depth " and " quality , " as he put it . Princeton is showing fly one example , a view of soldiers lined up on maneuvers . The figures are lost , like so many fireflies , in a warm , brooding mist that spreads across the horizon ; the picture balances delicately between realism and abstraction . Still , Le Gray could n't halt the engines of " progress " ? until , perhaps , - iow . The revival of interest in the forgotten Icalotype not only refutes the notion that the photograph is simply a mirror . It proves that the march of timeandin art ? frequently moves in the wrong direction .                     