@@480531

Thomas Sowell 's wide-ranging account of the Third World . of poverty , and of the problem of development " Second Thoughts About the Third World , " Harper 's , November provides much useful analysis that , unfortunately , leads to a surprisingly simplistic conclusion . Mr. Sowell writes with a disarming lucidity and is clearly blessed with one of those facile minds that can put eggs beside oranges with such skill that the unwary reader may find himself concluding that they are both the issue of the hen , or perhaps both a species of citrus . The article does make two contributions to our understanding that are of real value . First , Mr. Sowell 's demolition of the ancient Malthusian bogey about overpopulation is as timely as it is devastating . Other readers were probably as startled as I to learn that all the 4.4 billion people in the world could be fitted into the state of Texas in families of four with 6,800 square feet per family . The reminder that this is the space claimed by the average U.S. middleclass family for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the description of the countries of the Third World , emphasizing their extraordinary racial , cultural , economic , political , and historical complexity and diversity , is a useful reminder to those third-world advocates who underestimate their task by retreating into a romantic oversimplification of reality . It is equally a reminder to those third-world critics who dismiss the Third World as a kind of garbage dump of lazy louts tyrannized by fast-talking despots . I take issue on two levels , however , both with Mr. Sowell 's analysis and his implied conclusion . " Second Thoughts " " smudges " history by ignoring historical process , preferring to look at existing situations as a basis for the making of comparisons and the drawing of conclusions . The underlying historical forces that may explain the difference Michael Manley it the former prime minister of Jamaica . HARPER'S/DECEMBER 1983 between the per capita incomes of Hong Kong and Tanzania in 1983 are conveniently ignored . And the conclusions toward which Mr. Sowell directs us are unforgivably superficial . He would have us believe that successful capital accumulation , low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are enough to determine the answer to the huge and complex challenges of genuine nation-building for the majority of mankind . Mr. Sowell contends that imperialism is both inevitable and beneficial . It is inevitable because the groups with more advanced cultures are stronger than those at a more primitive stage of development . And it is beneficial for precisely the same reason . Accordingly , imperialism was a civilizing influence , bringing in its wake superior technological and social skills . The multinational corporation , as the most advanced form of overseas investment capital , is thus represented as a good thing because the corporations themselves tend to pay higher wages than most local industries and expose native populations to the most advanced methods of production . Finally , Mr. Sowell relies heavily on a ' human capital " theme . The Asiatic work ethic comes in for honorable mention . A comparison between the performance of Japanese and Mexican migrants to California entirely favorable to the Japanese is alleged . The author is too sophisticated to make a blatantly racist point . However , a racist conclusion is conjured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left dangling . There it tantalizes the reader with the thought that where the right racial stock is present and properly exposed to the civilizing benefits of imperialism and multinational corporations , all will be well . Left unanswered , of course , is the rather sad question : what is going to happen to the rest of us who , not being Asiatic ( or was it WASP ? or Aryan ? ) are unable to take full advantage of all these skills ? At the risk of being accused either of being rhetorical or of making excuses , 1 would like to suggest that an understanding of the ' third World does not best arise from a superficial apology for modern imperialism but rather from a somewhat closer study of its history and nature . Modern imperialism undoubtedly owes its origins to impulses similar to those that led to earlier examples of conquest and domination of one people by another . As it evolved , however , it was to be distinguished by a number of unique features . Never before was so vast an area of the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . the people clustered along the Atlantic coast of Europe and in the British Isles . Of even greater importance was the fact that the imperialist process increasingly became the creature of the burgeoning capitalist system at the centers of imperialist power . The normal social evolution of any group of people involves the production of their basic needs in the first instance . In due course , surpluses in the production of one group provide the basis for exchange with some other group . This in turn lays the basis for trade and makes possible the later development of specialized production . international finance , the international division of labor , and so on . All of this takes place , however , within the context of a society that produces first for itself and later for exchange . Modern imperialism reversed all of this . For the first time , vast areas of the globe were exploited to produce not for their own population but for the needs of their conquerors . The new factories of Britain and Europe needed raw materials . A taste for sugar was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories . Meanwhile , colonies had economies dominated by huge plantations with a single purpose : production of cotton , sugar , perhaps rubber . Mr. Sowell will doubtless tell us that the Africans , Indians , Jamaicans , and Latin Americans were lucky to 25 have the chance to grow those commodities and certainly lacked the capacity to produce all that cloth so efficiently before the imperial masters passed their way . What he has not confessed is the ruthless distortion of the normal economic process that was involved in the transaction . For the first time in the history of mankind , we witnessed the phenomenon of a society forced , literally at gunpoint , to export everything that it produced and to import everything that it consumed . Furthermore , the economic process ensured that every single wealth-creating , technology-requiring economic activity , after the moment of reaping the commodities , was controlled by the colonizing power . Imperialism evolved into a vast " factory " of wealth , of training , of know-how , of confidence , of the capacity to control the environment for the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly argue : " To the victors go the spoils . " He might assert , further , that it was the inventiveness of the European that created the technology in the first place . That is true . But it ignores the fact that the apparatus of exploitation was kept in place by three supporting pillars . There was , first , the military power , which made possible the conquest at the outset . Second , there was the political system , varying with the imperial power , but always designed to ensure the controlled administration of the conquered territory and its absolute subservience to the interests of the imperial authority . Finally , there was the increasing cultural penetration that follows closely on the heels of conquest and that spreads through the control of the political process and the institutions that result , The imperial process had a common , central objective . But it was not applied in a common situation , nor did it always employ identical methods . Latin America involved the uneasy coexistence of growing numbers of people of Spanish or Portuguese origin with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America the European conquered the local population , eventually reducing it to a state of herded impotence . On the other hand , in the Caribbean islands , the indigenous population was wiped out , to he replaced by the African slave . I was relieved to observe that Mr. Sowell did not include this last in the category of those who benefited from imperialism . Inevitably , the interaction between the imperial forces and the indigenous population reflected the variety of the elements in the mixture . Although the process had a common purpose , it could not have a uniform outcome . However , there were certain common results . I will list these as follows : 1 . imperalism produced and continues to produce a substantial net source of wealth for the imperial powers . This provided an important source of investment capital for the industrial revolution and later for a significant margin in the standard of living of European , and eventually of North American , people . 2 . It led to the comparative distortion of the economies of the colonial countries , with a heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial restriction of economic activity to the simplest level . 3 . Taking up Mr. Sowell 's point that poverty is comparative , we must note that the imperial process is associated with , if not the cause of , vast disparities in wealth between the conqueror and the conquered . 4 . By the middle of the twentieth century there was a common determination to shake off the yoke of external domination and to struggle for national independence . In due course , more than one hundred new nations have been horn as a result of the drive for decolonization and the determination to end the political domination of one people by another . Now , man is currently perplexed by the question of how to create social viability in the countries that shared the common experience of imperial domination and now occupy their corner of the earth as independent nations . Mr. Sowell does more than hint that the answer to the question is to be found in the experience of those countries that have , like Hong Kong , opted for a particular path of development . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a vigorous policy of attracting private foreign capital in the greatest possible quantity in the fastest possible time , Small countries with rapidly growing GNPs are compared with large countries with declining GNPs . Resourcerich countries are compared with resource-poor countries , Hong Kong is the winner of the resulting sweepstakes because it is small , resourcepoor but rich . Ergo , Hong Kong is the model for all seasons . No regard is paid to the fact that Hong Kong is a unique corner of the world existing in very special and highly artificial circumstances . The fact that it has put those circumstances to effective use in the context of goals that we must assume the Hong Kong people accept for themselves tells us nothing more than the fact that the particular goals are attainable in those highly particular circumstances . To compare Hong Kong with Tanzania , even by implication , is an insult to the intelligence as gross as Mr. Sowell 's despicably dishonest references to Tanzania 's president . It is common to view development solely in terms of structures and productive capacity . Certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the development process . However , the concept in which development and material things are absolutely equated is dangerously misleading . High levels of productivity are indispensable to the creation of wealth , but they do not of themselves guarantee that wealth is equitably shared even by those whose labor is directly involved . I would suggest that a society is developed to the extent that it can define widely shared objectives for itself and demonstrate the means to realize those objectives . It is safe to assume that most people would prefer to have larger rather than smaller real incomes ; that they would prefer to live in comfortable rather than uncomfortable homes ; that they would aspire to high- rather than low-quality education for their children ; that they would prefer to have a job rather than not have a job . But it may be that they would also prefer to feel they are a part of a system that gives them a sense of belonging , of significance in their own land ; that they would prefer to feel that they have power over rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a society that cares for its sick and its old and its very young ; that they are a part of a community that uses the political process to engineer social equity . When one examines a little more closely the experience of those countries that have experimented with the model of development HARPER'S/DECEMBER 1983 28 adopted by Hong Kong , Singapore , Taiwan , South Korea , Puerto Rico , Chile , Brazil , and so on , one is struck by a number of things . In the first place , not one of these countries has been able to carry out the development process in the context of free institutions . The only exception is Puerto Rico , and that experiment is stalled in disaster , with an unemployment rate of 24 percent and rising in spite of exporting millions of people to the U.S. The other countries involved have either controlled political systems , emasculated trade unions , or both . Mr. Sowell 's bias shows like a petticoat beneath the hemline of his argument when he assaults Nyerere 's Tanzanian experiment with inaccurate statistics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pinochet 's Chile or the military rulers of Taiwan , Lee Kuan Yew 's highly controlled democracy in Singapore or South Korea 's farcical excuse for one . As for the implied racial argument , " Poor Man 's Burden " does not explain what conclusion we should draw from the legendary efficiency of the German people by comparison with the rather different accomplishments of " lesser " creatures such as Italians and Irishmen . Surely the truth is that different societies at different stages demonstrate particular characteristics . It is a fatal fallacy , and typical of Mr. Sowell 's static mode of analysis , to look at these characteristics at a point in time and universalize them as if they were part of some collective advantage or disadvantage in the genes of the group . For example , employers in the Caribbean are notorious for complaining about the comparative inefficiencies of local labor . That same labor , transplanted as migrants to North America , commonly outproduces the natives in the U.S. Their genes have not been altered by the short flight from Kingston to Miami . What has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of productivity , provide a dramatic contrast . But they are the same human beings . The problem with Mr. Sowell 's model is that heavy dependence on foreign capital as the sole engine of development tends to reinforce all of the deficiencies with which the average third-world country begins . Dependence , more than any other word , defines the typical thirdworld condition ? the structural HARPER'S/DECEMBER 1983 dependence of economies designed to serve the interests of another center of economic power . Now we are told that to solve a problem that is delineated by dependence itself , we must have more of the disease , What is more , we are told that the amount of private investment capital available in the world at any given moment ( which has by itself proved unable to provide equitable and widely shared development in the countries where it is invested ) can suddenly , as if by magic , encompass the whole Third World and sweep it along in a universal embrace of prosperity . The truth is that no one can prescribe the solution to another man 's crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an entertaining one from a particular point of view . On the other hand , if we understand the real nature of imperialism and the true challenges of development in the Third World , we need to consider three things . What set of world arrangements would best facilitate third-world development ? And the corollary question : would such a set of arrangements be inimical to the interest of developed nations ? And what internal arrangements should thirdworld countries make for themselves the better to promote their development possibilities ? This article can not examine the arguments in favor of that set of arrangements for the world economy that are proposed by the Third World and described as the New International Economic Order ( NIE0 ) . Suffice it to say that in our experience the terms of trade , the operations of the **25;3875;TOOLONG system , and the present organization of the international financial institutions create a distinctive bias in favor of the more developed nations . Let us create an equitable economic environment , including financial institutions that arc sensitive to the particular needs of developing economies . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working capital for those who are willing to plan intelligently and implement honestly . Natural selection will provide its own answer for those who do not try . At present , there are countless millions of people in scores of young nations who are making valiant efforts to develop themselves . All too often , however , they are like people trying to get from the first to the second floor of a building where there is only a down escalator . If those people try very hard , they find that they do well to remain in the same place . Each nation must find the path to development for itself by the same process of trial and error adopted by the developed countries throughout their own histories . The United States has built a remarkable civilization from its great fertile plains , its superb range of natural resources , from the energy of waves of highly motivated migrant people , and from a free-enterprise model well tailored to the mood of people escaping from the suffocating tyrannies of Europe . That represents a set of factors as extraordinary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Hong Kong of today . The Scandinavian countries , it is arguable , have produced equally viable economies with a qualitatively superior social order . Both are success stories judged by ordinary criteria today . Which should be the model for the Third World ? The answer to that question can only be found in the dynamics of each society , which reflect its history and what its people have made of it . The challenge to third-world leadership is not to imitate models but rather to evolve political processes that can first define widely shared objectives and then mobilize people to attain them . In this , local savings , individual productivity , the work ethic , entrepreneurial initiative . sound administration , just laws , and humane social arrangements all have their place . All will need to be supplemented with external capital both public and private . The Third World identifies itself as those countries that were at one time or another marked by modern imperialism . Their search must be for the internal political process that is uniquely a product of their own experience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humane social arrangements . To the extent that the developed countries can understand this and help to provide an equitable opportunity for those with the will to try , they will help guarantee a world in which all will prosper because its benefits will be more widely shared and its economic growth more securely underwritten .                     