@@487918

The American reaction to Iraq 's invasion of Iran in defiance of international law has been two-faced . Until late last week , when President Jimmy Carte ) mildly labeled Iraq " an invading nation , " the White House vaguely spoke of its neutrality  --  and yet in practice took every opportunity to introduce military personnel in the Arabian Peninsula wherever they would be accepted . Although Washington may have hoped initially for a quick , surgical strike by Iraq that lopped off Iran 's oil provinces and destabilized the Khomeini regime , Iranian resistance has prevented this , to practically everyone 's surprise . Yet there are now ominous signs that U.S. policy makers have embraced the idea of a protracted war , because the cold warriors on the National Security Council wouldlike to see the Arab oil kingdoms move into a deeper military dependence on the United States . Ever since the proclamation of the Carter Doctrine , Washington has been searching for a larger security role in the Gulf . The Iraqi-Iranian war provides a dangerous rationale for the introduction of an American military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ripening . The U.S. AWACS sent to Saudi Arabia have reportedly supplied Baghdad with military intelligence . Jordan 's King Hussein , who is openly supplying the Iraqi war effort through the port of Aqaba , reportedly received assurances from Saudi Arabia that the port of Jiddah could be used for a similar purpose . Iraqi aircraft have been sequestered in various havens in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates . The Saudi Foreign Minister warns American television audiences that an Iranian attack on any of the oil sheikdoms along the Persian Gulf would draw his country into the war , while President Hassan Bani-Sadr of Iran says repeatedly that he would order air strikes on the oilfields of any Arab state that intervened on Iraq 's behalf . The dangers these threats and counterthreats pose is clear . In the long term , the war should jolt us into awareness of how essential it is for the United States to achieve the kind of democratic control over its energy resources that , as Robert Engler so eloquently argues on page 1 , is necessary for energy self-sufficiency . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil kingdoms of Arabia . Rather than playing pick-up-sticks in the volatile Gulf region , we should tell the Arabian princes not to count on American protection if Iran exacts retribution for their support of Iraq 's war effort . Carter must follow up his condemnation of Iraqi aggression with two steps : first , the United States should forcefully push for a toughly worded U.N . Security Council resolution calling upon Iraq to withdraw its troops from Iranian territory . And second , Carter should respond positively to Soviet Chairman Leonid Brezhnev 's letter inviting both powers to pledge nonintervention in the region . The imminent disaster of a widening war , spilling over into neighboring Arab states in which American military personnel are stationed , should underscore the absolute necessity for Soviet-American communication . Call it by its nasty name if you will  --  but never was there a time when we needed kl  --  tente more than now , when an energy war threatens to engulf the entire Middle East . Moderation Derby T he fourth from the last week of the-Presidential campaign was marked by two kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Carter was said to moderate his anti-Reagan language and Reagan continued rewriting his own history and nourishing his reputed lead in the polls with a diet of his own swallowed words , incredibly and unbelievably scuttling toward an imagined center as he ate them . That left nothing for the ever-articulate Anderson to do in the moderation derby , since moderateness has always been his thing . He was therefore seen as fading , sagging and lagging , his only hope being that he would find himself before the cameras with a moderator and the two other hopefuls . It is hard not to focus on the " perception " of the media in this so-called campaign , boring as that may be , because the way in which the major media report the doings of the candidates has become the determinant of what they do . Carter and his handlers are said to be outraged that the political writers are neglecting his slings and arrows against Reagan . What the national press reports is not the substance of what Carter says about Reagan 's curious set of stances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporters assess them from polls , tea leaves and gossip . A characteristic example is the judgment ( report ? ) of Edward Walsh of The Washington Post on October 14 that the President 's " strident and ineffective " attacks on Reagan " forced him to admit pub licly last week that his harsh rhetoric had been a mistake . " What the embattled President has been understandably trying to do is to call attention to the striking contrast between what Reagan is now saying and what he has said and done in the past , not to mention the fierce heroics of the Republican platform . Even The Wall Street Journal has had to take note of what the headline over its article of October 10 called " Reagan 's Elusive Positions . " The more accurate word would have been " reversed , " for that is what Reagan nonchalantly has done in a campaign the Journal man calls " highly programmed and packaged . " One thing that can be confidently predicted is that , if Reagan loses , the ultra-right that is his true base will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his counselors apart for their abandonment of the faith , develop a more ' virulent strain of reactionary activism . It is not hard to imagine that the Independent of 1984 might be a candidate representing the totality of New Rightism , like Gen. Alexander Haig . And such a candidacy might do frighteningly well if the two centrist parties continue to decline in sense and vigor . If there is a hopeful note on the current scene , it may be found in the Congressional contests . By most accounts , Senator John Culver of Iowa , an unafraid liberal , has recaptured the lead in his race , running aggressively on his record , trimming no sails and paying no heed to the alleged new-conservative mood . And the voters of this country have shown a heartening tendency to check or balance a " conservative " in the White House with more " liberals " in Congress . Nixon 's effort to produce a " veto-proof " Congress in 1974 was a notable failure , and in the Nixon sweep of 1972 , for example , Dick Clark of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Colorado made it to the Senate . The worry would be that if Carter pulls it off , the check to that might be a new freshet of right-wingers in Congress . Political scientists , as they call themselves , tend to doubt this kind of " oceanic " drift in the electorate , but there is evidence to support it . There should be a better rationale for sending George McGovern back to the Senate . To end on a slightly less gloomy note about our institutions , I would suggest that there is reason to have hope in the way some of the Congressional contests seem to be going , against the current of tens of millions of benighted dollars . And , of course , if Reagan were 50 years old , with the energy actually to do half the things his record foretells , would he be making those inroads into the " blue-collar " vote that the conventional wisdom says he is making ? Of all the rhetoric washing over them , I do n't believe the voters are swallowing a tenth . BLAIR CLARK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Pay A Marine corporal named Anthony Casamento warmed the heart of America recently by winning a thirty-eight-year battle for the Congressional Medal of Honor . Meanwhile , another , lesser-known tale of a scorned soldier , Sgt. Wayne Robert Felde , was being spun out in the heartland of Louisiana . Felde and Casamento are both war-decorated veterans . Like Casamento , Felde stood on a hill behind a machine gun and fended off the enemy . Both , limping on crutches , ' stood recently before high authority and had conferred upon them the belated emblems of their war service . Casamento got the Medal of Honor . Felde received a sentence to the electric chair . It comes as no surprise to find that while Casamento is a 59-year-old veteran of Guadalcanal , Felde is a 31-year-old veteran of Pleiku firebase in Vietnam . To hear Felde 's story is to hear a sickening echo of so many Vietnam veterans who came back , mentally wrecked , to a changed country where medals were thrown out and war heroes had become villains , where life was a descending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of his return in 1970 , Felde got mixed up with an ex-convict whom he killed in a fight . Afterward , he went berserk , yelling " Vietnam , Vietnam , come and get me ! " He spent three years in jail , escaped , came up from the lam to be with his dying mother , and was captured shortly after her death . Handcuffed in a squad car , Felde killed a police officer during a struggle for a gun , a fight that left him with one-half a liver , one kidney and auseless right leg ; The defense , which is appealing the August 22 murder conviction and death sentence , brought in more than 100 witnesses , including psychiatrists and scientists , to testify that Felde had been driven insane by Vietnam and by intensive exposure to the defoliant Agent Orange , which left him with , among other disorders , raw bleeding sores . Casamento , in his repeated petitions for honor , searched long and finally found witnesses who would testify to his heroism , to the sheer artistic beauty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the fourteen wounds in his body , his dead buddies all around him ; an act so pure and perfect that he got even the Japanese colonel whom he whipped to salute him in an affidavit . The war hero found witnesses who , in effect , sounded the chords of Horace : what glory there is in battle , how sweet and honorable it is to die for one 's country . Felde , on the other hand , sought and found witnesses who would voice a quite different sentiment . On the stand , he recalled his experience in Vietnam , as a boy of 19 , " picking up pieces of our guys to send home . . . . I cried for guys I did n't even know . I thought of their moms and my mom and someone offered me a reefer . I never smoked it before and . . . I smoked it then and from then on . " Felde 's defense lawyer found witnesses who testified that local police in Shreveport , Louisiana , furious at the death of a fellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that jail guards punctured his colostomy bag to humiliate him , denied him his pain medicine and refused him a doctor when he contracted a lump on his chest . All these witnesses testified not in Shreveport but in Alexandria , where the Louisiana Supreme Court , in an unprecedented move , ordered Felde 's trial transferred because of " massive pretrial prejudicial publicity . " Felde 's witnesses , in effect , echoed Hemingway , who wrote ; " There is nothing sweet nor fitting in your dying for your country . You will die like a dog for no good reason . " While President Jimmy Carter slipped the medal around the crippled but proud frame of Casamento , a tired Felde asked the Alexandria jury to give him death , on the ground that he could not endure the pain of life as a cripple in jail . The tales of Casamento and Felde , unraveling as they have with Homeric drama , are metaphors , fairy tales even , for what has happened to two generations in our lifetime ; a metaphor for the different realities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rip asunder fathers who fought a just war from their sons who did not . If time has allowed us to honor war heroes of decades past  --  in movies , in books , in special White House ceremonies  --  we have already forgotten the thousands of more recent veterans  --  in hospitals , drug centers , jails  --  who , far from fighting for medals , are fighting for their lives . LUCINDA FRANKS                     