@@480576

Why the Democratic bosses conspired with Reagan , and do not care if they lose in November By Walter Karp omeday an inquisitive historian will try to explain a very odd and disturbing phenomenon : How it was that from 1981 to 1984 an American President who undermined liberty and laid siege to equality managed to be held in esteem by a normally democratic people . What strange immunity shielded a President who promised to get ' government off the backs of the people " while making government more intrusive than ever ; who showered favors on the favored while hounding , with unexampled severity , the poor , the disabled , and the powerless ; who promised to control government spending while generating the most enormous deficits in American history ; who promised steady economic growth sustained by savings while giving us a false recovery fed by a spending spree ; who promised to make America " proud again " while vaunting his military triumph over a country a good deal smaller than Long Island ? If that future historian pursues his inquiry free of glib misanthropy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief agency sustaining that President was his putative political opposition , the Democratic Party . He will be able to show , with a richness of detail that I can only suggest , how the Democratic leadership in Congress served as the witting confederate of that President and of the counterrevolt of the privileged that he headed . He will show , too , for the history cuts deep , how this policy of collusion marked the culmination of a twelve-year drive by Democratic leaders to root out democracy from the Democratic Party and regain control of the presidential nomination , with Walter Mondale as their chosen instrument . When Ronald Reagan announced his " program for economic recovery " on February 18 , 1981 , he made public for the first time the depth and the extent of the counterrebellion of the favored . It might have been expected that the Democrats in Congress would have felt a surge of hope for the revival of their party . For the President 's program and the extravagant military buildup so oddly conjoined to it lay open to the most damaging doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and suspicions that a bold opposition can use to mobilize , in the words of historian James MacGregor Burns , " the support of tens of millions of Americans presently antagonized or bored with both parties . " In 1980 , surveys had consistently shown that most Americans opposed deep curs in spending for health , education , and other social programs . Yet the principal clement in the President 's plan was a call for immense cuts in social spending that would reduce the income of the poorest Americans by up to 25 percent . Reagan assured Americans that he was mainly eliminating Walter Karp is a contributing editor of Harper 's and the author of The Politics of War . ESSAY 51 " waste and fraud , " but they had heard that from conservatives before . The program seemed destined not to withstand congressional scrutiny . The second important element in the President 's program was a proposal to reduce federal revenues by $750 billion in the space of five years by means of the most massive ? and the most inequitable ? tax cut in American history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax bonanza , " as the New Republic called it , convinced almost nobody . Even Fortune tore most of the tax plan to shreds . In the name of " recovery " ? Franklin Roosevelt 's old gambit ? a President and his supporters were calling for the most brutal class legislation ever proposed in America : " gross economic favors for the privileged , the powerful , and the well-to-do , and blatant deprivations for the distressed and the needy , " in the somber judgment of the Southern historian C. Vann Woodward . ( After its enactment by Congress , the Reagan program would take nearly $400 away from households with incomes of $10,000 a year or less and give $8,000 to households with incomes of $80,000 a year or more . ) here was a third element in Reagan 's legislative program , and it shed sinister light on his plan to enrich the rich with the pittance of the poor . The President 's ambitious proposals to increase defense spending made a mockery of " Reaganomics . " An Administration that blamed so many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficits might have been expected to exercise the keenest thrift in examining the Pentagon 's requests . Instead , the White House discovered countless pretexts for the largest peacetime military buildup in America 's history , It exaggerated the Soviet military buildup by confounding rubles and dollars . It lied about Soviet nuclear " superiority " by counting weapons instead of warheads . It subjected the country , in the words of Theodore Draper , to " a rolling barrage of unprecedented panic-mongering along with the most grandiose plans for actually fighting a nuclear war , " plans that General David C. Jones , former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , characterized as throwing money down " a bottomless pit . " Did a President who proposed to create a giant global war machine in order to make America " proud " and " impressive " really care a fig about excessive government spending , excessive government deficits , or excessive government interference in our lives ? The question , once raised , answered itself . Concerted Democratic opposition to the President 's military extravagance would lay bare something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House : a President seemingly bent on fighting " proud " little wars abroad to distract popular attention from gross privilege at home . In the spring of 1981 , Arthur Schlesinger Jr . warned in the Wall Street Journal of the " explosive possibilities when an economic establishment wages a class war against the poor . " The political possibilities were indeed explosive . To awaken the electorate no rabble-rousing demagogy would be needed . Calm and thorough examination by Congress would be sufficient to expose a " program " for America that entitled the rich to devour the fisc and the military to devour the needy . Steven Weisman of the New York Times had just such a Democratic challenge in mind when he wrote in April 1981 that " the political risks Mr. Reagan faces are probably even more severe than the economic risks . " For Democratic leaders , however , the Reagan Revolution was seen as no opportunity at all . To awaken the vast plurality of apathetic and alienated citizens was the very last thing they wished to accomplish as they prepared the ground for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was the angered and the disregarded who had risen up in the wake of 1968 and wrested control of the party from the bosses . The problem Reagan 's program posed for the erstwhile party of the people was not how to oppose its folly and favoritism but how to shepherd it through Congress without awakening anybody . Illustrations by Philip Burke Democrats harbored ' ' profound doubts that the Reagan plan would work . " Six weeks later all their doubts were resolved in Reagan 's favor . On April 9 the House Budget Committee proposed to cut domestic spending by $18 billion and taxes by $38 billion in a striking demonstration of " the new fiscal conservatism of the party , " as Congressional Quarterly put it . That estimable journal could scarcely conceal its surprise . Democratic leaders had " accepted to the letter a majority of Reagan 's proposals . . . . They had acceded to his request for an overall cutback in government spending . " Nothing attested more vividly to the Democrats ' collapse than the Budget Committee 's call for a $219.6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $6.7 billion less than the President 's request , and it was $73 billion more than Congress had given the Pentagon in 1980 . With no questions asked , the Democratic leadership had given a ringing endorsement to Reagan 's most questionable proposal . That same day , the new chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , an Illinois Democrat and Cook County ward boss named Dan Rostenkowski , reduced still further " the political risks Mr. Reagan faces . " The chairman , like the President , called for a sharp reduction in the taxes paid by wealthy individuals and large corporations . This Democratic " counterproposal , " in the words of Congressional Quarterly , was " carefully designed to embrace the basic principles of the Reagan plan . " After embracing Reagan 's " basic principles , " Democratic leaders took prompt measures to justify their party 's newfound belief that the rich were not rich enough and the poor were not poor enough . It was the irresistible power of a uniquely popular President that had brought about their transformation . To demonstrate the irresistible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower than that of any other new president in recent times , the Democrats employed crude but effective methods . As soon as the party leaders had announced their budget , every major Administration figure began telephoning House Democrats to urge them to vote for the President 's budget . The House Democratic leadership was too busy to lobby for its proposal . On April 10 , Speaker O'Neill , Chairman Rostenkowski , and assorted other members of the loyal opposition embarked for the Antipodes . While Reagan invaded the ranks of House Democrats , and while liberal congressmen privately fumed , the Speaker and the chairman idled away the Easter season in Australia and New Zealand , celebrating the glories of the ANZUS pact . The President was scheduled to make a speech to Congress on April 28 ? he actually believed his program might be in trouble . O'Neill returned to Washington on April 27 and instantly ensured the success of the President 's upcoming speech . He told reporters that the Democrats had no chance to defeat Reagan 's budget . The Speaker 's prophecy fulfilled itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his press conference , and then he announced we were behind by fifty votes , " a liberal Democratic congressman said at the time . " At that moment , we fell behind by fifty votes . " On May 3 , Martin Tolchin of the New York Times noted that " the leaderapproval for his overall budget . Ahead lay the task of specifying the $36.6 billion worth of domestic spending cuts called for in the May 7 resolution . For this the most delicate management was required . The chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee , Carl Perkins of Kentucky , pleaded with the Democratic leadership to give House committees a chance to show the voters what Reagan 's budget really entailed . His plea fell on deaf ears . Awakening the electorate 's spirit of fairness was the last thing the party of fairness wanted . Instead , O'Neill and his lieutenants proposed and promoted a novel parliamentary device designed to conceal from the American people what their amiable President was up to . Known as " budget reconciliation , " its aim , as explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual spending cuts by packaging them in omnibus legislation . " Each House committee was instructed to authorize a portion of the total spending figure contained in the May 7 budget . Because these instructions involved huge spending cuts , the committees could fulfill them only by making changes in existing laws . Since the reconciliation deadline was June 12 , the committees had to make these changes with minimum publicity and maximum haste , thus effectively shielding the President , gagging his critics , and making it difficult for the public to realize , as Congressional Quarterly pointed out , " precisely what the spending cuts Reagan is seeking mean in terms of slashing social programs . " Democratic " disarray " miraculously vanished as committees scrambled to meet the June 12 deadline , slashing appropriations and altering laws with little or no debate . Carl Perkins cried out in anguish over the Democrats ' self-gagging . " In all my years in Congress , " he said , " I have never witnessed an action more ill advised , more insensitive , or more threatening to the rightful operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Reagan 's tax proposals posed the most formidable problem for the Democratic policy of nonopposition . Had the House leaders wished it , the Ways and Means Committee could have subpoenaed business leaders , bankers , brokers , and economists to testify against some portion or other of what former Secretary of Defense James Schlesinger has called " the most irresponsible fiscal action of modern times . " Rostenkowski , however , hit upon a wonderful device for quashing opposition . Proclaiming himself a tough , practical politician , he decided that the Democrats should pursue a tough , practical " win " policy . Instead of subjecting " the most irresponsible fiscal action of modern times " to the scrutiny it surely merited , Rostenkowski resolved to match it dollar for dollar , bonanza for bonanza , inequity for inequity , until he had produced its Democratic replica . " The Democrats had their chance for glory by exposing the economic fallacies and risks in the President 's plan , " a New York Times editorial lamented . " Instead , they pur- sued him over the same cliff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place , but not because of any Reagan juggernaut. f it 's a normal year we win , " Walter Mondale 's campaign manager predicted in 1981 . By " win " he meant not the presidency in 1984 but the party 's presidential nomination . The difference is crucial . In the end , the Democrats ' policy of connivance and collusion with the Reagan Administration came down to this : making sure that in 1984 all would be conveniently " normal , " that the populace would be politically as lukewarm and complacent as the former vice president himself . Only then would Democrats cast their primary votes for the Democratic leaders ' chosen instrument for regaining what they had so stunningly lost after 1968 ? cohtrol of the party 's presidential nomination . That loss was a momentous event in America 's history , a " quiet revolution , " as a Russell Sage Foundation study put it . Swept by fierce demands for a more " open " party , Democratic leaders , disgraced and discredited , were forced to scuttle long-established arrangements that gave a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates to the Democratic National Convention . That authority was essential to the security of party leaders , for it ensured that no enemy of the party oligarchy , however popular , would ever carry the banner of the party of the people . Preventing such enemies from gaining the presidency had long been the first principle of American party politics . Given a choice between winning the White House with a foe of the party organization or losing in a landslide with a trusted confederate , party leaders invariably chose the latter . It was only after 1968 , the year Democratic magnates abused this privilege by ramming Hubert Humphrey , Mondale 's patron . down the throats of the rank and file , that demands for a more democratic nominating procedure were made . As a result of the disastrous Chicago convention and Humphrey 's Election Day defeat , rank-and-file voters in Democratic primaries and participants in open caucuses were , in 1972 , given a decisive voice in choosing the party 's presidential candidate . This was revolutionary indeed . For the first time in 140 years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a few party potentates . For the first time since the days of Andrew Jackson , a man favored by the plain people stood a fair chance of becoming president of the United States . For the first time in American history the banner of the parry of the people was in the people 's hands . This was considerably more than a loss of the party potentates ' power . It was a dire menace to the entire political establishment . Suppose the voters swept into the mighty office of the president a genuine tribune of the people , a Jacksonian enemy of privilege and private power ? Whether he triumphed or failed in office , American politics would never again be the same . At the 1972 national convention Democratic spokesmen proclaimed the party " purged " and " purified " of its former corruption . They cited the nomination of Senator George McGovern , chairman of the party 's reform coin-mission , as proof of that democratic rebirth . The party oligarchs , however , had not become giddy converts to popular rule . They were resolved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed in their hands . Actually , the discredited Democratic leaders had already begun gingerly altering party rules to favor their own candidates and hobble outsiders . Democrats in Congress amended the federal election laws toward the same end , first by legalizing ( in 1971 ) and then by enhancing ( in 1979 ) the political role of trade unions , whose manpower , wealth , and organization were essential to recapturing the presidential nomination . This legislation also legalized political action committees and encouraged the influx of corporate money into politics . The new financial flood is a direct result of the efforts of the Democratic bosses to restore the party hierarchy and curtail party democracy : money flowing into politics in quest of special privilege invariably aids the few with the power to dispense it . The drive to strengthen the party at the expense of the people involved not only political machinations but seemingly ideological matters as well . Thinly disguised as " the ( Henry ) Jackson wing of the Democratic Party , " the party barons waged , in the words of William Safi re @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so drive from the party 's ranks precisely those younger , more liberal members most prone to challenge the leaders ' efforts to regain their power . Most important , the discredited party leaders set about to discredit democracy . By crushing the hopes of the voters , by sabotaging their chosen candidates , they hoped to teach the American people that the democratic reform of the Democratic Party had all been a terrible mistake . " Politics is not the nursery , " Hannah Arendt reminded us , and the ambitions of oligarchs are as pitiless as the passions of princes . s soon as McGovern was nominated , party leaders began systematically slurring and belittling him , while the trade union chieftains refused to endorse him on the pretense that this mild Mr. Pliant was a being wild and dangerous . A congressional investigation of the Watergate scandal was put off for several months to deprive McGovern 's candidacy of its benefits . As an indiscreet Chicago ward heeler predicted in the fall of 1972 , McGovern " is gon na lose because we 're gon na make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jettisoned McGovern and concentrated on keeping its grip on Congress . So deftly did party leaders " cut the top of the ticket " that while Richard Nixon won in a " landslide , " the Democrats gained two Senate seats . Having wrecked McGovern 's candidacy , Democratic leaders promptly drew a lesson from the wreckage . Here was proof , they said , that the popular nomination of presidents could not " pick a winner . " ( That the party barons had not picked a winner in 1968 was not discussed . ) Here was evidence that primaries and caucuses produce losing " factional " candidates appealing chiefly to cause-oriented activists and upper-middle-class suburbanites who are cut off from the party 's " broad constituency " of blue-collar toilers . This brazen nonsense was not only hawked by a credulous press , which always depends on politicians to explain politics ; it was endlessly elaborated by a special branch of political science devoted to proving that the rule of party barons is democratic and the rule of the people " elitist . " Party leaders could not prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and the ideas he represented ? on a grand scale after his election . By the time Democratic congressional leaders had finished demolishing virtually every major proposal submitted to Congress by that weak , unwanted outsider ? " During the Carter years congressional opposition to Presidential proposals was almost routine , " noted Congressional Quarterly ? the electorate had been given another political lesson . According to Democratic leaders , the press , and the Democratic Party branch of political science , the demolition of President Carter proved that the popular nomination of presidents made America " ungovernable . " As David Broder of the Washington Post put it , popular nomination deprives a president of " the alliances that make it possible for him to organize the coalitions and support necessary to govern . " As James Reston of the N etv York Times put it : " The people have acquired the power to nominate presidents and even to determine foreign policy they know very little about . The Governments they elect have in the process lost the authority needed to govern . " As James Sundquist of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outsider , would not have been the nominee in 1976 of an organized political party ; he is what can happen when the choice of party leader is taken entirely out of the hands of the party elite and turned over to the people . " As Beth Fallon of the New York Daily News put it : " We overdosed on democracy . " Popular rule had become an orphan . The Democrats ' destruction of a Democratic president had regained for the party oligarchy the " right " to control presidential nominations . Party leaders could now openly alter party rules to further strengthen the party organization , to further favor the party 's candidate , and to reduce still further the chances of an outsider gaining the nomination. * Trade union chiefs would be free to place their vast resources ? behind the oligarchy 's chosen aspirant . These were great assets indeed ( as Senator Gary Hart has learned ) , but they would not suffice if 1984 were not " normal , " if aroused citizens stormed back into party caucuses and angry primary voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan , in short , could not be opposed ; the more extreme his program , the more dangerous it would be to oppose him . Such a collusive policy would make the 1984 Democratic nomination something considerably less than the high road to the White House , but Democratic leaders had no choice . They could not nominate their tame creature and also offer opposition to the counterrevolt of the privileged . What electorate that cared deeply about anything could possibly care about Walter Mondale ? For the Democrats , power and popularity had parted company . Seated in his office in the Rayburn building one afternoon in February , ness the main issue of the 1982 congressional campaign . " What particularly frightened Republicans was a scandalous provision of the 1981 Economic Recovery Tax Act that enabled some of the largest and most profitable companies to pay virtually no taxes in the first quarter of 1982 . The Republican bill had considerable merit , but House Democrats were expected to better it . What more , it seemed , could the party of " fairness " want than this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had proposed to do ? The New Republic looked forward to " a bidding war in the name of fairness . " At the last minute , however , the Democratic leadership snuffed out the chance . At the urging of O'N eill 's lieutenants , the Ways and Means Committee decided to offer no tax bill at all . In a " surprise move " committee members resolved to go into a House ? Senate conference with empty hands . Having stifled opposition the previous year with a show of trying to " win , " House leaders now stifled it by refusing to compete . By that brazen refusal , as the Washington Post noted , the Democrats had abandoned " any attempt to exploit what ought to be their best issue of 1982 , the apparent ' unfairness ' of the Reagan economic program . " Moreover , said the Post , " the Democrats ' posture of inaction accelerates their departure from the center of debate over national issues . " Both results served the Democratic leadership 's interests . With the recession deepening and Reagan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more dangerous than ever and fairness yet more explosive . To make sure the President 's popularity slipped no lower , the Democrats turned a blind eye to malfeasance and official corruption . The Reagan Administration consigned statutes to limbo , debauched public agencies , and arbitrarily suspended federal regulations ; Democratic " oversight " committees contented themselves with pro forma complaints and one-day hearings . " Even critics supportive of deregulation , " wrote Martin Toichin in his book Dismantling America , " warned that the Reagan Administration 's efforts may backfire politically if the public eventually sees the program for what it is : totally geared to business . " Such fears proved groundless ; the Democrats were making every effort to prevent the public from seeing anything Reagan did " for what it is . " In the September/October 1981 issue of Regulation , an ardent supporter of the President voiced fears that his " efforts to reform regulation " would provoke " a new wave of anti-business populist sentiment . " Those fears , too , were groundless , for " populist sentiment " was precisely what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Environmental Protection Agency was the exception that proved the rule . The Democrats dropped their promising investigation of a scandal that reached into the White House almost as soon as the President gave them a sacrificial lamb named Rita Lavelle , whom Congress cited for contempt , 413 to 0 , and , coward-like , destroyed . At the suggestion of the White House , Congress left further inquiry to the Attorney General , although the Attorney General 's office was itself suspected of complicity in the scandal , having allowed subpoenaed EPA documents to be shredded while in the agency 's care and having gone to outrageous legalistic lengths to block any congressional investigation of the EPA . When the Justice Department issued a report absolving the White House of any blame in the scandal , House Democrats let it pass , although the department had reached this conclusion by the simple expedient of not asking anyone in the White House about contacts with the EPA . Time and again , Democratic leaders rescued Reagan from his own follies . The moment the President 's " peacekeeping " force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O'Neill rushed to the White House with an offer of " bipartisan " support for a policy that had become insupportable , thereby transforming an unpopular presidential policy into a great national commitment . After the death of 241 Marines cried out against the President 's wanton folly , the Democrats rushed once more to Reagan 's rescue . The Democratic majority on the House Armed Services Committee issued a scathing denunciation , not of Reagan but of the Marine Corps , which it condemned for trying " to be more diplomatic than the diplomats . " Coming from a committee supposedly dominated by supporters of the Pentagon , this was a perfect two-step of collusive politics . First the churlish Democrats made a scapegoat of the Marines . Then Reagan graciously stepped forward to forgive them in their hour of grief . This is what is meant by the President 's " uncanny " ability to walk away unscathed from disaster , to quote a recent New York Times Magazine article that asked : " Will the magic prevail ? " erhaps it has been in the rescue of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength of their determination to protect Reagan from the judgment of the people . The President 's MX problem began on October 2 , 1981 , when he announced that the missile , which was supposed to be an invulnerable replacement for the Minuteman missile , would be placed in the Minuteman 's vulnerable silos . Friends of the arms buildup could scarcely conceal their chagrin . " Opponents of the decision will have a field day pointing to the contradictions and inconsistencies " in the President 's plan , wrote Leslie Gelb of the New York Times . " Mr. Reagan is now in a box . He continues to assert that there is a real and present danger to the ICBM 's , yet his new programs do nothing to alleviate that danger . " The President seemed entangled in his own deceits beyond all hope of extrication . If a " window of vulnerability " to a Soviet attack really existed , then there was no earthly reason to deploy a new missile in old silos . If the " window of vulnerability " did not exist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cries about Soviet nuclear " superiority " were merely another shabby pretext for another American quest for nuclear ascendancy . Putting an MX missile in a vulnerable silo did more than cast doubt on the missile itself . It cast the gravest doubt on the Administration 's panic-mongering , and so cast doubt , too , on the military buildup and on the domestic budget cuts that were paying for the buildup . Reagan 's vulnerable missile was the loose thread that might unravel a whole fabric . The party in opposition acted accordingly . Democratic leaders in the House were conspicuously numbered among the 112 Democrats who voted " development " funds for the MX on November 18 , 1981 . By March 1982 the great body of the American people , arisen as if from the dead , made thunderously clear their opposition to Reagan 's renewal of the arms race . Millions of Americans from all walks of life were marching , preaching , and organizing in favor of a " nuclear freeze . " Opponents of the arms buildup were elated . " This movement is too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Review of Books , " too elementary , too deeply embedded in the natural human instinct for self-preservation , to be brushed aside " by the government . But Kennan had seriously underestimated the power of the Democratic Party . Under intense public pressure to voice the common sense of the American people , and with no apparent reason to do otherwise , Democratic leaders stood firmly beside the President . They managed to keep the MX alive with further development funds while waiting for Reagan to persuade the voters that the MX was an arms-control bargaining chip . But here was one message the Great Communicator could not get across . As Congressional Quarterly put it , the President labored ' under the political burden of an apparently widespread suspicion that he may be unwilling to seek a diplomatically feasible arms control agreement with the Soviet Union . " What too many Americans suspected was that Reagan used arms negotiations " as a mask to cover new deployments , " in the words of Averill Harriman . The only way to rescue the MX and secure that loose thread was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The White House and Democratic leaders , therefore , agreed to place the fate of the MX at the disposal of a " bipartisan commission " of " defense experts " ? former secretaries of defense and the like . " Appointed to solve a political problem disguised as a technical one , " in Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan 's apt description , the experts were expected to urge the deployment of the MX and so enable Congress to bow to the expertise of the few while mocking the wisdom of the many . Congressional emissaries dispatched by O'Neill kept the expert advisers closely advised on just what pretexts and shams " moderate " Democrats thought they could get away with when it came time to vote . Thus emboldened , the experts neatly uprooted the main obstacle to the MX , namely its pretext . To the argument that the MX failed to close the " window of vulnerability , " the commission replied that no such window existed after all . To the argument that the nonexistence of the threat made the MX unnecessary , the commission replied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abandoning a weapon on which $5 billion had already been spent , said the experts , " does not communicate to the Soviets that we have the will to deterrence . Quite the contrary . " President Reagan humbly vowed to heed the experts ' advice to deploy 100 MX missiles in vulnerable silos . A more palpable confidence trick could scarcely he imagined . On July 20 , 1983 , the House of Representatives voted at long last to produce the MX . O'Neill 's emissaries to the commission had procured the necessary margin of victory . In order to save the arms buildup and the credibility of the Reagan Revolution , Congress had made what Senator Moynihan calls " probably the most fatal mistake in our history . " Ten months later , the calamitous weapon still hung by a thread devised by Democrats . uch is the " magic " of Ronald Reagan : pull back the curtain , and you find the Democrats moving all the levers . With the nomination of Walter Mondale all but safely secured , that conniving will probably end , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how long the self-serving of the powerful few will prevail over the just sentiments of the American people . The citizenry , for the moment , is quiet ; the listless chatter of a " normal year " clogs the political realm . Democratic leaders have not only regained control of the presidential nomination ; they have done so with impunity . In state after state , the raw exercise of party and trade union power ? still regarded as scandalous as recently as 1976 ? incited no furious backlash . To a great extent Gary Hart 's vote measures what is left of the insurgent spirit after the Democrats ' trashing of democracy . But the signs of a " normal year " are deceiving . Democratic leaders recaptured the presidential nomination only by betraying the popular cause more thoroughly and more outrageously than ever before . A great deal of power , in consequence , lies loose and explosive in the streets . Some of it has gravitated toward Jesse Jackson ; others will come forward , too , to seek their share of it . The millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic machine will call one day for a reckoning , and they will either be heard or he crushed . In their hour of triumph to be savored this month in San Francisco , the Democratic oligarchs may gain the most disastrous victory in their long , checkered history .                     