@@432063

 | In little more than five months , Ronald Reagan has reversed a thrust of expanding government that has dominated Washington for nearly half a century . With a series of rapid-fire triumphs in late June , the President pressured a politically divided Congress into slowing the steady increase in federal spending on social programs . First the Republican-controlled Senate and then the Democratic-controlled House yielded to Reagan 's demand that the national budget be slashed by more than 40 billion dollars from previously planned outlays . In the process , the Republican Chief Executive prevailed with his argument that federal spending must be reduced in order to bring soaring inflation , interest rates and unemployment under control . Democrats , who warned that the budget cuts would hurt the poor , the elderly and minorities , saw a crucial handful of their own members tip the balance in favor of the White House . Virtually every American will feel the impact , directly or indirectly , when budget cuts in some 250 public programs take effect on October 1 , start of the government 's budgetary year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public-school systems will have to make do with less federal help . The jobless will see their benefits running out weeks sooner than before , state employment services less readily available and job-training programs harder to enter . Government workers will have leaner pay raises . The Social Security program , once regarded as untouchable , is in for a slight pruning in what could be the forerunner of major changes later on . Low-income families may find it harder to get welfare , or face reductions in benefits . Home buyers and builders face a tighter residential market and higher rents . Cities and states U.S.NEWS &; WORLD REPORT , July 6 , 1981 will have to rely more on their own resources and less on Washington for such popular undertakings as road building , urban renewal and recreational development . Nor would businesses , farmers or veterans be spared . More than money cutting is involved . The 3,000 pages of budget legislation include dozens of major and minor changes in existing law . For instance , many federal programs in social-service , medical and education areas are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will get less total assistance than they did through existing categorical grants , but will receive wider latitude in how to spend the money to fit local needs . Differences between bills passed by the Senate and House still must be resolved through a grueling , uncertain process of negotiation which authorities predict could take weeks or months , starting in early July . Hundreds of conferees ? representing 16 House and 14 Senate committees ? may get their say . Even after a final bill emerges , regular appropriations bills must be taken up , raising the prospect of still more battles . Still , by imposing such broad changes in the budget , Congress is undertaking " the most dramatic reduction in ongoing programs in the history of this country , " said Pete V. Domenici ( R-N.M. ) , chairman of the Senate Budget Committee . Barring a widespread adverse reaction from voters , this year 's spending reversal appears to be only the beginning . On Reagan 's drawing board are requests for still broader , deeper cuts in 1983 and beyond . Following are some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by editors of U.S.News &; World Report of the two bills from which a final compromise version will be drawn . Social Welfare Social Security . Although Social Security beneficiaries escaped efforts to trim their benefits in other areas , both the House and Senate bills include significant program changes . For instance , individuals qualifying for Social Security would no longer be guaranteed a $122 minimum monthly retirement payment but would receive benefits computed on the basis of the existing formula . Only surviving spouses or children of deceased Social Security beneficiaries would receive the $255 death benefit . Under current law , the benefit is paid even to estates of persons who die leaving no relatives . Also , postsecondary students who are dependents of Social Security recipients would have their benefits phased out . The current law denies benefits to dependents over 18 unless they are full-time students , in which case benefits continue to age 22 . Medicaid . Participants in the program of health care for low-income people could receive reduced payments under both the House and Senate bills . The Senate bill would impose a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program to about 17 billion dollars in 1982 . States would be under pressure to cut waste or weed out more recipients . Medicare . Both houses approved cuts totaling around 1.4 billion dollars from the 48-billion-dollar program of health care for the aged . Most of the savings will come from changes in the government 's method of payments to hospitals , nursing homes and other facilities . Under the House bill , medicare patients would be required to pay a $1-a-day fee for their first 60 days of acute hospital care . Veterans . Fewer veterans would be eligible for help under dental-aid programs . Burial benefits would be cut . Hospitals . Eight Public Health Ser- vice hospitals and 27 clinics in the Public Health Service could be closed . it Housing . Low-income persons would be provided fewer subsidized housing units , and rental charges could be gradually increased . Building of new units would be restricted to about 160,000 , down from the 260,000 proposed by the Carter administration . Food stamps . Low-income people would be required to pass a more restrictive income test to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earmarked for this program would run out before the end of the fiscal year . To qualify for assistance under the new legislation , a family of four could earn no more than $11,000 a year , compared with the present $13,572 . Over all , food-stamp outlays are expected to be reduced by about 1.9 billion dollars , meaning that about 1 million present users could be dropped . Child nutrition . Children of middleincome families would pay more for subsidized school meals . Eligibility for free meals for poor children would be tightened and a special milk program substantially cut . Welfare . Participants in the program of aid to families with dependent children would face tougher rules . Limits would be imposed on the amount of earnings that can be disregarded in determining benefits under AFDC . Socalled workfare programs , requiring welfare recipients to work in exchange for aid , could be set up by the states . Legal services for the poor . Sharply reduced funding would translate into Education College aid . Students participating in federally guaranteed loan programs would start paying a 4 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fees currently are paid by the government . Interest rates on loans to parents of college students would be increased , and such loans would be restricted when family income reached $25,000 . Funds for grants to college students would be trimmed . School aid . After a House committee first decided to eliminate a politically popular program which helps school districts " impacted " with federal workers , the House joined the Senate in keeping the impact-aid program alive ? at least for now . However , funds are scheduled to be cut by perhaps 20 percent . School districts that educate only children of parents who live on federal property would not have their  | payments eliminated or reduced . Taxes could be raised by many local jurisdictions which suffered a loss of impact aid . Jobs Public-service jobs . Public-service jobs under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act are certain to be eliminated , ending a program that had expanded during the Carter administration . Some 300,000 persons holding CETA positions will lose their jobs . Unemployed . Unemployed persons no longer would get an automatic 13-week extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both houses want to eliminate the provision that triggers the additional payment . Over all , Congress expects to reduce the program 's cost by more than 1.3 billion dollars . Trade-adjustment assistance . Workers who lose their jobs as a result of competition from imports would receive , in many cases , lower benefits under the **27;320;TOOLONG program . Such benefits would be limited to about the amount and duration of state unemployment-insurance plans . Federal employes . Government workers would have their pay raise this year restricted to 4.8 percent and their retirement benefits adjusted for costof-living increases once a year instead of twice . Government-employe unions claim this benefit change could cost the average retiree $300 a year . In addition , cutbacks in appropriations for many government agencies would force layoffs of thousands of employes . Energy and the Environment Environment . Funds for the Environmental Protection Agency , designed to protect the environment and conduct research , would be curtailed . Up to 256 million dollars less would be available for grants to build sewagetreatment plants . This could mean higher user fees for homeowners or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity . Spending on water projects , including water-cleanup programs , would be curbed . Parks . Campers and park visitors would have fewer new public facilities to visit . The government would be allowed to spend less for parklands and grants to preserve historic sites . Energy . Firms engaged in syntheticfuel projects would receive less government financing . Oil companies and others engaged in research on such fuels might be reluctant to continue . Transportation Mass transit . Subway and other masstransit riders would find transportation projects slowed or abandoned as masstransit funding is sharply cut back . Delays are possible in subway systems being built in Miami , Buffalo , Baltimore , Atlanta and Washington , D.C. Highways . Drivers could have fewer new roads and slower repair of old ones because of a reduction of up to 185 million dollars in the federal highway program . The leaner budget would mean that some of the remaining 2,500 miles of the proposed interstate system might never be built . Airports . Federal cutbacks of 200 million dollars would mean fewer new runways and airport-expansion programs at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raise charges to airlines , which in turn would raise fares . Amtrak . Train riders could face a possible shutdown of about 15 percent of the Amtrak system , including unprofitable routes such as Chicago to Dallas . Fares are certain to increase . Conrail . Users of rail-freight services would have their service cut back . Business , Farming Economic development . The Appalachian Regional Commission and similar commissions aimed at assisting regional development would lose a large share of their federal funding . Plans for public buildings , industrial parks and other facilities in run-down areas may have to be shelved . Agriculture . Loans to farmers for storage facilities would be at the discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture rather than mandatory , and interestfree loans on grain crops in farmerheld reserves would be ended . Farmers would be charged fees for some previously free inspection services . Small business . Owners of small businesses would have their opportunities to get government loans restricted . Export promotion . Businessmen would be given less aid by the ExportImport Bank in selling their merchandise abroad . Company executives fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competitors whose countries offer buyers moregenerous financing . Disaster loans . Under the Senate bill , disaster loans would carry higher interest rates and tighter eligibility . Postal Service . Postal patrons could face higher rates and reduced services as the result of reduced subsidies for the Postal Service . Foreign aid . Bilateral assistance to other countries would be cut , as would the Food for Peace program . Arts and Sciences Arts and humanities . Artists can expect fewer job openings in subsidized community art projects , such as symphony orchestras and dance companies . Programs of the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for Humanities are ticketed for reduced appropriations , meaning less money would be available for grants to artists , scholars and others . Science . Scientists would be able to conduct fewer research programs financed through the National Science Foundation .                     