@@480306

THERE ARE institutions of which it can be said that they enjoy a certain surprising life after death , and re-tain the power to confer honor , if not immortality , even when they have ceased to play any vital part in the cultural life of a nation . One such institution is the Academie Francaise . Since the mid-nineteenth century it has been an object of derision for the French intellectual community , or at least for those who scorn the aesthetic and social pieties upheld by bourgeois opinion . And yet , how many writers in whose work we recognize a sensibility that goes against the bourgeois grain have sought membership in the Academy ? Charles Baudelaire is a notorious example . In 1861 , four years after the government tried him as an author of poems " offensive to public morality , " he stood for election to the seat vacated by the great preacher , Lacordaire , hoping apparently to redeem himself in his mother 's eyes . Some thirty years later , Emile Zola did the same , with greater persistence . Whenever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called " forty immortals " ) , academicians would get a note from Zola and find themselves compelled to vote him down once again . By the thirteenth rejection , it must have struck them that his purpose was less to bully officialdom into sanctioning the naturalist school of literature that he embodied than to make it reaffirm , year after year , its own obscurantism . BUt in fact Zola , like Baudelaire , yearned for the consecration that the enemy alone could provide . " I shall insist to the bitter end , " he wrote . " On the day of my death I shall present my name .... So long as there is an Academy I must be part of it . I am making literary history . My grandchildren will know that Zola was refused twenty-five or thirty times by the French Academy . So much the worse . Zola was probably the last in a line of grand nuisances that extended back to Pierre Corneille ( who failed three times before finally obtaining membership ) . With his death , the Academy lapsed into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would rouse itself only to replenish its number or award its prizes . In 1935 , when it turned 300 , Paul Valery declared that the occasion also marked the tricentenary of the Academy 's mockers , who , " being consubstantial with us , " had a legitimate claim to some portion of the honors bestowed upon the institution itself . " Would it not be diverting ? and serve justice ? to commemorate , during our forthcoming festivities , the quasi-venerable criticisms and pleasantries of which we have , for 300 years , been the peaceable victims ? " he asked , half jokingly . Even outsiders had become insiders , after a fashion ; indeed , Valery 's proposal calls to mind a lexicon devised by seventeenth-century academicians for vulgar words ? mercantile and technical words ? whose existence they could neither deny nor yet countenance in the official dictionary . To tax the Academy with old-fogeyism was therefore to participate in a kind of ritual drama , to play one 's part in the ancient family quarrel that kept the family together . W HAT DISTINGUISHED this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a female voice . It would of course be misleading to imply that women did not sway the Academy . Students of Marcel Proust will know what an active part they played in the intrigues on which a candidate 's fate often hinged . From Madame de Rambouillet , at whose townhouse the first academicians often convened , to Madame de Tencin and Madame Arman de Caillavet , social lionesses organized campaigns for the men who illuminated their salons and , when they met with success , basked in the reflected glory of election . But until recent years , it was tacitly understood , even among critics exasperated by the Academy 's unwillingness to greet the modern world , that the arbitration of cultural excellence was a prerogative as inherently male as the conduct of divine office . The election in 1955 of Jean Cocteau , an avowed homosexual , dealt ablow to the Academy 's patriarchal precedent , but it hardly followed that the family would straight away extend itself to include women . Cocteau 's presence did not subvert the forms , proprieties , and ceremonial accouterments that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Cocteau , who lived by theater , wore a sword with the best ; and one of his more memorable aphorisms , " The tact of audacity consists in knowing how far one can go too far , " was , or should have been , an earnest of good behavior sufficient to reassure flustered colleagues . He took his place beside them at the Institute , where custom obliged everyone , bishops , marshals , and dukes , to address one another ? in an egalitarian spirit befitting peers who have risen above mundane titles ? as plain " monsieur . " Henceforth there will sit , among 39 messieurs , one madame . The feminist movement , which is partly responsible for this anomaly , won a symbolic victory when Marguerite Yourcenar , the gifted and prolific writer whose fame still rests chiefly on her first novel , Memoirs of Hadrian , was elected to a seat last year , against stiff opposition by old guardsmen . Judging from published remarks , one gathers that Madame Yourcenar herself is disposed to view the event with aplomb , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hadrian . As she says , he found his own life less moving than history itself . Joining all those male shades has not persuaded her that the Academy will be any the less academic than hitherto . But for us , at least , it provides an occasion to reflect briefly on the traditional exclusion of women and the exception made for this one . T HE Academie Francaise began as a small literary society , which Richelieu in- corporated in 1635 by letters patent , giving it a mandate to compose a dictionary , a grammar , and * The Institut de France comprises five academies in all , of which the Academie Francaise is the oldest and much the most prestigious.treatises on rhetoric and poetry . Article 24 of its charter states that its principal function is " to work with all possible care and diligence to give our language definite rules and to render it pure , eloquent , and capable of treating the arts and sciences . " One need not look far to elicit a reason for Richelieu 's concern with language ; no farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his life and set him to wage war against whatever derogated from the rational order he had constantly in mind . Ruling France meant ruling French , which is to say that he demanded an instrument of conquest , a master language whose refinement and logic would argue its authority and invest it with the prestige otherwise reserved for Greek and Latin . To create a French distinct from French as spoken by the vulgar was to rescue those who possessed it from the haphazardness of usage and the accident of birthplace . Long before the Terror , when Robespierre declared that France would fulfill its apostolate when it propagated liberty throughout the world , Richelieu 's strategy made French itself the vehicle for a militant , universalizing zeal . " Not the least of this great cardinal 's thoughts was that by pulling the French language out of barbarism he did not doubt that our neighbors would soon come to speak it if our conquests continued as they had begun , " wrote Pellisson , an early member of the Academy . One can better understand , then , why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the Treaty of Rastatt ( 1714 , which marked the first time peace negotiations were conducted entirely in French ) to Marshal Petain after World War I , were rewarded for their deeds with an academic seat . Conversely , Napoleon 's decree of May 13 , 1801 , which obliged academicians to wear a black and green uniform with gold braid ( designed in minute detail by the painter David ) , also let civilian members of the Institute know that everything , even their lucubrations over points of grammar , had a military color ; that guarding French against invasion by foreign elements went hand in hand with the defeat of foreign elements by the grande armee . This belief in French as some innately persuasive and morally unique entity , as a receptacle made for spiritual goods , became a maxim for men of almost every political stripe . Thus in 1884 we find Jean Jaures telling the Alliance Francaise ( a kind of missionary arm of the Academy ) that for France " language is the necessary instrument of colonization " and praising schools that native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned there would allow them to " feel nearer their conquerors by intelligence . " Our perception of the design this master language served would be too narrow , however , if it did not encompass the humanistic ideal implicit in the Academy 's plan to render French " pure " and , above all , " eloquent . " For men imbued with classical letters , who assumed that the French that would issue from their labors would be a worthy paradigm of Greek and Latin , eloquence was not just a forensic gift , It was the manifestation of qualities that defined an honnete homme , a gentleman . From the tradition established by Aristotle in the Rhetoric , Cicero in various treatises , and Quintilian in De Institutione Oratoria , they took the view that eloquence presupposed a discipline whose beneficiaries would constitute an elite at once moral and social . As Cicero insisted that the perfect orator was the perfect man , so Francois de Fenelon , archbishop of Cambrai , who became an academician in 1694 , wrote : One must not do eloquence the injustice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which declaimers use to prevail upon the feeble imagination of the multitude and to traffic in the word ; it is a very serious art destined to instruct , to repress the passions , to correct manners , to uphold the laws , to direct public deliberations , to render men good and happy .... The true orator adorns his speeches with nothing but luminous truths , noble sentiments , strong expressions measured to what he tries to inspire ; he thinks , he feels , and the appropriate language follows . As Saint Augustine says , he does not depend upon words , but words depend upon him . No less significant than the mastery its language would enable France to exert in Europe was the self-mastery that eloquence would foster in men ordained to set the style of civilized demeanor . Along with a legal corpus justifying absolute monarchy at the expense of feudal lords , whose culture remained essentially medieval , there emerged a literature portraying manly virtue as passion subservient to reason . Corneille 's Don Rodrigue ? the " Cid " ? was the new aristocratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governs it is the formally beautiful language in which , like an orator of genius , he debates his contradictory interests , favoring passion but ultimately asserting the distance from his passionate self that makes him heroic . D URING THE Revolution , when violence in word or deed became the standard by which civic virtue was often measured , and those men held office who proved most adept at swaying the multitude , Archbishop Fenelon 's praise of eloquence would have been seen as an attempt to dignify the ruling class with an ethical numen , to seat power in distinctions consecrated not by birth or blood but by an inner light that shone down from antiquity . As early as August 1790 one Charles Palissot asked how " literary aristocracies which have risen among us under the name of academies " could be condoned while the National Assembly , " to secure our precious equality , " had abolished " those antisocial distinctions wherein the vanity of the great had found a last , sorry refuge . " The Academy lasted three more years . Its mantle fell on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French every word describing obnoxious social realities , kept faith with Richelieu and the idea that the language of power could accommodate no foreign order , that it must be " pure . " There were , to be sure , direct reprisals taken against the officialdictionary , notably in Le Pere Duchesne , a paper whose editor , Hebert , was dubbed " the Homer of smut " ( presumably by the class he vilified ) . But for the most part , Jacobin leaders spoke as heirs of absolutism , even to the extent of habitually invoking the ancients to sanction their " light . " Had there been no Academy ? and the latter was revived in fact , if not in name , by Napoleon ? the nineteenth-century bourgeoisie would have had to invent one . The more acquisitive and mobile French society became , the more inclined were its conservative elements to make classical humanities a prerequisite for membership in the cultural body politic . One man of great , though ephemeral , renown , Monsignor Felix Dupanloup , who joined the Academy in 1854 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The ruling class will always be the ruling class because it knows Latin . " Bound up with this pronouncement , which commanded widespread assent , was a belief shared by old families , and those nouveaux riches eager to see their children acquire a patina , that culture would not deserve its name if it acknowledged the physical life or had material use . Culture raised its proprietor above nature ; it established an inner distance that guaranteed his virtue ; it forged an essence impervious to " motives . " While the homme moyen sensuel spoke from within himself , men nurtured on Latin spoke from outside , their education having in fact made it imperative that they do so . " To write an oration was to put noble words in the mouths of great personages , " notes one historian of French pedagogy as he explains how this classicization took place . " Maximian writes to Diocletian imploring him not to renounce the Empire , Francis I to Charles V complaining of his incarceration , a cetera . The subject who spoke was always a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or poet . And what did one have these personages say ? To be sure , nothing one might have chanced to hear in everyday life but , rather , sturdy aphorisms . " Until quite late in the century , the subject that crowned the academic curriculum was rhetoric , and lycies conferred highest honors on the pupil who had written the most eloquent speech . Certainly Zola did not qualify for highest minors with J'accuse . Laying siege to the Academy could only see him bruise himself against a perdurable idea of what culture should be and exclude . True , the Academy had made room for Zola 's intellectual mentors , Claude Bernard and Hippolyte Taine . But it could not admit a writer so disaffected with the linguistic faith it upheld , whose cardinal sin was in having an imagination that dwelled vulgarly upon vulgar things . When Ernest Renan ( elected in 1878 ) eulogized academicians past with the assertion that their labors had made it possible " to say everything in the language of well-bred persons without being pedantic , " where could one appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public , or to the future ? The language spoken by well-bred persons accounted for everything worth saying . T HAT WOMEN should be absent from the Academy went unquestioned in a society whose traditional structure limited the scope of female energies to the home and defined woman as a private creature . It was in fact during the seventeenth century , when the Counter-Reformation swept France clean , that cloture , or absolute withdrawal from life outside , became the norm at convent schools attended by daughters of the bourgeoisie and aristocracy . Withdrawal from life outside made boarders completely dependent for instruction on a curriculum devised to shield them against the winds of free thought , to discourage intellectual curiosity and teach them such unworldly wisdom and manual skills as they would need in the pious operation of a household . Religious schools took their cue from Pope Paul V , who told one order , the Ursulines , that " although most time should be spent teaching boarders how to read , to write , to sew , and to do other upright work befitting their sex and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and good morals are the firstand principal matter they must teach , restricting themselves to the text of the catechism without raising complicated questions , repressing the inquisitiveness of minds in order to accustom them to treat divine things respectfully . " Among Ursuline nuns , who came in the main from solid bourgeois families , a knowledge of Latin literature had formerly been commonplace , but thenceforth their Latin was seldom more than barely adequate for their devotional exercises . The line that led forward from antiquity bypassed women , who found themselves thrust outside the classical tradition , on which were based so many symbols that went into the making of a public or official presence . Woman had salvation to think about ( and the sentiment that this is as it should be still obtains in certain high social quarters , where any work but charity work would be deemed unfeminine ) ; the temporal world , including all of history , was man 's estate . How tenaciously men stood their ground may be inferred from a categorical distinction set forth in modern times by the eminent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who must engage in work , in worldly combat , the great subject of study is History , " he wrote . " For woman , gentle mediator between nature and man , between father and child , her altogether practical , rejuvenating , embellishing study is that of Nature . " To plead Nature was to follow certain eighteenth-century philosophes who , under the aegis of a new god , sustained the old precept that woman , being responsible for domestic felicity , should not address her ambitions beyond the nest she orders and adorns . This essentially summarizes what Rousseau argued in Emile , and Emile , which holds the proper object of female education to be the nursing , rearing , counseling , and consoling of men , had far more influence on posterity than enlightened ideas advanced by Diderot , Laclos , and Condorcet . It was not Condorcet 's pedagogical egalitarianism but Rousseau 's argument pro bono publico that carried the day in revolutionary France , where we encounter Mirabeau invoking it as follows : Destined for worldly business , men must be brought up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interior life , should only under exceptional circumstances leave the paternal house . . Jean-Jacques Rousseau was deeply imbued with this truth so familiar to ancient peoples , that man and woman , each of whom plays a quite different part in nature , can not play the same one in the social state , and that the eternal order of things has them advance toward a common goal by assigning them distinct places . Here the same ancient world that otherwise served revolutionaries as a moral buttress for fundamental changes they made in the form of government serves to justify denying women the benefits of change . While men lorded it over time and ( if one were Mirabeau ) profited from its movement , nature , to which woman had a special affinity , fixed upon her an eternal order . The Revolution took no measures affecting the education of women until 1795 , when it was decreed that primary schools be divided into two sections , by gender , and that girls be taught to read , write , count , and , in the catechismal tradition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be trained , " so said the decree , " for manual work . " y OUNG WOMEN waited another eighty-five years before they found themselves entitled to public secondary school education . The law establishing female lyc ? es met determined opposition from a constituency whose fear was that women , with the study of phenomena outside their ken , would no longer accept the roles on which social order depended , that they would , indeed , become counterfeit men " Woman can be superior only as woman ; she is only a monkey when she wants to emulate man , " wrote an ultraconservative philosopher named Joseph de Maistre . This was majority opinion during much of the nineteenth century , and those who set store by it would often cite George Sand 's life as a harbinger of the chaos likely to attend educational reform . But even among dissenters , for whom reform did not , as it did for churchmen , constitute meddling with female ontology , there still prevailed the idea that certain subjects would either prove too taxing for women or else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law of 1880 , which surrendered so much of male privilege , drew the line at exact sciences , at higher mathematics , and , most significantly , at classical languages . While women might be taught modern languages ? vulgar tongues , so to speak ? and elementary Latin , offering them a thorough foundation in rhetoric would have been rather like handing over the keys to the kingdom . The Academy behind the kingdom made known its view of the new latitude accorded womankind when , in 1890 , as the nineteenth century was fast slipping away . it refused to have representatives attend the dedication of a statue of George Sand . M ARGUERITE Yourcenar was elected one century after women graduated from primary school in France . No doubt it would give happenstance less than its due to credit the Academy with a fine sense of symbolic cycles . But can it have been mere happenstance that the first woman elected won fame by putting herself in the mind of a Roman emperor . and of all emperors one so addicted to classical measure ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too secret , " is how she explained her decision to make Hadrian her memorialist rather than , say , the Empress Plotina . " If a woman does recount her own life she is promptly reproached for being no longer truly feminine . It is already hard enough to give some element of truth to the utterances of a man . " Those who do not suffer change gladly will note that she started life motherless , as Marguerite de Crayencour ( Yourcenar being an incomplete anagram of this patronymic ) , and learned classical languages under the supervision of a father versed in Greek and Latin . When she delivered her maiden speech at the august Institute , they surely reassured one another that her gift of eloquence springs from the male line , like Athena from Zeus 's head , and took comfort in the thought that things at the Academy have somehow come full circle , albeit perversely . As for Madame Yourcenar , her mind is set on quite another past , her ancestral past , the exhumation of which has yielded an interesting volume entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begins with her birth only to swivel round about and address not what followed but a world in which she figured as the unborn future , Madame Yourcenar reconciles the discretion , indeed the piety , incumbent upon women with the masculine enterprise of history .                     