@@487031

As California Democrats see it , there is more at stake in the upcoming election than the 270 electoral votes Walter Mondale needs to win the Presidency . The party 's future in the state is on the line . Ironically , six propositions on the ballot , which are generating more heat than the Presidential contest and which Democrats fear will weaken their party if they pass , could save Walter Mondale 's skin . The Mondale-Ferraro campaign is sputtering damply in California . The party faithful , who were so full of energy after the national convention in San Francisco in July , are suffering burnout . October 's hope has warmed but not rekindled party confidence . Contributing to the anxiety is the home-state advantage Ronald Reagan enjoys , coupled with the tepid support for Mondale among state Democrats , who favored Hart in the primary . The most controversial of the initiatives , Proposition 41 , could make the Democrats angry enough to come out and vote against it  --  and for Mondale . Certainly it will be a test of just how conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Appealingly described as " welfare reform " by its backers , Proposition 41 would authorize severe cuts in public assistance , to fall most heavily on women and children , the elderly and the disabled . Lieut . Gov . Leo McCarthy , a Democrat , calls it " the cruelest and most radical attack on the needy " he has come across in his political experience . And Mary Jane Merrill , president of the state 's League of Women Voters , says it is " a blatant attack on the physical well-being of California 's low-income women and children . " According to a study by legislative analyst William G. Hamm , the proposed cuts would reduce payments under Aid to Families with Dependent Children ( affecting 1 million children ) by 60 percent , and state assistance to the elderly , blind and disabled by 36 percent . For example , Hamm hypothesizes that monthly payments of $506 to a mother with two children might be cut back to as little as $223 . Total savings to the taxpayers could come to more than $3 billion annually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the burden of funding these programs from the Federal and . , state governments to county authorities , put on tight-budgets as a result of Proposition 13 . The initiative states that California 's total welfare budget should exceed the average of those in the other forty-nine states by not more than 10 percent , an acknowledgment of the state 's higher cost of living . Proponents charge that the average payments to welfare recipients in California are twice that of other states . Many observers here compare the potential impact of Proposition 41 to that of Proposition 13 , which touched off a wave of tax-cutting referendums across the land in 1978 . " Proposition 41 would be devastating , " says Lindy Graham , administrative aide to U.S. Representative Howard Berman . " There is enough sentiment against welfare across the country to make such a precedent trigger a wave of antiwelfare lawmaking . It is a frightening possibility . " The initiative was drafted by Ross Johnson , a Republican State Assemblyman , after he had failed to get welfare reductions past the Democratic majority in the legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfair failure , " Johnson says . " Unfair to the truly needy , unfair to the taxpayer . " To the Democrats , Proposition 41 represents a threat to the entire system of caring for the disadvantaged , which they prevented even Ronald Reagan from cutting when he was Governor . It has united them more than any other issue this year , and they are mobilizing against it . Many party fliers and mailers carry an admonition to vote no . Assemblywoman Maxine Waters , who led the Rev. Jesse Jackson 's primary drive in California , says that the issue is galvanizing the poor " Once people understand what it would do , they are not just alerted , they are inspired , " she says . " They want to vote and they want to get others to vote . It is n't the distant Presidency that matters . Suddenly the minorities , the young mothers , the elderly , the blind and disabled discover they have a personal stake in this election . It has turned the whole of politics around for them . " State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's population , its A.F.D.C. budget comes to 21 percent of the national total . Matching Federal and state Social Security payments that augment medical in-surance reimbursements for those particularly needy among the elderly and disabled are 22 percent of the national expenditure . These high levels reflect a tradition of compassion for the needy that goes back to the New Deal . But California 's higher A.F.D.C. payments can also be attributed to a cost-of-living supplement and to the state 's rapid growth in population . California also has a large proportion of Asian refugees on public assistance . Proposition 41 is not the only issue sending off sparks in this election year . California 's tradition of nonpartisanship in politics has been superseded by the bitterest partisan antipathy the state has experienced in more than a generation . Although voters are not as caught up in-the warring spirit as officeholders and party officials are , Democrats and Republicans are having at each other . The Democratic base is twofold : the legislature , both houses of which the party dominates and where friction with Republican Governor George Deukmejian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and the electorate , a significant majority of which is Democratic . A vigorous G.O.P. voter registration drive has shaved the Democratic bulge fractionally but has not shifted the balance . In September , 52.6 percent of California voters identified themselves as Democrats and 35.9 percent said they were Republicans . Voters , however , are quite at ease about crossing party lines , so the Democratic margin gives Mondale no reason for optimism . The state has not favored a Democrat for President since it went for Lyndon Johnson in 1964 . Previous to that , Republicans had won every election since 1948 , when Harry Truman took the state . The Republicans hold the Governor 's office , which Deukmejian narrowly won two years ago over Democratic Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley . Deukmejian emphasizes frugality , recently vetoing more than 300 Democrat-favored bills , citing economy as his reason . A second G.O.P. strong point is money . Republicans in California have perfected the art of raising funds from rank-and-file supporters through direct mail campaigns . Their coded lists of donors , large and small , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tapped . While the Presidential race grinds along , the television and radio advertisements , the cajoling of endorsers , the clamor of argument , the hype and excitement , center to a marked degree on the ballot measures that encapsulate the partisan struggle . ? Of the other initiatives on the California ballot , two are of minor interest : one proposes a state lottery and the other , an end to bilingual ballots . ( Another would have required a California petition for a balanced Federal budget but was eliminated as unconstitutional by the state 's Supreme Court . ) A third is sponsored by that jowly curmudgeon Howard Jarvis , who is seeking to revive his popularity by battening the Proposition 13 hatches tighter . He raised $2 million to put the measure on the ballot and promises to spend $3 million before Election Day to get it passed . Jarvis was irritated by court rulings that enabled local governments to tap other sources of revenue after Proposition 13 reduced property taxes . His Proposition 36 would restrict the collection of fees-for-service , on which California local governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using revenues from property taxes for public pension funds . The impact Proposition 36 could have on city and county operations has alarmed business people , and major organizations , including the California Taxpayers Association , strongly oppose it . They fear that the quality of life in the state will deteriorate drastically if sources of revenue are cut further . Jarvis 's initial expectation was that the new tax cut would capture headlines , but the negative reaction to it and the partisan controversy touched off by other initiatives have put it in the shade . The two final Republican-sponsored initiatives are designed to hit Democrats where it would hurt them most . One measure , drawn up at Governor Deukmejian 's behest , would erase the Democratic-dominated legislature 's control over political districting in California by creating a commission of retired appellate court judges to take up the task Judges , being officially nonpartisan in California elections , are thought likely to change the gerrymandered districting , which has advantaged the Democratl . The other initiative would impose limits on campaign fund-raising in a way that would handicap Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1,000 . Ostensibly intended to strike a blow against the power of big money , the measure would also benefit the Republicans : they get the bulk of their contributions from small-scale donors , while the Democrats rely on a few big contributors in business and in the entertainment world . Ordinarily such measures would arouse little interest among voters But both parties see them as tests of strength Having concocted the initiatives , Republicans feel they are in command , but if the Democrats can provoke rink-and-file anger , they can make a fight of it . If enough now-apathetic Democrats get stirred up to vote on these ballot measures , especially Proposition 41 , they might shift the Presidential tide in America 's most populous state . ?                     