@@294931

At 80 , Louise Nevelson still brings a sense of drama to her life-and work <P> The house is an emblem of the life and the work . It sprawls on Spring Street in lower Manhattan , several blocks east of SoHo 's boutiqueland and just above the bustle of Chinatown . Outside , the 19th century red brick structure is at once dignified and haphazard looking . Inside , it becomes a succession of caves : several buildings joined together ( one of them a former abortion clinic or else a private lunatic asylum-the stories never tally ) , with the dividing walls knocked out , so that one goes up and down a series of levels . The floors are black and polished ; the rooms are lined with matte black sculptures , whose cellular structures , like nocturnal honeycombs or trued-up ants ' nests , intensify the labyrinthine feel of the house . Because most of the shutters are closed , the light inside is dim , and even those objects that are not black seem to be . The place is a continuous collage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stacks of the owner 's working material : wood slats , newel posts , balls , balusters , a hive of infinitely replicated fragments awaiting wholeness-to the severe bedroom , with its pressed-metal industrial closets and barracks-like austerity . The collage extends into the cupboards , which , when opened , reveal a hoard of oddments and chotchkes : vanity sets , inlaid boxes , tarnished trays , ugly Edwardian candlesticks with silver frills , like the stock of a dotty junkshop owner who can not tear to part with anything . Mere presence in the cave signifies " treasure . " <P> The house belongs , of course , to the sculptor Louise Nevelson . She has lived in it for close on 30 years , acquiring more rooms , filling them up . By now it is the hive of the queen bee , where Nevelson presides over a small force of workers : carpentry and joinery assistants who help with the sculpture , and her archivist , friend , photographer and general factotum Diana MacKown . Nevelson still leaves it often enough to be a near legendary sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staple in the pages of Women 's Wear Daily . She likes to swathe herself in costume and go to parties ; she dislikes cooking for herself and frequents small local restaurants in Little Italy and SoHo , where she is treated with the deference one would associate with Hizzoner the Mayor ( which , in a cultural sense , she almost is ) . <P> Nevelson 's disciplined work habits remain exactly the same as they have been for the past 40 years . Quick to correct those who call her a night owl , she describes herself as a " dawn person " ; she likes to rise at 4:30 a.m. and start work , sometimes on the big constructions she is best known for , sometimes on the multitude of studies-a mere fragment of wood glued to a dark mounting sheet-that she produces in lieu of drawings and that form teetering stacks in the upstairs studios .                     