@@487752

We have replaced our customary yearend list of editors ' favorite - books with a series of remarks on one of this year 's most significant works , Habits of the Heart : Individualism and Commitment in American Life , by Robert N. Bellah , Richard Madsen , William M. Sullivan , Ann Swidler and Steven M. Tipton . ( University of California Press , $16.95 ) . Not the least of the book 's virtues is that its authors invite rejoinder . We have taken them at their word . ? The Editors BARBARA EHRENREICH T he most numbing phfase in the American vocabulary must be " local government , " followed by " Federal government " and then , perhaps , by " electoral politics . " Even " Sears catalogue " carries livelier possibilities , in everyday usage , than those terms that refer to our collective enterprise as citizens ; and , if I still have your attention , I would include among those words and phrases that inspire talk show hosts to change the subject and neighbors to retreat to their own backyards : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , " politics " itself . Not all nationalities are so repelled by their own communal affairs . Europeans and those Latin Americans who are free to speak without disappearing into permanent silence still consider public issues to be an acceptable subject for cafe chitchat . Even Russian ? migr  --  s complain about the American aversion to political discussion . We who officially value freedom of speech above life itself seem to have nothing to talk about but the weather . Why are public matters so bereft of Content=or , let us say , mere interest  --  for most Americans ? That is not , in itself , a strictly political question ; the decline of citizenship can not be plotted along a straightforward left-right axis . It is not only liberals who are misfits today ; so is the odd person who follows policy closely and eagerly for some purpose other than divining his or her own tax liability . As dozens of commentators have observed , American culture has been privatized , atomized and perhaps irreversibly idiotized by the combination of television and Epcotstyle education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " private " lives , is sensuous and thrilling , while the public sphere , represented by the Internal Revenue Service and the occasional ghastly Presidential intrusion on our regularly scheduled programming , lies before us as a desert . Habits of the Heart is the latest and perhaps the kindest attempt to assess the American character and figure out whether we might still amount to something . In the grand tradition of David Riesmanand the less grand tradition of any number of neoconservative nags ? Robert Bellah , Richard Madsen , William Sullivan , Ann Swidler and Steven Tipton find that we have , for the most part , lost the way but that the stuff of redemption lies all around us , if we are only willing to give it a try . They have talked to hundreds of Americans about work , love , success , religion and civic affairs ; and when I say they are kind , it is because they seem to have listened with such patience and with none of the arrogance their subjects might easily have provoked . Most of these people get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values " and " commitments " ; no transcendent purpose lights up their lives , and history as a human project eludes them utterly . But others of them ' are fine people ( a number of local political activists are profiled ) , and all of them would like to find some meaning to life beyond the next promotion or home improvement . Out of such humble aspirations , the authors believe , we may fashion a more engaging notion of citizenship and perhaps turn back the rising tide of barbarism . Like others before them , and I think primarily of Christopher Lasch , Bellah and his colleagues find Americans crippled by the very individualism that is supposed to be our proudest trait . Once it was the " utilitarian individualism " of capitalism 's rugged early years ; now it is the softer " expressive individualism " of the consumer society . Riesman charted this character transformation three decades ago , but Bellah et al . add a fine dissection of the therapeutic mentality , which has become our dominant ideology . In it , each self is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own little planetary system of values , seekingto negotiate the best possible deal from the various " relationships " that come along . Since all values appear to be idiosyncratic satellites of the self , and since we have no way to understand the " self " as a product of all the other selves  --  present and in historical memory  --  we have no way of engaging each other in moral discourse , much less in a routine political argument . As a result , life is not only a lonely business but , as the authors point out , an ascetic one . To be these pleasure-seeking , inaccessible selves , we must learn to repress and deny the amour sociale that calls us to one another and to what is most human in us all . But I have perhaps stated their case a little too floridly , for Habits of the Heart is not only a kind book but an awfully nice book , with no undertones of mad optimism or wild grief . I realized it would be that way at the first of many hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in settings like this , is- a reliable banner signifying great blandness to come . Indeed , Bellah and his crew have no ear at all for the nuttiness that lies just one cortical layer under all this therapeutic , self-optimizing rationality . In my experience , if I may introduce an empirical quibble , most Americans may talk about " impacting this " and " impacting that , " or " following Plan A or Plan B , " as the people quoted here do , but give them a few hours and a sympathetic face to look at and they 'll be telling you about the Bermuda Triangle , or a personal appearance by Jesus or a deceased relative , or what they were doing 300 years ago in another incarnation . When social life lacks a transcendent dimension , people start cultivating secret visions and hustling the occult . But , for that matter , is n't it also patently mad to describe the great and wrenching turning point of one 's life in the language of one-minute management , as a choice between Plan A and Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , neither have they found much pain in the heart of America . Part of this may be a result of the selection process ; many of their informants are either therapists or graduates of the therapeutic experience and have presumably mastered the art of upbeat , positivistic self-presentation . Then , too , all the informants are white and middle-class , even wealthy in some cases . But even given these restrictions , where are the drunks , the secret abusers of wives and children , the divorcees sliding toward destitution , the veterans who wake up screaming in the night , the racists and Rambo fans ? Pain and madness show up only rarely and only in the margins of Habits of the Heart . If the problems discovered by Bellah and his colleagues are moderate and containable , so too are the solutions . We need social movements , they tell us , because movements can anchor our fretful selves in the community of purpose we so deeply crave . That is true , and the political activists who are interviewed come across as admirable people , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there is a problem in looking to social movements to ease our souls : people can find community and purpose in a movement to exclude black children from the local schools just as surely as they can in a more just and generous cause . In fact , if the problem is to save the troubled , fragmented souls of the middle class , why not turn at once to that ready-made institution of salvation , transcendent purpose and community  --  organized religion ? Indeed this is what Bellah et al . recommend , telling us in the hushed tones that secular scholars reserve ' for the sacred and mysterious that " it would seem that a vital and enduring religious individualism " ? which is , apparently , a good kind of individualism ? " can only survive in a renewed relationship with established religious bodies . " Well , this is Daniel Bell all over again , who went to the mountaintop in The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism , surveyed the wreckage of our hedonistic , consumerist civilization and prescribed religion as the glue that would bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps there is some index social scientists use that lists under " Cohesion , Social " such entries as " tradition " or , if that does n't work , " religion . " But powerful , cornmunitarian religious feeling can no more be willed into existence and applied to social problems than " tradition " can . ( As an atheist I think I understand that as well as anyone . ) Neither , - for that matter , can social movements be conjured up to heal the spiritually lost and the psychotherapeutically misguided . Religious passion , like political passion , has an elemental quality that mustforever elude the cautious reformer and would-be social engineer . I could go on , in a dogmatic vein , about the evils of organized religion , particularly some of the fundamentalist varieties that the authors cast a mild , uncritical eye on in their search for community . True , you will find community in the likes of Jerry Falwell 's Lynchburg congregation ; you will also find meanness , bigotry , sexism and sleaze . But quite apart from the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unbearably patronizing for social scientists , who are about the most paradigmatically secular folks around , to recommend religion for everyone else . If modernism has n't worked out all that well , then let us all march into postmodernism  --  whatever that is exactly  --  together . It 's not fair for a few prescient scholars , coiled over their word processors , to send the rest of us marching back to traditions like original sin , premarital ( female ) virginity and the willfull ignorance of biology , physics and cosmology . It seems to me that the book 's prescription reflects something very like the therapeutic mentality its authors decry . If the problem is our character , our hearts , the fragile and jury-rigged " selves " we propel through life , then there are indeed all kinds of possible solutions , including religion , civic activism or perhaps a new and superior kind of therapy . What will actually work ? Presumably we 'll have to see what makes us feel better , more " authentic , " " whole , " etc . In other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circuit so well described in Habits of the Heart  --  casting about for some values to define ourselves with and testing them by seeing if they " feel right , " with no external reference point , no actual " others " to suffuse the universe with moral gravity . But the problem it not just the emptiness of middle-class American life , even for the emptiest among us . The problem includes all the pain and dread that has been pressed back into the margins and final , wistful pages of Habits of the Heart : the hunger of the world 's majority , the draining misery of most people 's daily labor , torture and repression , the threat of nuclear annihilation . If we who are currently comfortable and affluent need a moral reference point , we will not find it in the mirror tricks of therapy or religion , but in other people 's pain . At the risk of sounding sectarian , I would say there is one other way in which Habits of the Heart fails to rise above the depoliticized culture- it describes so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book is that we have lost the vocabulary for collective moral discourse . Even the activists interviewed , like Campaign for Economic Democracy organizer Wayne Bauer , stumble when they try to explain what they 're working for and how it all adds up . Now , there is one word that would help here , at least as another reference point , and that is " socialism . " I do not mean to suggest that " socialism , " dangled in front of the alienated middle class or stamped- in large letters in the final paragraphs of books like this , would wake us from our daze . The word has become too alien , some would say too sullied by historical experience , to address the yearning in our hearts . But it is still the only word we have that attempts to bridge the gap between our private notions of decency and morality and the public sphere of the political economy . And it is still the only vision we have  --  the only modernist vision that is  --  of a world in which individual desire might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition and possibility as much as Bellah and his colleagues do is to contribute to the impoverishment of the political imagination they have so ably documented . Still , Habits of the Heart has an urgent message for the left . If what we are up against is not " false consciousness " but the civic unconsciousness of the therapeutic mentality , then we will not get far with a dessicated , technocratic approach to politics . " Economic alternatives " and the like , no matter how humane , will not rouse people to a stirring new vision of public life . We need a politics that speaks more directly to the heart and to the repressed need for social connectedness that lies buried there , bruised and stunted . Some will conclude that we can revivify politics by grafting religion onto it , but that , I believe , would be to concede that " politics " really is too dreary to stand on its own . The alternative is to rediscover socialism itself as an evangelical , visionary cause , and the only one ultimately capable of reclaiming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-chair of Democratic Socialists of America . While laments about the decay of moral language are by no means new , the left 's sense of inarticulateness has become a particular hallmark of our recent past . Once proud of its near monopoly on the language of higher aspiration ( justice , fairness , equality , progress ) and of its special flair for the word  --  in oratory and essay , in slogan and especially in lyric  --  the movement today ca n't so much as settle on a word to describe itself : left , progressive , populist , socialist ; democratic ? The authors of Habits of the Heart come to the issue of inarticulateness eloquently , passionately and , above all , provocatively . One is stirred to reflection , annoyed , confused and in the end ready to argue . The process of untangling their theses  --  and I can only begin to do so  --  requires an active inner dialogue on the nature of civic purpose , republican virtue , the meaning of one 's life , the nature of America . Bravo . Yes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be called yuppiedom ; yes , the use to which the 200 interviews are put seems odd ( less than a handful of people are quoted , and even they-are never allowed to speak at any length ) ; yes , the scope is overly ambitious , including as it does a history of Western civilization with particular attention to the last 350 years of American history . Still , the book has touched a nerve . In my own fieldeducation  --  there are bits and pieces everywhere of the kinds of issues it raises . I hear it in my students , particularly the adolescents , who are bewildered by the very notion of rules of public decorum or - concepts of school " honor " ( although they are highly conscious of their personal honor ) . It is there in the banality of the standard curriculum , which consists of hundreds of disconnected and " measurable " bits adding up to nothing of substance . It is present in good teachers who are embarrassed to acknowledge pride in their calling and dedication to a job well done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Heart with mounting anxiety . The anxiety , had at least two sources : first , I wondered whether I would have talked as foolishly as these interviewees . Second , I had the uneasy sense of being manipulated . I felt like a student whose professor is pulling forth " right " answers from theclass . What , I wondered , could anyone possibly say to qualify for Bellah 's mantle of authenticity ? What language would someone have to use to " justify " his or her moral choices before Bellah would be satisfied ? I was rooting for one of the research subjects to get it right . But was Bellah pushing his subjects too hard , so that each was bound to fall into a philosophical trap ? Why , I wondered , did Bellah seem content when one couple used Scripture to justify their commitment to their marriage , but would n't let up on another who based theirs only on , strong feelings ? Was it because the former claimed Scripture as a " guarantee " whereas the latter acknowledged uncertainty ? Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking ? The embarrassing therapeutic language the authors complain of often seems to me the last resort of people reduced to banalities because their inquisitor would n't stop . Can it actually be that this therapeutic babble ( what Bellah calls our first language ) has undercut that rich and stylistically powerful second language  --  the biblical and republican rhetoric of the past ? Can we really reshape the world according to the word , or did the old words die out because they did n't seem to fit our experience or the changed circumstances of our political economy ? Narcissism and meanspiritedness may be on the increase , and a tradition of civic helpfulness ? may have declined ( I think so ) . But to turn this situation around will require substantive proposals for reform , not just better language . In fact , many Americans act against their self-interest because they have been sold the idea that our society will be saved only if they accept the workings of a blind and neutral market and give capital a freedom of choice that costs them a great deal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and good storytellers . Do we propoSe only to outtalk them , or do we actually have a superior story ? Self-interest takes a beating in this book . Perhaps we need to ask whether self-interest has to be a dirty word . Is it not possible that if our notion of the individual self were less impoverished , more embedded in society , - we would see self-interest as connected to society 's interest ? There is an aspect of social generosity that can not easily be distinguished from self-interest . We " irrationally " care about others . Our self-absorption in our family and our children is an embodiment of our belief in a future beyond our own lives , as well as a means to our own selfish immortality . Similarly , our notions of honor rest on a sense of individual value but also on our future reputation in a community whose view of us matters . Why ? It 's not easy to say . Thus , our parenthood , like our defense of our honor , may be construed as a selfish private act or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one chooses to see it . Actually it is always some of both . ( Oddly , Bellah discusses love and marriage , but parenthood scarcely-at all . ) The discourse in this book takes a very high road , so high that the ' daily realities of our lives that cause us indignation , pain , bitterness and joy are rarely visible . Social movements that thrive only on permanent- highs , on dreams of the far future , are prone to quick deaths . Keeping such moral highs alive often produces less attractive traits than the ones Bellah cherishes . Have we forgotten the fate of the major ideological highs of our own century ? Fascism , Communism , patriotism , modern Islamic fundamentalism  --  unspeakable horrors have been committed in the name of each . Perhaps a little hesitation is in order before we too eagerly embrace the idea that we need transcendent common causes that eschew daily self-interest . Bellah is hardly a sympathizer of any of these absolutisms  --  far from it . Yet such totalistic movements thrive in climates where self-interest becomes a dirty word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and urban cosmopolitanism is feared . These outsiders are also the villains of Bellah 's version of history . While excessive or misplaced individualism is a danger , - in my memory , its opposite , excessive corporatism , has been an even greater cause for alarm . Bellah 's ' history , in short , is selective and unbalanced . We need a powerful defense of individualism and of civic life . We suffer not simply froth a thinness of language to talk about the value of civic life but from an equal thinness of language to describe and justify strong individualism . A society that can handle a.highly developed individualism because it recognizes it as an essential component of a robust civic culture will assume that moments of self-doubt about the meaning of life are part of the good life , and that a sense of being " alone " among many may be the fate of all of us at times . How shall we go about restoring such a healthy balance of individualism and its concomitant community ? And one that this time includes men and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's the rub . And how to do it amid multinational corporations ? It gets even harder . Certainly we need to listen to one another as Bellah has done . We need to hear our desires spoken aloud again , to find our voices . But we would do well not to ask too much of our words alone , nor to become overly concerned with the way we package our ideas rather than whether we have some good ones . And good ones require knowing the details of people 's daily lives . And once you get down to the details it becomes clear that not everything is accessible at the moment to a solution . Let 's applaud , therefore , half-measures , small strides and little successes as long as they head us in the right direction  --  a direction that gives a few more people a chance to consider what it might mean to live " good life , " and enjoy a little lively debate on " life styles " as well . Deborah Meier is the director of Central Park East , a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SCHWARTZ mericans have a way of minting and circulating graceless words at the very moment when their meanings cease to be common currency . " Relationship " and , usually jingling somewhere nearby , " commitment " are abstractions for what we do about the people and the pursuits we love . Time was when lovers shared a bed and all that ensued ; today " share " is intransitive , i.e. , functioning without an object . A similar fate has befallen the verb " to care , " now often adjectival , as in a " caring person " ? for what , no one cares enough to say . " Parenting " refers to the tasks women and men undertake upon producing children , once so self-evident as to require no gerund . For a people that enshrines personal freedom , what a plethora of techniques to be mastered and standards governing the formerly instinctive . The decline of language natural for expressing moral judgments and values is one theme in the arguments posed by Habits of the Heart : that morality is no longer a living impulse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they talk about their behavior , at any rate , and that the quest for private well-being has far outrun the quest for the common good . Drawing on the observations of the clairvoyant Alexis de Tocqueville ( whose only miscalculation seems to have been in predicting schoolmasters and not actors at the helm of an " administrative despotism " ) , five social scientists astutely and earnestly dissect our collective soul on the basis of research and interviews . Their omissions are poignantly symptomatic of the limitations they so ably anatomize . With four of the seven studies conducted in California , two on the East Coast and one in a " major Southern city , " the survey of mores proceeds from a Western version of Saul Stein-berg 's famous New Yorker cover telescoping the vastness between oceans . And in keeping with the authOrs ' assumption that " everyone in the United States thinks largely in middle-class categories , " the respondents are largely middle-class . Also mostly in their 30s and 40s . Also white . If not for a few mentions of immigration , all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayflower to be nurtured on Jeffersonian democracy and Poor Richard 's adages . For the most part the culture studied here is what has come to be called yuppie . Poverty of spirit may be rampant , in America , but just plain poverty is too , and merits documentation in a study of national character . Despite the racial uniformity of those interviewed , one of the book 's most incisive points is that the American search for consensus keeps us from grappling with irreconcilable cultural diversity . But the authors ' all-embracing tolerance of the fairly appalling study results is far from any grappling . Rather they present the opinions of the bigoted , the fatuous and the merely selfish in an indulgent , " forgive them for they know not what they do " manner that derives from their " nonjudgmental " discipline , yet undercuts their worthy plea for " social science as public philosophy . " And while the diagnosis is excellent and painstaking , the prescription is as inoffensive and familiar as chicken soup : a " change in the meaning of work from private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of corporations ; and more participation in church and civic groups , culminating in a social movement of transformation with the moral force of the civil rights movement . As the song says , who could ask for anything more ? But military spending and the attendant drastic cuts in social programs , in this context , are mentioned perhaps twice . " In the absence of any objectifiable criteria of right and wrong , good or evil , the self and its feelings become our only moral guide . " Habits of the Heart is strongest where it focuses on the roles of therapist and bureaucratic manager as contemporary archetypes . From the boardroom to the bedroom , as the authors say , strategy , technique , self-seeking and the notion of strict contractual obligation have supplanted decency and intimacy , respectively . Unfortunately the authors themselves succumb frequently to the language of strategy . On the subject of marriage , for example , they show little more awareness than their respondents that the institution rests on the twin pillars of sexual attraction and economics ; finding the perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same therapeutically oriented pop existentialism afflicts current fiction  --  art imitating life  --  especially and alarmingly the work of aspiring young writers . " Coping , " " working through " problems and seeking resolution , emotional and esthetic , at whatever cost have replaced the dilemma of the human condition : the fact of mortality and the conflict between primal passions and social institutions . Aristotelian pity and terror hold no sway ; rather , healing is sought before the illness is thoroughly comprehended . Raymond Carver , the writer most admired by neophytes , distills a bleak vacuity in his stories , along with the palpable and heart-rending sense of something  --  structure , meaning , purpose  --  missing . His emulators , legion in university writing programs , get the vacuity all right but not the echoing recognition of loss . Why does n't anyone imitate Cynthia Ozick or Toni Morrison ? Too hard , a daunting abundance . Few young writers see richness around them , and if they did , unlettered as many are , they might not command the verbal complexity needed to render it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heart acknowledges , language equally generates feelings and thoughts . What further evidence of the decline of the West is needed than this quote from a therapist on his professional mission ? Ultimately I think people want to know that they 're O.K. , and they 're looking for somebody to tell them that , but I think what 's really needed is to be able to have themselves say that I , Richard , am O.K. personally . What people really need is a self-validation , and once people can admit that they 're O.K. , even'though I have shortcomings , everybody has shortcomings , but once they can admit that , all right I 've got these , but I 'm really O.K. , somehow , they get miraculously cured . Not surprisingly , fiction shows the same impoverishment  --  one thinks of the Jean Rhys character who implores her ghostwriter , " Do n't you know any long words , and if you do , would you please use . them ? " ? along with the straining to make every grievous or unjust situation appear " O.K. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comic , illustrates amply and with reverence the ways in which things are not " O.K. " and never will be . Its triumph is the passion for beauty and truth in language , form and conception , " gaiety transfiguring all that dread . " Far from gaiety , what we are offered nowadays is " immediacy , " the illusion that the action is happening as we read ; and we are offered it through the preponderant use of the present tense . " Kevin finds his ex-wife kneeling in the garden , snipping marigolds . Her broad-brimmed hat moves . . . " It ' is as if no one can be expected to bother with events in the past . Those would be objective facts perilously , or tediously , summoning sensibility and evaluation , the writer 's as well as the reader 's . The present tense pretends that a movie or television show is taking place which , alas , we can not see ; luckily someone closer to the screen will give us a moment-by-moment account . But fiction need not aspire to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a screen . It is the magic of habits of the heart made audible in words . The book in question suggests , whether or not the authors intended it , that we have precious few habits iii common , or hearts in common . Lynne Sharon Schwartz is the author of three novels , a collection of stories , Acquainted With the Night , and a recent nonfiction book , We Are Talking About Homes : A Great University Against Its Neighbors ( Harper &; Row ) . 1 MICHAEL ZUCKEiRMAN H abtts of the Heart is about as close to the inferno as establishment social scientists are likely to let themselves get . Its tracing of the deepening circles of desolation inscribed by our individualism comes closer to the core of our national pathology than any other academic analysis has . But Bellah and his collaborators are unwilling , in the end , to touch the depths of their discoveries . They do not pronounce our incorrigible self-centeredness depraved . They do not see our mountingself-indulgence as sinful . And without ever confronting the spiritual flaccidity all about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we can reclaim a degree of redemptive moral commitment which would be , for them and for us , paradise enough . This faith is founded on a willful refusal to reckon fully with the force of their own interpretations of their interviews and , especially , on a well-intentioned but ultimately inept reading of the historical record . They cling poignantly to the vague and impotent yearnings of their survey subjects for meaningful morality and consequential community , mistaking the most vapid nostalgia for practical possibilities and earnest aspirations . And they uphold images of the American tradition that are essentially inert and irretrievable . Where the poet himself called on Virgil and Beatrice for guidance , these discount Dantes rely on de Tocqueville . They could have done better . They would have had a far more powerful handle on their own data had they looked to the Frenchman 's American contemporaries , such as Thomas Cole . At almost precisely the time that de Tocqueville published Democracy in America , Cole was painting the cycle of five massive canvases he called The Course of Empire . Depicting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilized decadence to the sacking of the city to resumption of the reign of nature , Cole expressed widespread fears for the future of a nation that was rushing headlong from its virtuous origins to a fatal violation of nature . Cole , James Fenimore Cooper and a host of Americans of de Tocqueville 's time took history seriously . They hoped to hold the golden moment in the middle landscape , where virtue could stillbe reconciled with progress and nature with civilization , but they understood that the tension was precarious . They recognized that republics do not remain and that the day of their doom could only be deferred . De Tocqueville caught the country in exactly the transition that the romantics dreaded . He froze the fading balance between self-seeking and the claims of the community in his brilliant elaboration of " self-interest rightly understood . " But Bellah and his associates mistake de Tocqueville 's time-tied insight for timeless truth . Even as they rebuke- us for our refusal to concede the claims of the past , they exhibit that very ahistoricism . . They admit that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cultural traditions that used to offset our indiVidualism , that community has atrophied among us and the self grown cancerous . They acknowledge that we have come to live in " glorious , but terrifying , isolation . " But even as they trace our disastrous descent into independence , they bid us take heart . They insist that we have resources in our heritage to recover our connectedness to our fellow ' - citizens . They remind us of the tension de Tocqueville elucidated and of even older traditions they call biblical and republican , which attached men and women to one another , and to generations past and future , and to substantive ethics and obligations . Nonetheless , such gestures and genuflections toward history are not enough . The discussion of the biblical and republican strands in the American story is so simplistic as to become itself a symptom of the presentisni the book 's larger logic laments . The recognition of the rupture of the old moral order wrought by the rise of the national market and the giant corporation is so perfunctory as to vitiate their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bellah and his research team seek the revitalization of communities and say that communities are " constituted by their past , " but the authors are never really serious about the past . They , do not get the stories right , and they seem incapable of conceiving that history might actually matter or that its dynamic might actually confine and contort the present . They treat our traditions as if they were simply a smorgasbord to be sampled more competently . The Americans who trembled at the course of , empire knew better . Cole , Cooper and their countrymen knew that time had a trajectory , , that precious things could perish , that culture was more than a perennial present . Habits of the Heart understands vital culture to be " always an argument about the meaning of the destiny its members share . " But the vast preponderance of the book 's evidence indicates that we do not argue with one another and do not even share a discourse , let alone a destiny . As one Californian puts it , our ideal home is twenty acres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our ideal community " an island " inaccessi-ble " from : outside . " If , as Bellah professes to believe , " American culture remains alive so long as the conversation continues and the argument , is intense , " then the conversations that he and his colleagues recorded argue that American culture is already dead . Michael Zuckerman is author of Peaceable Kingdoms : New England Towns in the Eighteenth Century ( Knopf ) , , JAMES WALKUP 1 have a niece who often expresses a feeling familiar to us all . When she makes contact with something she likes , she sings out a single word , " More . " Her candor seems unequivocal , but a translation requires two parts . She means both " That hits the spot , keep it coming , " and " Not enough yet ; I 'll tell you when to stop . " When I read Habits of the Heart , I thought to myself , " More . " This book satisfies because it demonstrates that an honest moderation can claim radical credentials . Such a claim would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were an empty compromise between extremes rather than the use of reason on a human scale to respond to new social and moral dilemmas . Bellah and his co-authors mostly adhere to this second , more strenuous approach , though they occasionally lapse into the first . Fortunately , a built-in corrective protects the book from oversimplification : the texture of the world breaks through in the compelling , abrasive reality of the moral issues faced ( and evaded ) by the citizens we meet . The tendency toward soporific moralizing is kept in check bythe raw , irritating pathos of scenes in which we see others conjuring with our favorite moral totems in ways that make us cringe . For example , Sheila , a young nurse , pays sorry yet partly faithful tribute to a heritage of self-reliance that rightly moves us in other settings . Offered the sobriety of Freud 's cockiness , the audacity of Emerson 's vision , the toughness of Anne Hutchinson 's battle with the Massachusetts Bay Colony , she can only found a sad religion of her own , " Sheilaism , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentle with yourself . " When it comes time to diagnose our problem , the authors show good sense and generosity : we are now unable to bridge the gap between our " first language " of individualism and a more serviceable moral language . They also lend a hand by providing the linguistic construction materials for a moral infrastructure . Their discerning , well-crafted glossary of key concepts is meant to assist in the accurate description moral reasoning requires . Good as this book is , it is simply not enough . Its message is as straight and sturdy as a Shaker chair , yet I suspect that it is strong precisely because the authors limit themselves to points that need making and can be made in an inspiring way . Moderation runs riot . The authors ' excess of restraint inclines them to frame tough questions as problems of language , concentrating , for example , on our lack of a vocabulary with which to talk about the space between " Me " and " Others . " A single session with a patient in psychotherapy is enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth between the two can be deafening . But despite the noise , surely the main point is that we lack the practices and moral sentiments that would make such a language intelligible . The problem is not one of words but of deeds , desires and values . What more could we have expected if the authors had not deliberately ( and , in my view , quite arbitrarily ) confined themselves to culture ? They argue that the culture of therapy fosters a calculating , expressive individualism that can not support a morally coherent community . But to focus on therapy as a " cultural phenomenon " begs the question of whether this defect should be attributed to the essentials of its practice or merely to the abuses that accompany popularization . I have spent most of the last decade being trained in psychologyand would defend its essentials . Yet I have no trouble rolling my eyes upward along with every other reader at the claptrap uttered by the human potentialist who says that a healthy person is a plant and that " with enough sunshine and water , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Habits of the Heart urge us to overcome the misleading contemporary opposition between an ersatz communitarianism and an empty individualism so intent on breaking free of all connections that it finds itself free to choose yet without anything worth choosing . But in their eagerness to deliver the good news that this phony dichotomy is a product of culture , not nature , the authors ' too easily accept a simplified notion of individualism , overlooking the more complex view hidden in their own data . When the therapists Ellen and Margaret exhibit the credible moral self : knowledge Bellah et al . claim to prize , the authors complain that Ellen 's approach is " not altogether different from a textbook description of decision-Making in a school of management " and that Margaret has " no objectifiable criterion " for choosing values . But the lack of an objectifiable criterion does not automatically reduce a choice to " idiosyncratic preference " ? a phrase that brings to mind the brute , self-justifying impulse that guides my hand to Corn Flakes rather than Post Toasties . By defining individualism as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it harder to mediate effectively between the claims of the community and individual desire . Consider an alternative . Mill 's moral psychology esteems " experiments in living " as a way each of us can discover what he or she finds valuable . Far from being mere expressions of preference , these efforts to secure ideals that excite our affections , to make valueS ) our own by attending to the significance they impart to our lives , are the surest means of dissolving the arbitrariness of choice . It is here  --  in the high value accorded to the opportunity for each to determine value for himself or herself=that individualism makes its strongest claim vis-a-vis the community . Ironically , this traditional liberal value is ruled out by Habits of the Heart 's analytical scheme . The dilemma raised by this individualism is that the dual loyalty it advocates  --  to one 's own desires , however sublimated , and to civilization  --  insists on what the authors wish above all else to avoid , the existence of irreducible , " zero-sum " trade-offs between citizen and society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ downplay the importance of conflict and dissent . - It might be objected that , like most liberal values , this alternative sounds nice but is uncommonly difficult to bring off in an age that manufactures desire in the service of commerce . I agree . But so long as this difficulty is treated as a cultural one , not one rooted in political economy , we are unlikely to make sense of the impediments to the kind of individualism that is the hallmark of any progressive society . James Walkup is in graduate training as a clinical psychologist at the New School for Social Research . NORMAN BIRNBAUM J onathan Edwards saw his ' countrymen as sinners in the hands of an angry God , condemned to unspeakable torment by their dependence on his arbitrary will . Contemporary Americans eschew theology . For them , sin and virtue have been replaced by losing and winning . God 's anger is gone and in its place they confront the implacable workings of social selection . Angry sermons , too , are heard no more : the homeopathic litanies of anchormen are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us with a superb set of reflections on the strange course of the American spirit  --  an analysis of the unintended secular consequences of the singular American fusion of capitalism and Protestantism . The Reaganite ascendancy has confirmed the worst tendencies of the American university . Some academics serve power in ways enthusiastic and supine at the same time . Others , bewildered and frightened of moral complexity , prdclaim themselves neutral . Here , however , is a book from the academy which addresses the educated public , seeks to recapture lost or neglected aspects of the national tradition and invites us to rethink the groundwork of our society . Its major contributions are several , and I list but four . De Tocqueville has long counted as a modern master , but he has often been used in an unserious way . Those who dislike American populism and radicalism have construed him as an unsparingenemy of the tyrannical propensities of American democracy . Others have regarded his analysis of the ineluctable development of American individualism as the last word  --  or one final enough , in any event , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the heart " is de Tocqueville 's and it is used here to describe an America that has changed much since his time . Bellah 's de Tocqueville is not a deus ex machina summoned to silence history 's dramatic tumult . Those who are overly reverential toward him are often uneasy with the implications of modern social thought , reluctant to assume the burdens of our century . Bellah and company draw upon one of the master liberals of the nineteenth century to analyze the implausibility of twentieth-century liberalism . The reappropriation of de ToCqueville is part of the text 's larger design . Habits of the Heart is a venture in interpretive social science . The authors renounce the ( supposed ) value neutrality of static models of society which often legitimate existing conditions . Social science , they insist , is not like natural science : it is a form of political discourse , of historical self-reflection . The interviews in Habits of the Heart constitute an elaborate physiology of American spiritual distress . The book connects sociological inquiry with one of the most significant aspects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . After Louis Hartz 's systematic reification of American individualism , after Hofstadter 's pervasive skepticism about reform , a new generation of historians has dared to assert that the market is not the primordial American institution . The Republic 's founders actually believed in a polity , in a society of citizens . For them , Bellah notes , the notion of a " private citizen " was a contradiction in terms . The work 's analysis of the lives and works of middle-class Americans shows how right some of the newer historians may be . Much has been lost . Our fellow citizens float in socio-historical space . Even the most ostensibly critical among them seeks an individualized road to happiness . No wonder that a functioning democracy now strikes us as a utopia , unimaginably difficult of attainment : The present work gives an American idiom to the systematic critique of capitalist democracy undertaken elsewhere , notably by the European socialist parties , by the Christian avant-garde ( and sometimes by the main body , too ) and by European conservatives attached to ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think , insufficiently attentive to the communitarian elements of the New Deal , to the New Deal , indeed , as a social movement . Not the least of the book 's merits is that it continually invites rejoinder . For the moment , let us say that we can still be proud of our universities . Beset by militant and repressive philistines , dominated by aerospace and biotech subcontractors and nuclear war planners , our institutions have nevertheless given us this humane and radical book . We may await with interest the response of the self-proclaimed votaries of tradition , William Bennett et al . Bellah and his colleagues have taken them at their word and inquired into the conditions under which tradition can be renewed . We may wait for some time : a return to our national roots is the last thing the American pseudoconservatives want . ?                     