@@494806

Eliot 's New Life by Lyndall Gordon To a poetical person of my generation , the last three or four months have been ( at least where 1 am now , in the United Kingdom ) very trying . For us , inescapably , the figure of Thomas Stearns Eliot had always been central . He was the exempium to extol , to quarrel with , to acknowledge respectfully even as we cruised on courses a few degrees off from what he had laid down . He was the landmark , or the seamark , that one sailed by . As his centenary year unfolded , however , publications horribly persuaded us that Eliot was neither a hero-martyr of his art , nor a pernicious traitor to it ( both these possibilities we had taken on board and dealt with ) ; that he was , more appallingly , simply ordinary . We have learned that his eminence , unquestionable in the years of our youth , was due to his commonplaceness , abetted by a brisk proficiency in manipulating the market . To be sure , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thunderclap . There had been rumors , sometimes sufficiently documented , that Eliot the man had failed to live up to Eliot the poet . Details had leaked out about the poet 's first marriage , more particularly about how brutally , and from what a brutal distance , he had terminated it . F. R. Leavis , and a few others more devout , had pointed out how glancingly this allegedly Christian poet , author of Four Quartets , passed over both Incarnation and Redemption . And from the first , nobody had been able to ignore the disgust with which Eliot regarded the act of sexual congress . The reluctance of the Eliot estate , moreover , to release documents to biographers , and the inordinate delays in editing his letters , enforced the suspicion that something was being covered up . Now we have a first volume of the letters ? not complete , only " the significant extant letters Eliot wrote up to age 34 " ? and we can see , past the editorial obstructions , just what has been covered up . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor his insensibilities and disloyalties , but simply his commonplaceness . At every stage of his life , as a Harvard student , as an Oxford student , as a publisher and a London clubman , Eliot fell into line with the habits and the pretensions of his peers . We had long ago manned and fortified our fallback position . Even as college students we had learned how to deal with , how to bracket off , the badness of Bad Lord Byron , the cherished and exultantly proclaimed depravity of Baudelaire . Who , we learned to ask loudly , hadlaid down the rule that good or great poets had to be nice people ? And in recent years , as biographers have established beyond doubt the mean-mindedness of Thomas Hardy and Robert Frost ( to stop with them ) , we have had to insist ever more firmly that the worthiness of the poet was not at all impaired by the unworthiness of the person . But somehow , as revelations came out to salute Eliot 's centenary year , we found ( at least I did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once again . The furtiveness and unfeelingness of the poet , particularly in his relations with women , stuck in a throat that had managed to swallow the human inadequacies of Byron and Baudelaire , of Hardy and Frost . And when The Church Times , the organ of the Church of England , saluted the occasion by hailing Eliot as one thoroughly Christian poet , one came to see that , whereas vested interests had rallied to the defense of Frost and even of Hardy , more powerful ( because more institutionalized ) interests were determined to turn a blind eye to Eliot 's evasions and perfidies . Could we ever hereafter read Eliot 's poems with the admiration we had felt in the past ? The question , to say the least , was moot . Perhaps no one is so much to blame as Ezra Pound . One registers without any sympathy at all the shudders of distaste at Pound 's thrust and hustle ; and all over again , reading letters from Pound ( for Mrs. Eliot usefully includes some Letters that Eliot received , among those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pound 's generosity and decisiveness . Here was one live individual moving among the half-dead . All the same , the poems by Eliot that so momentously persuaded Pound of their author 's genius were too few and too slender to sustain the program for life that Pound immediately erected for Eliot on that foundation . Eliot was one of the half-dead , would declare it ( had declared it ) , and would take that condition for his subject matter through the rest of his writing career . It is not good enough to say Pound had no way of knowing that the author of " The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock " was in many ways , and in particular sexually , less than adult . To be sure , Eliot seemed sufficiently composed and knowledgeable , very sophisticated in fact . But the poems that bowled Pound over were notable for flair and audacity , not for moral insight , nor for any assurance beyond the technical . On the basis of them , it seems clear , Pound persuaded his fellow-poet that his future lay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States ? a future to which Eliot then and there committed himself , burning his boats in the only way that his family could n't argue with , by rushing to marry Vivienne Haigh-Wood . And the poem that afterward brought him fame and fortune , The Waste Land , was ? as we have known for 15 years ? almost as much Pound 's work as it was Eliot 's . It is only along these lines that we can feel sympathy for Eliot , and compassion : he was compelled , by Pound 's entrepreneurial skills ( and his own ) , into an eminence that he was n't prepared for and could not sustain ? as some of the time , to begin with , he wretchedly knew . Peter Ackroyd , who seems to have got less than full cooperation from the Eliot estate when writing his own life of Eliot ( it appeared in 1984 ) , is one of several reviewers who have complained about not finding a letter of April 7 , 1921 , from Eliot to Richard Aldington . Replying to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mrs. Eliot explained that she did not know until then of this letter , promised to print it in full in an appendix to her Volume Two , and for good measure provided , then and there , the whole of the letter 's final paragraph . The candor of this was unfortunately a little smirched , since the Times published , immediately below Valerie Eliot 's letter , one from Michael Hastings , who , as author of the 1984 play Torn and Via , seems understandably to have had only frosty relations with Mrs. Eliot and with Eliot 's publisher . Hastings revealed that the missing letter had survived in a place where Valerie Eliot might well have looked for it : among the papers of Eliot 's brother-in-law , Maurice Haigh-Wood , who showed it to Hastings in 1979 . Moreover , Hastings wrote of a series of letters from Eliot to Sacheverel Sitwell in the 1920s , still in existence in 1980 , not drawn on for this volume . Add to this Ackroyd 's confident assertion that there are letters to Percy Wyndham Lewis that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suspicion grows that this book is a whitewash job . It is not easy to be the relict of a famous poet ; but Valerie Eliot seems to have conceived of , and discharged , her responsibilities in a way to get the worst of all worlds . For even as she has given the impression of covering up , what she has uncovered is sufficiently damning in any case . Consider only the controversial sentences to Aldington , which she has now , under pressure from Ackroyd , revealed : Having only contempt for every existing political party , and profound hatred for democracy , I feel the blackest gloom . Whatever happens will be another step toward the destruction of Europe . The whole of contemporary politics etc. oppresses me with a continuous physical horror like the feeling of a growing madness in one 's brain . It is rather a horror to be sane in the midst of this ; it is too dreadful , too huge for one to have the comforting feeling of superiority It goes too far for rage . Who asked young Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe ? These anti-democratic sentiments can-not surprise anyone who has studied El-iot even a little . Nor are they , in them-selves , shocking . What shocks is the tone of lofty petulance in which they are uttered , a tone not different from that of a letter six years before , which Mrs. Eliot prints , to Isabella Stewart Gard-ner , rather plainly build-ing on a slight acquaint-ance with that wealthy and influential woman : On the 14 Juiltet I was in Brussels , having come from Ostende , Bruges , Ghent , and Antwerp Two days later I was in Germany , and in a fortnight I wished myself well out of Germany . Not that the people were not very kind to me ? the Germans have that hospitality and cordiality which characterizes the less civilized peoples . And not that I wish the Germans to be crushed ? but France is so important , and defeat would do the French so much harm ! This alone outweighs any consideration of right and wrong in my mind . Now , contrast W. B. Yeats in 1924 : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have for their task , not the widening of liberty , but recovery from its errors ? the building up of authority , the restoration of discipline , the discovery of a life sufficiently heroic to live without the opium dream . The sentiments are just as antidemocratic ; and in the light of later history just as baleful . But Yeats 's tone is measured and solemn , where Eliot 's is supercilious and glib . Lyndall Gordon has access to sources of illumination closed to other biographers . Where those others would see only puerility in Eliot 's putting firecrackers under Geoffrey Faber 's desk on the Fourth of July , Gordon sees a protective mask for the one real enterprise of Eliot 's mature life : the saving of his soul . Of his soul , be it understood . I he deaths of thousands in the London blitz were merely noises off , part of the scenario ? " To Eliot , war , as a historical event , was peripheral to its private moral meaning ... " ; " for Eliot , the historical event of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his being and becoming ... " ; " Eliot was animated , not harrowed , by the horrific scene ... " Heaven save us all from " Emersonian terms " ! But these are the methods of biographical divination that Gordon presumably transmits to her Oxford students , sustained by an inwardness with New England tradition that , she is eager to assure us , Eliot shared . By the same token , whereas the worldly biographer will see in Emily Hale a New England spinster cruelly kept on a string and exploited by the poet through 40 years , only to be brutally rejected in the end , Gordon sees her as the Beatrice to Eliot 's Dante , " a convenient focus for Eliot 's evolving idea of love " : a role that , Gordon has the grace to acknowledge , Emily neither understood nor agreed to , never having been asked . In the 1940s and 1950s , true to his Atlantic Alliance evenhandedness , Eliot handed out just the same treatment to the English " good sport , " Mary Trevelyan . In the drama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Christianity , except in its New England version , gives warrant for ? Vivienne Haigh-Wood and Emily Hale and Mary Trevelyan have only walk-on parts . The ravenousness of this egotism we can not help but see reflected in the poems , rather more in Four Quartets than in The Waste Land . If Gordon 's confessedly speculative procedure can be faulted in the abstract , it must be admitted that , wittingly or not , she has compiled a powerful brief for the prosecution . Gordon seems only intermittently aware of the enormity of what she is disclosing . She is debunking without meaning to . ( But this may have been her cunning ; her book has an indignant feminist subtext that is the more telling for being submerged . ) Gordon writes : For Eliot , the letter was his least distinctive mode . He wrote hundreds of reserved letters ; one might say that he was adept at the reserved letters : the kindly let-down to would-be poets , the business letter , the distant letter , the droning letter , the bread-and-butter letter of thanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of elaborate detail that carried politeness , sometimes , to the verge of insult . Those who embark on the more than 600 pages of the first volume of letters have been warned . What sustains one for quite a while is the hope of discerning , to at least one correspondent , frankness . But the wearing of masks is so adroit , so customary , so resourceful ? the resourcefulness has been underrated by some critics ? that the hope is always frustrated . A good example is the correspondence with Richard Aldington . It begins promisingly in 1919 with Aldington confessing , " I dislike your poetry very much ; it is over-intellectual and afraid of those essential emotions which make poetry . " Two years later Eliot strikes back , at the poetry of Aldington 's estranged but still admired wife , H. D. : " fatiguingly monotonous , .. many words should be expunged and many phrases amended ... the Hellenism lacks vitality ; and also morally , I find a neurotic carnality which I dislike . " This whets the appetite : at last , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accommodate such differences . Aldington after all , though a bad poet and ( we are told ) a thuggish sort of fellow , had gone to the war , and while at the front he had been cuckolded by high-minded civilians of both sexes ; with him , perhaps , Eliot could afford to come clean . But no , doubts and dissimulations and reservations gather . It comes as no surprise that in 1931 , because of publications by Aldington , the relationship is severed for good . Of course , in this case Eliot may have been betrayed ; but in the context of letters to others , Eliot 's hail-fellowwell-met tone to Aldington comes over as false and cagey . Both were betrayers . Perhaps both of them knew IL T WENTY-FIVE years ago , Hugh Kenner noted how zealously Eliot played the part of the London clubman , and would have persuaded us that this was just another of the masks that the poet hid behind , intimating in his solicitousness about what cheese to take from the cheeseboard his profoundly ironical perception of how trivial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can testify that , if this is a mask , it is a mask that all London clubmen wear , though some are more aware of mask-wearing than others . The mask had grown to Eliot 's face , if indeed ( as one began to doubt ) there was any ace behind the mask to begin with . Eliot 's eager dexterity in putting on masks surely had a lot to do with the worldly success that he , more than any other modernist poet , achieved . The non-English may exult in how completely he succeeded in beating the English at their mask-wearing game . But what has this to do with the great poet 's bearing witness to his age , and to the nature of the unchangeable human condition in that age ? What emerges from Eliot 's correspondence through these years is the keenness and the energy with which he promoted himself ? and this under the crippling disadvantages of penury , of a mysteriously but chronically sick wife , and a nine-to-five job . His launching and maintaining of The Criterion reveal a hardheaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the main chance in an unpromising situation . If we have had an idea of Eliot in these years as simply the grateful recipient of advice and assistance , that idea must go out the window . Eliot was helping himself , with tenacity and enterprise , and would on occasion provide firm and worldly advice , even to unlikely and mutinous loners like Wyndham Lewis . If at crucial points he took advice from Pound , he lived through the consequences on his own account , and knew when to reject Pound 's advice , for instance about The Criterion . He kept his head , and kept it above water , in a world of letters tougher and more relentless than we can easily imagine now , when the world of print counts for so much less . The older Eliot , the famous and famously Christian Eliot , is a lot less attractive . In 1957 his sudden and furtive marriage to a woman 38 years his junior knocked the last plank of self-esteem from under Emily Hale and Mary Trevelyan . By that time , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commonplace . Which is true . Thirty or more years of adulation and fame had stiffened his proclivities into a tetchy and invulnerable carapace . But the springs and the motives of his behavior remain predictable , in a way that Lyndall Gordon brings out without meaning to , when she harps on Eliot 's New England heritage . There remains , to be sure , another perspective altogether , in cultures . In that perspective , we could find good reasons why Eliot chose Baudelaire rather than Edgar Allan Poe to stand for the poet as diabolist . But so many books have been written about Eliot in such literary-historical terms that it 's high time we had disenchanting images of him in more mundane perspectives . More mundane means also more humane .                     