@@492181

The optimism and determination of Benjamin Franklin are alive and well today in Dr. Richard Griffith of the Indiana University School of Medicine . For his firm resolution to slick with lysine and low arginine as a herpes treatment in the face of pessimists who would discredit his research , we honor him with the Benjamin Franklin Award . Rather than listen to detractors , Dr. Griffith has ears only for the voices of herpes sufferers and believes what his eyes tell him . Currently he is studying the effects of low arginine and lysine supplementation on victims afflicted with recurrent herpes attacks . He wanted to see whether he could induce a herpes attack in these individuals by giving them arginine pills . He gave five patients arginine pills and five others identical pills , which were placebos . Of the first five patients he gave arginine , three promptly developed herpes attacks . One of the participants , a physician , called him within a few days and reported : " You gave me the arginine , did n't you ! I 've never been so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the worst colds I 've ever had and I 've been home for three days ! " This made a believer out of Dr. Griffith . Fearing he would incite a dangerous condition such as herpes encephalitis , he stopped giving arginine in tablets immediately . For his research , he now induces herpes attacks in his herpes-prone persons by having them eat chocolate bars four times a day and one package of Planter 's peanuts four times a day . Both foods are high in arginine . A student of lysine. arginine and herpes , Dr. Griffith has enjoyed an 85 to 90 percent success rate over the past ten years in treating herpes victims with the high-lysine. /lowarginine diet . Although it wo n't show in the certificate or on the check , we hope that Dr. Richard Griffith can read into this award the grateful thanks of the herpes sufferers for his dedicated research on lysine . Fiber and Lysine Dear Dr. SerVans : Since your first series of articles on L-lysine and fiber , 1 have made some interesting discoveries . Through personal experimentation : I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beans , oats and wheat to commercial mixes as well as scratch baked goods . We have stopped eating white bread and commercial baked goods ; lowered our salt and sugar intake and stopped using whole milk . My husband did get cold sores , but I make him take L-lysine and he just does not gel them any more . We have increased our intake of fruit and all kinds of vegetables . What I have discovered through all of this is that I have not had a cold in six months to a year and my husband does not get sick very often , either . His stress has lessened and his hair is starting to grow back . The last entry is very surprising . I loaned my stack of SatEvePosts to our egg man and he obtained some high-lysine feed for his stock and has noticed better health in his chickens and higher production as well . He also feeds his other stock ( cows , pigs , sheep , calves ) high-lysine feed . He has noticed better health and higher-quality meat . I think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ High fiber works and high-lysine promotes better health for people and animals . Why have we missed these important nutritional necessities for the past 50 years ? It Just does n't make sense for a doctor to treat a patient without ordering a change in his/her diet , for proper diet seems to be a key to longevity and health . Thank you for your fine series of articles on this subject . I feel that Dr. Burkitt for his fiber is truly a person of vision and insight . His research may well change the way disease is cured  --  especially cancerous tumors . Deborah Van Treuren Edgewater , Florida Taking the Measure of Carbon Monoxide The Society recently participated in a health fair sponsored by the President 's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports . At our booth , visitors could be tested for carbon // monoxide in their breath . Equipment for this service was our new MinicoTM Carbon Monoxide Breathkit , designed to provide a means of sampling alveolar air to estimate blood carboxyhemoglobin levels . The kit , a small , handheld , battery-operated instrument , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 to 500 parts per million by volume . This noninvasive sampling device is an excellent tool for health educators . With it , smokers can readily see that air expired from their lungs may have from 40 to 80 parts per million of carbon monoxide compared to a normal nonsmoker 's 2 to 7 parts per million . The amount of carbon monoxide in one 's breath reads out in 60 seconds on the instrument 's panel . The manufacturer of the MinicoTM Carbon Monoxide Breathkit provides a correlation chart that shows , for example , that when you have seven parts per million of carbon monoxide in your exhaled breath , you have approximately one percent of the hemoglobin in your blood tied up as carboxyhemoglobin , which is useless to your body . Ninety parts per million of carbon monoxide in the exhaled breath , which represents about 16 percent carboxyhemoglobin in the blood , is enough to give most people a headache . In a fire , a person breathing 20 percent carbon monoxide in a smoke-filled room eventually dies because his brain does not get enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plane for a two- or three-hour flight , we plan to measure the carbon monoxide in our breath before boarding and after the flight . This will determine how much effect sidestream smoke from the rear of the cabin has on the air breathed in the nonsmoking section . We also tested smokers , particularly those between the ages of 20 and 40 , on a spirometer , which allowed us to identify those who are losing lung tissue faster than the average smoker . All smokers tested who wanted to quit were given prescriptions for free Nicorette chewing gum and the address where they could order the EZ QuitTM plastic cigarette , which replaces the hand and oral sensations of smoking . Decreased Symptoms from Schizophrenia Drugs Nearly 50 percent of patients taking antipsychotic drugs suffer abnormal movements and impaired muscle control . These symptoms bear striking similarity to Parkinson 's disease and often respond to anti-Parkinson 's disease medication . The symptoms include loss of coordination , slurred , " cog wheel " speech , a shuffling gait and coarse , tremorlike shaking of the arms and salivation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals may be extremely handicapped by involuntary movements of the tongue , face , neck and hands . Tongue thrusting and facial grimaces are also distressing manifestations of the disorder . Severe symptoms may persist years after the drugs have been discontinued . More mild movements usually stop on discontinuance of the drug or by taking an antihistamine . The Medical College of Pennsylvania is launching a major research study on tardive dyskinesia . As many as 300,000 Americans suffer from these drug-caused disorders to some degree . It is believed that tardive dyskinesia is caused by the blocking of a neurotransmitter , dopamine , by antipsychotic drugs . Deprived of dopamine , the brain undergoes changes that result in garbled messages between nerve cells . These result in abnormal and repetitive movements . Dr. George Simpson says the research will attempt to alter the changes produced by dopamine depriva-                     