@@487695

On December 1 , after almost three years of negotiations , the United States and Spain finally signed a new eight-year agreement on their military relationship . The two governments now believe they have overcome the obstacle that had stymied their talks for several months : the issue of U.S. nuclear weapons in Spain . But the codicil that supposedly resolves this question contradicts the main agreement itself . The accord says that , in keeping with the outcome of a March 1986 referendum on NATO , Spain forbids the introduction and deployment of nuclear weapons on its soil . The codicil , however , specifies that the Spanish government will not question Washington about the kinds of weapons being carried by the ships and submarines of the U.S. Sixth Fleet , which dock at Barcelona , Rota and other ports , or by the B-52G bombers and other U.S. aircraft that overfly Spanish territory and use bases there . Spain entered NATO in 1982 ; that same year the Spanish Socialist Workers Party ( P.S.O.E. ) , led by Felipe Gonzalez , came to power promising a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the P.S.O.E . abandoned its neutralism , and the referendum was delayed until Gonzalez felt the Spanish public had shifted away from its anti-NATO position . In order to secure a " yes " vote when the referendum was finally held , in 1986 , the government offered three concessions : a ban on the introduction and deployment of nuclear weapons ; the promise of a " progressive reduction " in the U.S. presence ; and a vow that Spain would not become part of NATO 's integrated military structure . With these promises , the Gonzalez government was responding to several deep-rooted fears . Antinuclear sentiment is strong among Spanish voters , and there is a widespread desire to avoid any military structures that remind them of the dictatorship of Generalissimo Francisco Franco . According to several polls , most voters also reject the U.S. military presence , both for historical reasons that go back to the 1898 Spanish-American War and because of Washington 's support for Franco . In the end , the electorate succumbed to government pressure and voted yes . But in the two and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had trouble keeping its end of the bargain . First of all , it is not easy to belong to an organization like NATO without taking part in the full range of its military activities . At the same time , the " progressive reduction " in the U.S. presence  --  which many people assumed would lead to the closure of U.S. bases  --  has in practice meant nothing more than the transfer of seventy-two F-16 fighter-bombers and their personnel from the TorrejOn de Ardoz base to a new home in Italy . That left Gonzalez 's third promise ? a nonnuclear Spain . U.S. aircraft and submarines carrying nuclear weapons have been stationed in Spain since the 1950s , but with the advent of democracy , the Spanish Cortes passed legislation ( admittedly ambiguous ) in 1977 declaring Spain a nonnuclear country . After the 1986 referendum , the government discovered that the United States , Britain and other NATO members regarded such talk as a dangerous case of " nuclear allergy . " Official U.S. and British policy is neither to confirm nor deny the presence of nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union and its allies in the dark . The problem is that most of the time satellites , electronic intelligence and conventional espionage allow Moscow to know what U.S allies do not . In 1985 the New Zealand government of Prime Minister David Lange passed a lawforbidding nuclear weapons to enter its ports and began to ask the captains of U S. warships what kind of weapons they were carrying . Other countries followed that modest precedent : The new Constitution of the Philippines rejects nuclear weapons at U S. bases , and Greece has demanded the removal of U.S. bases and the nuclear weapons stored there . In the wake of these challenges , the United States decided to make an example of Spain For two years Spanish negotiators tried to convince their U.S. counterparts that Gonzalez was obliged to fulfill his referendum pledges Finally , last January , Washington agreed to move its F-16s to Italy  --  where they will be closer , in any case , to U.S. nuclear weapons stored in that country and in Turkey . But the aircraft will return regularly to Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Americans , " a top German NATO official told me in July , " so we decided to move the planes a few miles to the east . " As for nuclear weapons , the United States has made it clear that it insists on unrestricted access for its ships and aircraft , no matter what kind of weapons they are carrying . At the same time , British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has urged Spain to accept official NATO nuclear strategy . This in the wake of an application by Spain and Portugal to join the Western European Union ( W.E.U. ) , a military grouping of several NATO members created in 1954 . ( This November both countries were admitted after Spain agreed to create a rapid intervention force and accept NATO nuclear policy . ) Spain is prevented by the 1986 referendum from assigning its forces to NATO commands . Yet as a member of the W.E.U. , its armed forces automatically come under the control of NATO 's Supreme Allied Command-Europe . The French and German desire to create a " European pillar " within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important forum for debates about European arms production and out-of-area NATO operations Spain is discovering how difficult it is to be a nonnuclear country in a nuclear alliance . A few days after the imminent signing of the new agreement was announced , U.S. Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci told the Madrid newspaper El Pats that he was happy with the outcome because it did not go against official U.S. nuclear weapons policy . Yet a poll taken at the time showed that a large majority of the Spanish people saw the agreement as an abandonment of Gonzalez 's referendum promises . The Socialist government 's dilemma is that both sides in the 1986 referendum were agreed on the need to reduce the U.S. presence in Spain . A delighted Washington was able to show Philippine President Corazon Aquino and Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou the contradictory text of its new eight-year agreement with Spain as an example for them to follow as well . In mid-October , the United States and the Philippines concluded a new agreement on Clark Air Force Base and Subic Bay Naval Base In its failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might have been directly inspired by the precedent set in Madrid .                     