@@487845

As the worldwide recession drags on and on , one naturally wonders whether we are simply in a particularly deep trough in the business cycle or have entered a more fundamental crisis . In either case , why has the response of industrial workers been , with a few exceptions , so weak and defensive ? And what will the industrial world look like when ( or perhaps if ) the global economy picks up again ? In seeking to answer these and other questions , the authors of these two studies ' have turned to an examination of the heart of industrial life : the labor process itself . David Gordon , Richard Edwards and Michael Reich are among a number of radical economists who over the last decade have argued that the apparently unified labor , markets of capitalist economies actually consist of several separate sectors . At the core are large , capital-intensive , monopolistic companies that employ long-tenured , well-paid , . unionized workers  --  in this country usually white males . On the periphery are small , highly competitive and coincident systems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an elaborate scheme of historical periodization . According to the authors , there have been three stages of capitalist development , each of which had various substages and ended in crisis when its " structure of accumulation " ? the political , legal , labor-relations and marketing arrangements under which individual companies operate  --  no longer provided a profitable environment for investment . After long experimentation and intense labor strife , new arrangements emerged . First there was a period of " proletarianization , " when a work force of wage laborers was created . Entrepreneurs financed production and marketed products , but by and large they let their skilled workers organize the shop-floor operations . By the late nineteenth century , however , employers increasingly sought to break the power and appropriate the knowledge of these same skilled workers in order to introduce new production techniques , weaken craft unions and lower labor costs . The result was a period of " homogenization , " when skill levels were , reduced through technical and organizational innovations . Anti-union campaigns , the minute subdivision of tasks , new types of machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create a mode of production that for the most part required only semiskilled workers . This in turn led to new problems for management : most important , the blunting of once-sharp skill differences among workers helped to lay the basis for the explosion of industrial unionism in the 1930s and 1940s . In our own era , the period of " segmentation , " management has tried to redivide the work force . At the same time , management has kept core-sector- workers in line by means of rules , incentives and promotion ladders ( often worked out in collective bargaining ) as well as by introducing machines that set the pace and measure the output of their operators . Although somewhat mechanical , this analytic framework allows Gordon , Edwards and Reich to integrate the history of economic development with the history of working-class activism . The synthesis of so much material is useful and provocative , even though much of it is familiar . Still , the book has problems . On some issues , too little is said . Except for the most recent period , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to assess whether the gulf between the core and the peripheral sectors emerged only in the modern era , as the authors contend . The discussion of the labor movement is also sketchy . Beyond that , many of the interpretations presented are open to question . For instance , Gordon , Edwards and Reich maintain that between the turn of the century and the Depression , the power of foremen increased as they were given greater discretion over job assignments , promotions and layoffs . Others have more persuasively argued the opposite  --  that after 1900 , personnel and planning departments , seniority systems and coMpany unions diminished the power of foremen by introducing the rule of law . ( Thus when the economic collapse of the 1930s undercut these changes , workers believed that their customary rights were being violated , and- this conviction became a major impulse toward unionization . ) Even if one accepts the authors ' basic argument , a fundamental problem remains . For Gordon , Edwards and Reich , just as for Adam Smith , workers and capitalists alike are economic rationalists who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and sometimes power ) . This is a troublesome notion , for it reduces complex and changing social formations to metaphysical classes , although admittedly classes that are divided and rarely conscious of themselves as classes at all . Still , the picture presented in Segmented Work , Divided Workers is one of collective bourgeois and proletarian minds jostling and maneuvering through history , adopting different tactics at different moments but never varying in their essential historical character Charles Sabel , the recent winner of a McArthur Foundation Award Fellowship , picks up where Gordon , Edwards and Reich leave off . Work and Politics is an imaginative and suggestive look at contemporary Western European and U.S. industrialism , with occasional histOrical digressions . Sabel accepts the idea of segmented labor markets but confronts the question of why workers do what they do more directly than Gordon et al . He argues that different types of workers approach employment not only with different skills and habits but with different expectations and desires as well . Many " peasant-workers , " for example ? Turks working in West Germany , say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept unsteady , dead-end jobs as long as they are well-paying , for they have no intention of staying in the industrial work force . They hope to save money in order to buy or expand farms , set themselves up as artisans or in some other way escape factory life . Accordingly , they are often indifferent to union struggles and . compliant on the job . Some may eventually become " would-be craftsmen " as they develop a taste for urban life ; others may become " ghetto workers " and drift from job to job . Sabel 's point is that workers ' views and actions do not simply reflect their place in the industrial hierarchy . Workers come to the market with complex cultural heritages and their own concepts of justice and honor . Using a wide range of examples  --  petrochemical workers in Germany and Britain , auto workers in Turin and Hamtramck ? Sabel portrays the social personalities of each major subgroup within the working class , from common laborers to workers with plant-specific skills to craftsmen with generalized problem-solving abilities . As long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial peace will reign . But rarely is that the case for long . Companies are constantly redesigning the processes by which things are made , rendering some skills superfluous , others more important . Recessions , plant relocations , new competitive strategies and technical innovations may lead to the loss or downgrading of jobs . Each group of workers is therefore constantly obliged to struggle to maintain its position . Groups of workers may fight management alone ; then again , they may make tacit alliances with management against other groups of workers , or band together with other groups of workers against management . The results of these struggles are unpredictable , as Sabel shows in his finely drawn account of the Italian autumno caldo of 1969 . Here northern craftsmen , peasant-workers from the south and student radicals joined together , and what started as an effort by less-skilled workers to improve their ' pay , receive promotions and eliminate piecework turned into a broader-based , more far-reaching challenge to the way production was organized . When the smoke cleared , a new institution  --  factory councils of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of southern migrants into the leftist working-class culture of northern Italy was complete . Sabel agrees with Gordon , Edwards and Reich that the current recession marks a profound crisis in the core sector of the developed world . For a variety of reasons , some discussed in these books and some not , mass production as it is usually carried on in the United States and in Western Europe is becoming less and less profitable . Just maybe , as Sabel suggests , what he , following Gramsci , calls the age of Fordism is drawing to an end . What comes next is anyone 's guess , and the authors are wisely cautious in their speculations . However , as both studies amply show , there are no compelling technical ( as opposed to social ) reasons for production to be organized as it is . The possibilities are therefore wide indeed . Perhaps political programs can revive the Western , economies with only minor changes . Perhaps a more basic international redivision of labbr is occurring . And perhaps , as Sabel , argues , new systems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , marketing and technical strategies , such as those employed by the small but very advanced machine shops he visited in northern Italy . Whatever the ' case , the degree to which workers can overcome the deep divisions both books document will profoundly affect the shape of the industrial future and labor 's place within it . ?                     