@@487753

Someone should make a movie about the Greek civil war . It has all the elements of great epic drama : three millenniums of antecedent history , unremitting tragedy of literally mythic proportions , world-famous villains and unsung heroes , politics and romance , breathtaking locations and familiar sets . See starving Athenians rise in rebellion against Nazi occupiers and their collaborators as the hated swastika flies over the Parthenon . Thrill as kapetanios horsemen and their bands of guerrilla-brigands swoop down upon monarchist lackeys . Gasp at Stalin selling out the Greek left as he divvies up the Balkans with Churchill in 1944 . Squirm as the Greek Communist Party descends into terror , paranoia and Stalinoid rigidity . Smile cynically as American imperialism replaces the British brand in the postwar Mediterranean ( with napalm ) . Suffer the poignancy of families divided , the despair of defeat , the hope of healing . Someone should make that movie , but if you think director Peter Yates , scenarist Steve Tesich and reporter Nicholas Gage did it in Eleni , you 're dead wrong . It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity we are likely to have for a presentation of those epic events  --  even an incomplete , biased or wrongheaded one  --  on the screen in this century . In the book from which the movie was skimmed , Gage told the story of his mother 's struggle for survival in the war-torn mountain village of Lia against a backdrop of social and political history . He skewed the story against the left , which was understandable because his family , more or less accidentally , was put in the opposite camp and suffered drastically . Mother Eleni was executed by a guerrilla firing squad ; the children were scattered ; Gage ( ne Gatzoyiannis ) found his way to Massachusetts at the age of 9 , where he joined his father , who had left the old country before the war . The book was filled with garish anticommunist propaganda , but a diligent reader could detect in it a sense that the modern Greek tragedy was more than a comic-book caper of villainous communists and victimized peasants . The Greek revolution had its roots in the suffering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can count . Fascism had a firm foothold in the peninsula long before the Italian and German hordes invaded , and the monarchy  --  imposed by Britain in the person of Nordic puppets  --  hardly encouraged egalitarian ' aspirations . The civil war , fought in stages by the Greek Popular Liberation Al-my ( ELAS ) against the Nazis and then against monarchist-nationalists supported by British and U.S. troops , was also the first hot battle of the cold war , with the Truman Administration waging counterrevolution against Third World guerrillas as stand-ins for Russian Reds . Not much of that was laid out in Gage 's account , but enough was included to give the book a semblance of historical reality , and also to make credible the author 's obsessive quest for , , revenge against the village commissar who killed his mother . Without history , Gage 's mission looks like a case study in Oedipal pathology  --  the Freudian , not the Sophoclean , kind . - In fact , momism  --  not communism  --  is the problem in Lia in the movie version . Kate Nelligan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poses against the bleak landscape like Medea playing Mother Courage . Her visage caked with Coppertone and her head swathed in heroic braids , Nelligan sacrifices and suffers for her children with a nobility so exaggerated it provokes titters of embarrassment in the audience . The kids seemed smothered by her heroism , and when they finally escape in a daring nighttime run to freedom , it is hard to tell whether their liberation is really from ELAS or from Eleni . Of course , the movie can be seen as another number in the current series of anti-communist offerings that run from the second half of The Killing Fields through Rambo and Rocky IV . But its cold war texture is fashioned more from emotional values than political ones . Fanatical motherhood , family sacrifice and personal revenge comprise the ideology hawked here , which makes it possible to characterize the opposing beliefs in equally nonpolitical terms . The guerrillas ' " cause " has nothing to do with independence , equality and justice but becomes a crusade to kill mothers , deport children and terrorize opponents . Those things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Greeks fought for . It just does n't make sense . Gage recounts the events of one day in early 1944 when the ELAS guerrillas and British soldiers were jockeying for control of the region around Lia after the Nazis withdrew . The guerrillas announced a rally to demand supplies and money from the British : ELAS supporters flooded in from all over the Mourgana villages and , beyond . The central square was not large enough to contain the thousands of demonstrators , who arrived shouting , " Give us food ! Give us arms ! Give us medicine ! We are fighting for you and you have forgotten us ! " It was the largest gathering in the history of the village , and the Liotes marveled at the number and strength of the supporters . Things got a lot worse over the next four years , as the guerrillas were repeatedly assaulted , their foreign support never materialized and the U.S. intervention deepened . But to deny the essential authenticity of the revolution is to ' rewrite history in - the most fatuous and venal way . Eleni @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gives it a small-town twist . It 's hardly worth the stock it 's printed on . Steve Tesich , who has written one howler after another ( did you catch Four Friends ? ) after his wildly overpraised debut script for Breaking Away , seems to have lost all sensitivity to nuance and ear for dialogue that he once cultivated . His clumsy efforts are complemented by Yates 's direction , which is stilted and awkward , a monstrous amalgam of Greek opera and TV movie of the week . The cutting between the travails of Eleni and her son 's search for her executioner thirty-five years later robs the film of any dramatic integrity it might have had , much as that other New York Times reporter 's quest trivialized The Killing Fields . Hollywood 's habit of focusing on journalists to dramatize the events they cover has for the most part ruined more movl ies than it has improved . Just think how much more interesting All The President 's Men would have been as Nixon 's story , instead of Woodstein 's . John Malkovich plays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bernhard Goetz than King Oedipus , which only accentuates the pathological point of the plot . Diminutive Linda Hunt turns up as a villager with a stirring monologue , delivered with such high theatrics that one expects her to take a bow to the audience when she 's done . The best performance is Oliver Cotton 's portrayal of the sleazy commissar executioner . He alone is able to give a little humanity to the caricature as written . All in all , I liked The civil war better . ? 0 t 190 , 9613road Sr                     