@@432354

 | It is late spring , 1988 , and the Democrats are scared . While the Republican field is down to the two respectable candidacies of George Bush and Bob Dole , the Democratic contingent is still growing . Front-runner Gary Hart won the February Iowa caucus , but Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis took New Hampshire , blunting Hart 's momentum going into the cluster of Southern primaries in March . Georgia Senator Sam Nunn sweeps his home state , but Hart wins in Florida ? and his support for an oil-import fee provides a win in Texas as well . Meantime , the Rev. Jesse Jackson has triumphed in much of the rural South , taking large blocks of delegates in Mississippi , Alabama and Louisiana . Elsewhere , late-starting favorite sons pocket chunks of delegates to use as political leverage in case of a brokered convention . It 's not supposed to happen that way , but it could . One year before the much touted Southern Super Tuesday primaries , campaign strategists are worrying aloud whether the carefully drawn plans that once seemed so reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve . When Southern political leaders invented the megaprimary concept two years ago , they argued that an early and vast Southern contest would lure the region 's middle class back to the party , promote a more conservative nominee and shorten the entire process , thereby avoiding unpleasant party fratricide . Of course , it was also an idea largely invented to aid an electable Southerner , but the problem is that so far not many have stepped forward , leaving a big hole in the Great Southern Strategy . " It will either go down as one of the smartest moves in the history of politics ? or one of the dumbest , " says Bob Beckel , formerly a top aide to Walter Mondale . Whatever the final verdict , Mega Tuesday is already positioned to become a sorry victim of the political law of unintended consequences . With Nunn only now perched to enter and Tennessee Democrat Albert Gore , Jr. , having just taken the plunge last week , the liberal Jackson is the only candidate already vigorously pursuing a Southern strategy . And with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most from the regional primary and emerge with a block of delegates large enough to make him , as one top Southern political strategist predicts , " one of the most powerful people at a convention . " Despite Jackson 's upscaled image as a candidate emphasizing economic issues , his ascendancy , the strategist adds , " somewhat frightens " Southern party leaders and helps explain why some are pushing Nunn to declare in time for the dozen-plus primaries set for March 8 . The potential problems for the Democrats in all this go well beyond Jackson . Some campaign handlers say that the momentum someone like Hart might carry from Iowa and New Hampshire could extend below the Mason-Dixon Line ? ratifying Northern results instead of resurrecting Southern political strength . The primaries then become what pollster Peter Hart dubs " the great trap door " for the party , with Southerners supporting a candidate they later decide they do n't really like . And those who thought Mega Tuesday would lure back white , conservative Southerners to the party are now worried that many will cross over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liberals . In a strategic blunder , most states kept local elections on a different date , so Democrats who like the GOP presidential offerings wo n't even have to sacrifice their party participation on a local level . " The burden is on us to earn the support of those folks , " says Democratic National Committee Chairman Paul Kirk , who believes that a healthy party discussion of the issues could prove therapeutic . The moderate Democratic Leadership Council , in fact , is planning Southern candidate forums to make sure issues , not intramural politics , become key in the South . Still , with Southern strategy now as muddy as the Mississippi River , there is talk of an endless primary season ? or a brokered convention ? that makes leaders like Kirk wince . While many doubt either prospect , saying most candidates would run out of money , some key Southerners seem to be promoting the idea , both as a way of getting an electable candidate and brokering Southern power . They predict a move toward favorite sons to preserve state-delegate strength at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have control by our sheer numbers , " says Bert Lance , one Mega Tuesday sponsor . " You would n't be able to have a candidate not acceptable to the South . " At this point , that is the only prospect he is willing to endorse .                     