@@432160

 | Politicians laughed when a bald , liberal senator of 69 announced that he wanted to be the Democrats ' 1984 candidate for President . They 're not laughing any more . Alan Cranston ? riding the crest of straw-poll victories in Wisconsin , Alabama and his native California as well as a surprising second-place finish in Massachusetts ? ranks today as a strong pursuer of former Vice President Walter Mondale and Ohio 's Senator John Glenn for the right to oppose Ronald Reagan . How has he done it ? Partly by portraying himself as " the peace candidate " and by embracing the nuclear-freeze movement that has ignited passions across the land . But mostly he has shot into genuine contention by just plain outworking his rivals ? spending long stretches on the road romancing potential convention delegates , religiously performing the glamourless but essential task of lining up volunteer field workers , talking on the telephone for hours pleading for campaign donations . Cranston 's single-minded goal : Prove wrong the political professionals who judge that he , as even a friend candidly assessed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to be elected President . " I thought I could accomplish a lot in the Senate , and I think I have , " he explains . " But plainly , even more can be done in the White House . " Despite his surprisingly strong early showing , skeptics keep seeing too many similarities between Cranston and George McGovern , the former South Dakota senator who capitalized on the antiwar emotions of party activists to win the Democratic presidential nomination in 1972 only to lose the election to Richard Nixon by the second-greatest electoral landslide in history . Senate Republican Whip Ted Stevens of Alaska speculates : " It would take a miracle for Alan to get the nomination . It would take something entirely new and startling for him to latch on to . " Cranston 's defiant reply : " I think we will win if we continue on this route , organize effectively and pour in a tremendous amount of energy . " Energy has been a Cranston trademark since he was born on June 19 , 1914 , the son of a Los Altos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in high school ? running on the track team , playing football , editing the yearbook and writing for the school newspaper . After a year at Pomona College and a summer at the University of Mexico , he entered Stanford University as an English major , lettered in track and wrote for nearby newspapers . Cranston was graduated from Stanford in 1936 and joined International News Service in Europe , reporting from England , Germany , Italy and Ethiopia on the tensions building toward World War II . He returned to the U.S. in 1939 determined to warn his country about the risks of American isolationism and the threat of fascism . He even waged a losing legal battle with Adolf Hitler when he discovered that the version of the German dictator 's Mein Kampf distributed in America omitted passages dealing with Nazism 's plans for global conquest . Cranston prepared an abridged version that included the dropped material and added anti-Nazi notes of his own . At the bargain rate of 10 cents , the book sold half a million copies before the German government went to court and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War II years in the Office of War Information , where he was credited with the idea of renaming an Illinois town Lidice , for a Czechoslovak village wiped out by the Germans . At war 's end , Cranston recalls : " I finally decided I did n't want to just write about all these problems but to be able to do something about them . " While making a living in real estate and land investment , he plunged into the world peace movement ? first as a director of Americans United for World Government and then for three years as president of its successor , the United World Federalists . From there , it was only a short step into partisan politics . After the 1952 elections that swept Dwight Eisenhower into the White House and Republicans into control of Congress , Cranston helped start and headed the liberal-oriented California Democratic Council . In 1958 , he was  | elected the state 's first Democratic controller in 72 years . He was re-elected in 1962 by 1.26 million votes . Cranston 's political career ran off the track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senator and was beaten by 143,000 votes by Pierre Salinger , President John Kennedy 's former press secretary . Salinger subsequently lost the general election to former actor George Murphy . Cranston rebounded in 1968 , easily winning a five-man race for the Democratic senatorial nomination . In the fall contest , he surprised many analysts when his bland , almost colorless campaigning drew 350,000 more votes than the flamboyant approach of Republican Max Rafferty , state superintendent of public instruction . Low profile . His flair for the unspectacular fitted perfectly into the Senate 's tradition-encrusted ways , and he was elected Democratic whip in 1977 . Senator Dale Bumpers ( D-Ark. ) speaks for many colleagues in calling Cranston " intense , sincere , hardworking and well liked . " He adds , " You can trust his word on how he 's going to vote . " Since Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia prefers dealing with logistics , policy problems fall primarily on Cranston 's shoulders . His technique : Be the quiet persuader , shun histrionics , admit a position 's weakness while seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cranston built an equally impressive record back home , sailing through to reelection in the Watergate election year of 1974 and outpolling even Ronald Reagan in 1980 in Reagan 's home state . While his political career has prospered , Cranston 's personal life has been troubled . He married Geneva McMath in 1940 and had two sons , Robin and Kim . Shortly after Cranston was elected senator , his wife suffered a stroke . The marriage ended in divorce in 1977 . In 1978 , Cranston married Norma Weintraub , who had been active in Democratic politics . The senator 's oldest son , Robin , was struck and killed by a van in 1980 . Now his second wife is suffering from Parkinson 's disease and is limited in helping her husband campaign . Cranston 's voting record in the Senate is unabashedly liberal . He has consistently voted against measures to curb school busing and abortion as well as to allow prayers in public schools . He has supported every recent measure to create jobs . While ultimately supporting defense budgets , he did back an unsuccessful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars . He voted research funds for the MX missile but recently has opposed providing production money . Americans for Democratic Action has rated Cranston as voting " right " from 79 to 95 percent of the time in recent years , while Americans for Conservative Action has kept him in single figures . He was an ardent supporter of the **25;587;TOOLONG treaties but denies that he wants peace at any price . Acknowledging the Soviet Union 's " capability for brutality , " he insists that any weapons pact with Moscow must be bilateral and verifiable . Some critics have quesy state . tioned Cranston 's strong support for the B-1 bomber as a replacement for the B-52 , charging that he simply was voting to help the California aerospace industry . The senator replies by noting his opposition to the MX missile , which also would benefit California 's military contractors . The B-52s , he contends , are more than 25 years old and no longer credible as a deterrent . While Mondale utilizes contacts made as Vice President and Glenn capitalizes on his astronaut 's fame , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tel -- phone to keep his campaign humming . " Energy is more important at this stage of the campaign , and I 'm convinced I have more energy than anyone else , " he declares . " I expect to wear down some of my competitors before it 's over with . " If sheer physical conditioning has anything to do with it , Cranston may indeed have an edge over his younger opponents . At Stanford , he was a member of the country 's fastest mile-relay team and still competes in senior divisions of the 100-yard dash . By concentrating on the highly emotional issue of a nuclear freeze , Cranston has wooed the liberal wing of the Democratic Party to a point where he is a threat to the conventional wisdom of how the race for the 1984 nomination is supposed to go . Cranston jumped on the nuclearfreeze bandwagon early , declaring his support 18 months ago in California for a proposed state referendum and subsequently speaking to several rallies on the U.S. Capitol steps . While campaign aides feel the freeze issue may have helped raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteers . Quick response . When critics imply that he has become a fanatic on the freeze question , he brusquely retorts : " It is not a left-wing issue to be against being blown up in a nuclear war . " Aware of the danger of being rated a one-issue candidate , Cranston is trying to give topics such as jobs and education equal billing . If elected , he vows , he will immediately appoint a full-employment council comprising representatives of industry , labor , academia and government . They would be asked to come up with a plan by Inauguration Day to revitalize the economy and slash the unemployment rate from its present 10 percent to 5 percent . So far , he has not joined in the bidding war for the endorsement of national teacher organizations . He has outlined a program to improve education without putting a price tag on it . As boldly as any candidate , Cranston has actively sought votes from homosexuals . He told the Municipal Elections Committee of Los Angeles , one of the nation 's largest homosexual political groups , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff and promised to use " the immense powers of the Presidency to wipe out all forms of discrimination . " The senator , the only one of the six  | Democratic contenders to back black Representative Harold Washington in the primary for mayor of Chicago , is working hard to win over minority voters . Says one Democratic leader : " If he can dig deep into the black and Hispanic vote , that could change the character of the race . " Helping him are two fellow Californians , black Assembly Speaker Willie Brown and United Farm Workers leader Cesar Chavez . Cranston also is vying with Mondale for the AFL-CIO endorsement . He concedes Mondale probably would win the nod today but hopes to overcome the Minnesotan 's advantage if the council delays choosing until December . Cranston 's campaign timetable is as precise as it is optimistic . Using the nuclear-freeze issue , he hopes to knock out fellow liberal Senator Gary Hart of Colorado in the Iowa precinct caucuses next February . Then he intends to gradually overtake Mondale , whom he sees as not dedicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote in caucuses and primaries . That , according to Cranston 's battle plan , would leave him as the only clear liberal alternative to the moderate Glenn and clinch the nomination . In reserve : The 345 national-convention votes held by the largely proCranston California delegation . One of Cranston 's biggest hurdles so far in the campaign has been overcoming published reports that he spent $66,000 in leftover 1980 campaign money for travel and other expenses for himself and his wife . He insists such use , including $4,242 for voice lessons to pep up his speeches , had been approved by both the Senate 's Ethics Committee and the Internal Revenue Service . While Cranston is the oldest Democratic candidate , his top campaign staff is one of the youngest . Running the show is 34-year-old Sergio Bendixen , a veteran of the McGovern , Carter and 1980 Edward Kennedy efforts . Chief money raiser is Sharyn Fallick , 29 , for eight years district office manager for Representative William Lehman ( DFla . ) . Field director is 26-year-old Paul Ambrosino of New Hampshire , site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Cranston has taken off much faster than expected , most analysts still insist that his lack of national reputation , age and unswervingly liberal record will stop him far short of the Democratic nomination for President . Undaunted , the onetime rank outsider turned legitimate contender insists he is n't through surprising people yet .                     