@@432153

 | In the less than 25 years since he seized power in Cuba , Fidel Castro has created a nation of fervent young revolutionaries ready to fight in Central America or on any other battleground where Castro chooses to send them . A majority of Cuba 's 10 million people are under 25 , those born after Jan. 1 , 1959 , when Castro took control and built on the U.S. doorstep a Communist state tied closely to the Soviet Union . For Ronald Reagan and the Presidents who follow him in the White House , this large reservoir of Communist-indoctrinated youths means that U.S. hopes to prod Cuba out of the Soviet orbit may be doomed for years to come as younger , dedicated Marxists move into high-level positions . Castro , following Moscow 's lead , has left little to chance in saturating Cubans ? from toddlers to young adults ? with the principles of Communism . First , they are encouraged to join the Pioneers , who now number 2 million . At the age of 14 , they move to the Union of Young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 , those who excel then can enter the Communist Party itself , now at the 500,000 mark . The young also are advised to join their elders in Revolutionary Defense Committees ? the neighborhood spy and mobilization organizations ? and a host of other mass groups that weave through all aspects of Cuban life . Most young Cubans insist that they like and admire the Americans as a whole . But they regard Washington as their major foe . They sympathize with the " repressed and unemployed " in the U.S. and are sure that " progressive " groups will overthrow capitalism there and lead kmnerica to socialism . Young Cubans also say that their personal well-being is secondary to their obligation to " help mankind . " They are willing , they contend , to go anywhere Castro sends them " to free other people from imperialist oppression , " even if they lose their lives . The Cuban revolution today still is Castro 's revolution . Whatever the 56-year-old President wants to do , he can do . To Cuba 's youth , he is almost a god @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject is final . Even senior Communist Party members concede that " we are Fidelistas first . " One of Cuba 's leading intellectuals describes " Fidelism " as profound nationalism , a commitment of international service to underdeveloped countries and support for national " liberation " movements ? revolutions in non-Communist language . Castro always has longed to play a major role in world affairs despite Cuba 's small size and lack of diplomatic muscle . Now he is using Cuban youths to achieve his ambitions . About 120,000 of the country 's 200,000-strong Army have served or still are serving in Angola and Ethiopia . An additional 8,000 are in Nicaragua . More than 12,000 Cuban civilian technicians serve in 34 countries . " It 's a political debt we owe the world , " says a Cuban official responsible for economic cooperation with other nations . The Territorial Militia , organized two years ago to defend Cuba against a possible U.S. attack , now numbers more than 500,000 . " Cubans would fight almost to the last against an American invasion , " stresses a diplomat with years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counterparts in Russia , Cuban youth have no problem with alcoholism . When they party , they turn to rock music and ice water or soft drinks . " Not only are our youth educated in Marxism-Leninism , but they are motivated additionally by the constant danger from the U.S. , " says one of Cuba 's leading young Communists . " There is no boredom here that leads to alcoholism . " " A new society . " After Castro came to power , nearly 1 million Cubans ? mostly middle class with a high percentage of doctors , engineers and other professionals ? fled their homeland with their children . Left behind to be indoctrinated by the Communist regime were mainly the children of workers and peasants . Castro has made the most of this opportunity to build virtually from scratch what officials here call " a new socialist society . " In 1982 , more than 3.3 million young Cubans attended schools at a cost of 15 percent of the government 's 10-billion-dollar yearly budget . With a large adult-education program , illiteracy has been wiped out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a surplus of doctors , engineers and scientists , too many to be  | absorbed by the limited Cuban economy . So they are ready exports in Castro 's technical-assistance program for Third World nations . Cuban parents who fought in the revolution admit that the post-1959 generation has been coddled since birth . During the years of greatest consumer shortages , which Cuba blames on the U.S. economic embargo , children were well fed and dressed . Most received educational scholarships . " They had the normal childhood and adolescence we were deprived of , " says a senior official who as a teenager fought with Castro . With no personal memory of the past , youths are convinced that life for ordinary Cubans before the revolution was one of unrelieved " unemployment and hunger . " A 22-year-old philosophy Religion for most young Cubans no longer is relevant . " I thought from a cultural viewpoint that my two teenagers should know something about religion , " says one of Cuba 's leaders . " But they are disinterested . " Sexual freedom is a byword . " Girls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are today , " says one father . Marriage for many often is just a ceremony to please a mother with traditions of the past . Family ties , however , are stronger than ever . For all the dedication to Castro , there are mavericks . One official estimates that about 2 percent of the young are " dropouts " ? those who do not believe in the Communist system , balk at doing volunteer work , concentrate on personal gain and try to avoid student at the University of Havana says : " The sun finally came out in Cuba when the revolution triumphed . " Lack of firsthand knowledge of the past by the young is both an asset and a liability for Cuba 's leaders . Ignorance of prerevolutionary Cuba means youths have no standards by which to make comparisons . But Cubans complain that children tend to take their privileged lives for granted and demand even more benefits . " Our job as Communists is to make the youth understand the sacrifices that were made to give them a better life , " says a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings of social compassion . While elders may still be guilty of racial discrimination , young whites , blacks and mulattoes live together easily . " internationalist " service in other countries . Some Cubans feel the number of dissidents is much higher . Stories are told in Cuba of now bitter volunteers who returned after fighting in Africa and did not receive the better jobs they expected . A 32-year-old shipworker calls life in Cuba a " great hypocrisy , " where people pretend to believe in the system just to get along . " Everyone , " he contends , " suspects everyone else may be an informer for State Security . " Cubans approached on the street by a visiting American are reluctant to talk . Their fear is that the American may in fact be a secret agent testing loyalty . Even a longtime Cuban friend says : " It is difficult now for us to maintain contact with Americans . State Security is watching us closely . " The government recently has been concerned about hooliganism among young Cubans , and older people complain about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 75 and 100 high-school students in Havana started a rock-throwing spree against police . The government 's reaction was to reason with the students and send them home . Cubans now whisper about the hijos de papa , the pampered children of party leaders , Army officers and senior officials who trade on their parents ' positions to get special privileges . Every Cuban seems to have a " friend " in the party or government who acts as a protector . Says a woman who just changed jobs : " First I found a friend who made an opening for me in the industry I wanted to work for . Then another friend arranged to get me released from my former job . " Though Cuban officials claim that the economy is doing better than expected , they admit that low sugar prices , torrential rains and shrinking foreign credit have forced them to reduce development goals and turn to even greater austerity . Street signs throughout Cuba call on the people to " do more with less . " Aid from the Soviet Union has risen to an estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Once a volatile , independent people , Cubans seem resigned to waiting in long lines for buses , better meals in high-priced restaurants or a chance to enter shops when scarce goods arrive . In Havana and the countryside , scarcity of decent housing is critical . But austerity may be taking its toll . Despite rigid control and official secrecy , there is no doubt that the government is becoming nervous over the signs of growing social unrest . More than 200 peasants were reported arrested when " free markets " set up in 1981 were curtailed because of a return to capitalism . Lawyers and judges have been charged with corruption . Cubans tell of party members who are involved in the black market . Recently , 33 labor-union members were jailed for " counterrevolutionary activities . " Discontent is concentrated , however , among older Cubans and the dropouts . With infant-to-adult indoctrination , the Castro government has been able to create its new society of dedicated young revolutionaries . Yet some Cubans question whether , without the U.S. as a unifying target , his devoted followers would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sink into boredom and disillusionment . The answer , as of now , is that Cuba 's youths largely belong to Castro .                     