@@325909

Soviets mount their harshest attack yet against tenacious rebels <P> Ever since Soviet tanks rolled into Afghanistan on a cold day more than four years ago , the treacherous terrain of the Panjshir Valley has served local rebels as both sanctuary and symbol . The determined Mujahedin guerrillas have been nurtured by grain from its verdant hills , water from its mountain streams and shelter within caves in the shadow of its snow-capped peaks . Above all , the 70-mile-long valley has been the hideout and headquarters of Ahmad Shah Massoud , the charismatic 30-year-old Mujahedin leader who has united more than 5,000 squabbling resistance fighters under his shrewd and well-organized leadership . <P> Known as the Lion of Panjshir , Massoud has established a local political and judicial system , organized his own tax system , instituted classes in the use of rocket launchers and heavy artillery , and even set up schools and bus services throughout the valley . His Mujahedin have also hounded their Soviet invaders . Recently they captured and reportedly killed 23 Soviet agents disguised as Mujahedin . By persistently ambushing military convoys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused a severe fuel problem in the capital , a mere 40 miles to the south . Only two weeks ago they compounded that shortage by blowing up four strategically vital bridges . Small wonder , then , that the Soviets have shattered their 13-month truce with Massoud and mounted their fiercest attack since the invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979 . <P> The Panjshir Valley has already survived six punishing assaults , but never has it faced more men or heavier air strikes . As many as 100 Soviet Tu-16 Badger bombers and Su-24 Fencer fighters saturated the area with high-altitude carpet bombing . In their wake came some 80 Mi-24 Hind assault helicopters , more than 500 tanks and armored personnel carriers and , according to Western diplomats , more than 20,000 troops , almost a fifth of the entire Soviet force in Afghanistan . The target of this unprecedented show of force was not so much the rebels as the civilians , who have apparently been lending them support . " The Soviets , " charged Karen McKay , director of the Washington-based Committee for a Free Afghanistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have admired . " <P> Government-run Radio Kabul was soon trumpeting victory , and the official Soviet news agency TASS implied that Massoud 's men had been routed and their leader captured or killed . Noted one Western diplomat in Moscow : " They would hardly claim anything that specific unless it were at least partly true . " Others were not convinced . Afghan resistance spokesmen in Paris acknowledged that two attempts had been made upon the Lion 's life , including one by an undercover agent who took aim from only 30 feet away . But they also insisted that rumors of Massoud 's downfall were as overblown as those put about by Kabul two years ago . " There are no casualty figures , no reports of capture of arms and no description of clashes , " said a Mujahedin official in New Delhi . " That makes me very doubtful of the claims . "                     