@@494125

None of the Above by Robert Shogan This book should start a national debate about changing the Constitution so as to make the Presidency work . Mr. Shogan , a veteran political reporter for The Los Angeles Times , spells out a series of reforms aimed at increasing party discipline , which he maintains is the weakest part of the current system . His proposals range from appointing members of the Congress to the President 's Cabinet to having the President and the whole Congress come up for election every four years . He claims that if his reforms had been law over the last six Presidencies , following would have happened : With a disciplined majority party behind him in the Congress , John Kennedy would not have had to struggle vainly for approval of his legislative program and might have been less inclined to indulge in excessive rhetoric and provocative international ventures . Lyndon Johnson , had he been elected to succeed Kennedy , would not have been pressured to race against the clock to create the Great Society . But his own party , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force him to justifyhie escalation sit the var m Vietnam . Richard Nixon might have been spared the burden of trying to lead a divided government . At any rate , his party and the opposition could have monitored his use of executive power and probably prevented the abuses of Watergate . if Watergate had occurred , Congress could have forced a special national election which would have produced a new government , avoiding the two years of stalemate and division of the Ford presidency . Jimmy Carter would probably not have been nominated for the presidency in 1976 , because it is unlikely that a party caucus would select a candidate so unfamiliar with the national government and so alien from his own party . If Carter had gained office , he probably would have been forced to call a special election when he proclaimed that the nation was suffering a crisis of confidence and then shook up his cabinet . As for Ronald Reagan , his polished nonchalance and skill as a television performer would not have been decisive in a campaign focused on issues . If he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to more careful scrutiny by his own party and a more effective challenge from the opposition than he had to face . The trouble is not in ourselves , our Presidents , or our circumstances , but in our political and governing systems . Such is Mr. Shogan 's message . It is a debatable one , and I shall be debating it . What I can not do is reproduce his detailed account of how the last six Presidents won election and then foundered in office . This chronicle of failure powerfully reinforces his thesis that a dangerous gap has opened between politics , " what the people want , " and government , " what they get " ; and that until this gap is closed , we will not have effective governance . Shogan 's proposals amount to a modified parliamentary system ? party government . He knows how foreign this is to our laws and mores . The Constitution makes no reference to parties ; the Framers execrated them as ' ' factions. - Sharing the eighteenth-century belief in natural , self-regulating harmony , the Framers considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More critical to political health than this philosophical distrust of political competition was the separation of powers the Framers built into the Constitution . The author of this basic divorce between President and Congress , James Madison , cursed his handiwork when he became President , and so have his successors . Mr. Shogan includes a chapter on the rise of parties in the nineteenth century and the continuing popular distrust of them , which culminated in the creation of the direct primary in 1912 , a reform aimed at diminishing the power of the party bosses . Candidates were slow to take advantage of the primaries . F.D.R. , for example , had his name on the ballot in eleven primaries in 1932 , but did not risk his prestige by campaigning in those states . It remained for John F. Kennedy to exploit the primaries as a path to the White House outside the party structure , and thereby to establish the new rules of the political game . Shogan is acute on the changes in society and culture that critically weakened the parties in the 1950s , preparing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Massachusetts . His list begins with economic growth and rising social mobility , which broke up the class alignments of the New Deal . It includes television , which robbed the parties of their mediating role between the voters and the candidate . And , by no means last , it features the effects of Eisenhower 's nonpartisan government , which was matched by the nonpartisan Congressional leadership of Rayburn and Johnson . The time was ripe for " an independent political entrepreneur " like Kennedy . K ENNEDY is Shogan 's prototype for all subsequent Presidents , so it is worth giving the texture of his account of Kennedy . Not only did Kennedy pioneer the election technology and tactics that still determine our elections , he also began " the politics of personality " by which Presidents have tried ever since to close the gap between politics and government . Kennedy capped an undistinguished House and Senate career with an unsuccessful bid for the Vice Presidential nomination in 1956 . Thereafter he neglected his Senate duties to stage a three-year campaign for the Presidency . It was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only Carter had the grace to do it on his own time . In 1960 Kennedy 's strategy was to enter a few primaries in small states , not to win delegates , but " as an exercise in political symbolism . " The idea was to capture enough media attention to compel the party leaders , who preferred more seasoned candidates , to notice him . As he had in his years in Congress , Kennedy avoided taking stands on the issues . Indeed , in the West Virginia and Wisconsin primaries , he made his religion thedominant issue . Shogan 's comment on this is penetrating . " Kennedy 's religion gave his candidacy a special identity , setting it apart from the others , and endowing it with a moral fervor it otherwise lacked . " This is a precise instance of the politics of personality , and although in the general election Kennedy found it advantageous to sound like a party Democrat , his supporters still stressed personal style as the major difference between him and Nixon . " The hard fact is , " wrote Arthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon lacks taste. - Kennedy had taste ; he was also " non-corny , " With so little to distinguish the candidates , the voters chose the non-corny one by 112,000 votes , making it the closest election of the century . Kennedy governed as he had campaigned , stressing symbols , like the moon shot and the Peace Corps , over substance . Before his inaugural , he told his speech writer to " drop the domestic stuff " from the speech . This was a portent . Through creating a crisis atmosphere in foreign affairs , he would rivet the voters ' attention on him , making them forget that his domestic program was stymied in Congress . This strategy , a device of necessity and personal inclination , worked . Shogan reports that after the Bay of Pigs , Kennedy 's rating in the polls soared to 82 percent , and this just months after having been elected by one-tenth of 1 percent of the popular vote . Thereafter , Kennedy " governed by exaggeration " ; combined with the artful use of television , this was his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flavor of Shogan 's history . Now to his reforms , which are more controversial . Shogan claims that if there had been party discipline , Kennedy would have been obliged to run on issues and not personality ; that once elected , he would have been able to surmount the constitutional harrier between President and Congress and get his program through ; and that , in consequence , he would not have had to whip up crises to " show his political mettle . " The greater discipline would he achieved by increasing House and decreasing Senate terms to four years , so that the whole Congress would run at the same time as the President . To prevent ticket splitting , candidates of the same party would appear on the same ballot . Finally , members of Congress would he allowed to sit on the President 's Cabinet , thus joining the powers the Framers had separated . These changes might make government work better , but they presuppose an even more basic change ? the realignment of the parties on strict liberal and conservative lines . For how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be around principles and issues , the negative word for which is ideology . 1n his reformist zeal , Shogan is blind to the negative implications of ideology . The danger , politically , is that strict ideological definition might render the Democrats a minority party ( already the Republicans have won 9,000,000 more voters than the Democrats in Shogan 's six elections ) forfeiting altogether their fraying appeal to the South and Far West . The danger to governance is that parties sharply divided ideologically might polarize the country , making effective government less , not more , likely , and increasing the risk of political violence . The ideological muddle of the parties is an outgrowth of our vast size , the diversity of our peoples and interests , and the pull of history and culture . The ideologically charged election of 1860 that split the country in two should be a cautionary tale for those who want the parties to have a hard edge of ideology . A ONGSIDE his call for greater party discipline , the centerpiece of his reform package , Shogan wants other reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the event of a President 's death or disability , the Speaker of the House would serve as President pending a special election . This reform makes sense . It would remove " an element of fortuitousness " from the system that , twice in the last six Presidencies , allowed men the people have n't voted for to become President . If it had been in place over the last generation , Richard Nixon would not have been President , Gerald Ford would have remained in the House , and Lyndon Johnson in the Senate . Shogan 's account of the 1964 campaign illustrates the need for yet another reform : the shadow Cabinet . He wants key members of the opposition party given institutional status as leaders , and provided with classified information by the executive branch , as well as free television time to criticize and offer alternatives . In 1964 Goldwater boasted that he offered a " choice , not an echo " ; in fact , he had promised Johnson not to make campaign issues out of the President 's handling of Vietnam or civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition party , allowing Johnson to escalate the war without debate . An institutionalized opposition party , Shogan contends , would have had the necessary will and information to make Johnson justify the war . Considered abstractly , this reform is appealing , but it does not test well against the historical context . Given the prior ideological commitment of both parties to the containment of Communism , is it likely that Barry Goldwater ? of all people ! ? would have challenged Johnson on the war ? Moreover , no constitutional machinery could nullify Johnson 's duplicity ; he would have deceived the shadow cabinet as he did the people , planning a wider war while promising that " American boys " would never fight in place of " Asian boys . " Finally , the tighter party discipline Shogan wants would have choked off the antiwar challenge that later developed within the Democratic Party . The lesson of 19641968 is that no reform is proof against a dishonest leader and that strict party discipline might stifle dissent . Shogan 's chapters on 1968 and 1972 make the case for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shogan would allow either the President or Congress to call " a new national election once during the regular four-year term as a means of resolving deadlocks and crises in government leadership . " Such an intraterm election could have been called during the Watergate crisis or right after Nixon 's resignation , saving the nation two years of drift under Gerald Ford . I T SOUNDS GOOD for 1974 ; but once again , the test of history makes this reform seem dubious . For example , what would have happened if the intraterm election had been the law of the land in 1862 ? With a string of defeats barely offset by the costly , equivocal victory at Antietam , Lincoln might have been unseated by a Copperhead Congress with no stomach to press the war . On Lincoln 's part , the temptation to declare martial law to head off such an election would have been great . Lincoln as military dictator : it is not a pleasant thought . And would Richard Nixon have let the Democratic Congress call an intraterm election in 1973 ? These examples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the risks of the intraterm election . Of the fourteen candidacies he discusses , Shogan is most sympathetic to George McGovern . Unlike Goldwater , whom Shogan pictures as more a crank than an ideologically consistent candidate , McGovern offered the voters a realchoice. bhogan reminds us that McGovern pledged to end the war within ninety days of his inauguration , to cut the defense budget by $30 billion , to eliminate $200 billion in tax loopholes , to increase Social Security benefits , and to provide $15 billion in tax relief for homeowners , He was not vague on the issues . Before the Miami convention the polls showed him within 12 points of Nixon , but after the Eagleton fiasco the bottom fell out of his candidacy . Like Richard Nixon in choosing Spiro Agnew , and John Kennedy in choosing Lyndon Johnson , McGovern had been indictably casual in picking his running mate and possible successor . So in the one election in the last twenty years in which the voters had a clear choice on the issues before the country , the waters were clouded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vice Presidency is what early critics of the Constitution called it , a " dangerous and useless " office . We come to 1976 . The reform suggested by that election is the return of the party caucus . Shogan wants Presidential candidates nominated by " a caucus of elected officials , expanded perhaps to include representatives of major constituent groups . " The party caucus would have kept Jimmy Carter from the Presidency ; it also would strengthen the parties , thereby closing Shogan 's gap . But it comes at a price : the elimination of the primaries . Is it worth paying ? Yes , for 1976 ; but in 1968 it would have prevented Gene McCarthy from challenging Johnson on the war . Without the primaries , there would have been no test of antiwar sentiment that year . True , the party bosses finally won in Chicago , but if the Democrats had been playing under . That would have been a real victory for " issues " over " personality , " and I would n't want to endorse a reform that would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that the threat of " catastrophe " ( unspecified ) might spark reform , and he suggests that the bicentennial of the Constitution in 1987 might provide the right occasion . You do n't have to be a fan either of " catastrophe " or of constitutional conventions to find Shogan 's book stimulating . It is a vigorous document of the reformist sensibility ? skeptical of everything except its own inventions .                     