@@480819

we are a speck in the sky above the jungle of jungles . The ceiling today is low and gray ; the terrain beneath us looks decidedly inhospitable ; our noisy little two-engine plane thumps gamely along at an unstable altitude . Five hundred feet below lies an unbroken expanse of canopy , a dimpled surface of treetops stretching away awesomely in every direction . From this vantage it seems a magnificent abstraction of flatness and chlorophyll ? the Brazilian rain forest , the Amazon jungle , or at least one swatch of it . Its magnificent wealth of particulars is largely concealed . Steam rises in cottony plumes from some clusters of trees ? the vegetation 's own moist breath is putting vapor back into the sky . One thousand shades of green , punctuated here and there by the crown of a single tree blossoming yellow or lavender . I turn my face to the window . Far below , I see five huge , blue macaws , gliding together above the treetops . Nothing else to he seen except foliage and steam . The floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slash of road leading north from Manaus ? our line of orientation out of the airport into the jungle ? has been left behind . " If the pilot gets lost , " Tom Lovejoy shouts to me , " we could end up in Venezuela . " We wo n't get lost . Thomas Lovejoy knows this area too well . Lovejoy is a scientist , and we are flying over his laboratory . The plane banks . We come in lower above the treetops , until suddenly the treetops are gone . The jungle itself is gone . Instead , we look down now on nothing but Amazonian clay , clay covered with only the thinnest scrubby layer of vines and weeds and stumps . The tropical earth here is as bare and embarrassed as shorn pink David Quammen 's latest book is Blood Line , a collection of short ficthyn published by Graywolf Press . sheep . The cutters and burners , paid to strip this land and make space for a few cattle , have done their work . And much more : they have destroyed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor . The wildlife is gone ; most of the chemical nutrients are gone ; all that once protected the soil from winds and erosion is also gone . Not just the rain forest , but the very conditions that make a rain forest possible , have disappeared . Now the plane banks again , tipping my window toward another striking sight . Standing up out of the scorched flatness is a small patch of forest . It is square . It looks like a piece of shag carpet tossed down an a dirt floor . Around its perimeter runs a well-worn trail . " That 's a ten-hectare reserve , " Lovejoy says . Ten hectares is equal to about twenty-five acres . This particular patch is Reserve #2,206 . It is an island of virgin jungle in an ocean of man-made pasture . It was carefully isolated in 1984 , at Lovejoy 's instigation ; since then it has been intensively studied as part of a grand scientific enterprise called the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project . The project ? stretching across tens of thousands of hectares in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pilot lifts us through another banked turn and back over the clearing from a different angle . Now I see a second island , even smaller . This one is barely more than a tuft of trees . Like the first , it is outlined by a square trail , but the tiny patch of forest has lost much of that perfect squareness . There are fallen trees , tall but shallow-rooted rain-forest trees that were vulnerable to the pastureland winds . The canopy of this patch is breached and tattered . The shade-loving understory vegetation has shriveled . As the plane sweeps down for a close pass , I see a few forties . He comes to tropical ecology from a wealthy Manhattan family , and with a doctorate from Yale . He is youthful , mild-mannered , and could pass for a graduate student from Indianapolis , but he happens to be one of the world 's most prescient biologists . The Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project is a collaborative thing , involving many senior scientists , postgraduate researchers , salaried Brazilian woodsmen , and young volunteer " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is co-sponsored by Brazil 's National Institute for Amazonian Research and the U.S. branch of the World Wildlife Fund . Nevertheless , in an unguarded moment , Lovejoy will speak of it as " my baby . " The notion of studying islands of rain forest in an ocean of clear-cut ? for clues not only to the fate of rain forests but to the fates of insularized ecosystems all over the planet ? was his idea . It came to him in 1976 , a well-timed flash . But to make sense of his idea , to grasp its context and its potency , we need to go back a decade further . In 1967 a pair of young biologists , Robert MacArthur and Edward O. Wilson , published a book called The Theory of Island Biogeography . It was a small volume in a drab cover , filled with curve graphs and equations ; its subject matter was seemingly narrow , as was its intended audience . Yet The Theory of Island Biogeography eventually revolutionized the study of eco logy . The focus upon islands was not in itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significance of insular ecosystems ever since Charles Darwin set foot on the Galapagos Islands . Other pioneers of evolutionary biology , notably Alfred Russel Wallace and Joseph Hooker , had also gathered their best insights from fieldwork on tropical islands . Islands had been especially instructive to Darwin and his successors because the relatively small size and the quarantinelike isolation of island ecosystems combine to make patterns of evolution stand out with particular boldness . Generally , on an island , you find fewer species , and fewer relationships among species . This results in a simplified system ? a schematic drawing , you might say , of nature 's full complexity . Consequently , islands have served as the Dick-and-Jane primers of evolutionary biology ; they help scientists to comprehend the more complex prose of the mainlands . But MacArthur and Wilson added an important new element to the tradition of looking at islands . They posited that not just literal islands but all isolated , islandlike fragments of ecosystem are likely to end up with fewer species because extinctions of species will outnumber new arrivals . According to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecosystem on any continent , turn it into a virtual island ( a national park or a nature reserve , for instance , surrounded by cornfields or pavement ) , and in the fullness of time , that island also would become biologically impoverished . Inexorably , without further human tampering , species will disappear . Extinctions will be many , immigrations will he few . The original richness of the ecosystem will be lost . Lovejoy 's term for this phenomenon is " ecosystem decay " ; others refer to it as " relaxation to equilibrium " and " faunal collapse . " Most biologists agree that the process does occur , and that as the last wildlands on our planet are reduced to fragments , to nature reserves , to " islands , " we face a crisis in conservation planning . The Everglades , the Serengeti in northern Tanzania , the high-altitude reserves for the snow leopard in Nepal ? they might all turn out to be protected but nonetheless doomed . A recent study of national parks in North America , by the ecologist William D. Newmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the journal Nature , Newmark found a distressing pattern of species extinctions within national parks . He focused specifically on local extinctions ( loss of one population of a species , not the extinction of a species worldwide ) that occurred after the founding of a park , and he discounted extinctions caused directly by human interference . In forty-two instances over the past century , according to Newmark , mammal species have become extinct from North American parks . Why ? Evidently , for one reason : those parks are islands , surrounded by human development and suffering ecosystem decay . The number of extinctions in each park is inversely related to area and directly related to the age of the park . With the passing of time , our most carefully protected ecosystems ? our parks and reserves ? are dying , and the smallest ones are dying the fastest . et biologists do not agree about two crucial matters related to this phenomenon . What exactly causes the high rate of extinction on islands and in islandlike fragments ? And how can extinction be avoided ? These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur because island species are held at low population levels by sheer limitations of area ? Or do the extinctions occur because the limited areas include insufficient diversity of habitat ? Should parks and nature reserves be bigger , even if it means that there are fewer , maximizing the factor of sheer area ? Or should they be smaller and more scattered , but chosen to maximize habitat diversity ? Will a single reserve comprising 1,000 square miles rescue more species of animal and plant , over the long run , than ten carefully selected patches of 100 square miles each ? Biologists have been battling over these questions ? and rather fiercely , as scientific disputes go ? for the past fifteen years . In 1976 the dispute broke open in the pages of Science . Researchers Daniel Simberloff and Lawrence Abele speculated that to use the by then famous MacArthur-Wilson " island " theory to justify a few large reserves as opposed to many small ones could be a disastrous mistake . " And when that was published , " one biologist told me , " it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The tinder flared to a conflagration of emphatic rebuttals . One set of rebuttals , clustered resoundingly , appeared in a subsequent issue of Science . And Simberloff and Abele eventually voiced their sense of wounded regret ( but no recantation ) at having been " cast as the b ? tes noires of conservation . " Lovejoy had reason to follow that controversy closely . After finishing his dissertation at Yale based on fieldwork in the Brazilian forest ( research that involved the capture and banding of thousands of birds ) , he became program director of the World Wildlife Fund in 1973 . In this role , Lovejoy made recommendations about the size and design of nature reserves . But he never got into " the middle of that pissing match , " he told me , because " I did n't see what could be added . I thought it would be better just to go out and try and get data . " Easier said than done . How do you collect information about ecosystem decay over time ? One needs information not only on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community might thin out ten or twenty years later , but also on what the community had included before it became a small , isolated fragment . " I used to worry about it a lot and discuss it with my scientific colleagues , " Lovejoy told me . No scientist could predict how quickly species would disappear from an island , or how many would ultimately be lost , or how the rate and degree of loss would relate to the size of the island , without knowing which species had been there at the start . But almost none of the classic island studies included this information . No one knew just how many species had lived in the area of New Guinea , for instance , before rising sea levels at the end of the Pleistocene epoch separated the island from Australia . Without that kind of data , scientists could only make guesses about ecosystem decay . Then , late in 1976 , Lovejoy was invited by the National Science Foundation to a brainInstitute for Amazonian Research ; he talked with government officials ; he talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of virgin forest , just north of Manaus , and to pasture cattle among the ashes . With his diplomatic charm and his fluent Portuguese , Lovejoy coaxed them all into joining him in an ambitious experiment . The destruction of forest would be guided so as to incorporate certain geometric patterns : a patch here , another patch there , a bigger patch here , and the rest clear-cut . The ocean of man-made pasture would surround islands of untouched jungle . The 50-percent rule would be satisfied , and so would the needs of science . The islands would be rectilinear , mapped out by professional surveyors , and would span a range of sizes : 1 hectare , 10 hectares , 100 hectares , 1,000 hectares . They would be studied ? before , during , and after the cataclysmic cutting and burning that would leave them isolated ? by scientists whom Lovejoy would enlist . To ensure the reliability of data collected , there would be replicate patches of all but the largest reserves ; results from a 10-hectare patch could be compared with those from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10-hectare patch in the same vicinity . Across twenty years of study , the patches would yield important information about the phenomenon ofdifferent perspective , less Jovian , more footsore , in the company of two bird-banding interns , Peggy and Summer . Xtell before dawn we start walking out of camp and up a dark trail under the canopy . Elsewhere , on this reserve and others , primates are being sought out and studied , rodents are being watched , Brazil-nut trees counted . There are a dizzying number of angles to figure , a daunting multiplicity of questions posed . This patch of rain forest is Reserve #3,304-100 hectares , the largest fragment isolated so far . We scuff along through fallen leaves big as busted umbrellas . We step over logs sprouting eager little fungi of lewd shapes and unearthly colors . Capuchin monkeys are yelping in the distance , and from somewhere come the wolf-whistle notes of a bird known as the screaming piha . The two women wear strap-on headlamps powered by large batteries hooked to their belts . I carry a small , foolish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sweat to a shirt still damp from yesterday . The trail is narrow and slippery on the slopes , a machete-cut tun , nel . At this hour of the morning , just before light , a certain tiny species of fly haunts the understory , biting at necks and wrists and carrying a disease known as leishmaniasis . Leishmaniasis is n't fatal , I 've been briefed , but a person definitely does n't want the experience . For protection we depend on long sleeves , pants tucked into boots , drugstore insect-repellent , and luck . Mindful , too , of snakes , I watch carefully where I set each foot . From another of the bird-band , ers I 've already heard the story of how Peggy once surprised a two-and-a-half-meter bushmaster at twilight on one of the forest trails . Every tree trunk seems to be covered with lichen and termite tunnels . Lianas dangle down from above like a backstage rigging for this ecological theater ; on a few unlucky trees Clusia vines of the strangler type wrap upward , tightening their choke holds as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crotches sit epiphytes , smug ethereal plants drinking suste68 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE ! MARCH nance straight out of the air . Even among the vegetation , there is evidence of frantic competition , of struggle , of the imperative that shapes living tissue to these garish forms of resourcefulness . We reach the line of mist-nets used for bird collection , though I remain unaware of that until I nearly stumble face first into delicate nylon webbing . I flinch , but a face full of genuine spider silk would have been worse . Somewhere down here in the Amazon , I 've heard , lives at least one species of spider big and cocky enough to prey on birds . Gaa . The two women move quickly to get all sixteen nets open and ready before the first hint of daylight leaks down through the canopy ? before the birds of the understory start to move . We cross a sumpy black-water stream and climb the far slope . The nets are ready ; open end to end , they form a diaphanous barricade stretching almost 300 yards . Farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The headlamps and batteries come off . Broken canopy admits daylight and then actual shafts of sunshine . A hummingbird appears in the air before us to hover and gape . Phaethornis superciliosus , says Peggy , who knows a thousand things by their names . After an hour of waiting and listening , we walk back to check the nets . Peggy untanglesthe first captured bird , examines and measures it ; Summer records the data on an index card . At a glance they both know that the terrified little creature in Peggy 's hand is a cinnamon-crested spadebill . Platyrinchus saturatus , Summer tells me . This individual bird is a recapture , already once banded and released ; back at the project headquarters in Manaus , it will show on another index card and a computer entry . Handling it deftly , puffing feathers aside with her breath so she can see the skin , Peggy dictates to Summer that the bird has such-and-such sternum configuration , this percentage of fat , that amount of body molt , a wing length of so many millimeters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten grams . Summer records the data and I , fumbling with a damp notebook , try to as well . Summer has better luck because her pen is a special one suited to Amazonian field conditions of dampness and rain . We are here in the dry season , meaning that our constant wetness is mainly from sweat and humidity . Waterproof writing materials are standard equipment for field-workers such as Summer and Peggy , issued along with the headlamp , the hammock , the banding pliers , and the warning about leishmaniasis . Peggy opens her hand . For a moment the dainty brown bird sits dazed on her palm , heart pumping desperately . And I have time to wonder about its future . How long can P. saturatus maintain itself on a 100-hectare island ? Will this species eventually disappear , like the jaguar and the peccary and the capuchin monkey and certain species of frog ? Or is 100 hectares of forest all the universe that a cinnamon-crested spadebill ? a viable population of spadebills ? will ever need ? Will that universe still be sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peccaries and the frogs ? Is there a certain species of insect upon which the spadebills depend ? If that insect goes , can the spadebills survive its absence ? The answers to these questions are years away . Peggy and Summer will have moved on to others things , but Tom Lovejoy will not . The bird flies suddenly , vanishing into the forest . Ciao , Peggy says . She rescues a spot-throated woodcreeper from the net . It 's a reddish brown bird , roughly the size of a parakeet , with strange clawlike protrusions from the tips of its tail feathers that allow it to balance vertically on a tree trunk . Hence the name woodcreeper , Peggy explains . She gives it a leg band , dictates the bird 's measurements to Summer , and releases it . Ciao . Twenty yards down the line she untangles something she calls a cinereous antshrike , a male , already banded . Spell that , I say . Then a scale-backed antbird , a female , which has also been caught and banded previously . Peggy does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will continue until midafternoon . It will resume again tomorrow before dawn . It will go on for months until the wet season makes fieldwork impossible , and then be continued again next year by successors of Peggy and Summer , and again the year after , perhaps for another two decades . Back in Manaus , a computer has already recorded the details of roughly 40,000 individual bird captures . Iasked Peggy and Summer during our outing efore long , all the world 's wilderness will have been chopped and shrunk into islands . At the rate at which rain forest today is being converted to pasture , to pulpwood , to sheer laterite wasteland , you and I can expect a day when the notion of using the word " Amazon , " as though synonymous with " vast , proud , unspoiled region of tropical forest , " will seem as quaint and dated as talking of the great herds of buffalo out West . A similar process of destruction and fragmentation is also under way in the jungles of West Africa , Indonesia , Malaysia , Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wetlands are endangered as well . By the first decades of the next century these wild areas will probably be reduced to insular fragments of their former selves . Many among us ? perhaps with the best of intentions ? will talk of the small parks and refuges as though we have managed to save a full complement of the earth 's biological diversity . Then , over time , ecosystem decay will steal some ? or much ? of what we thought we had saved . It may still be possible , though , to avert the worst extremes of this quiet disaster . What we need first is fuller knowledge of the relationship between islandlike insularization and doom . For twenty years ecologists have been wondering , worrying , theorizing , arguing about how to achieve that knowledge . And now , one of them , Tom Lovejoy , has got himself a laboratory .                     