@@432054

 | Sharon seemed to be a modern Wonder Woman : successful , attractive and smart . At 25 , the enviably slim Harvard graduate was vice president of a big New York bank . But Sharon ( not her real name ) also had a dangerous , humiliating habit . Obsessed both by eating and staying thin , she would regularly gorge in secret , then purge away the guilt by forcing herself to throw up . After years of therapy , Sharon is only now beginning to conquer her compulsions , and she vividly recalls the shameful process . " If I deviated by one slice of bread from my diet , my day was shot , " she says . " Then I 'd have to eat a bag of cookies , two boxes of doughnuts , several candy bars , two bags of English muffins with jam , you name it . Afterward I 'd vomit . " Sharon 's illness bears several names : bulimia ( Greek for ox hunger ) , bulimarexia and the binge-purge syndrome . By any label , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? especially talented young women , who may spend up to $100 a day on the habit . The victims counteract stress or depression with uncontrollable overeating , then compensate through forced vomiting or overdoses of laxatives . Because many sufferers are ashamed of their behavior , accurate numbers are hard to determine . But college health authorities say the practice is epidemic on some campuses . According to clinical psychologist Craig Johnson of Chi- cago 's Michael Reese Medical Center , an authority on eating disorders , as many as one in five college-educated women could be bulimic at some point in their lives . The binge-purge phenomenon is not new , to be sure : gluttons in Imperial Rome would repair to their vomitoria after meals , the better to dine again ; today 's models , ballerinas and bantamweights sometimes practice it out of professional necessity . But perception of bulimia as a clinical illness is recent ? an offshoot of research on anorexia , the self-starvation disease . The American Psychiatric Association identified bingepurge as a separate disorder only last year , and most treatment programs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston opened an eating-disorders clinic last July , and doctors found that 80 percent of its patients are bulimic . There are also signs that the incidence of affliction ? or at least reported cases ? is rising among highly pressured working women . " We have to be thin , beautiful , in good health , and on top of that , we have to have career success and be responsible for the children , " says New York psychotherapist Marlene Boskind-White . Perfectionists : As profiled in a recent study of 509 cases at the Michael Reese Center , the typical bulimic is a single , middle-class , 24-year-old white woman with at least some college education , who has been gorging and purging since she was 18 . Like their behavioral cousins , anorexics , bulimics are usually perfectionists , but they tend to be older , of near-normal weight , with healthy , outgoing appearances . Although most anorexics do not realize they are sick , bulimics usually do ? but they may be too disgusted with themselves to seek help . Instead , they bury their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have consumed as much as 55,000 calories , almost 16 pounds of edibles , at one sitting . The long-range side effects can be devastating : ulcers , hernias , severe gastric and dental problems , even disturbance of the blood 's chemical balance , which can cause heart attacks . Both external and internal pressures contribute to bulimia . " The premium on thinness in our society is a factor , " says Dr. David Herzog , director of the Massachusetts General clinic . " All you see are ads for weight loss , in the midst of this tremendous amount of food . " Many sufferers first learned to purge as teen-agers while trying to please critical parents by dieting . " At least my picture looks good , " says Debra , 27 , who tries to preserve her svelte figure ? and her father 's approval ? by taking a handful of laxatives whenever she feasts on junk food . For some bulimics , their actions provide emotional release from inner turmoil . " They use the purge to get rid of their anger , frustrations or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ director of the Dieter 's Counseling Service . Reality : Like most ingrained habits , bulimia is difficult to break . " This is an addiction , " says Terry Galen , 26 , a recovered bulimic who now counsels others near Boston . " The abuses of food , alcohol or drugs are all similar because they make you out of control , they 're numbing and they distance you from reality and responsibility . " Since the disorder is still so little understood , it is difficult to treat . Massachusetts General 's program combines nutrition counseling , psychiatry , family therapy and medical treatment . Boskind-White believes in intensive , short-term group therapy . Maynard assigns patients Alcoholics Anonymousstyle partners and tries longer therapy for loneliness and other underlying causes . " You could n't imagine how many kittens we 've adopted from the ASPCA , " Maynard says . Some researchers believe bulimia may be a hereditary form of depression ; a recent Harvard Medical School study indicated bulimics respond to antidepressants . Treatment is sometimes delayed because many physicians and psychotherapists are ignorant or intolerant of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have time for people who are self-indulgent and abusive , " says Maynard . Many sufferers never seek help : experts suspect that there are significant numbers of male bulimics ? Maynard treats one pro football player ? and they know that there are children , as young as 8 , who are gorging and purging desperately in secret . " I kept denying it ? everybody does , " recalls Terry Galen , bulimic for eight years . " You must maintain you 're fine , because it 's so scary to admit you 're not . " Now that they know they are not alone , other bulimics may finally stop suffering in silence , come forward and ask for help .                     