@@332067

Not so very long ago , Broadway was thickly settled with relentlessly cheerful domestic comedies . Almost invariably these plays were set in some showcase living room . As soon as the curtain went up , audiences applauded the unassertive furniture , as if in affirmation of their own good taste . That kind of play is all but dead , killed by high ticket prices that prompt theatergoers to demand something special , and by the genre 's own dishonesty . When a TV sitcom resolves an impossible problem in half an hour , viewers know that more trouble will crop up next week . In the theatrical equivalent , pain is glibly and permanently cured by the final curtain . <P> Still , every season someone attempts to revive the form . This year 's example is Social Security , the bawdy but bland story of a Manhattan art dealer ( Marlo Thomas ) , her suburban sister ( Joanna Gleason ) , their respective husbands ( Ron Silver and Kenneth Welsh ) and the aged mother who drives them crazy ( Olympia Dukakis ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saddles , Fletch ) , but he places only ticktock jokework on the stage . Worse , he creates situations of real pathos and then anesthetizes them . The matriarch is 80 , unable to get around without a walker , unwilling to be left alone for an hour . By the play 's end , this coarse , undereducated widow of a house painter has won the heart of a 98-year-old superstar artist ( Stefan Schnabel ) reminiscent of Marc Chagall and has thereby healed her ailments . <P> Unseen but much discussed is the suburban couple 's daughter , a college freshman who has stopped attending class to provide round-the-clock sexual service to two men . The girl 's relatives fatuously assure one another that her self-abasing behavior is a phase she will outgrow . In another subplot , the girl 's parents consider divorce , but the audience can not see the agony they profess to feel . The entire proceedings , staged by Mike Nichols , are life as viewed through Saran Wrap . Although Broadway Veteran Nichols has mislaid his gift for telling detail , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the makings of a play in the resentment between the housewife , who nurses the mother , and her sister , whose answer to everything is writing a check . But Bergman settles for stale attempts at satire about city dwellers vs. suburbanites , trendy vs. square relations , rich vs. poor ones . The actors struggle to give the play life , but there is only one moment of insight . As Thomas ' ever irreverent husband , Silver says , " I 'm flip , which is another way of being shy . " Perhaps that is Bergman 's problem , and it is surely the problem of a weary genre : plenty of wisecracks but not much wisdom . W.A.H . III                     