@@432048

 | In spring , every few years or so , that goat-footed ballet master , George Balanchine , turns his Panlike fancy to dance festivals . Ralanchine glories in challenging himself and his New York City Ballet . In 1972 the Stravinsky Festival detonated 22 new works in one week . In 1975 Ravel was celebrated with sixteen new ballets in two weeks . Now it was Tchaikovsky 's turn for homage ? in a ten-day jamboree of fourteen new works at the New York State Theater in Lincoln Center . Tchaikovsky has been special to Balanchine from the beginning . The composer 's influence on dance through " Swan Lake , " " The Sleeping Beauty " and " The Nutcracker " was the atmosphere Balanchine breathed when he entered St. Petersburg 's Imperial School at the age of 10 . Balanchine went on to dance in all of the Tchaikovsky works , including the role of the Prince in " The Nutcracker . " In the many ballets he has set to Tchaikovsky 's romantic , emotionally charged music over the years , Balanchine has found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neoclassicism . " Serenade " and " Meditation " are elegiac in spirit ; " Allegro Brillante " ( " Piano Concerto No. 3 " ) is robust . His one-act " Swan Lake " eliminates all of the romantic trappings and leaves just dance ? pure and austere . The " Diamonds " section of " Jewels " is crisp elegance , evoking Imperial Russia without sentiment . If you ask Balanchine why a Tchaikovsky festival , he answers , " Because he wrote wonderful music . I want the audience to hear how wonderful . People underestimate Tchaikovsky . He is the poet of music . He 's the Pushkin of music . He is to Russians like Stephen Foster or Gershwin is to Americans . And we dancers owe him a special debt . He invented time and variation in music for dance . Millions and millions of variations like a big banquet . " Ice Palace : Like its predecessors , the Tchaikovsky Festival was planned as a group effort including contributions from Balanchine 's fellow ballet masters , Jerome Robbins and John Taras , and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balanchine asked Philip Johnson , who designed the State Theater , to create a unit set for the entire festival in the spirit of an ice palace with 3,600 pieces of clear plastic tubing ; the architect did just that ? at a cost of $300,000 . Balanchine 's first festival offering was " Mozartiana , " set to Tchaikovsky 's Suite No. 4 , based on four of Mozart 's late works . Balanchine 's " Mozartiana , " the fourth time he has tackled the music , is a masterpiece . The curtain opens on Suzanne Farrell in a modest black tutu ? flanked on each side by two angelic-looking little girls ? and as still as a statue . When she begins to move she 's the statue come to life , treading on air , with long floating arms and deep reverent plies . She is George Herbert 's " bird of paradise " and Balanchine 's Madonna of the Annunciation . Rake : This sacred opening serves as a benediction for the profane sections of the work in which Farrell turns up as Columbine and Ib @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the edge of decorum ? an edge over which Christopher d'Amboise as a rake-in-progress has already tumbled , helped by the company of four beautiful girls . It 's a twinkling twentieth-century vision of eighteenth-century manners seen through the prism of the romantic nineteenth-century composer . Balanchine 's second major contribution is " Hungarian Gypsy Airs " with Karin von Aroldingen as a tribal matriarch and Adam Liiders as her Romany lover . It 's marvelous how effortlessly Balanchine blends Gypsy and classical idioms , so that one moment von Aroldingen can be whirling in classic turns , and the next undulating languorously as if worshiping some pagan , Gypsy love god . Amid the sensuality , the work is spirited and gay , and seems to pick up more energy than it expends . That old pro , Jerome Robbins , has taken a playful attitude toward Tchaikovsky . His " Pas de Deux " to the second movement of the Piano Concerto No. 1 converts 17-yearold Darci Kistler , Balanchine 's latest whiz kid , and Andersen into ice skaters , performing a dazzling free-style routine . His " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works , is a cornucopia of ingenuity , as he mixes soloists and couples , sweet and sour , fast and slow , serious and comic . The single best number is a pas de deux between Heather Watts and Bart Cook which manages to be funny and beautiful at the same time . At one point Cook finds himself in front , being supported by the wisp of a Watts . The choreographic career of the company 's leading male dancer , Peter Martins , is being monitored closely . In " Capriccio Italien , " danced by students of the School of American Ballet , Martins has composed a showy " graduation ball , " contrasting elegant courtiers with Neapolitan peasants ? who win hands down . To " Symphony No. 1 " ? in which he uses the symphony 's last three movements ? he brings a Balanchinelike toughness and respect . He starts the adagio with a pyrotechnic pas de deux between Kistler and Sean Lavery , then brings on his offensive and defensive platoons with Balanchinian ease . At the end , he empties the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bitter Fate : The other choreographers have taken different tacks with Tchaikovsky . In " Concert Fantasy " Jacques d'Amboise finds dark drama as Joseph Duell , in spite of the sweet ministrations of Kyra Nichols , succumbs to a bitter fate . In " Souvenir de Florence " John Taras injects a good deal more of St. Petersburg than Florence . Joseph Duell uses the " Introduction and Fugue " from Suite No. 1 to tell the short , intense tale of a troubled romantic artist ( Adam Liiders ) who finds himself through suffering . What 's really impressive is the original way in which Duell handles an enormous force of dancers , which he cleverly manipulates to show off the complex lines of the fugue . There was a fine finish to several of the performances called " Tempo di Valse " to which Balanchine contributed his familiar " Waltz of the Flowers " from " The Nutcracker , " splendidly led by Watts , and a new " Garland Dance " from " The Sleeping Beauty , " a ballet he periodically threatens to mount . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d'Amboise is especially skillful at displaying male virtuosity , something he excels at . And Taras ends the potpourri with two waltzes , a romantic pas de deux for the evergreen Allegra Kent and Andersen , and a piece for students , the Act II waltz from " Eugene Onegin . " This is a gem , beautifully capturing the country spirit of the scene and , in a brief encounter , reminding us that this is the point at which the opera 's tragedy begins . The festival has n't ended . Between now and the end of the season , all-Tchaikovsky programs will be given every other performance . And , of course , it will never end . As it did after the Stravinsky and Ravel Festivals , the New York City Ballet 's repertory will end up permanently enriched by these ten days that shook the ballet world . 64                     