@@321606

In a mobilized society , the military 's influence is pervasive <P> Unlike Leonid Brezhnev , who loved to wear row upon row of medals , Yuri Andropov kept his army general 's uniform in the closet . But if the late Soviet leader gave every appearance of being a civilian , his ties to the military Establishment came under increasing scrutiny during his brief tenure . Andropov , it was believed , owed a debt to the military because Defense Minister Dmitri Ustinov had backed him in the race to succeed Brezhnev . In what many saw as a disquieting sign of the brass hats ' growing power , it was the military 's Chief of Staff , Nikolai Ogarkov , who stepped forward to explain the Soviet decision to shoot down Korean Air Line Flight 007 last September . Now , as the Soviets go through another transition , a critical question remains unanswered . Does the military play an increasingly influential role within the closed world of the Kremlin ? <P> Beyond the medieval crenelated walls of the Moscow citadel , Soviet society certainly seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobilization . In the streets of the Soviet capital , civilians stand patiently in long , dreary lines outside shops , as if wartime rationing were still in force , while above them huge 1930s-style posters show jut-jawed young men and women shouting slogans . Columns of army trucks filled with uniformed soldiers can sometimes be seen rumbling through city centers . There is even a military presence at soccer matches , when soldiers encircle the playing field to keep rowdy fans in order . Every town of any importance has a monument to the 20 million Soviets who died in World War II . Often the memorials are guarded by rosy-cheeked youths who carry automatic rifles ( unloaded ) and wear the red neckerchief of the Pioneers , the Soviet equivalent of scouts . On their wedding day , young brides and grooms go to war memorials to lay floral tributes to fallen soldiers . On park benches , old men playing chess wear rows of ribbons that attest to their military service . <P> The Reagan Administration has based its defense and arms-control policies on the premise that for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in most important measures of military power . The U.S.S.R. has outstripped the U.S. in weapons production over the past decade . According to a Pentagon report issued last year , the Soviets have built 2,000 ICBMs , compared with 350 for the U.S. ; 6,000 new combat aircraft , vs. 3,000 for the U.S. ; 85 new surface warships , compared with 72 for the U.S. ; and 61 attack submarines , against 27 for the U.S. When it comes to tanks and armored vehicles , the U.S.S.R. has outproduced the U.S. by 54,000 to 11,000 . According to Zbigniew Brzezinski , National Security Adviser in the Carter Administration , Moscow 's arms buildup at the expense of development in other areas has turned the Soviet Union into a " onedimensional " world power .                     