@@487020

lina an activist group called the United Farmers Organiza  --  tion has set up chapters with white and black farmers in more than twenty counties . And in South Dakota several hundred farmers showed up on September 29 to protest Reagan 's appearance in Sioux Falls . As important as the organizations and the demonstrations are , some observers say the most significant change in rural America is in the way farmers view the world . " When political  --  cians used to come out and talk to us , " notes Roger Allison , a grain farmer and director of the Missouri Rural Crisis Center , " they 'd tell us that our problems came because too many blacks were on welfare in the cities and because labor unions made too much money . But there 's been a great awakening out here . We 've realized that blacks are not our enemies , unions are not our enemies . We 're all up against the same thing . Our problem is that we 're politically powerless . " Allison points to a coalition of farm , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a model for progressive farm politics . The groups trade speakers and bring out people for one another 's rallies . Tom Quinn , a former dairy farmer and leader in the Wisconsin Farm Unity Alliance , asserts that farmers touched by these organizing efforts often reappraise their opinions on issues that reach beyond farm policy . " A lot of the people involved in the movement now , you might have called right-wing a few years ago . The man who is the presi  --  dent of our organization was someone you 'd have called a redneck . But last year he spent several months in Mississippi helping black farmers deal with their creditors . " If all this sounds too good to be true  --  a Little House on the Prairie version of a radical 's dream  --  it 's instructive to recall that it 's nothing new in American politics . " There 's a strong tradition of farm politics with left ties going back a hundred years , starting with the Farmers ' Alliance and the Populist Party on through the Progressive Party of Henry A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dairy farmer and leader in the Iowa Farm Unity Coalition . Some of the American left 's more notable accomplishments are rooted in rural populism : the Socialist Party 's highest all-time local membership totals in Oklahoma before World War I , the state-owned bank and grain mill established in North Dakota by the Nonpartisan League and eight years of radical government in Minnesota under the Farmer-Labor Party in the 1930s . Yet like much of the left , the radical farm movement faded after World War II . Since the 1950s the Agriculture Department under both Republican and Democratic administrations has promoted bigger farms using more machinery and applying larger doses of chemicals . According to the League of Rural Voters , 30 percent of American farmers left the land be  --  tween 1950 and 1960 , with 26 percent more leaving between 1960 and 1970 . But it was n't until the late 1970s , when the " get-big-or-get-out " policies began backfiring on many middle-class farmers , that the tractors converged on Washington and many state capitols . Unfortunately , some of the farmers radicalized by those protests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which blamed either a Jewish conspiracy or the Federal Reserve System for the farm crisis . These extremists gained ground in the early 1980s because they correctly identified outside economic forces as the culprit  --  unlike most liberal politicians , who blamed " poor farm managers " for the crisis , and urban leftists , who generally ignored the prob  --  lem . The left 's current activity in rural areas may reduce the far right 's drawing power among despondent farmers . The new farm activists have a hard row to hoe . They must convince a majority of farmers , most of them individualists with little experience working in groups , that their problems can be solved through political action ; that the farm crisis is a result of the same corporate attack on the American people that keeps unemployment rising and industrial wages slipping . The success of spreading this message throughout the countryside may save not only the family farm but pro  --  gressive politics as well . q NM INDIAN VOTING RIGHTS SUIT Big Horn County , Montana American Indians may soon gain access to local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . In only the second lawsuit ever brought under the 1965 Voting Rights Act on be  --  half of Indians , U.S. District Court Judge Edward Rafeedie has handed down a landmark pro-Indian ruling . The judge , a Reagan appointee visiting Montana from Los Angeles , ruled in June that Big Horn County must dis  --  mantle its at-large voting system . That system has allowed white voters to elect white candidates to school boards and county offices in every election but one since 1924 , the year that Indians got the right to vote . Big Horn County , although appealing Rafeedie 's deci  --  sion , has followed his order to devise a district voting system that mirrors the concentrations of the Indian and the white populations in the nation . This means that votes for Indian candidates in predominantly Indian districts will not be diluted by white votes . Hardin , Montana , the county seat , reminds me of a circle of covered wagons in Indian country . It perches near the confluence of the Big Horn and Little Big Horn rivers , fif  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Seventh Cavalry was rubbed out by Arapahoe , Cheyenne and Sioux warriors in 1876 . It sits just beyond the northern edge of the Crow Indian Reservation ( Crows , by the way , scouted for Custer and warned him not to attack ) and about forty miles west of the border of the Northern Cheyenne Reservation . Parts of these two reservations constitute about two-thirds of Big Horn County-5,023 square miles of rolling plains , river valleys , foothills and mountains in southeast Montana , larger than the state of Connecticut . Yet only 11,000 people live in the county . Just under half of them are Indians , and 90 percent of the Indians live outside Hardin . Of the town 's 3,500 residents , nearly 3,000 are white . One-third of all the people , but half of all the white people , in Big Horn County live in Hardin . So when the white folks in Hardin decide to vote for a white candidate to the County Commission or to the board for either of the two school districts , that white candidate always wins . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  casin became the first Indian ever elected to the board of trustees of School District 17H . He did it by convincing many of his supporters to " single-shot vote , " that is , to vote for him only and not cast a second vote for one of the three white candidates also running for the two board positions . Had whites not split their votes among these three can  --  didates , it is likely that Wayne Moccasin would have lost . No Indian ever has won a seat on the three-member Big Horn County Commission . In the past only one com  --  mission slot came up for election at any one time , and although candidates had to reside in a certain geographical district , everybody in the county got to vote . While just over 50 percent of the population in Big Horn County is white , just under 60 percent of the eligible electorate is white . Whites historically register and vote in greater proportions than Indians , although this has been changing over the past few years , and when whites vote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote white somewhat more often than Indians vote Indian . Based on such voting patterns  --  plus weeks of testimony about the systematic failure of county officials to appoint Indians to county boards and commissions , to hire Indians for county jobs , even to give voter registration cards to Indians ? Rafeedie ordered the county to implement a district voting system in time for this fall 's elections . The county 's plan , approved by Rafeedie , contains three districts : the western end of the county , comprising two-thirds of Crow Reservation , Indians making up 55 percent of the population ; the eastern end of the county , including parts of Crow and Northern Cheyenne reservations , Indians making up 77 per  --  cent of the population ; and Hardin and the surrounding area , Indians making up only 12 percent of the population . The first test of this new system came on September 30 , in a primary election ordered by Judge Rafeedie . All three County Commission posts were contested , and six Indians were among the seventeen candidates . One Indian was suc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat two other tribal mem  --  bers in District 2 to win the Democratic Party nomination . In District 1 , however , three Indian candidates split the Democratic vote , allowing a white rancher to win the nomination . A disappointed Ramona Howe , the leading Indian vote-getter in that race , told me , " We Indians beat ourselves . " She said she is strongly considering a write-in campaign as an independent , and she knows she would have to attract a large turnout of Indian voters . Howe may have the numbers with her . In her district white candidates , both Democrat and Republican , received just twenty more votes than Indian candidates . In 1984 , Indians helped elect the first Indian State Senator , Dem  --  ocrat Bill Yellowtail Jr. , a Crow . They helped put a " pro-Indian " white man , James Ruegamer , on the County Com  --  mission in 1982 . And it appears they 'll be able to elect at least one Indian , Doyle , in District 2 , to a commission post in the November 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under appeal , it could have widespread ramifications . Concen  --  trated Indian populations anywhere in the United States could consider voting rights suits . In Montana alone there are seven reservations within the borders of eighteen coun  --  ties . According to Rafeedie , only two counties in fifty-six had district elections prior to his decision . At-large voting systems are not illegal unless they dilute the political par  --  ticipation of racial , ethnic , economic or political minorities , but in Montana , as in many other regions of the West , Indians compose the main minority group . Already other Montana counties are seeking to avoid similar lawsuits by changing to district voting systems . In Billings , Jeffrey Renz , an attorney who worked on the Big Horn case , assisted by American Civil Liberties Union at  --  torney Laughlin McDonald of Atlanta , told me that Glacier County , containing most of the Blackfoot Reservation east of Glacier National Park , has contacted him . I asked Renz about Rosebud County , which borders Big Horn to the east and in which lies the greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimistic about that county 's voluntary compliance with the Voting Rights Act . " If the Cheyenne want to change Rosebud , they 'll probably have to go to court , " he said . In Big Horn County the A.C.L.U. represented eight plaintiffs : three Northern Cheyennes , two Crows and three whites . ( Two of the whites were married to Indians ; the other was " pro-Indian " County Commissioner Ruegamer . ) This tribal cooperation for the purpose of the lawsuit may give a false impression of unity between two historical enemies . Early on , the Crow tribe allied itself with the whites , while the Cheyenne were among those Plains Indians who fiercely resisted the invaders . A century later the Cheyenne and Crow still find themselves on opposite sides of an issue  --  coal development . The Crow have generally favored strip mining and power plants . The Cheyenne have generally opposed them . Cheyennes are a small minority in Big Horn County , only 7 percent of the population , and they fear that in the three-district system their votes will be swallowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are unlikely to vote for Cheyenne candidates . Even though some Indians will gain representation under the county 's new plan , the Cheyenne argue that others will not . So last July the plain  --  tiffs proposed a five-district system , with one district to include Cheyenne reservation lands . But Judge Rafeedie , showing some annoyance , turned them down and called the county 's three-district plan fair and generous . " Fair " and " generous , " of course , are not words that describe white treatment of Indians throughout history . " Indians have lost land , had their economies disrupted , and been denigrated by the policies of government at all levels , " Rafeedie acknowledges in his decision . The " NO DOGS OR INDIANS " signs in some restaurant and store windows in Hardin have been gone since the 1950s , but Indians in Big Horn County do not fare well compared with whites . For example , the average Indian life expectancy is only forty-six years , while for whites it is seventy years . Indian per capita income is only $2,987 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indian unemployment is 32.6 percent , eight times that of whites . And actual Indian unemployment may run closer to 50 percent . In 1983 , before this voting rights suit was filed , only 2.3 percent of full-time Big Horn County employees were Indian . That is now up to 8 percent , but at least 40 percent of the voting-age , and therefore employable , county population is Indian . Whites in Big Horn County complain that Indians pay no taxes on reservation lands , forcing the county to provide services without receiving revenue . This is partially true . Lands held in trust for a whole tribe by the Federal govern  --  ment , as well as lands allotted to specific members of a tribe , are not taxable . However , the Federal government does pay money to the county in lieu of property taxes for these lands . In addition , much reservation land , especially that of the Crows , has been sold piecemeal over the years to whites . Large chunks of what remains are leased to white farmers and ranchers . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond school-board and county elections . But making certain that Indian votes do count on a local level can at least be a beginning . q KoreanWar ( Continued From Front Cover ) Such verdicts were integral to the raucous domestic policies of the 1950s , and they are intensely relevant in the 1980s . Ronald Reagan 's mind is fully shaped by this period . There 's no substitute for victory , he said , campaigning in 1980 ; we ought to roll back Communism , he said last year . Each verdict embodies a particular amnesia . Acheson thought Korean War I , the war for containment , was the high point of the Truman Administration . " Korea came along and saved us , " he said . He forgot that it became an unlimited war . When he remembered , it induced schizo  --  phrenia . He called the march to the Yalu " an incalculable defeat to U.S. foreign policy which destroyed the Truman Administration , " and the worst American defeat since Bull Run  --  another revealing analogy . Korean War II , the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed , this happened not to him but to his bete noire , Douglas MacArthur . There was also a " substitute for victory " ? i.e. , stale  --  mate  --  because who knew what victory meant in Korea , or what victory could be obtained ? A march into Manchuria ? A contest for mainland China ? If MacArthur saw no substi  --  tute for victory , he likewise saw no limit on victory : each victory begged another war . The consensus on Korea is well known . It was a success for containment , a failure for rollback  --  the latter , MacAr  --  thur 's fault . But there are other , more interesting ways of structuring debate on the war . The unmentioned but dis  --  cernible verdict of the antiwar New Left was that Korea was not Vietnam , nor was it Iran , Guatemala or Cuba . Korea is                     