@@494144

It appears that the United States is not going to war with Cuba or Nicaragua , or both , after all . If you were scared by State Department and White House chatter about a naval blockade ( and the consequences , per ? haps , if a Soviet ship should try to run it ) , or if you thought that the top officials of this Administration had taken leave of their senses ( assuming you thought they had any to begin with ) by planning acts of war , you can relax . The word from the Administration this week is that the saber-rattling of last week and the week before ? Secretary Haig 's hints of military inter ? vention , President Reagan 's ruling out of ground corn-bat operations " at this time , " Edwin Meese 's refusal to rule out the naval option ? was just psychological war ? fare designed to raise the consciousness of other Western Hemisphere nations about Cuban and Nica ? raguan misbehavior and to throw a scare into Havana and Managua . The damage that is thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to the credibility of the Administration itself , is supposed to be just part of the price one pays for global gamesmanship . This is the second time this year the Administration has indulged in such war-game tactics ? the last time , Secretary Haig was going to " go to the source " ? and then called them off . Now the military chest-thumping needs to stop , or else it will appear pure bluff . Overall , however , we think that the Administra ? tion 's strategy in Central America and the Caribbean is basically right and is not appreciated by most Ameri ? cans . We have been pleasantly surprised by the devel ? opment of Reagan policy . When the Administration first came into office , it appeared that liberals ' worst fears about the conservative Republicans would be borne out ? that they would make Hemispheric policya mere extension of reflexive anti-Sovietism , that they would rely more or less exclusively on military solu ? tions , that they would identify with the region 's most brutal reactionaries and would succeed in squandering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a force for democracy and human rights ? and that all this would cause sympathy and support to flow toward Cuba and Nicaragua . This has n't happened . To be sure , military aid , train ? ing , and threats are more important aspects of Mr. Reagan 's policy than they were of Jimmy Carter 's ( though it was Mr. Carter , one should remember , who resumed military aid to El Salvador to counter supplies from Cuba and Nicaragua ) . It 's true that this Adminis ? tration has stopped publicly criticizing ? and has im ? proved relations with ? some of the region 's most notorious human rights malefactors . But it is also true that the Reagan policy is not exclusively military . There has been a political component to it , an eco ? nomic component , a propaganda component , and even a human rights component . And the Administration 's policies are showing progress . With strong U.S. en ? couragement , Honduras has just held elections and switched from military to civilian rule . The U.S. is pushing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and although those countries are not about to become perfect democracies any time soon ? Guatemala , in particular , remains a human rights horror ? the fact that elections are scheduled at all distinguishes them from Cuba and Nicaragua , where supposedly popular regimes do not even make a pretense of submitting themselves to the judgment of the people . Left-wing opinion in the U.S. , Europe , and else ? where scorns the idea of elections in El Salvador , but it is a mistake to suppose that the whole of Latin America ? fascist dictators excepted , of course ? shares that scorn and supports the French-Mexican call for a negotiated settlement between the Salvadoran gov ? ernment and the left-wing opposition . In fact , the French-Mexican initiative has been roundly con ? demmned by most of Latin America 's democracies . On December 7 , in a step that went practically unreported in the U.S. press , 22 of the 29 nations in the Organiza ? tion of American States backed a resolution support ? ing Salvadoran President Jose Napoleon Duarte 's elec ? tion plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ON DECEMBER 4 , at the OAS meeting on the island of St. Lucia , Secretary Haig delivered an en ? couraging speech on U.S. aims in Latin America . It was , in a way , a counterpart to President Reagan 's nuclear policy speech of November 18 ? a clear statement of U.S. ideals , an abandonment of bellicosity , and an appeal for cooperation among U.S. allies . Mr. Haig called on the OAS to reaffirm and promote democracy and declared that " the United States opposes human rights abuses regardless of the source . Our judgment of events must be fair and we must not allow ourselves a double standard . We should not be more tolerant of the infractions of those who reject democratic values and peaceful change , yet more critical of the lapses of those searching for democracy and social justice . Clearly a nation can not be liberated when its people are deprived of liberty . A civilization can not be creative when its poets and philosophers are in jail or in exile . A state can not be free when its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And a government can not be democratic if it refuses to submit to the test of a free election . " Mr. Haig 's remarks clearly were honed to cut most strongly against Marxist-Leninist regimes , but they also cut against right-wing dictatorships . And they provide a standard against which to judge U.S. activities . To be true to Mr. Haig 's words , the Admin ? istration should be active in securing the release of jailed intellectuals ? which it has so far almost wholly failed to do ? and should avoid imposing its will on independent countries which do not pose a threat to their neighbors . Mr. Haig also reaffirmed that the U.S. soon will take steps to deal with the economic crisis afflicting much of the Caribbean region through an initiative that in ? cludes a one-way free trade zone whereby almost all Caribbean products would enter the U.S. without duty , special incentives for U.S. investment in Carib ? bean countries , and an increase in U.S. economic assistance by some $200 million next year . The full " Caribbean Basin initiative " is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval , which may not be easy to obtain in the midst of a recession . The Administration ca n't duplicate the Marshall Plan or the Alliance for Progress , but its initiative does deserve support . The main Haig message in St. Lucia , of course , was a renewed verbal assault on Cuba and Nicaragua ? but with the difference that instead of again threatening unilateral U.S. action , the U.S. this time was calling for collective attention ? and possible collective action ? to uphold the principle of nonintervention in the Hemis ? phere . " We must all face up to the fact , " Mr. Haig declared , " that the principle of nonintervention is being violated today . " He said that " since 1978 , Cuba , with the sup ? port of the Soviet Union , has embarked on a syste ? matic campaign of increasing interference against its neighbors , " uniting feuding anti-government guerrilla groups , training revolutionaries , supplying weapons , and providing political support . The Sandinista regime in Nicaragua , Mr. Haig pointed out , now has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Somoza dictatorship it replaced . It is on its way to establishing the largest force in Central American history , with assistance from 1,500 Cuban advisers . Nicaragua has tanks and other heavy equipment never before deployed in Central America , and apparently is getting ready to acquire modern jet fighter planes . IT N THE post-Watergate , post-Vietnam atmosphere still prevailing in the U.S. , there is a tendency on the part of the press , Congress , and the people to demand courtroom-quality proof of official assertions such as Mr. Haig 's . The Administration 's white paper on Communist assistance to the Salvadoran insurgents is widely regarded as a fraud because it failed to prove that all the weapons requested from the Soviet Union , Vietnam , Ethiopia , and other countries actually made it to El Salvador and were trans-shipped , as charged , through Cuba and Nicaragua . The Administration did overstate its case about the centrality of outside influ ? ence in El Salvador ( as though there would be no insurgency except for Cuban interventionism ) , but the fact remains that insurgent leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? including some heavy arms ? did duly show up . The Administration is coming out with a new bill of particulars in January , this one to bolster charges of Cuban subversion in the Hemisphere . Obviously the document should n't be accepted uncritically , but it should be read with certain facts in mind which have nothing to do with Reagan Administration ideology . For example , last March the government of Colombia ( a democracy ) rounded up more than 100 would-be insurgents who said they had been trained in Cuba and returned for the purpose of organizing a " people 's army . " Some members of the band turned out to be participants in the February 1980 armed takeover of the Dominican embassy in Bogata by the M-19 guer ? rilla movement . As part of the hostage-release settle ? ment , the M-19 group was flown to Cuba via Panama . In an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel , Cuban Vice President Carlo Rafael Rodriguez admit ? ted that his country had trained the Colombians . On March 23 , Colombia suspended diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it into prominent positions in U.S. newspapers . Last month , Jamaica broke diplomatic relations with Cuba after evidence was developed that Jamaicans sent to Cuba for training in construction skills were given military and ideological training , apparently so that they would return home as insurgents . In all , six Latin democracies have either broken or down ? graded diplomatic relations with Cuba in the past two years . There is increasing concern in the Hemishere , too , about Nicaragua , but it has not reached anything like the sense of outrage and danger that is building over Cuba . The Reagan Administration should not create sympathy for the Sandinistas , therefore , by making war threats . Nicaragua is not a Marxist-Leninist coun ? try yet , even though it has thrown four business lead ? ers in jail and has repeatedly closed down the inde ? pendent newspaper La Prensa ( which is something even Anastasio Somoza never did ) . It is not a Soviet or Cuban satellite yet either , even though Communist bloc countries are gaining increasing influence and even though Nicaragua increasingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States should do everything possible to prevent Nicaragua from going over the brink that its leaders are driving it toward , including continuing economic aid to sustain the independent private sector . Most important , the United States should do nothing that would leave it liable to charges of having pushed Nicaragua into the arms of the Cubans and Soviets . If the Sandinistas choose to snuff out liberty in their country , the responsibility ought to be entirely on their heads . They should not be able to claim that threats of invasion , blockade , or economic destabilization from the United States forced them to build a massive army or deny freedom to their population . It is important that the Administration stop talking about acts of war against either Cuba or Nicaragua . Talking and failing to act sap U.S. credibility both in the Hemisphere and at home . Right now , the Adminis ? tration 's credibility is most in need of repair at home . The Reaganites need to spread the word about actions such as Jamaica 's and Colombia 's in breaking relations with Cuba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities and political programs of guerrilla groups in El Salvador and Guatemala . In the United States it is beginning to sink in that Nicaragua gained little in the trade between Somoza and the Sandinistas , but it is still widely believed here that any regime would be preferable to the present ones in Salvador and Guatemala . The Administration has to make it plain , at home and in the Hemisphere , that it is working urgently to create alternatives to domination by the brutal right and brutal left .                     