@@487746

At their meeting in Reykjavik , President Ronald Reagan and General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev talked about eliminating some or all of both U.S. and Soviet strategic weapons . Although the Reagan Administration has already begun to repudiate that position , the idea of nuclear disarmament has never been more urgent . The Nation asked a small number of activists , experts and friends for their thoughts on how peace and antinuclear arms control organizations should respond to that opportunity . ? The Editors MARCUS RASKIN . Here are twelve suggestions for the peace movement in the aftermath of the Reykjavik meeting . 1 . The peace movement should promulgate an alternative security plan aimed at common protection and general disarmament . Such a plan would , among other things , provide for new international institutions allied with the United Nations for peacekeeping and the settlement of disputes , and the inclusion in domestic law of standards establishing the responsibility of government officials for crimes of war and crimes against humanity . 2 . It 's time to state clearly that the United States can cut back its nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement should stop playing the **25;2901;TOOLONG game . All so-called second-strike weapons , such as the Trident 2 , can be used for first-strike purposes : bombers can be used , albeit inefficiently , for a first strike ; the Strategic Defense Initiative could facilitate a first strike . 4 . The peace movement should force nuclear strategists who argue for first-strike scenarios , extended deterrence and other bleak fantasies , and who develop rationalizations for each new weapon as it is produced , to explain where they think their strategies are taking American society and the world . 5 . The peace movement must blow the whistle on any attempt to use arms control as a means to build up conventional forces , which will only exacerbate tensions in Europe and increase the chances of U.S. military intervention in the Third World . Moreover , the peace movement should expose the myth of Soviet conventional superiority in Europe and show that disarmament will enhance stability and strengthen ties between East and West . 6 . The peace movement must clearly emphasize the relationship between the economy and the arms race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast groups , as well as economic conversion plans described in Seymour Melman 's work and in Representative Ted Weiss 's recent bill , should figure into any new industrial policy . The Administration 's use of military Keynesianism to solve internal economic problems portends industrial disaster . 7 . The Democratic Party 's platform in 1988 should contain a peace plank that outlines commitment to the establishment of a new international security system by the year 2000 ? one not predicated on the potential destruction of the world or military intervention in smaller nations . The peace movement should begin now to organize for that battle inside the Democratic Party . 8 . The peace movement should establish a formal caucus in Congress similar to the Congressional Black Caucus . Peace movement activists worked hard for sympathetic candidates this year . They should continue to do so , but they should ask for more in return . 9 . The peace movement must organize mass demonstrations . In the past , the best way for activists to promote negotiations on arms control was to put a million people in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people off the streets . An active citizenry should no longer be quieted by such negotiations , which even if successful would not address the national security budget or the causes of the arms race . It should keep up the pressure . 10 . The peace movement should support and participate in nonviolent protest that puts the establishment on trial . 11 . The peace movement should generate more exchanges and joint projects between U.S. and Soviet scholars who are committed to international understanding and are unwilling to use knowledge for mass destruction . 12 . The peace movement should defend the United Nations and the International Court of Justice , and should reach out to peace movements around the world , in order to trade information and coordinate strategies and goals . Marcus Raskin is a co-founder of the Institute for Policy , Studies and a member of The Nation 's editorial board . GREG MITCHELL Never underestimate the antinuclear movement 's desire to be " taken seriously . " For a movement now based in Washington , that means gaining respect on Capitol Hill . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably can be counted on two hands . The lobbyists and leaders of most antinuclear groups in Washington do not pursue respectability by promoting disarmament  --  that is , by taking a principled position outside the narrow parameters of traditional arms control . They are compromised even before they compromise . The MX ? No problem ; just do n't build the entire allotment . Star Wars ? Give the President $3 billion ; just do n't give him everything he asks for . Midgetman , Trident 2 ? We 'll talk about it later . That strategy helps the movement survive politically , but it does not further the cause of disarmament . And having staked out no strong position , the movement has grown dependent on its allies in Congress to provide leadership . For several weeks this fall , after the House passed five key arms control measures , that did not seem like such a bad idea . In conference , however , House Democrats caved in completely while the President headed for Reykjavik , where he and Gorbachev discussed steps far more radical than anything in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership . Has movement strategy changed , post-Reykjavik ? At meetings of leaders of peace groups'in WashiNton ' abolition " continues to be a dirty word . Aides to some of the movement 's closest allies in Congress tell me that in the next session liberal Democrats will not fight to move arms control policy significantly to the left ; rather , they will vie for control of the party 's mainstream . At the same time , representatives of some of the largest grass-roots groups have been seriously discussing issuing a call for complete nuclear disarmament . Several proposals recommending disarmament by the year 2000 have been circulated during the past few months . Voters in five Massachusetts districts.gave resounding approval in November to initiatives calling for an immediate nuclear test ban and a 1 percent reduction of U.S. nuclear weapons , to be followed by gradual reductions in U.S. and Soviet nuclear arsenals , leading to their near-abolition . In its latest strategy statement , the Freeze Campaign calls for the elimination of nearly all nuclear weapons . " Almost abolition " is the wave of the antinuclear future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want total disarmament , but they accept that the United States should maintain a small nuclear arsenal to allow for Soviet cheating and the so-called Qaddafi factor . A handful of groups in Washington may sign on , but most of the movement 's lobbyists and the overwhelming-majority of its friends in arms control circles and in Congress wo n't touch it . For almost five years the movement 's grass roots have accepted ( grudgingly at times ) the wisdom of seeking respectability . Next year , therefore , we may witness the first real split between grass-roots disarmament activists and the arms control establishment in Washington . Greg Mitchell is the editor of Nuclear Times . E.P . THOMPSON Reykjavik was regarded by both sides as an arena for public relations . It is a tribute to the worldwide level of concern for peace that both sides tried to outbid each other with grandiloquent proposals . That is a small plus . The Soviet Union won the public relations contest in the eyes of everyone except the U.S. media . It certainly scored a victory in Western Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlantic are convinced that Gorbachev badly needs to cut military expenditures in order to modernize the Soviet economy ; the unilateral nuclear test moratorium , sustained for more than a year in the face of pressure from the Soviet military , is more convincing than any set of proposals ; only a few crazy ideologues and hired hands in Western Europe have any time for Star Wars , hence the Soviet position on it is popular ; and no one believes that a U.S. negotiating team that includes people like Richard Perle could be serious about nuclear disarmament . However , the public relations operation did result in astounding proposals that seemed to suggest that the abolition of " all " nukes was possible and just around the corner . A plus for that also . Now all the , " utopian , " " unpractical " talk of peace movements seems to carry the endorsement Of the highest powers and stations of planet Earth . The fundy thing about this is that it sent the public relations machine of the Western European establishments into a tizzy . It undercut their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now being told that its European allies do n't want Ronald Reagan 's kind disarmament proposals after all . The British and French want to keep their own nukes , and NATO wants to keep some cruise and Pershiiigs on site . ? I clO not need to tell readers of The Nation that this ig less than half the story . For " Europeans , " read " European military-political establishments . " The rest of Western Europe  --  which includes major oppositions , the West German Social Democratic Party and Greens , SCandinavian Social Democratic parties , the British Labor Party ( and the majority of Liberals ) , as well as the peace movements  --  is laughing its head off . Reagan 's oversell stripped the European establishments of their clothes and left them naked in the marketplace . Margaret Thatcher and Helmut Kohl ( and , helas , Francois Mitterrand ) , who hastened on cruise and Pershing with ardent professions of their enthusiasm for the " zero-zero " option , are now exposed as hypocrites . It is high farce , and it is doing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If there has to be some measure of arms control  --  even disarmament , - both sides want , it to be in areas of- their choice . The United States wants to get rid of Soviet ICBMs , based on land and targeted on U.S. territory . The Russians might be willing to trade off ICBMs but only if Star Wars is checked . The United States wants to keep its hands free in areas where it has the technological edge over the Russians , especially in space , but it also wants to keep some air- and sea-launched systems . The Russians fear exotica in space , where they can not afford to compete . Meanwhile , U.S. advisers are less worried about intermediate and short-range nukes , which ca n't hit U.S. territory , but that is where the Thatcher/Kohl farce is blocking progress . The proper response to.all this by people ceincerned ? with . peace is laughter , and then measured cynicism , ? - Of course , We are not kOing to get a nuke-free future as long as the global bloc confrontation goes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  even a deal on intermediate-range nukes  --  and we should try hard for that . But the realistic goal is a " historic compromise " between the superpowers . That would mean political , cultural and economic relaxation along with arms control agreements ; the reduction of conventional forces as well as the elimination of this and that category of nukes . But it would n't be a trade-off between the United States and the Soviet Union over our heads . Small and middle-sized nations may be , the first to get the act moving : West German and East German agreements ; a trade-off as the British get rid Of U.S. nuclear bases on their soil and the Czechs ask the Soviet Union to remove their short-range nukes and pull back conventional forces . I 'm sure that the American peace movement has now understood that making peace is as much a political question as a question of arms control . When we have stopped laughing after Reykjavik , we must get our acts together . E.P . Thompson , a British historian and writer , is an honorary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a founder of European Nuclear Disarmament . ROBERT KARL MANOFF The nuclear regime is a system of talk . For forty-one years many of the same possibilities have been foreseen , the same subjects addressed , the same quandaries discussed . The deployments that really matter in this semantic field are those not of warheads but of meaning . But one notion has virtually disappeared from the discourse : that nuclear weapons ought to be , and can be , eliminated . Even the antinuclear movement had abandoned it by the time the limited test-ban treaty was signed in 1963 . Disarmament became disreputable ; disarmers , embarrassing figures on the margin . Supported by expert opinion and popular Sovietphobia , the " realists " have dominated the discourse ever since . Ronald Reagan is a nuclear naff , however , and that made possible his unfortunate embrace of strategic defense at a time when most experts would have advised that he do otherwise . But it is also what permitted him to discuss the elimination of strategic weapons systems at Hofdi House in Reykjavik . By so doing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force and political energy of the antinuclear movement with his Star Wars prOposal , in Iceland the President helped to give voice to what had been unspeakable for decades . Whether he meant to do so is less important than the fact that he did it . This has been understood by America 's European allies and by many in Reagan 's own Administration , in the arms control community , the military and Congress  --  all of whom have expressed their dismay . Few voices have been raised in support of the President 's ambitious vision . It has been a fascinating spectacle .. For decades lip service was paid to the notion that although eliminating . nuclear weapons was an impractical idea , the world would be better off without them . Discourse after Reykjavik has been different . Faced with the prospect of getting rid of the weapons , the public seems to have concluded that we ought to hang on to them after all . Those who do not concur have only themselves to blame . With few exceptions they have remained silent , distraught that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fearful lest they get out ahead of where they imagine their constituencies to be . If those with another vision of the future would like to see it realized , they must begin by finding their tongues . Only by controlling the discourse will they ever master the weapons . The President , believe it or not , has shown them a way . Robert Karl Manoff , a co-director of the Center for War , Peace and the News Media , at New York University , is writing a book on press coverage of nuclear issues . PAUL C. WARNKE At Reykjavik , President Reagan and General Secretary Gorbachev both expressed their distaste for nuclear weapons and their desire to rid the world of them , Subsequent discussions at Vienna and Geneva seem to have degenerated into bickering about whether all nuclear weapons are to be eliminated in ten years , or just ballistic missiles . It would be a sad mistake if those interested in concrete steps to prevent nuclear war were to get drawn into this argument . Instead , maximum political pressure should be exerted on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and negotiate the drastic cuts in strategic offensive weapons that both sides agreed could be made within five years . The purpose of nuclear arms control is to prevent nuclear war . In a world better designed and run , that might be done by destroying all existing nuclear weapons and dismantling facilities for their production . But today , and in the foreseeable future , no such treaty can be negotiated , verified or enforced . Even if the United States and the Soviet Union could trust each other not to squirrel away a few , or a few hundred , nuclear warheads , there would be no assurance that other nuclear powers ( particularly France and China ) wouldgive up their nuclear forces . Despite their pious protestations at Iceland , therefore , I believe that the nuclear superpowers will continue to protect an assured nuclear deterrent . What can clearly be done , and done quickly , is to limit each side to a much smaller number of weapons designed to survive but not threaten a first strike . The key to such a restructuring is a sharp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ targetable reentry vehicles . The ready means for achieving that result is , of course , the SALT H treaty , which President Reagan has said is no longer operative . Rather than flout SALT II ceilings , the Administration should reach an agreement to lower them by at least 10 percent a year for five years . That would put into effect the ten-. tative agreement at Reykjavik . ? But the Reagan Administration 's plans to exceed the limits set by SALT II and to reinterpret the ABM Treaty will ' increase , rather than reduce , the threat of nuclear war . Testing of space-based defensive systems will eviscerate the treaty and make it impossible for Soviet leaders to consider reductions that , together with an otherwise ineffective strategic defense , would forfeit their retaliatory deterrent . In addition the obvious concern of Soviet leaders about the offensive capability of the Strategic Defense Initiative will foreclose any consideration of cutting offensive nuclear forces . Organizations and individuals committed to lessening the risk of nuclear war should not allow the prospects for progress briefly and tantalizingly revealed at Reykjavik @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rid the world of nuclear weapons . Opinions can and will differ on the feasibility of general nuclear disarmament , but there should be no argument about the fact that we ca n't get there without intermediate steps , focusing on selective reductions of the weapons that present the gravest peril . And there also should be no argument about the fact that we will never get there if existing restraints that provide a ready means for significant , selective cuts are blithely discarded . Paul C. Warnke is an attorney with Clifford &; Warnke in Washington and chair of the Committee for National Security . He was director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in 1977 and 1978 and was chief U.S. negotiator for the SALT II treaty . TOM HARKIN I see no grounds for optimism in the way President Reagan and General Secretary Gorbachev handled arms control during the Iceland summit . I see , instead , cause for anger and alarm . In spite of genuine movement by both sides on the important details of a formula for limiting strategic and intermediate-range nuclear weapons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rather than agreeing to eliminate intermediate nuclear force ( I.N.F. ) missiles in Europe and to reduce the number of strategic nuclear weapons significantly , President Reagan chased after his Star Wars mirage of nuclear disarmament on earth through a military buildup in space . Bedazzled by " his own dream , Reagan said no to a ten-year limit on the Strategic Defense Initiative in exchange for reductions in offensive nuclear arms . It was a profound mistake to reject this compromise , but it was especially disconcerting to learn that the Leader of the Free World was apparently winging it during critical negotiations . When the Russians objected to the one-sided U.S. proposal to ban all strategic ballistic missiles , Reagan apparently said he would be willing to eliminate all nuclear weapons in ten years  --  a position that had not been discussed with the President 's own experts or governments dependent on the U.S. nuclear deterrent . As for Gorbachev , he reneged in Iceland on two impor ? tant commitirients , fic had made at the 1985 Geneya sunimit : that he would meet with the President in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " sep ' arhateagreeinent. on I.N.F'tnisiles'c6uld. be concluded in spite of differences over S.D.I. Instead of attempting to move the Geneva negotiations forward , Gorbachev chose to play to the galleries with his unrealistic offer of nuclear disarmament within a decade . The real opportunity for arms control was created by the elections . The last Congress failed to defend the arms control edifice that was so painstakingly erected by past Administrations , largely because the Republican Senate was not willing to stand up to the President . The next Congress will have the means to force U.S. compliance with existing arms control agreements , but it will need continual encouragement from the American people . Although it will be more difficult to induce the Administration to take new steps in arms control , if the White House will work with the Democratic leadership , the 100th Congress can contribute to forging agreements that reduce nuclear arsenals and the risks of war . Tom Harkin is the junior Senator from Iowa . PAM SOLO The summit between General Secretary Gorbachev and President Reagan in Iceland created new opportunities and challenges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Motivation , both Reagan and Gorbachev demonstrated that ending the arms race is a political decision , not a technical problem . There are three minimal lessons of Reykjavik for the peace movement . First , we must turn up the heat under Reagan and Gorbachev . We should demand that they pursue the proposals offered in Iceland . The peace movement should call for more daring initiatives like the Soviet nuclear testing moratorium , which build confidence and set the stage for future action . Second , the peace movement must set the terms of the debate , defining the problem more accurately as one of reaching security in the nuclear age without nuclear and conventional weapons . The U.S. peace movement must define a new basis for security outside the arms control framework , even while it struggles to define this new basis for security in a world bristling with conflict . To turn away from this task will only deepen the peace movement 's current dilemma of choosing which weapons to oppose and which to support . Third , in the short run , the peace movement must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejecting deterrence and offering hope of a world free of nuclear weapons , Reagan has set his own rhetorical trap . The peace movement should reclaim this political and moral ground by opposing Star Wars , not on the basis of its technical feasibility but on its inability to achieve Reagan 's own vision  --  which may have developed in response to the peace movement . But the peace movement must also work to expose the myth of Soviet conventional superiority . This becomes even more urgent given Reagan 's commitment to Margaret Thatcher , after Iceland , that nuclear arms reductions would take place only in the context of redressing Soviet conventional strength . If the peace movement does not rise to this challenge , no one will . The new Democratic Senate , looking toward the White House in 1988 , will probably be cautious . The peace movement is the opposition party between now and 1988 . Pam Solo is a visiting scholar at Radcliffe College and a codirector of the Institute for Peace and International Security . She was one of the initiators of the nuclear freeze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood in the damp wind handing out press releases in Reykjavik , we never dreamed that nuclear disarmament was being discussed downtown at Hofdi House . In the past few years SANE : the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy has called for the elimination of all nuclear and conventional weapons by 2005 in carefully planned stages . But few people have listened ; ' hence , the tactical focus On a test ban , on budget cuts , on Star Wars , on stopping or slowing anything'we could . No longer . At Reykjavik , Ronald Reagan made nuclear disarmament respectable . Former Energy Secretary James Schlesinger may have grumbled publicly that , as far as he knew , only SANE had approved of Reagan 's radical ( ideas , but now there is no going back . Our analysis of post-Reykjavik support for Reagan in public opinion polls indicates that many people backed him because they believed he was holding out for deep cuts , disarmament , peace . Unless the peace movement can offer an equally bold and compelling vision , the door temporarily blown ajar by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SANE , along with other groups , is calling for a citizens ' summit on nuclear disarmament to be held in Washington on June 12 , the anniversary of the 1982 New York City antinuclear march . We plan a U.S.-Soviet rock concert and other cultural events , a huge rally and an international conference to represent those people and peace groups of the world so disappointed by the outcome in Reykjavik . We are also initiating a nationwide test-ban referendum campaign . The proposed resolutions include demands for the elimination of all nuclear weapons . In December , SANE is formally presenting to Congress a Draft Treaty for General Disarmament and Common Security . This time , though , we find people are listening . , David Cortright and Robert K. Musil are , respectively , executive director and director of communications and education for SANE . They attended the Reykjavik summit as part of a joint U.S.-European peace delegation . SAYRE SHELDON The word " disarmament " worries some Americans . When Women 's Action for Nuclear Disarmament formed , in 1981 , some in the peace movement said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the early organizers wanted a strong statement of purpose and followed the example of the European organizations , Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and European Nuclear Disarmament . Has the term " nuclear disarmament " become more respectable since the Reykjavik meeting , now that deep reductions in nuclear forces have been discussed by the leaders of both superpowers ? Beyond the words themselves is a new conceptual reality : nuclear disarmament has been acknowledged as a meaningful , achievable goal . Are Americans now less fearful about nuclear disarmament , or any le , ss confused about what it might mean ? Many still believe their national security depends directly on the number of nuclear weapons stockpiled in the arsenals of the United States and its allies . The enemy is relentlessly identified as the Soviet Union , and children are brought up to believe that the cold war is a fact of life . The Reagan Administration refused to take the first step toward nuclear disarmament when the opportunity presented itself in Iceland . Instead , Reagan insisted on developing expensive weapons that will ultimately militarize space and pose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided a brief vision of what is possible . Peace advocates have succeeded in bringing the world this far ; now we must work toward another level . We must expose the illusion of defense promised by Star Wars , and we must oppose it . We must show that national security is incompatible with threats to another country 's existence . We must explain that nuclear disarmament will make America stronger , not weaker . Peace activists around the world must form vast coali- ' tions , working with coordinated national strategies . After Reykjavik the mission is clear : we are ready for the next step on the long road to stopping the arms race . Iran Arms Deal ( Continued From Front Cover ) fighter aircraft are all of U.S. manufacture , as are a majority of its tanks and radar systems . With a large proportion of its fighters grounded for lack of spare parts , Iran is prepared to go to any length to acquire U.S.-made arms and parts , even if that involves direct talks with Washington . Teheran seemed to . be doing reasonably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States and Europe until January 1984 . At that point the Reagan Administration included Iran on its list of nations supporting terrorism , thus making the Islamic Republic subject to rigorous export controls . The United States also leaned heavily on third-party suppliers of U.S.-made arms or parts to Iran . While professing neutrality in the gulf war , the Reagan Administration increasingly tilted toward Iraq and provided it with financial aid , military intelligence and , most recently , helicopters . At the same time that it was proscribing Iran for terrorism , the United States removed Iraq from its list of outlaw nations . When the pro-Iranian Islamic Jihad kidnapped U.S. diplomat William Buckley in Beirut in March 1984 , demanding the release of seventeen men convicted in Kuwait on charges of bombing the U.S. and French embassies four months earlier , it also called on Washington and Paris to alter their policies toward Iran . The group demanded an end to French weapons sales to Iraq and a suspension of the U.S. arms embargo on Iran . The first , muted signs of change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , following the March offensive in the marshlands north of Basra , in which Iran 's forces broke through heavily fortified Iraqi defenses , crossed the Tigris River and cut the Basra-Baghdad highway near Qurna . Although the Iranians were later decimated by an Iraqi counteroffensive , the White House was apparently impressed by their determination in breaking the Iraqi lines without any air support . With the help of Ibrahim Yazdi , a former Iranian Foreign Minister who was visiting Washington , McFarlane set up " backchannel " communications with Teheran . . What gave added impetus to those contacts was the hijacking ' of a Trans World Airlines jet to Syria in June 1985 . Intervention by President Hafez al-Assad of Syria was not enough to bring the release of all thirty-nine hostages . The last four were not freed until a prominent Iranian emissary arrived in Damascus , acting at the behest of Hojatolislam Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , speaker of the Iranian Parliament and official spokesman of the Supreme Defense Council . Afterward , Reagan wrote a personal letter thanking Rafsanjani , which opened the way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In late July , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini issued new guidelines for Iranian foreign policy , lamenting that Iran 's international Dilip Hiro is the author of Iran Under the Ayatollahs ( Methuen ) . He recently spent two weeks in Iran .                     