@@333843

Back when the late Mayor Richard J. Daley and his powerful political machine ran Chicago , winning a Democratic nomination was tantamount to victory in the general election . These days the machine is falling to pieces , and candidates have little to lose by running without its support . The point was made abundantly clear last week when Harold Washington , Chicago 's first black mayor , kicked off his campaign for a second term by threatening to skip the Feb. 24 Democratic primary altogether and run as an independent in April 's election . Not to be outdone , a brigade of would-be successors , all lifelong Democrats , proclaimed that they too might shun the party and enter the fray as independents or even  --  horrors !  --  as Republicans . Crowed the mayor , whose best hopes for re-election depend on a crowded field : " Monkey see , monkey do . The more the merrier . " <P> What explains the rush away from the long-preferred Democratic label is the fact that in Chicago racial voting has become a habit . Blacks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million population , and Hispanics for most of the remainder . If two or more white contenders carve up the white vote , blacks  --  voting as a bloc  --  have the numerical strength to elect a mayor on their own . That is what happened in 1983 , when Washington narrowly won the Democratic nomination in a three-way primary race against former Mayor Jane Byrne and Cook County Prosecutor Richard M. Daley , son of the legendary boss . Chastened , Washington 's white opponents are now trying to unite behind a single challenger . Says Chicago Political Scientist Paul Green : " The name of the game is to get Harold Washington one-on-one . That 's the only way you can beat him . " <P> The trouble is that Washington 's enemies , whose dislike for one another seems to be exceeded only by their distaste for the mayor , have been unable to decide which great white hope to get behind . This year , for the first time in 70 years , Cook County 's Democratic Central Committee , Mayor Daley 's former stronghold , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mayor 's archenemy , Alderman Edward Vrdolyak , leader of the anti-Washington faction on the city council , has the blessing of the machine . <P> For his part , Washington is taunting his challengers by playing a masterly game of political chicken . Last week the mayor filed a huge stack of petitions qualifying him for a spot on the Democratic primary ballot . Should only one Democratic contender square off against him , reducing his chances of winning , the mayor may duck the party contest and jump straight into a three- way general election as a black independent running against a white Democrat and a white Republican . Washington clearly relishes forcing his opponents to play a guessing game . " I am getting a tremendous amount of pleasure out of watching the opposition squirm and wonder what I 'm doing , " he gloats . " Let ' em sweat . "                     