@@432012

 | With no end in sight to their long bout with inflation , businesses are trying every move possible to check rising prices . For some it 's a matter of buying more carefully , substituting cheaper materials and reorganizing operations for greater efficiency . Others are zeroing in on energy , travel , labor needs and a host of other overhead costs . All these steps are needed , experts say , if companies are to survive at a time when the inflation rate is nearing 20 percent . " It takes a very good manager in times like these , " says Bernard Browning , president of General Business Services , a Maryland-based firm that advises companies in all 50 states . " A lot of people will go under , but that is how you weed out the unfit . " To make sure that their clients do n't go belly up , Browning and other specialists recommend that firms trim these expenses to the bone : Travel , seminars , hiring , the purchase of inventory and equipment . " It 's no time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York management consultant Abraham Getzler , who advises troubled firms . " Do n't worry that people will say you are n't a big shot if you have to close a showroom or lay off longtime employes . The survivors will be those who pull overhead way down . " Now that the interest rate on funds to finance inventories has climbed to more than 20 percent , Getzler advises companies to make careful projections on demand before ordering , then buy less than they need and fill the gap later by purchasing items from companies that have overbought . J. M. Anderson , director of the material department at Lockheed of Georgia in Atlanta , agrees that the " buy now " psychology is far less attractive when interest rates are so high . He says : " The cost of carrying your inventory ties up your cash flow , and there are hidden costs , such as storage , losses from damage or pilferage and breakthroughs in technology that could make some stockpiled parts obsolete . " Other firms ? from tiny mom and pop operations to giant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials . Bruce Linzer , part owner of an Atlanta delicatessen , saves by buying his produce directly from a farmers ' market instead of dealing through a wholesaler . At the other end of the scale , General Motors is trying to buy steel from plants close to auto works to trim transportation costs . Swapping services . The age-old technique of bartering also is on the upswing . Most in demand , according to Michael Ames , president of Trade Americard , a Los Angeles barter group , is dental and medical care for mom and pop establishments that ca n't afford health-insurance programs . For example , the owner of a restaurant or print shop might get dental work in exchange for restaurant meals or printing work . Ames warns prospective barterers to investigate barter clubs carefully and check the references of participating businesses . The best groups are those that have operated for five years or more and have at least 1,000 members . Leasing ? another way of preserving cash ? has become more popular , too . Observers say firms now are leasing  | many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year ago before interest rates soared . These include many relatively low-ticket items such as word processors , machine tools , X-ray equipment and forklifts . Other firms are trying to cut costs by using cheaper materials . The CocaCola Company recently authorized its bottlers to use corn syrup for up to 50 percent of the sucrose in Coke . The substitute costs about 20 to 30 percent less than sugar . In Pittsburgh , H. J. Heinz Company is packing more of its products designed for sale to institutions and restaurants in plastic bags instead of tinplate , which is 25 percent more expensive . Because of recent high silver costs , Texas Instruments had been eliminating silver in its semiconductors wherever possible . Raytheon Company , the large hightechnology firm in Lexington , Mass. , is reducing use of costly cobalt in one type of magnet . Its purchasing managers also have been instructed to challenge the prices quoted by suppliers to insure that the White House price guidelines are being observed . Credit crunch . Many companies , too , are tightening credit terms to customers , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Everyone is holding back on payment , " says consultant Getzier . " If a supplier will let you pay in 45 days instead of 30 , you 've got to take advantage of it . " Other experts recommend that companies keep a close watch on costs so that they can update prices swiftly . To do that , however , careful record keeping is needed , and many small firms still lag in that department , says Browning of General Business Services . He adds : " Companies have got to charge on the basis of what it will cost them to replace the item sold ? not on how much they paid for it . " Closer scrutiny also is needed over energy use . American industry has cut energy use by more than 20 percent since 1972 , but there still is plenty of room for improvement , says Roger Sant , director of Carnegie Mellon University 's Energy Productivity Center . Among his recommendations : Find out what share of an end product 's cost is due to energy and adjust prices accordingly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy waste . Lighting costs for most firms can be trimmed from 10 to 50 percent . Steam and compressed-air leaks cause energy losses of 20 to 25 percent . Machine tools left idling during breaks can add up to 20 percent to electric bills . Speed the flow of materials on assembly lines to eliminate idle time . Insulate the roofs of factories and install ceiling fans to distribute warm air throughout the building . Install meters on factory processes that consume most of the energy . The only measure most firms have is the total energy bill , which does n't pinpoint problems . Sant suggests that larger offices and plants examine use of computerized energy-management systems . He recommends that companies consider retrofitting boilers or installing new ones to handle a variety of fuels , such as natural gas and fuel oil . Also suggested : Co-generation ? energy systems that provide steam or heating needs and production of electricity . Companies that have tried such steps have realized big savings . An ongoing energy program at Raytheon has resulted in reductions of 30 percent in oil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 1973 . . Observes James K. Rogers , director of environmental and energy conservation for Raytheon ? " Investments in conservation are among the best places manufacturers can put their money , since the payback is so attractive . " Other firms find that they can hold down energy costs simply by paying closer attention to the rate structures offered by utilities . Sarkis Soultanian , executive vice president of National Utility Service , a New York firm that advises some 9,000 U.S. companies on utility rates , says that a 10 to 20 percent reduction in utility bills is typical for his company 's clients . For example , companies are often unaware that night operations will get them a lower rate or that energy conservation can put them in a user class with cheaper rates . Boosting productivity is still another tool used to battle rising prices . Traditionally that approach involved installation of modern equipment or construction of new plants . However , Keithley Instruments , a Cleveland manufacturer of electronic measurement equipment , is improving worker output by shifting labor from the traditional assembly line to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finish . The idea has saved so much money that the company will convert all its manufacturing operations to the team approach by the end of the year . Many firms , too , are cutting labor costs by consolidating accounting and other services , and using subcontractors to do small jobs , instead of adding permanent employes . Beyond these major inflation-fighting steps are many minor ones . The higher costs of services , for example , have boosted sales of how-to books aimed at small firms . Enterprise Publishing Company in Wilmington , Del. , predicts a 30 percent increase in sales this year from books on such subjects as tax havens , accounting , advertising and inflation protection . To cut the costs of travel for sales meetings and training sessions , more companies also are using videotapes . One big user is Union Electric Company of St. Louis , which has more than 5,500 employes in 31 locations . Notes an official : " We ca n't bring everyone together , and having our personnel stage live presentations at several locations is not cost effective . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they work . " No firm can or should adopt all these steps , but analysts say that prospects for continued inflation put a premium on greater efficiency ? wherever companies can find it .                     