@@432141

 | Tell me , Doctor , what it all means . I have seen ? or perhaps imagined I 've seen ? a woman spill out a graphically ghastly description of her rape in a parking lot . I have witnessed a married couple blithely discuss their respective infidelities and a wife tearfully confront her husband over his inability to bring her to an orgasm . I have watched families agonize over a father 's child abuse , a mother 's chronic gambling , a daughter 's bisexuality and a bachelor son 's bed-wetting . So here 's my question , Doctor : how is it that these people are sharing such intimate details of their compulsions and dysfunctions with a total stranger ? The doctor apologized for having to rush off to another appointment ( something about acting as host on a TV show ) , but he did spare enough time to explain that this was no dream and toss me a copy of the latest cable listings . It was all there : program after program with titles like " Coping " and " Caring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crisis " and " Living and Loving " and " Join the Group . " Jolt : Welcome to the theater of therapy , cable TV 's controversial new prescription . Ever since " Queen for a Day , " a 1950s game show in which female contestants competed for booty by blurting out the most pathetic tales of domestic woe , programs about the extraordinary traumas of ordinary individuals have made for a mutually satisfying video experience . The guests get cathartic relief and a moment of stardom while we get a voyeuristic jolt and the reassurance that our own lives are n't really so bad . But the confluence of today 's touchy-feely , show-and-tell ethos with all those new cable channels waiting to be filled has created an epidemic of psychic logorrhea . Never have so many bared so much on the cathode couch ? nor generated more static over whether such spectacles serve the public health or merely exploit human pain . The genre 's most startlingly explicit exhibit is " Human Sexuality , " a daily series on the Cable Health Network ( CHN ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educator , " gently prods participants into revealing their most delicate sexual problems . Relentlessly chirpy , empathy oozing from every pore , Goldsmith somehow manages to find an upbeat side to everything from venereal disease to prostitution . " Tell me , Kathy , " she coos , " how did you discover your G ' spot ? " As Kathy obliges , her interviewer nods and beams . If Doris Day had given up singing for sex counseling , she might have become Sharon Goldsmith . Other shows tap their studio audiences for instant feedback . On CHN 's " Real Life Stories , " psychologist Tom Cottle presents taped vignettes of a real family 's domestic crisis ( e.g. , divorce , illness , financial ruin ) to audience members who analyze their own emotional reactions . A similar approach is employed by Sonya Friedman , a Detroit psychologist who appears daily on the USA cable network . Whether her guest 's topic is the empty-nest or premenstrual syndrome , Friedman works her studio audience like a female Phil Donahue . " Is your husband supportive ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much as the conviction that her husband is n't watching . More conventional psychoanalytic techniques can be observed on programs with group-therapy formats . Today there 's virtually one for every age group . " Dr. Lee Salk Talks to Teens , " a product of Hearst/ABC 's Daytime cable network , has the noted child psychologist questioning carefully selected samples of youngsters about such adolescent traumas as parental invasions of their privacy . Far more articulate discourse infuses CHN 's " Join the Group , " in which a rotating panel of seven elderly citizens discusses the problems of aging . Dating after 50 , coping with retirement and menopause , loneliness and fear of death ? their reflections are by turn provocative , sensible and wrenchingly poignant . Ironically , the show 's only dumb notes are sounded by its professional moderator , a voluble family counselor given to such psychotwaddle as " What I 'm hearing is you were searching for a personhood . " None of the therapy shows have stirred as much controversy as a pair of programs ? CHN 's " Crisis Counselor " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use improvisational actors to simulate actual psychotherapeutic sessions . As a genuine therapist guides the proceedings , the actors portray family members grappling with such afflictions as alcoholism , impotence and incest . Few soap operas have packaged more excruciating psychodramatics : these " families " sulk and cry and tear at each other with harrowing fury . Defenders of the genre , within both the TV industry and the psychiatric community , invariably point to one social benefit . By demystifying the counseling process . they claim , such programs may inspire viewers with similar problems to seek professional assistance . The genre 's critics contend that whatever educational value these shows possess hardly compensates for their potential hazards . To the unsophisticated , they might impart the impression that psychological disorders can be solved by quickie , half-hour fixes . Or they could even lead some viewers to make drastic changes in their lives without fully understanding the special causes of their emotional difficulties . In addition , television by its very nature may simply be the wrong medium for serious psychic exploration . It is almost axiomatic that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tends to trivialize whatever it touches ? even human suffering . A promotional brochure sent by the producers of " Crisis Counselor " to potential sponsors perhaps says it all : " Program appeal is similar to daytime serials , guaranteeing large female audiences ... " Suicide : The American Psychological Association recently appointed a task force to draw up ethical guidelines for its members who practice on the airwaves . In the meantime , expect more of the same and maybe something worse . At this very moment , a former NBC executive and independent TV producer named Laurence Schwab is trying to peddle a series that might be described as the " Gong Show " of electronic therapy . Schwab 's subject is suicide . On the pilot episode he has produced , all manner of people who contemplate ending it all , including a Vietnam veteran and a victim of child molestation , pour out their torment to a " suicide counselor " as the camera unblinkingly gawks . So far , reports Schwab , network programmers who have screened the show were " tremendously moved " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong . " Dare we hope ?                     