@@297244

The First Patient is healing , but his programs are ailing <P> The details of convalescence sounded reassuringly familiar to anyone who has recovered from major surgery . In his first week back at the White House after the attempt on his life , Ronald Reagan puttered around the second-floor bedroom and sitting room . He strolled in the Rose Garden and frequently visited the third-floor solarium to bask in the sunshine and admire the tulips that had bloomed while he was in the hospital . He took penicillin orally to guard against infection of the lung pierced by the would-be assassin 's bullet . But that was Reagan 's only medication . The President 's personal physician , Dr. Daniel Ruge , found no need to conduct any extensive examinations on his twice daily visits . He merely performed brief checkups and asked the First Patient how he felt . " It sure hurts to get shot , " Reagan told aides with a wry smile . Nonetheless , he ate heartily enough to begin putting back some weight and even asked when he could resume his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began doing some bending and stretching exercises . <P> But there was some grimmer news too . Benjamin Aaron , the surgeon who removed the bullet at George Washington University Hospital , disclosed last week that the President had been losing blood so rapidly right after the shooting outside the Washington Hilton that he might have died if he had been taken to the White House rather than to the hospital . Moreover , Aaron confirmed that the bullet had lodged only an inch from Reagan 's heart . That report had specifically been denied at the time by Hospital Spokesman Dennis O'Leary , who placed the bullet " several inches " away from the heart . O'Leary now says that he apparently misunderstood Aaron in the turmoil after the surgery . The only significance to the fact that the bullet was so close to the heart , O'Leary insisted , is that " the longer the track of the bullet , the more tissue that must be healed and the longer the period of recovery . " <P> Encouraging though the President 's convalescence has been , his top aides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fully back on the job . Reagan did increasingly turn his attention to affairs of state and even found time to see two distinguished visitors : NATO Secretary General Joseph Luns and New York 's Terence Cardinal Cooke . The President also caught up on some of the routine proclamations that had piled up while he was in the hospital , and held discussions on important questions with his top aides . But the meetings were brief because Reagan tired quickly . One participant in a session dealing with the President 's economic program reported that Reagan began alertly and was full of questions , but showed obvious signs of fatigue after half an hour . Meanwhile , essential decisions are being made but little forward planning is getting done . Says one White House adviser : " We 're losing momentum , and it will be difficult to recapture . "                     