@@324198

The decade just ended left behind a great many fresh reminders of why prophets have always had difficulty winning honor on their own turf . The forecasting about the 1970s turned out to be a pathetic flop . Virulent inflation and an epochal energy crisis are only two of the most ominous realities that eluded the visions of virtually every forecaster . Moreover , the failure was marked by far more than the understandable inability to foresee all the astonishments to come ; many , perhaps most , of the positive projections also turned out to be dismally wrong . To mention only one , the twinkle-toed , bell-bottomed , bead-draped , mind-blown , laid-back Consciousness III that Charles Reich saw aborning in The Greening of America ( 1970 ) proved to be a huge bag of promises , or threats , or wind , that never quite got delivered . <P> The 1970s diverged socially , politically and psychologically from the paths and contours that the futurists imagined . Actuality put the lie to most prophecies long before anybody in the U.S. had even heard of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well before Iran , it was evident that forecasters , including the most respected , had flubbed by failing to foresee the fateful sagging in U.S. productivity , the influx of women into the work force ( hence increased dual income ) , the decline in the birth rate , and the wrenching financial crisis in such cities as New York , Cleveland and Chicago . The 1970s , in other words , flatly disregarded most of the advance billings . <P> Gross differences between history and human anticipation of it are as old as the practice of prophecy . Most respectable forecasters are already painfully aware of the shortcomings of their art , and little is to be gained by rubbing their noses in the disparities . ( For one thing , it might distract them from the job of forecasting the 1980s . ) Still , a certain amount of carefully aimed derision is justified in a world increasingly buffeted by overblown future schlock . Most of all , it is useful to try to understand why the predictions about the 1970s so often came to nought . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sampling of the 1969 prognostications had been accurate ? The economy would be stable , steadily growing , with perhaps a bit of inflation . A superboom in housing would have occurred : a second home would be as ordinary as a second car . Vertical takeoff planes would be much in use . A safe fast-breeder reactor would be perfected . Space-shuttle flights would be regularly scheduled . Anticancer vaccine would be available at the neighborhood clinic . Ugly transmission lines would all be underground . People would be shopping by two-way cable television . Teaching machines would be widely used . Office work would be mostly automated . An electronic control lane for trucks and buses would make passenger cars safer on the highways .                     