@@432429

 | The most forlorn-looking foreigners in Japan , which is saying something , are the Mormon missionaries . Apart from sumo wrestlers , they 're the easiest people in the country to pick out . Shorthaired and typically blond young American men , dressed in dark pants and plain white shirts , usually pushing a bicycle with one hand while holding religious books in the other , ca n't exactly melt into the Asian mass . In Hakodate , a port city on Japan 's northern island of Hokkaido , I left my children playing in a park one afternoon and came back 10 minutes later to find them in intense conversation with a crew-cut , well-muscled , 20-year-old American man . In New York , I might have worried , but here I instantly understood . At first I was inclined to view the Mormons the way the Japanese seem to : As well-meaning young people whose perseverance was admirable , but who should stop trying to convert the natives since the natives were plainly uninterested . I would still lay heavy odds against Mormonism 's ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to Christianize the Japanese for 500 years , and after all their efforts only about 1 million of the 122 million people in Japan belong to any Christian church . But I 've come to respect what the mission experience does for the young Mormons themselves and to think that the rest of the country could learn from their example . Mormon boys grow up expecting what most American boys expected during the universal-draft era of the 1950s : That when they near adulthood , they will have to serve . Soon after their 19th birthday , most Mormon young men stop work or leave college to spend two years as missionaries . ( Very few young women went on missions until the 1970s ; now , they make up about one eighth of the total . ) About two thirds go to other countries , while the rest work in the United States . Nearly all live on family savings ? in addition to saving for college , Mormon families put money away for their sons ' mission years . In a few countries , the missionaries have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? impoverished , politically troubled , traditionally Roman Catholic ? have produced the most converts for the church . Where people are comfortable and society is stable , the missionaries have run into more obstacles . The church 's biggest failures have been in Western Europe and Japan . In Japan , the missionaries labor under a special burden : They are not supposed to smoke or to drink tea , whisky or sake , the very activities on which Japanese social contact is built . Learning the language . Whether they succeed or fail at their primary mission of conversion , the missionaries accomplish something else . Many are from small towns in the most landlocked , inward-looking parts of the U.S. ; they are plunked into the middle of a foreign society and , unlike most American businessmen or soldiers , are expected to deal with foreigners in the local language all day , every day . For two years , they walk in parks and through shopping centers , approaching strangers , hoping to strike up conversations they can steer toward discussion of the church . Language skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not all missionaries master a foreign language ? in Japan , those with the shakiest command of Japanese specialize in talking with schoolchildren , the only people who wo n't speak over their heads . But most missionaries become somewhat to very accomplished in their host country 's language . Japanese TV features two young American tarento , or talents , Kent Derricott and Kent Gilbertson , who have reached superstar magnitude and become successful businessmen because of their command of Japanese . The " two Kents " both started as Mormon missionaries . Of the Americans I 've met in Asia who can operate deftly and successfully in the local language , a disproportionate number have been Mormons . At Brigham Young University , where 95 percent of the students are Mormon , most of the upperclassmen are returned missionaries . Of the 27,000 students , an astonishing 1,000 are to some extent fluent in Japanese . An additional 1,00 ? students can speak Chinese , Korean or some other Asian language . BYU teaches 46 languages . The country 's highest density of foreign-language skills is not in Cambridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BYU campus . If the U.S. is worrying about how to cope with a confusing , multilingual , Asian-ascendant world , the Mormons are well equipped to help . But the missionaries learn something more than language . Like most Peace Corps veterans , returned missionaries often seem to have changed when they come home . Mormonism is of course an evangelical faith , which produces true believers rather than doubters . But compared with members of other true-believer religions , former Mormon missionaries are in my experience more tolerant , less preachy , more willing to listen and gently persuade . It would be hard to be preachy after living among Chinese or Indians who have gotten along since thousands of years before Christ with their own gods and see no reason to change now . The former missionaries also seem deepened simply because they 've had to give two years of their lives to a cause other than the advancement of their own careers . America 's best-known preachers like to holler at us over TV ; even the ones who are n't eventually disgraced as a result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The best of the Mormon missionaries , by contrast , have a quiet , confident goodness that we like to think of as typically American ( a la Gary Cooper ) . I 've been converted to think that their missions make America a wiser , more competitive country and certain Americans stronger , better people .                     