@@329276

The way things are going , FORTUNE may soon have to publish a 500 Most Wanted list . During the past few months the news has been filled with tales of business schemes and scandals , of corporate intrigue and downright crime . The offenses make up a catalog of chicanery : cheating on Government defense contracts , check-writing fraud , bogussecurities dealing , tax dodges , insider trading and money laundering . Among the culprits : General Electric , E.F . Hutton , Bank of Boston and General Dynamics . Once powerful and respected executives , including Jake Butcher , the Tennessee banker , and Paul Thayer , the former LTV chairman , are now facing the humbling prospect of spending several years in prison . <P> Business crime is at least as old as horse trading , of course , and has periodically flared up in new forms . Shady stock deals helped bring on the great Wall Street Crash of 1929 , and Lockheed and ITT became enmeshed in bribery scandals during the 1970s . But rarely have so many big-name businessmen and corporations been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several business trends , including financial deregulation , the growth of huge conglomerates and the rise of electronic funds transfers , seem to be multiplying the opportunities and temptations for businessmen to stray outside the law . <P> The latest revelations have cast a shadow of suspicion over the entire corporate community and are especially upsetting to the vast majority of businessmen who have spotless records and nothing to hide . " It 's scary , is n't it ? " says David Ransburg , who owns a business in Peoria , Ill . " What I resent is that all of us who operate honestly and ethically get indicted in the broad sweep . " Both businessmen and consumers are asking why the new outbreak of lawlessness is occurring , and the Reagan Administration is stepping up efforts to bring it under control . Says Stanton Wheeler , director of Yale University 's studies on white-collar crime : " People are increasingly realizing that the whole economic system operates on the basis of trust . When that trust is repeatedly violated , the system itself begins to be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the defense business . General Electric , the sixth-largest U.S. military contractor , pleaded guilty last month to defrauding the Air Force of $800,000 in 1980 on a Minuteman missile project . The company agreed to pay fines and penalties of more than $2 million . The Navy two weeks ago canceled a pair of contracts with General Dynamics , the third-largest military supplier , and suspended the signing of new ones with two of the company 's divisions , which build submarines and missiles . The Pentagon says that General Dynamics has overcharged the Government at least $75 million for overhead expenses that included country- club fees and personal travel for company executives . All together , 45 of the 100 largest U.S. military suppliers are under criminal investigation . Admits a vice president at a top defense contractor : " The public 's impression is that everyone in this industry is a thief . "                     