@@432205

 | The recovery at midsummer is turning out to be a roaring success . What began as a typical rebound from the 1981-82 recession is now shaping up as the best year since 1951 , a Korean War year , and the strongest peacetime recovery since World War II . Consumers are continuing to spend freely . Business outlays for new machinery and factories are assuming boom proportions . Unemployment should be approaching the full employment rate by Election Day . Moreover , the record expansion is making its mark without rekindling inflation . The inflation outlook is so good that Chairman Paul Volcker of the Federal Reserve Board told Congress in late July there 's no need to tighten money-and-credit policy now . Buoyant market . Volcker 's words gave a lift to the stock market , which had been in the doldrums for months out of concern that the economy was on the verge of an inflationary binge . The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 28 points in three days on news of the chairman 's testimony . The economy 's dazzling performance , coupled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it battled the Democrats . President Reagan , seeking to put his political opponents on the defensive , proclaimed the recovery " sound and solid " at his July 24 press conference . Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige joined the hallelujah chorus by telling reporters , " I do n't know how you could write a script for a better recovery than you have right now . " The script being written is this ? The economy , as measured by the gross national product after inflation , swelled by an unexpectedly rapid 7.5 percent annual rate in the April-June months , according to the Commerce Department . That was even better than the agency 's 5.7 percent estimate made a month ago . Growth exceeded earlier estimates for the first quarter , too-10.1 percent vs. 9.7 percent . That was the largest quarterly gain in almost six years . On the basis of the new data , the U S.News &; World Report Economic Unit now is forecasting that the economy will expand by at least 7.2 percent this year , the best annual gain since the 8.3 percent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its cool . Consumer prices rose by a seasonally adjusted annual rate of only 2 percent in June , bringing first-half inflation to a 4.1 percent annual rate . That 's a major improvement from the double-digit inflation of 1979-81 . For the year as a whole , USN &WR; economists now look for a 4.5 percent rise in consumer prices , the second-smallest increase since 1972 . Unemployment , at 7.1 percent of the civilian labor force in June , is expected by this magazine 's Economic Unit to sink to 6.5 percent or less by November 's election . Joblessness in the 5.5-to-6-percent range is regarded by many experts as full employment for the United State . Record recovery . Even Fed Chairman Volcker confessed to surprise . He described the recovery as " atypical , " in that it has expanded faster and kept up its pace longer than any other recovery since World War II , except for the Korean War period . What 's more , Volcker said , though the expansion will moderate in the second half of the year , the forward momentum " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , the Fed chairman sees no recession for next year . One new sign of the economy 's momentum : Consumers are continuing to snap up new cars , despite high financing costs . American-made autos are selling in July at an annual rate that will top the June rate of 8.2 million units . It 's also widely believed that neither auto sales nor the recovery as a whole will be marred by a prolonged strike against the auto industry this year . At the opening of bargaining with the auto companies on July 23-24 , leaders of the United Auto Workers emphasized that job security is their union 's top priority this year . " Because the union leadership is taking the membership away from big dollar wage gains and toward job security , " says Roger Brinner of Data Resources , Inc. , a Lexington , Mass. , consulting firm , " we look for no strike or , at worst , a small strike . " The recovery 's vigor is sending economists scurrying back to their comput- ers . " The business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astounded Jerry Jasinowski , chief economist for the National Association of Manufacturers . Typical is Wharton Econometrics of Philadelphia . " We are revising , and you can guess the direction ? up , " reports Donald Straszheim , director of forecasting . In January , Wharton predicted 5.5 percent growth this year . In June , this was revised to 6.7 percent . The latest revision will put the expansion closer to 8 percent . Why has the recovery so consistently outdistanced expectations ? The combination of personal and business tax cuts and the huge deficits , it is generally conceded , has given the economy a more potent shot in the arm than was anticipated . Several reasons are offered . Because inflation has been kept under control , fewer consumers have been kicked into higher tax brackets , so they 've been able to keep ? and then spend ? much of the 23 percent cut in incometax rates from 1981 through 1984 . " Money has been put into consumers ' pockets , " notes Wharton 's Straszheim , " and they 're spending it . Disposable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's deregulated economy , high interest rates do not appear to be inhibiting consumers as much as they once did . " When interest rates on loans go up , " explains Straszheim , " so does interest income on savings . " In addition , the 1981 tax cut gave businesses a potent incentive to invest in new plant and equipment , and they are . Business capital spending has soared by 25.5 percent since the fourth quarter of 1982 , when the recession ended . That 's the strongest rise for any comparable period in the post-World War II era . But as lush as the economic landscape appears , there are some weeds . Factory orders for durable goods slipped 3.2 percent in June , the second drop in the last three months . That points to a growth slowdown . June 's single-family-housing starts fell 7.2 percent from May 's seasonally adjusted rate , another soft sign . The merchandise trade deficit , which fell below record levels in May and June , means foreign firms are selling more goods here than U.S. exporters sell abroad , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ludlum Steel Corporation of Pittsburgh laid off 200 workers in July , President Richard Simmons said , " The cause is increased imports . " The worry among many economists is that too much growth is being crowded into this election year , which raises the risk of a " hard landing " later . But the prevailing view does not have the next recession looming until the winter of 1985-86 . Between now and then , the most popular scenario looks for the recovery to slow to a crawl . By then , political Washington will have had the opportunity to deal with what most economic observers regard as the principal threat to continued progress ? the huge federal deficits . No " secret " tax hike . At his press conference , the President denied Democratic charges that he has a " secret plan " to raise taxes , if re-elected , to reduce the 180-billion-dollar deficits and keep the expansion going . " I have no plans for a tax increase , " he declared . But Reagan left the door ajar for another way to raise more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get , such as employer payments to pension and health plans . Fed Chairman Volcker told Congress that the deficits remain " unacceptably large " despite this year 's down payment to reduce them over three years . To head off a credit crunch that will push interest rates up further , he urged " further substantive action on the budget as soon as feasible . " But the economy 's danger zone lies down the road . For now , the carefree recovery is roaring ahead .                     