@@480806

Allan Bloom 's The Closing of the American Mind is not a book , it is a phenomenon : one of those mega-literary comets that dazzles without being clearly seen , and thus mesmerizes its critics as it speeds across America 's celebrity firmament . The perplexities are staggering . How does an obscure academician known chiefly for his translations of Plato and Rousseau become a national celebrity ? How can a book about the decadence of esoteric European philosophers such as Heidegger climb to the top of the best-seller list for over six months and sell nearly a half-million copies in hardback ? Why are Americans so anxious to welcome a book that claims they ca n't read , so willing to accept a polemic that excoriates their literary intelligence ? Why are liberal critics and egalitarian educators beside themselves with admiration for what can only be called a raging assault on liberal tolerance and democratic education ! From its publication last spring , The Closing of the American Mind took the country as much by surprise as by storm . The publisher printed only 10,000 copies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned down in a preliminary version . Bloom 's beatification began mildly enough with a New York Times daily review calling his treatise a " remarkable " exercise in " electric-shock therapy " for complacent teachers ; the Sunday Book Review picked up steam by lauding it as " an extraordinary meditation on the fate of liberal education in this country . " Unqualified raves from many other critics followed , culminating in major spreads in weeklies such as Newsweek . By late last summer , still a best-seller , the book had become a touchstone for every imagBe.njarnin Barber is a professor at Rutgers University . His new book , The Conquest of Politics , will be published this winter by Princeton University Press . inable contemporary debate on education , as well as a totem for the neo-conservative assault on higher education , affirmative action , equal opportunity , rock music , the Sixties , the young , and sex . In September George Will paid homage to Bloom in a Newsweek column titled " Learning From the Giants . " George Levine ran a controversial national colloquium on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a full-page ad in the New York Times to reprint their editor 's version of what was called Allan Bloom 's decisive " answer " to the question " What 's wrong with American education ? " Typical of the hyperbolic hoopla was a three-part cover story in Insight that referred to Bloom 's argument as " the most penetrating analysis of the United States to appear in many years . " The book is now descending from its apogee , but its extraordinary trajectory suggests a phenomenon that has yet to be explained . What on eai-th is going on here ? It certainly is not the old literary love story , for the affection America seems to feel for Bloom is anything but reciprocated . It is as if the professor and the country have met on a blind date and the coun try , though found sorely wanting by the professor , nevertheless insists on finding the professor irresistible . He charges Americans with flatsouLd philistinism , and they buy almost a half-million copies of his scathing denunciation . He claims the country has deserted the university and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him as its favorite democratic educator . Can the mystery be unraveled ? We know well enough how this peculiar land of paradox ? ambivalent land of the free ? can make paradoxical heroes out of freedom 's severest ' critics . How it offers popUlar success to those who contemn its popular virtues ; and how , to those who disdain its materialism , it offers riches . The Othof subversion as we are likely to encounter from a critic of democracy . For it is written by a philosopher for whom rhetoric is " a gentle art of deception , " a polemicist who believes political writing in a democratic society is necessarily an act of concealment . If Americans have failed fully to understand what Bloom means , it may be because Bloom has not said exactly what he means ? or does not mean exactly what he has said . In its overt hostility to all the " leading notions of modern democratic thought " such as " equality , freedom , peace , and cosmopolitan- " ism , " The Closing of the American Mind would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books ever written for a popular audience . That , however , is not how Bloom puts ir . Ever the prudent educator , Bloom be-lieves that to say exactly what you mean about liberty and equality when you live in a liberal democratic state is to court the fate of Socrates , who was tried and executed by the Athenians for thinking little of their liberty and less of their democracy . Not one of the critics raving about the nobility of Bloom 's philosophical project for the reconstruction of the American soul seems to have noticed that his philosopher " loves the truth " but " he does not love to tell the truth . " The leading characteristic of this os-tensible paean to the virtues of open discourse is in reality a commitment to closed communica-mean ing and rhetorical their hungers are and what they can digest , is the essence of the craft . Commentators have treated his book as a racy companion volume to E. D. Hirsch 's Cultural Literacy , with which it seems to share a yearning for a more civilized culture and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation is the Reader 's Digest review : Bloom tells us the closing of the American mind has resulted directly from " openness " ? thar perverse new virtue which urges us to be non-judgmental and prevents us from " talking with any conviction about good and evil . " ... Yet Americans long for something lost ? the great moral truths upon which civilization rests .... Education is not merely about facts ? it is about truth and the " state of our souls ' ' ... If there is a reassertion of Moral truth . rather than relativistic values , this book will be remembered as a catalyst . The Allan Bloom honored by the critics is the philosophical moralist , doing battle with the forces of philistinism , relativism , and nihilism that beset a civilization living in the valley of the shadow of death ? that is to say , in the shadow of the death of God . He appears in their en- : comiums as liberal humanist and concerned teacher , making war on students who fail to live up to the Socratic ideal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socrates perching as archetypes in his imagination , Bloom can hardly be other than appalled by the average American eighteen year Old , who is more than a little . artless and never very reverent , particularly toward teachers . Bloom rails with indignation at the young and what the corruptions of deMocratic education ( the Sixties ) have done to them . He is repelled by their tastes , theii pastimes , their sexual practices , their " niceness , " their music , their reading habits , their lack of " prejudices , " and their " flat-souled " ! lack of nobility . No wonder he coMplains that " Harvard , Yale , and Princeton are not what they used to be ? the last resorts of aristocratic sentiment within the democracy . " At times Bloom 's unrelenting Sixties-bashing hotinds like the screeching of an aging parent wrapped in a Roman toga ? ranting about the nobility of the ancients because he can not comprehend his daughter 's Purple hair . When he tells us that an American university which pledges itself to serve democracy 's needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the service of Nazism , or that Woodstock is the American Nuren-lberg ( flower children listening to Jimi Hendrix are to be regarded as cidnes of black-skirted fascists organizing a new era of genocide ) , we may wonder what has happened to the philosopher in search of great souls .. Yet underlying Bloom 's hostility to the Six62 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE /JANUARY ties is a more profound anger . Like the champions of the new conservatism , Bloom is hostile not only to the moral decline of the university and its students but to much of what democrats and progressives have accomplished in the last fifty years . He does not simply oppose feminism or the abolition of the double standard in the abstract , he condemns them because they destroy the old sexual arrangements whereby a man could " think he was doing a wonderful thing for a woman , and expect to be admired for what he brought . " Feminists are not merely the destroyers of the family , they are " the latest enemy of the vitality of classic texts , " and since classic texts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . Bloom is aghast at modem value-relativismthat the young have neither values nor even prejudices ? but he is also censorious about the values they choose to embrace . Thus , to him a concern for nuclear survival is bogus posturing ; a belief in tolerance is a sign of moral flabbiness ; to be " nice " and " without prejudices " merely underscores shallowness . Bloom condemns not just equality and the struggle for rights ( which he believes have in any case been " won " ) , but the notion of rights itself , which for him means dedication to " life , liberty , and the pursuit of property and sex . " The true villains are then neither Betty Friedan nor Abbie Hoffman but Erich Fromm and John Dewey ? not the armed prophets of the Weather Underground but the far more dangerous unarmed prophets of therapeutic salvation and the brotherhood of man . Bloom opposes democratic values not only as a conservative ideologue but as a philosopher wedded to reason . It is not really the last twenty or even the last fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two hundred years . The problems go back at least to the French Revolution and to those aspects of the philosophy of Enlightenment that led to the Revolution , since , as always for Bloom , history proceeds out of ideas rather than the other way around . In fact , nothing has been quite the same since a court composed of distrustful Athenian freemen put noble Socrates to death for the crime of being a truth-speaking philosopher in an opinion-governed society . The great divide is less between modem conservatives and modern democrats than between ancients and modems ? the central theme of Bloom 's mentor and teacher , the great University of Chicago political philosopher Leo Strauss . The German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche signals the final eclipse of the ancient world for Bloom , Bloom 's ambivalence about Nietzsche is one of the more impenetrable puzzles of The Closing of the American Mind , a puzzle that makes its profoundly anti-democratic argument difficult for critics to apprehend . Bloom is simultaneously full of praise for Nietzsche 's analysis of modernity ( he is " an unparalleled diagnostician of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he considers to be the American trivialization of Nietzschean philosophy . This he regards as the primary cause of the closing of the American mind . Nietzsche is at once hero and villain , astute cultural critic of bourgeois culture in the abstract , but nefarious corrupter of American youth in practice . Bloom 's ambivalence about him is rooted in his distrust of democracy . Like Voltaire , who urges gentlemen to send their servants out of the room before debating whether God actually exists , Bloom worries not about Nietzsche 's nihilistic announcement of the death of God , but about what philistine Americans may make of this unhappy news . The danger is not philosophical relativism , but pop relativism ; not Nietzsche , but the " doctrinaire Woody Allen " whose way of looking at things " has immediate roots in the most profound German philosophy . " If Woody Allen as a pop Nietzsche seems farfetched , Bloom himself often seems like a slightly paranoid Tocqueville who , burdened by an aristocratic background and Continental manners , finds himself inexplicably residing in the state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a modem , Bloom can not really deny senger might be executed ! The solution Bloom can only hint at ( the philosopher can not speak honestly ) is certainly not to inundate the masses with books they can not understand and are likely to misconstrue . Rather , it is to send them ? like Voltaire 's servants ? out of the room . Bloom notes and his admirers delight in the great irony by which " openness " ( which produces relativism and then nihilism ) has led to the closing of the American mind . They might do well to note the still greater irony that reopening the American mind may for Bloom depend on the closing of the American university ? since open minds seem to function best in highly selective , closed schools . To the educable , an education ; to the rest , protection from fearsome half-truths , and a diet of noble lies such as may be required to insulate the university from mediocrity and democratic taste . Affirmative action puts into the classroom young men who can learn from Hobbes and Nietzsche @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feminism puts into the classroom young women who can learn from Dewey and Freud only the lesson of their equality with , or perhaps even their sexual superiority to , men . Philosophy is not finally to be saved by handing out Great Books to small minds , but by locking the library doors . Bloom is remarkably candid about the nature of " the real community of man , " which " is the community of those who seek the truth , of the potential knowers . " To be sure , this community " in principle " includes all men " to the extent they desire to know . But in fact this includes only a few , the true friends , as Plato was to Aristotle . . . " ( emphasis added ) . Bloom 's rhetorical journey finally begins and ends with the ancients ? with Socrates . How much misery mankind might have been spared ; what revolutions , what prejudices , what myths , what armed braggarts might have vanished from the historical landscape , had the Athenians loved and followed Socrates instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen of a democracy who understands what Bloom intends in the honor he pays Socrates will he wary in the face of Bloom 's modern pedagogical claims . The citizen has every reason to mistrust the philosopher who mistrusts him . After all , it was the tyranny of " Truth " politicized that justified the divine right of kings , the Inquisition , the Reign of Terror , and such modem orthodoxies as totalitarianism . Bloom may not be arguing that " the old forms were good or that we should go back to them , " but he has two crucial quarrels to pick with America : the quarrel of the philosopher with democracy and equality ; and the quarrel of the ambivalent cosmopolitan both with the European decadence he fears and the American philistinism he despises . The quarrel between philosophy and democracy is the quarrel between Socrates and Athens , and we have seen how deeply that struggle affects Bloom . The quarrel between America and Europe is more complex , and Bloom is torn between the two . Champion of an innocent America corrupted by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a loyal but knowing son of the Republic anxious to protect its less-sophisticated citizens from the Old World 's newfangled nihilisms . If it is true that God has died ( and there are times when Nietzsche 's bad news seems also to be Bloom 's bad news ) , do n't tell the Americans ! They already have a penchant for the vulgar , the novel , and the experimental , and will seize on God 's withdrawal from the cosmos as a reason to try Co master it themselves . In place of the tragic acceptance that characterized the ancients , the Americans will deploy ideologies of reform , growth , progress , and revolution . With their hands clasping computers and spliced genes , and their heads bursting with progressive ideologies from Marxism to welfarism , they will set out to replace their vanished Creator and improve upon his handiwork . Nonetheless , even as Bloom cherishes America 's insularity from the contagion of European cultural relativism , he cherishes Europe . As an American he may be suspicious of Europe 's cynical intellectuals , but as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America 's self-righteously innocent anti-intellectuals . With innocence comes a simpleminded disdain for ideas that , as the historian Richard Hofstadter has noticed , inures us to books and debases our souls . We are finally much too practical a people for Bloom 's taste : philosophy enjoins reflection , but the " hidden premise of the realm of freedom America is that action has primacy over thought . " Bloom 's aristocratic hostility to America 's spirited practicality , to its optimism about change ( America as the New World ) , to its belief in the second chance , 64 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE / JANUARY blinds him to certain strengths of the American polity , as well as to the relationship of ordinary human beings to books . America 's true philosophers are not book-men or academicians or theorists . They are poets such as Emily Dickinson and Walt Whitman , essayists such as Henry Adams and Ralph Waldo Emerson , lawyers such as James Madison and Hugo Black , and moral leaders such as John Brown , Susan B. Anthony , and Martin Luther King Jr . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nietzsche , but America 's true educators dwell elsewhere ; their podiums are found in the open air rather than the library , the town hall rather than the seminar hall . We continue to learn more from our doers than from our talkers , from Jefferson and Franklin , Eugene Debs and Robert Taft , Harry Hopkins , and , yes , even David Stockman . Bloom yearns for heroes and condemns us for having none worthy of the name , but what democrats aspire to is , as Brecht has written , not a country that has no heroes but a country that needs no heroes . At their best , Americans have been their own heroes , their nation a creation of anonymous settlers , cattlemen , garment workers , grade-school teachers , factory laborers , entrepreneurs , farmers , longshoremen , inventors , and just plain folks . Bloom simply gets America wrong . If Americans lack confidence in those who claim to possess Truth , it is because they are the descendants of immigrants who fled such Truth-sayers . Disguised as inquisitors , prosecutors , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the illiterate " rabble " in the form of chains . Bloom ( it is almost as if he misses the chains ) longs for the days in which Protestants and Catholics , hating each other , demonstrated they were " taking their beliefs seriously . " Is the average American to he faulted for preferring the frivolous shallows of religious tolerance to the seriousness of the Salem witch-hunts ? The lugubrious lesson Americans may wish to draw from both Socrates and Bloom is that the philosopher 's ideal of the open mind seems to flourish best in a closed society where , if philosophers do not rule , those who do rule must defer to philosophy . We ought to remember that benevolent autocrats like Frederick the Great made comfortable homes for philosophers such as Voltaire , even as those philosophers conceived rational blueprints in which there would be no room for kings . The king can at least pretend to be philosophical , whereas the self-governing common man will disdain the superior airs of both philosophers and kings . Tyrants may indeed be better friends to Truth than citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We citizens can understand why a philosopher of noble intentions may be aghast at a society moved by the suspicion that one man is as good as the next ; but , still , we might be expected to meet the philosopher 's subtle arguments with something more than a weak and self-nullifying cheer . For we are being asked implicitly to choose between the open mind and the open society , being asked to close the university to the many in order to secure it for the few , being asked to make reflection and its requisites the master of action and its requisites , being asked finally to turn the democratic culture that ought to be the university 's finest product into the servant of universities that produce something called Truth . And how we answer such questions will not only affect what kind of education we will have , but whether we will remain a free and egalitarian society devoted to justice , or become a nation of deferential tutees who have been talked out of our freedom by a critic of all that has transpired since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many Americans have come to sympathize with Bloom , anxious about the loss of fixed points , wishing for simpler , more orderly times . President Reagan 's longing for a court filled with somber purists , his attorney general 's belief in a doctrine of original intentions that turns the flexible genius of the Constitution into a Rosetta stone by which every modern conflict might be resolved , the secretary of education 's campaign against the educational reforms of the Sixties , the Moral Majority 's demand that the whole nation be subjected to drug testing ? these are so many cries to be delivered from the twentieth century . These are the voices not of mere conservatives but of zealots , the anxious ones who see in the victories of liberty only the specter of anarchy ; in equality , the victory of mediocrity ; in social justice , a warrant for envy and disorder . Allan Bloom 's book offers certainty to the confused and comfort to the fearful . It is a new Book of Truth for an era after God . Its only rival is democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only despise . Nevertheless , the ideology of democracy is a sound , one might even say noble , response to the dilemmas of modernity : it permits us to live with our uncertainty , our agnosticism , our doubt , our sense of abandonment , our isolation , without murdering one another ; it even promises a modicum of justice made up of equal parts of compassion and tolerance . It does not rescue us from our era , but it helps us live with its perils . The most apt response to Bloom 's attempt to teach us how to he noble might he for us to teach him how to be democratic . It might even be that he would get the better of the exchange .                     