@@432294

 | One evening 17,000 years ago , on a ridge overlooking a stream in what is now southern France , a boy paused one last time as he waited to climb down a narrow shaft . His eyes scanned the rich grassland below , from the reindeer grazing on the horizon to the huts where his clan lived near the riverbank . Then he scrambled down into the cave where the shaman and other clan leaders awaited ? and stood still on the stonecold floor . The flickering light of the fatfueled lamps created haunting optical illusions : graceful deer with bushy antlers appeared to canter across the cavern , wild cattle ? 18 feet long ? seemed to ripple their muscles and black-and-red horses on the ceiling looked ready to charge . The clan leaders , in the skin and skulls of bison , waited in the darkness until the awesome images worked their spell . Then they led the initiate through the underground chambers , showing him the record of the clan 's history , its traditions and its credos ? an inheritance of knowledge more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one knows for sure whether such initiation rites occurred in the famous painted caves at Lascaux , France ? but the very fact that anthropologists are suggesting they did represents a radical shift in their understanding of early humans . Researchers once consigned the period 35,000 to 10,000 years ago to the dark ages of human evolution ; now , anthropologists conclude that the late Ice Age witnessed an explosion of creativity and served as nothing less than the cradle of human culture . Humans made more technological and artistic progress in these 250 centuries ? also known as the Upper Paleolithic period ? than in the 2 million years since stone tools were first forged . In a quantum leap forward from their dreary predecessors , the Neanderthals , the people of the late Ice Age invented language , art and music and laid the foundations of trade , class distinctions ? and even fashion . " The Upper Paleolithic saw the beginning of humans as we would recognize them , " says anthro- pologist Randall White of New York University ? in other words , the first fully modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise human . The fruits of that creativity have been gathered by the American Museum of Natural History in New York City for an exhibit called " Dark Caves , Bright Visions , " which runs through mid-January . The art and artifacts , many borrowed from the treasured collections of French museums , form the largest show of late Ice Age material ever mounted in the United States . The objects range from the practical to the ethereal : they indicate primitive forms of artificial lighting , burial rites ? even pornography . Altogether , the nearly 300 relics form a sort of stone-and-bone depiction of The Way We Were 300 centuries ago ? and the way we were destined to become . The dawn of modern humans is piquing not only the scholarly imagination but also the popular one . Author Jean Auel 's trio of books on the period , beginning with the best-selling " Clan of the Cave Bear , " paints a lively portrait of our ancestors , from their favorite sexual position to their medical acumen , and the books opened readers ' eyes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " People have had this impression that we arose from brutal grunting savages , " says Auel . " I 'm trying to say , Hey , wait a minute , these are ancestors we do n't have to be ashamed of .. . These are the people who discovered their creativity ' . " But who were they , these denizens of Ice Age Europe , these painters of mythical beasts and sculptors of woolly mammoths ? Dubbed Cro-Magnon for the site in France where their remains were first unearthed , they looked a little like the Neanderthals but were a breed apart physically and intellectually . Cro-Magnons were much less robust than Neanderthals , lacking their very muscular neck and shoulders , thick bones , large skull and heavy brow ridge . Although their brains were no bigger than Neanderthals ' , says Henry de Lumley of Paris 's National Museum of Natural History , their frontal lobes ? the seat of reasoning ? were larger and more developed , giving Cro-Magnons the capacity for symbolic thought , adaptation and invention . And while there is no evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into their 60s ? long enough to pass on accumulated knowledge to several generations . Usual midwives : Cro-Magnons replaced Neanderthals so abruptly 35,000 years ago that it seemed the new species stormed into Europe and killed its primitive cousin . But new fossil finds are challenging this conclusion . Anthropologists trace the roots of CroMagnons to southern Africa , where partmodern , part-archaic humans arose some 70,000 years ago . Perhaps the new humans were simply the children of chance mutations and natural selection , the usual midwives of new species . But anthropologist Fred Smith of the University of Tennessee suspects another force was at work : technology . An invention ? perhaps a better way of making blades ? would have rendered a large body unnecessary for survival , so evolution could begin to sculpt a slimmer , less brutish species . That first invention would also stimulate the inventor 's brain , making it ever more resourceful . For the first time in life on earth , culture augmented biology as the prime mover of evolution , and a new human ? one very similar to Cro-Magnon -- gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa 50,000 years ago , in north Africa and the Mideast 40,000 years ago and in Europe a few thousand years after that . That suggests a mass trek across the Old World , but scholars now doubt that our ancestors were so peripatetic . Rather , says anthropologist Erik Trinkaus of the University of New  | Mexico , a few members of the new breed started mating with their Neanderthallike neighbors . The children of such crossbreeding would have continued the process : each time they found a mate among Neanderthals living to the north , they would send Cro-Magnon genes a little farther toward Asia and Europe . Anthropologists have discovered fossils from Africa and Asia that do seem to be the children of such cross-breeding . After several millennia , the evolving Cro-Magnon , given a haircut , shave and tailored suit , might be indistinguishable from anyone walking the streets of Paris today . Once they reached western Europe , says Trinkaus , " the contrast between them and pure Neanderthals was so great that something like complete replacement , with far less interbreeding , occurred . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of Neanderthal . " The intellectually inferior Neanderthals simply could n't compete . With Eurasia all to themselves , CroMagnons built settlements from the Mediterranean to the Baltic . Glaciers covered England , Poland , the Alps and much of Russia , but the European climate was generally mild , and the animal life was as rich and diverse as in a modern African game park . To take advantage of the game , many Ice Age clans built settlements in sunny lowlands that straddled the migratory routes of reindeer and other wandering beasts . Contrary to popular myth , they lived not in caves but in natural rock shelters or dwellings built of wood , stone , bone or skin . Summer homes : Late Ice Age residents spent much of the year in cozy base camps , complete with hearths and cobblestone floors which provided insulation in the winter . In an ingenious piece of interior design , they heated the cobblestones before placing them on the frozen mud : the stones melted the hard ground , settled in snugly and made sturdy , dry floors . Cro-Magnons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent of summer condos . Built on rises , they provided a good view of migrating herds ; intriguingly , 75 percent of the sites found to date face south , indicating that the builders took advantage of solar heat . By 17,000 years ago Ice Age hunters had invented the spear thrower , allowing them to hurl weapons faster and more accurately than they could barehanded . Fragments of primitive cord indicate they may have had nets , increasing hunting efficiency still further . The larger kills would have gone to waste if the clans had n't exploited nature 's refrigerators : meat was preserved in the cold caves to be consumed months later . Ice Age people also cooked by dropping food and hot cobbles into skin-lined pits . Raspberries , hazel nuts , acorns and grasses rounded out the apparently healthy diet @#  | which may help explain their longer life span . And although scientists say Cro-Magnons suffered from arthritis , teeth from the period show that they did n't have cavities . Archeologists have also unearthed primitive foundries where Ice Age people worked rock into blades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed scrapers , engravers , tools to pierce animal skin and harpoons , " says de Lumley . The needle was first used some 23,000 years ago in southwest France , then spread across Europe as fast as a galloping bison . Based on the outlines of beads found on a skeleton , anthropologists conclude that tunics and tailored leggings kept CroMagnons warm ; engravings show people in parkas and collared shirts with cuffed sleeves , while moccasins and boots protected their feet . Wife stealing ? Anthropologists like to say that behavior leaves no fossils ? yet archeological finds speak volumes about other aspects of Cro-Magnon 's life . Since 1975 archeologist Olga Soffer of the University of Illinois and her Soviet colleagues have been excavating a site called Mezhirich in the Ukraine where a village was built 150 centuries ago out of the bones of 149 woolly mammoths . The dwellings , which range from just 12 to 21 feet across , imply that some clanspeople lived in small nuclear families while others lived in extended groups , possibly with several wives . Researchers can only guess at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relics reveals whether Cro-Magnons were monogamous . No cave paintings , for example , show one hunter spearing another for stealing his wife . But the Mezhirich designs do open a partial window on Ice Age social life . The mammoth bones were stacked in precise ways . One hut was made primarily of long bones ; in another , 95 jawbones are stacked above skulls in a herringbone pattern . Soffer speculates that the architecture may have been the result of ritual : in ways 20thcentury scientists can only guess at , the arrangement of bones carried some deep meaning for the builders of Mezhirich . The sizes of the dwellings are far more revealing . Researchers estimate that the houses required up to 10 people five days to build ? first gathering mammoth bones and then transporting them , perhaps by sledge in the winter over compacted snow , and arranging them into a hut . Such a group effort implies that Cro-Magnons had a stratified society whose leaders had the authority to direct and control labor . Different-size storage pits surrounding the huts reinforce the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their fair share , " Soffer says , " probably because they were supplying food for feasts and so accruing prestige . " Ice Age leaders even seem to have instituted the ancient equivalent of zoning laws to keep order among the 30 or so clanspeople who typically lived together . Excavated villages in France show separate areas for cooking , butchering , extracting marrow from bones and dumping garbage . Beads found in certain areas of camps suggest they also had a garment district . The elaborately decorated underground caves around western Europe also had special purposes ? such as initiating children into adulthood , as prehistorians suspect occurred at Lascaux . Henri Delporte , general inspector at the Museum of National Antiquities outside Paris , thinks the caves may have been painted with " a series of illustrated legends or traditions " that served as primitive textbooks for passing on accumulated wisdom . The murals of intertwined reindeer or wounded bison might have represented milestones in the clan 's history ? a brush with death by a former leader or a lucky hunt that saved the families from winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lamp , the animals would seem to come to life . The rites may have been led by a shaman , who served as both clan medicine man and priest . The discovery of dozens of youthful footprints in close patterns in some caves suggests that they were also used for wild , frenzied dancing ? either a religious rite or nothing more profound than Paleolithic discos . Lavish graves : The graves Cro-Magnons eft behind leave little doubt that late Ice Age peoples believed in a life after this one , though they seemed uncertain about what they might need there . Some of the 100 graves found from the Upper Paleolithic period contain no offerings at all . Yet others are truly lavish . In a 20,000-year-old grave from Sungir , near Moscow , a man was buried in a tunic adorned with 2,000 ivory beads . And two boys were interred together with valuable ivory spears , 8,000 ivory beads and numerous rings and anklets , undoubtedly reflecting their rank in the society . " These are not the kind of goods that 66 NEWSWEEK NOVEMBER 10 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a single family , " says NYU 's White . The entire clan , or at least several extended families , must have been involved , providing the first inkling of a community joining together in time of grief . Less clear , though , is why people were buried in such different positions . The bodies of two boys unearthed in Italy had been curled together and placed face down in the grave , while other corpses were stretched out facing the sky . The use of jewelry among the living tells even more about Ice Age peoples and their preoccupations . Clans struggling to survive would hardly spend hours stringing seashells together , making necklaces of lion and bear teeth and turning mammoth tusks into finished beads . " But here we have evidence that they were putting in 100 hours of work in order to produce 50 beads , " says White . " Clearly , they considered the ornaments important enough to devote considerable time to . People were decorating themselves for social reasons . " Trading with neighbors : They went to great lengths to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seashells and mammoth bones from the Russian plains hundreds of miles from their sources . Scholars once thought that Ice Age artisans trekked across Europe for these items . But now they suspect a farmore-sophisticated system of procurement . Illinois 's Soffer thinks that people living on the coast passed seashells to neighbors , who passed them on to their neighbors in turn . " You have something like a prehistoric Hudson Bay Co. , " she says , with elaborate networks of exchange between the clans . " The function of these exchanges was not primarily economic , " Soffer argues , " but to maintain social ties , as for finding mates . " Trade may also have cemented social obligations , creating ties to neighbors who could then be called on in times of need . Clans reinforced their ties by meeting regularly in mass gatherings . Hundreds of ornaments , including shells from the Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts , were found at a site near what is now Les Eyzies , France , far more than at any single village . The gatherings may have been ceremonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for group rites of passage ? something like throwing elaborate debutante parties to present young clan members to adult society . They also may have been looking for mates . A clan with only a few dozen people would have had limited romantic prospects ? and the lavish ornaments found at the sites may have been a way to advertise social or economic status . Arranging to meet at the same time and place every few years would have been impossible without a common language and a concept of time and place . Fragments of bones with puzzling patterns of dots suggest that Cro-Magnons devised a lunar calendar . Unlike Neanderthals , Cro-Magnons almost certainly had the power of speech , given fossil records of their oral cavities and palates . And prehistorians suspect they were capable of abstract thoughts that enriched their language far beyond the " Reindeer ? there ! " stage . The ability to communicate thoughts " would have been a radical step in the evolution of hominid behavior , " says White . It may also help explain the CroMagnons ' increased longevity . The oldest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the ability to communicate it would have earned the elders a protected niche in the community ? long after they ceased being able to land a spear in a reindeer 's heart or collect raspberries . Not content to rely on storytelling , CroMagnons wanted to record their thoughts permanently . Scholars now think their beliefs about nature and man found expression in the glorious murals discovered in more than 200 caves in western Europe . Our ancestors went to extraordinary lengths to create these works : traces of rope found on the floor of Lascaux suggest that painters used scaffolding to reach the ceiling and high walls . Why ? At first , archeologists concluded that cave art was meant to bring luck to hunters ; perhaps the shaman symbolically killed prey on the walls of the caves . But only about 15 percent of the works depict wounded animals . Art school : Clearly , the rest of the art had another purpose . One clue may lie in its highly conventionalized style . Animals are colored , positioned and placed on the walls just so ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school . " There are groupings characteristic to each cave , " says Delporte . " It 's not by chance . " These conventions undoubtedly carried subtle meanings . Consider the cave drawings of Altamira on the northern coast of Spain , which show a group of bison surrounded by a deer , horse , boars and more bison ? an arrangement common to art throughout the period . Some prehistorians now think that the central bison are females giving birth . Their prominence , says anthropologist Margaret Conkey of the State University of New York at Binghamton , suggests that the painters saw them " as models for the human social group " - namely , a clan centered around women who formed the nucleus of extended families . Scholars are seeking meaning as well in more mysterious cave symbols . At some Spanish caves , for instance , chevrons and lunates speckle the walls . Perhaps each was one clan 's " family crest , " painted when several clans convened at the cave . Or perhaps they were primitive writing . In a number of paintings , notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ellipses ? at least 40 different kinds of signs . " If the marks were a system of notation , they " indicate an explosion in the amount of knowledge Cro-Magnons had about their environment , " says Erik Trinkaus . If Altamira 's bison depict the importance of women in clan life , the buxom little statues dubbed Venuses suggest that women were practically cult figures . Archeologists and lucky amateurs have found dozens of the figurines ? with hugely exaggerated sexual and reproductive parts ? scattered across Europe , dating to as early as 27,000 years ago . Scientists once thought the fig- O C I E T Y  | urines were fertility symbols . But the last thing hunting , gathering peoples would want is more mouths to feed ; they were never exactly awash in food . Researchers now think the remarkable resemblance among the Venuses ? whether they came from the Pyrenees or the Urals ? provides a better clue to their function . Perhaps the figurines served as the prehistoric version of a secret handshake , a sign of recognition that bound people together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further , the bond of a common art may have helped forge regional alliances among the far-flung clans , allowing them to share information about weather , herd movements and other knowledge crucial to survival . Curiously , researchers have found few indications of warfare among the clans of the late Ice Age . Violent conflicts came later , when man built permanent agricultural settlements 8,000 years ago and came to regard the land he lived on as his property and his alone . By then Cro-Magnons had populated all of Europe and Asia , as well as the New World . They would eventually evolve into the Gauls , the Celts , the Mesopotamians and all the other tribes that founded great civilizations and went on to fight each other for centuries . But it is from Cro-Magnons that they , and we , acquired what remains the best in us ? language , art , a sense of community and a life of the mind .                     