@@432020

 | Hard on the heels of setbacks in Iran and Afghanistan , the U.S. and its Western allies are moving to meet another grave challenge here in Turkey . Rising political violence and economic disarray are threatening the survival of this last Western outpost on the southern rim of the Soviet Union . The collapse of Turkey , eastern anchor of the Atlantic Alliance , would further tilt the world power balance toward Moscow and erase a formidable land barrier to Soviet ambitions in the Middle East . Growing fear that the country is going under has forced Turkish military leaders to warn the nation 's squabbling politicians to put aside partisan differences and to unite against the violence that has taken about 2,500 lives over the past two years . Their implied threat : If civilians can not put Turkey 's disorganized house in order , the military will take over . Loss of U.S. listening posts in neighboring Iran has made Turkey even more vital to Western defenses against Russia . But Turkish-American relations have been poisoned by U.S. opposition to Ankara 's 1974 invasion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that island nation . In a move to ease the tension , Turkey and the U.S. recently concluded a new five-year defense agreement . This permits American forces to continue operations at 26 Turkish bases , four of which collect electronic data on Soviet missiles . For Turkey , which has the largest standing Army in Western Europe , the pact means 250 million dollars a year in military aid . Despite improved relations with the U.S. , the pressures pulling this country apart continue to build unchecked . Terrorism is one of the major problems faced by Prime Minister Suleyman Demirel . With 20 of 67 provinces under martial law , more than half of the population of 44 million is subject to Army control . Violence springs from a complicated array of factors that range from modern political differences to ancient ethnic and religious feuds among various sects in this Moslem nation where 98 percent of the people follow the precepts of Islam . The killers . All the terrorists have in common , experts say , is determination to use force to undermine democratic institutions and topple the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troublemakers , and patrol boats are intercepting arms being smuggled in by sea . But terrorists of both right and left kill about 200 of their countrymen every month ? twice the number of a year ago . Although the extreme right is deeply involved in the violence , Demirel is convinced that the radical left , with its ties to Communist nations , poses the greater danger to democracy in Turkey . In mid-February , he cracked down hard on Marxist textile workers in the Aegean port city of Izmir after they defied the government nearly to the point of open rebellion . Fueling the violence is an inflation rate that has tripled since last year and now tops 100 percent . Unemployment stands at 20 percent , even though nearly 1 million Turks are working in other European countries . The nation ,  | saddled with a foreign debt of close to 15 billion dollars , has less than 500 million in foreign reserves . Its credit standing is so poor that an oil tanker bound for Istanbul recently refused to enter Turkish waters until the ship 's owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Demirel had expected the U.S. , Western European countries and Japan to pledge more than 1 billion dollars in emergency aid at a late-March meeting in Paris . But they could not agree on the amount , and a decision was delayed . Western nations also gave Turkey 950 million dollars last year . Yet that aid package failed to shore up the regime of then-Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit , and he was defeated in October by Demirel . For the West , the huge rescue effort involves calculated risks . Not only have Turkish officials been unable so far to check the rate of terrorist incidents ? by far the highest in Europe ? but economic mismanagement has been a way of life in this country ever since the world energy crisis struck in 1973 . Economic shocks . Because a poorly managed economy seems as much a part of the Turkish landscape as its mosques and minarets , people expected little from Demirel when he came to office for the sixth time . But the new Prime Minister shocked the country with a series of measures aimed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imports . In rapid order , Demirel devalued the Turkish lira by 48 percent , cut subsidies to nationalized enterprises by more than 4 billion dollars and freed industry to import more raw materials so Turkish factories , now operating at only 35 to 40 percent of capacity , can produce more export goods . He also reversed state monopoly policies set up more than 50 years ago by the founder of modern Turkey , Kemal Ataturk . By opening the entire economy to private enterprise , Demirel hopes to attract the foreign investment his country needs . Yet in switching so suddenly to a free-market system , he has speeded the rate of inflation . Freed of government controls , the prices of some goods have soared as much as 500 percent . Many staple items now are either too expensive for the average Turk or are unavailable in stores . Even Turkish coffee is beyond the reach of most families . When found on the black market , the price is exorbitant . Demirel is gambling that the pain inflicted by his economic program will be offset by greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Ecevit , call his program " a sellout to the rich and to foreign interests at the expense of the working class . " They warn that his bold gamble can end only in chaos and vow to dismantle his measures if they return to power . Tight restrictions had limited total foreign investment in Turkey to just 124 million dollars . To cut the red tape , Demirel has set up a foreign-investment agency and has invited foreign companies to help Turkey develop its mineral resources , including oil . He says : " If there is oil , all we are doing now is sitting on it while spending all our export money to buy it from others . It is time we find the means to develop our many resources and use them for the good of our country . " The soaring cost of imported oil ? 3.5 billion dollars a year ? is responsible for much of the country 's balance-of-payments problem . Turkey produces only about one sixth of the oil it consumes , and fuel has been in such short supply that millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To save fuel , municipal power generators were shut down for up to 10 hours a day . What will it take for Turkey to climb out of its deep financial pit ? Demirel believes ? as do many businessmen and foreign experts here ? that Turkey will need 10 to 15 billion dollars of foreign investment over the next five years . He is hoping that such oil-rich states as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait will join the Western allies in the aid effort . Apart from being major oil suppliers to Turkey , the more conservative Arab nations in the Persian Gulf region are known to be seriously concerned about Soviet troublemaking . Additionally , Demirel is seeking admission to the Common Market . While it will take years for the group to act , the fact that Turkey wants to tie itself more closely to Europe could attract investors who avoided dealing with Ecevit 's leftist-leaning government . Turkey also is taking the initiative to improve relations with Greece , its historic rival across the Aegean Sea . Although there is no immediate prospect of resolving the thorniest issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Demirel took a positive first step by lifting the restrictions on Turkish airspace imposed during the Cyprus crisis in 1974 . Athens responded by lifting its own similar bans . Ankara 's conciliatory action may bring more direct tourist and business travel ; it may also brighten Turkey 's tarnished image in some Western capitals . A question of survival . Western economic experts say that Demirel 's program , while risky and ambitious , could revive the country 's economy . One big question centers on Demirel himself : Can his government survive long enough to see the Prime Minister 's plans bear fruit ? Demirel 's ruling Justice Party is second in size to Ecevit 's Republican People 's Party . It maintains a slim parliamentary majority with a coalition that includes two smaller parties and three independent deputies . The government faces a big test later this spring when biennial labor contracts come up for negotiation . A nationwide strike could paralyze the country . Yet with triple-digit inflation a crushing reality , Demirel can not afford to let wages rise significantly . To do so would discourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build its economy . " Demirel is in a race against time , " says one Western diplomat . " Assuming he survives this spring , he faces another big hurdle in elections coming up next year , possibly even earlier . He must produce results soon . " Another diplomat adds this : " After Iran and Afghanistan , the West must back Turkey to the hilt ? both as a democracy and as an ally . The important thing is that it is trying to do something about its own future . "                     