@@432177

 | Throughout history , French leaders have exhibited an almost uncontrollable urge to leave their mark on the architecture of the country . Louis XIV built the sumptuous Versailles palace ; Napoleon III commissioned extensive construction in and around Paris . More recently , Paris acquired the Centre Georges Pompidou , its museum of modern art , which resembles nothing so much as a futuristic oil refinery . Now Francois Mitterrand is carrying on that grand tradition . Despite his country 's crippling economic problems , the French president is pressing ahead with the most ambitious building spree that Paris has seen in a generation ? and one that has prompted some howls of protest . Splendid : To be fair , a number of the new projects seem to make good sense and will not significantly alter the skyline . The planned Arab World Institute , a gleaming glass-and-steel construction near the Quai Saint-Bernard , is a calculated public-relations move for a country that is heavily dependent on Middle East oil . There will be a national telecommunications center and high-tech offices for the Finance Ministry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid Left Bank Orsay Museum , which is halfway completed on the site of the former Orsay railroad station and preserves the rococo exterior shell of the terminal , will eventually house all the major 19th-century art works owned by the state that are now scattered in a dozen locations throughout Paris . And the ultramodern Museum of Science , Technology and Industry is being built on the site of an abandoned slaughterhouse project . But two of Mitterrand 's pet projects ? the proposed Bastille Opera House and plans to redo the Louvre and its majestic courtyard ? have come under heavy criticism . Initially , the winning design for the opera house was widely praised for its boldness and imagination . Canadian architect Carlos Ott 's plan ? selected personally by Mitterrand , who is something of an art connoisseur ? calls for two auditoriums , a costume museum , a movie theater and lecture rooms . Some government officials have complained that the scope of Ott 's design makes the project enormously expensive @# ( estimated price : $250 million ) and unnecessarily disruptive ; as many as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The opera-house controversy pales beside the protests over plans to renovate the Louvre . Last year Mitterrand asked the American architect I. M. Pei to come up with ideas for expanding the museum 's notoriously inadequate storage and administration space . After spending four months in Paris mulling over the problem , Pei devised a scheme to excavate beneath the " Cour Napoleon , " the square that nestles in the horseshoe formed by the wings of the museum . Among other things , his plan called for a new main entrance that would be capped by a gleaming , 66-foot glass pyramid . When Pei presented his proposal last month to the government 's National Committee on Historic Monuments , which must approve all major alterations to public buildings , many members reacted as if the Chinese-born architect had proposed turning the grounds of the former palace into a shopping mall . " It was n't a pleasant meeting , " recalls Jan Weymouth , Pei 's assistant . Opponents contended that in addition to its apparent incongruity , the pyramid would permanently spoil the vista that stretches from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuileries Gardens . When word of Pei 's proposal got out , the conservative daily Le Figaro launched an aggressive editorial campaign , condemning the pyramid as " a monster " and " a scandal . " Masterstroke : The rebuffs did not deter Pei or Mitterrand . At a private presentation in the Elysee Palace , the architect won the unqualified approval of the president , who promptly overruled the committee . The pyramid also won applause in surprising quarters . Opponents had expected the Gaullist mayor of Paris , Jacques Chirac , to denounce the scheme as another example of Socialist contempt for traditional values . He did n't . " From a town-planning point of view , " Chirac told Pei , " the project is near perfect . " When asked about the pyramid , the mayor simply said , " The underground space has to be topped by something " Supporters argue that Pei 's solution is a masterstroke of architectural elegance . So far , the anti-pyramid lobby has scored only one small victory in its effort to block construction . Within the next few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on public display in the Louvre . Opponents hope the reaction among Parisians will be sufficiently negative that officials will at least be forced to modify the scheme . The government is confident that will not happen ; Minister of Culture Jack Lang , a seasoned veteran of many similiar battles in the past , predicts that even the staunchest critics will eventually come around . " In 20 years ' time , " says Lang , " the same people who have been fulminating against the pyramid will be the first to complain that the national heritage of Paris is being violated if ever there are plans to remove it . "                     