@@432038

For France , the decades between 1850 and 1880 were filled with epic political events ? the fall of the Second Republic , the return of the Empire under Napoleon III , the triumph of the Third Republic . For photography , these years were equally epic . In the hands of forgotten artists like Maxime Du Camp , Blanquart-Evrard and Gustave Le Gray , the medium took a quantum leap into the modern era , leaving far behind the one-of-a-kind copper daguerreotype invented by the Frenchman Louis Daguerre and announced to the world in 1839 . Suddenly the shops and galleries in Paris were filled with richly textured prints that kept their original purple-black tones for many years . The sturdy glass negative , perfected in the 1850s , produced faithful copies , enough to illustrate large-editioned books . The photographers took their increasingly portable cameras outside the studio to depict life in the streets and the countryside . Inside the studio , they photographed real-life nudes , male and female , assuming the freedom and self-importance of painters . The popular critical press fervently debated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts . Most amazing , photographs began to appear on the walls of the annual Salon des BeauxArts exhibitions , once reserved for paintings . Photography as we now know it was suddenly alive and thriving . Invaluable Cache : Yet it is only now that the significance of this golden age is being recognized in an exhibition of major importance at the Metropolitan Museum in New York . Entitled " After Daguerre : Masterworks of French Photography ( 1848-1900 ) , " the show springs from a splendid collaboration between the Met and the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris ? the national library of France . Under a law dating back to the reign of Louis XIV , anyone who published a picture in a multiple edition ? etched , engraved or , eventually , photographed ? had to deposit one copy at the library . This produced an invaluable cache of masterpieces , which were forgotten for decades . They have been reclaimed by Weston J. Naef , the Met 's curator of photography , working with Jean-Pierre Seguin and Bernard Marbot in Paris , supported by a generous grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues have assembled 185 rare photographs by 100 artists , most of whom are unknown today . The vast majority of the prints on display are now one of a kind , all other copies having perished . They include such extraordinary images as Du Camp 's monumental head of Ramses II , taken in the Egyptian desert in 1850 . This historic picture gains its edge ? and conveys its scale ? by the presence of a sailor dangling his tiny legs over the peak of Ramses ' immense headdress . Adolphe Braun 's magnificent chiaroscuro study of the Paris Opera 's peristyle , with its columns casting knife-edged shadows across the long , receding porch , is every bit its match . Etienne-Jules Marey 's " Partial Photograph of the Stride of a Man " is a fascinating study by a renowned physiologist . Its stunning abstract effect ( which later influenced futurist painters ) was achieved by a single plate armed with a rotating shutter that made it possible to take up to 100 pictures per second . In none of these pictures do we sense izes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great photographic inventor , William Henry Fox Talbot in England . Each of the later photographers is sure of his esthetic mission , his means , and most of all how to print the image . By 1852 , Blanquart-Evrard had perfected a process of photographic printmaking that combined albumen with gold salts , and opened his own atelier . Slowly the artists were taking over , determined to discover the possibilities of the new medium . Charles Aubry , for example , trained as a painter , focused on luxuriant flowers , holding his exposures for three-quarters of an hour . He then contact-printed the results the compositional crudity that characterfrom a huge 15- by 19-inch glass-plate negative , as large as a drawing or a small painting , in order to achieve the greatest possible clarity in the print . Edouard-Denis Baldus , on the other hand , moved toward a more markedly " photographic " esthetic , even though he , too , began as a painter . He delineated the face and style of buildings , bridges , empty roads , in cool , precise light , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course the heyday had to end . When the empire collapsed , photography lost an unlikely patron , Napoleon III , who had supported many of the high-minded men who wanted to use the medium as a means for making art , not money . During the early 1880s the printing press took over : photographs were run off in thousands of copies every day , not in special limited sets . Slowly , the urge to deposit original prints in the Bibliotheque Nationale died , as did the multiple-edition portfolio and the hand-tipped book . By 1888 , Eastman Kodak had perfected a cheap camera for popular use . The serious artist of the camera retreated in the opposite direction , away from pure photography toward sentimentality and painterly " pictorialism . " This is why the Met 's exhibition ends with two photographs by the great , tragic Eugene Atget , who lived and worked in poverty until his death in 1927 . He alone kept the faith that moved the golden age , producing stark , serene images that recorded the streets and parks of Paris as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see a row of trees reflected in a clear , crisp pool ? a dark and moving document . Like his predecessors in those three epic decades , Atget was content to let photography speak its own truths . Braun 's Peristyle of the New Opera , Paris , ' 1874-75 Val/                     