@@326696

No chance of victory , and no hope of peace , in the Iran-Iraq war <P> The latest battlefield in the long , murderous war between Iran and Iraq is a 50-mile front from Dezful in Iran across the border to the Iraqi town of Amara . There , beginning on Nov. 1 , an Iranian force of about 20,000 , mostly fanatical Islamic Guard units and including some basij , or groups of teen-age zealots , staged a new offensive . Attacking at night to neutralize Iraq 's overwhelming air superiority , and sticking to the high , steep terrain that favors Iranian manpower over Iraqi firepower , they claim to have captured 210 sq . mi. of territory , killing 6,100 Iraqi defenders and taking 3,400 prisoners . The attackers penetrated three to six miles into Iraq , seizing positions within shelling range of a strategically important highway linking Baghdad to the port of Basra , 280 miles to the south . <P> Having scored that victory , the Iranians went no farther . Nor are they likely to . The reason : the broad , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of earthen walls and slit trenches . Hundreds upon hundreds of Soviet-built Iraqi tanks , armored personnel carriers , guns and rocket launchers dot the eerie landscape , each hunkered down behind its own earth revetment . If the Iranians attempted to move toward Amara , they would invite the same decimation that they received in five full-scale attacks last summer , when wave upon wave of poorly trained Islamic Guards rushed across the flood plain of the Shatt al Arab toward Basra . <P> Western diplomats now believe that the Iranian regime of Ayatullah Ruhollah Khomeini may have learned the costly lesson of its massive , suicidal assaults . In response , Iran has adopted a new strategy of long-term attrition , undertaking only intermittent and limited offensives . The question then becomes : Which government is better able to absorb the continued carnage of a sustained struggle ? Many analysts feel that the odds at the moment slightly favor Iran . Says a U.S. official : " The Iranians are still willing to go out and die in this war , but the Iraqis do n't have the heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that the spirit of martyrdom that infused Iran 's previous offensives is deteriorating . Iranians are shunning military service , and the Khomeini regime has had to take drastic measures to fill the army 's ranks . On Nov. 1 , Khomeini told all students and civil servants to report to conscription centers and join up . " Where they are needed , " the Ayatullah said , " combat duty takes precedence over everything else . " Even childhood . Khomeini also issued an edict that no longer requires children to obtain parental consent before going to war . Regular troops have been telling of " tearful boys " in their midst , and a twelve-year-old Iranian prisoner of war interviewed on Iraqi television said that two of his friends were shot by Islamic Guards while attempting to desert .                     