@@432152

 | A rush of developments in the first days of summer rekindled fears that U.S. military forces could be drawn into combat in Central America . Among the developments ? President Reagan 's refusal to rule out the use of U.S. combat troops in Central America , despite his repeated insistence that no such plans currently are under consideration . The claim by Democratic presidential hopeful Walter Mondale , Vice President under Jimmy Carter , that " under present policies it is inevitable that American troops will be sent to Central America , because the policy is failing . " Emerging evidence of a virtual state of war developing along the border between Nicaragua and Honduras , which the U.S. has helped convert into a base for Nicaraguan rebels and a training center for the Salvadoran Army . A warning by the departing chief of U.S. military advisers in El Salvador , Col. John Waghelstein , that American troops would be needed to prevent a Marxist guerrilla victory in El Salvador if the U.S. Congress cut off aid . The painful dilemma that the escalating conflict in Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 news conference . He was asked to comment on the " inconsistency " between his claim that El Salvador and the rest of Central America are vital to the national security of the United States and his assurance that he " will never send combat troops in . " Reagan replied that " Presidents never say never . " He quickly added the assurance , however , that " we have no plans to send combat troops , nor are they needed or wanted . " Still , observers in the embattled region warn that three situations could evolve in the months ahead that would compel Reagan to resolve the apparent inconsistency in his policy ? either by sending troops to protect vital American interests or by revising his definition of U.S. security needs . One is the capture by Marxist-led guerrillas of a province in El Salvador , followed by formation of a " provisional revolutionary " government to give the insurgency legitimacy . A second is an invasion of U.S.-backed Honduras by Soviet-supported Nicaragua , which would turn the present border conflict into full-scale war between clients of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nicaragua of Cuban combat forces or advanced Soviet aircraft or missiles . Such moves would radically alter the balance of power in Central America . A key administration official concedes that the establishment of a Soviet or Cuban base in Nicaragua inevitably would force a revision of the Reagan administration 's policy toward the region . But he insists that Washington considers this a remote danger . Few options . The President 's freedom of action in Central America is severely limited as things stand now ? certainly his military options . Public opinion is strongly against U.S. military involvement . One survey shows that 55 percent of those polled consider this the greatest danger and 35 percent regard the spread of Communism as more dangerous . Furthermore , the nation 's military leaders have made it clear that they are opposed to any intervention by U.S. armed forces that does not command solid public and congressional support . In an effort to mobilize a national consensus behind a policy to counter the Marxist threat in Central America , the Reagan administration now plans to establish a bipartisan panel of experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social Security . But even as the President strives to galvanize the country to support his strategy , developments on the ground are forcing him to expand the role of the United States in Central America ? and thereby accept increased risks . For a country-by-country rundown on trends that are pushing Washington toward a deeper involvement , this report from the magazine 's James Wallace , who has just made a four-week tour through the volatile region Never before in the Western Hemisphere has the United States made as deep a commitment to a nation 's survival as in El Salvador ? and nowhere with a smaller American presence or less support at home . The Reagan administration has assumed responsibility for running this beleaguered nation 's anti-insurgent  | war , reshaping social and political institutions and setting conditions for peace . The number of Americans directly involved and the 253.4 million dollars in military and economic aid allocated so far are minuscule compared with past U.S. involvements abroad . But in El Salvador they mean controversial new ideas , ammunition to continut : fighting and enough dollars to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war itself and the failure of 27,000 regular Army troops to defeat some 6,000 insurgents are behind growing U.S. responsibility for military and sociopolitical strategy . Barracks-bound Army . Highly mobile rebel bands concentrate on destroying the nation 's economic foundations , keeping the Army off balance and convincing civilians of their " inevitable " triumph . The Army is able to push insurgents out of any town they occupy but is too barracks-bound to protect the countryside or gain the initiative . Analysts point outthatin guerrilla war , an army that is not winning almost always loses . So instead of concentrating on infantry field training , U.S. advisers now are working at much higher levels in intelligence and with a previously almost nonexistent Salvadoran Army general staff . This greatly expands the influence of an adviser corps limited by political considerations in the U.S. to 80 , including 25 newly assigned medical specialists . The most important anti-insurgent tactic is a combined security-and-development operation ? similar to the " pacification " program in Vietnam ? now under way in the province of San Vicente . Its goal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of guerrillas . Then , large American-aided development projects would be launched , with newly trained and better-armed local militia units protecting civilians . In all this , the U.S. runs grave risks of being saddled with responsibility without authority , sending conflicting signals to enemies and allies alike , and finding that whatever is done is too little , too late . Changes such as land reform and broad-based talks with insurgents soften criticism that the U.S. seeks only military solutions in El Salvador . But neither may work . Rightist threat . Land reform is being undercut by right-wing politicians and easily could intensify their determination to win next December 's presidential elections by any means available . Christian Democratic leader Jose Napoleon Duarte is warning that a rightist victory would send many of his moderate supporters underground . That could destroy what little U.S. congressional support remains for the Salvadoran government . Negotiations that seem to offer rebels a chance at the power they have not yet been able to win on the battlefield and so far are unwilling to seek in open elections may satisfy congressional critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other moderates , the kind of Salvadorans the U.S. wants to keep on its side to maintain any hope of success . Ironically , the highly touted San Vicente pacification operation could prove the riskiest initiative of all . Some U.S. military men privately fear that guerrillas now withdrawing without a fight will regroup elsewhere , then return in strength to overwhelm local defenders and destroy development projects after first-line troops leave . That , says one analyst , " would be even more discouraging than past defeats , because it would discredit the best the government has tried to do . " Another danger is that rebels would try to legitimatize the insurgency by setting up a revolutionary government in a remote province while one fourth of the Army is busy in San Vicente . Either move would increase pres- sure to expand American involvement ? perhaps by sending in a " temporary " security force ? to forestall the prospect of losing another country to Communism . Geography and politics make Honduras the U.S. forward base in Central America . But there are growing demands from Honduran political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including American combat troops if needed , for assuming this risk . The U.S. presence here is highly visible and rapidly expanding : From American Army officers in civilian clothing going over construction plans in the bar of the Honduras Maya hotel to C-130 cargo planes roaring low over this mountain-rimmed capital . There are a just opened Green Beret training base for Salvadoran troops , a 5-million-dollar regional radar with 58 American technicians , 13 million dollars in airport improvements to handle large U.S. aircraft , a joint military exercise with U.S. troops , plus supply routes and rear bases for 7,000 U.S.-financed guerrillas trying to overthrow the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua . Fearful of cost . Most Hondurans recognize the need for U.S. help to preserve the fragile democracy in this nation of 3.7 million mostly poor people . But there is worry about the cost to them of what they see as a U.S. policy that treats their country as a pawn in a superpower contest . Explains Benjamin Villanueva , an executive educated at the University of Wisconsin : " We agree with American policies . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money for being involved in a struggle that the United States thinks of only in terms of EastWest confrontation , not in terms of what it is doing to Honduras . " This involvement poses two big risks for the U.S. and Honduras : A sharp upsurge in leftist violence and a direct attack by Nicaragua . Apart from some terrorist bombings and kidnappings , there now is little insurgent activity . But the stage is being set . Hondurans living in Cuba and Nicaragua have been trained in urban and rural insurgency . Propaganda from Havana and Managua emphasizes political repression and " disappearances " of government critics ? possible justification for aiding local leftists . Some diplomats predict Marxism will have a harder time taking root in Honduras than in much of Central America . Though the poorest nation in the region , it lacks El Salvador 's sharp class and economic distinctions or Guatemala 's racial divisions . U.S. officials argue , therefore , that this is a nation where a significant difference still can be made by pouring in economic aid ? some 100 million dollars is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's antiguerrilla capabilities . Doubt lingers . The agreement to permit the U.S. to train Salvadoran troops in Honduras is raising new controversies . Honduras and El Salvador are old enemies . They fought a brief war in 1969 and still mistrust one another . " The training base also will make our relations with Nicaragua more difficult , " says Efrain Diaz Arrivillaga , a Christian Democratic congressman and a voice for liberal , middle-class Hondurans . Danger of open warfare with Nicaragua is rising sharply as anti-Sandinista forces hit harder across the border , with no-longer-secret assistance from regular Honduran Army troops . Promises of U.S. help , including corn- . bat troops , already are being sought . The Army chief , Gen. Gustavo Alvarez Martinez , emphasizes the necessity of America " standing beside us in defense of democracy " if Nicaragua attacks . This is a commitment America almost certainly will not make in ad- vance because it would vastly increase risks of turning even a border skirmish into an East-West showdown . But some U.S. officials say privately that it is an obligation Washington probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan , the stakes in Nicaragua are rising sharply as U.S.-backed insurgents exert mounting pressure on the Sandinista regime . There is increased danger that Nicaragua 's Marxist leaders will lash out at Honduras and perhaps invite a direct Soviet-Cuban role in the conflict . This would set in motion events that could trigger greater U.S. involvement , perhaps even armed participation . Many Latin experts are convinced that U.S.-financed contras fighting in. side Nicaragua no longer are under effective control of the Central Intelligence Agency . Field commanders of the 7,000-man force say bluntly that their aim is not to curb the flow of Communist arms to insurgents in El Salvador , but to overthrow the regime in Managua . Some boast that this can be accomplished within a few more months even without U.S. aid . Though this is part Latin bravado , it also partly reflects the impressive reserves of guns and ammunition the contras have in hand . U.S. economic and military pressure has made the Sandinistas more militant than ever . Dozens of new militia and Army reserve battalions are being formed , while officials seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other nations for what already is the region 's largest fighting machine . Economy hard hit . Rebels attacking from Honduras have scored military successes and are hurting Nicaragua 's already strapped economy . In the province of Nueva Segovia , scene of heavy fighting , scores of border hamlets have been abandoned . There is much grumbling in northern border towns about rationing , shortages and lack of jobs . But this does not necessarily mean support for contras or opposition to Managua . Says Sacred Heart Sister Liza Fitzgerald , an American nun who has lived in the area since early 1982 : " If there had been a free election a year ago , the Sandinistas . v ould have won . If one were held to- ) ' ( ' day , they would win overwhelmingly . " v A far greater peril to the U.S. than a backlash against its help for the rebels ? aid that Managua exploits as " Yankee imperialism " ? is the danger that the Sandinistas may seek protection from Russia or Cuba . Interior Minister Tomas Borge , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports that Nicaragua would permit Russia to base nuclear missiles here . " I can assure the U.S that is one thing it need not worry about , " he told a recent visitor . But there is a steady flow of such Soviet equipment as tanks and helicopters ? plus standby MiG-21 fighters in Cuba ? that would make Nicaragua a formidable foe if it attacked Honduras . Also highly possible is the stationing in Nicaragua of a Cuban brigade similar to those sent to Africa . Already , 2,000 or more Cubans are working with military and - security forces here . Managua may indeed change its ways , but chances are growing almost daily that the change will present the United States with even sharper challenges . Guatemala is a success story the United States is not sure it wants duplicated elsewhere in Central America : A Catholic nation run by a born-again Christian who curbed some humanrights abuses but then created disturbing new ones . In many ways , this nation of 7.2 million people could be the region 's most decisive domino . It abuts Mexico , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by leftist subversion . " I do n't abuse . " Before Gen. Jose Efrain Rios Montt came to power in March , 1982 , the U.S. shunned Guatemala because of its extreme humanrights violations . These have been reNicaraguan forces and Nicaraguan Army troops . The U.S. is heavily involved as main supporter of the contras , the rebels bent on ousting the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua . These guerrilla forces , who sport distinctive blue-green uniforms and Che Guevara-type black berets , are based inside Honduras and dominate the border region . They receive extensive support from the Honduran Army ? sanctuaries , ammunition and even covering fire . Frustrated and angered by rebel operations , Sandinista forces are responding by intensifying grenade and mortar attacks across the border . Grim signs of war are evident on both sides of the frontier . On the Honduran side , the little coffee-growing town of Cifuentes is deserted , the residents having fled mortar shells . On the Nicaraguan side , the El Porvenir border post is equally desolated with wrecked tobacco warehouses and homes .  | duced in bigger towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't steal . I do n't lie . I do n't abuse . Also encouraging is a program of frijoles , trabajo y fusiles ? beans , work and rifles ? that has provided food and jobs for poverty-stricken rural Indians and organized them into home-guard militias to fight insurgents . But some human-rights groups charge that the program also involves torture and massacres that have forced about 70,000 refugees into Mexico . The general also has come under fire for failing to hold new elections . When reports of an imminent military coup against him circulated on June 29 , he declared a national " state of alarm . " Guatemalan leaders want both economic and military aid from America but will accept no strings . U.S. officials also want to resume aid . But they are wary of grasping another Latin nettle . By almost any standard , Costa Rica is what the U.S. would like all Central America to be ? democratic , anti-Communist , usually a cooperative ally . But even this still peaceful nation with 2.4 million people faces present and future threats that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and business leaders bank on Reagan 's Caribbean Basin initiative to help rebuild an economy battered by a spendthrift former administration and slumping commodity prices . The U.S. military shield is counted on by officials and ordinary citizens as the ultimate defense of a country with no army and only a haphazard intelligence system to counter subversion . OAS reaction . Diplomats warn that a Nicaraguan move against Costa Rica would be " something the Organization of American States could not ignore " and that OAS reaction would bring U.S. involvement . When Sandinistas were rebels fighting the Somoza dictatorship , Costa Rica was a major ally . It provided rear-base areas , food and medical supplies and allowed arms deliveries from Cuba . Now , it is anxious about Sandinista subversion that is abetted by Cuba . An estimated 200 Costa Rican leftists have had insurgency training in Cuba and Nicaragua . Large amounts of arms are cached in the countryside . Warns a ranking Western diplomat : " Costa Rica might be able to escape the region 's turmoil if the levers of control were all here . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba . " As things stand , America 's top military men would strongly oppose any move to send U.S. troops to combat Marxist insurgencies in Central America . Leaders of the armed forces , the Army in particular , have delivered that message to President Reagan , and a number have gone to unusual lengths to air their views . They see in Central America the danger of " another Vietnam " ? a war in which U.S. troops could become bogged down interminably in a conflict lacking the support of the American public . Conditions . They do not categorically rule out using the nation 's armed forces in the turbulent region on America 's doorstep , especially if Nicaragua should attack Honduras or a Cuban-Soviet base should be established in Nicaragua . But they insist that , before such action can be contemplated , there must be a clear understanding of the political and military objectives , the will to commit sufficient strength to do the job and , above all , firm backing from Congress and the public . Pentagon officers see none of these factors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meyer , who has just retired as Army chief of staff : " I am concerned about having soldiers at the end of a string without support of the American people . " Meyer , who said he was reflecting the views of other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , added that he does not see such domestic support for sending American troops into combat in Central America . To order the Army into another unpopular war , Pentagon officers fear , could bring disaster for a service only now recuperating from the Vietnam debacle . They warn that the high level of professionalism that has been attained by the volunteer service could crumble under a barrage of political criticism and public resentment . Army leaders also are worried about the purely military challenge they would face if they were called upon to fight Marxist guerrillas in Central America . Many officers say they have no clear concept as to how regular U.S. soldiers would combat insurgents in a place such as El Salvador . They point out that Salvadoran rebels , who now operate mainly in rural areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies have managed to master . In addition , there is the distinct danger that the arrival of foreign troops would inflame local opposition against Washington and the U.S.-backed Salvadoran government . The result could be an increase in active support for the guerrillas , with more Salvadorans joining the movement . Even if U.S. troops were able to wage a successful war against the Marxist rebels , Pentagon officers warn , the military operation still could ultimately fail . Power vacuum . They worry that the U.S. Army would wind up with a " sanitized " nation ? a power vacuum in which no local political leader would be willing or able to take charge effectively . This would lead inevitably to a new round of warfare as soon as American forces left or would force the U.S. to garrison the country indefinitely . While U.S. officers see real dangers for the U.S. in a leftist victory in El Salvador or an expansion of Nicaraguan military influence in the region , they maintain that the problem is not exclusively military . They stress that the economic , political and social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain , are not a substitute for needed political and economic reforms and for the steady development of effective indigenous fighting forces .                     