@@494803

Borges , Jorge Luis ( 1899-1986 ) . Argentine poet , essayist , and short story writer . Of a metaphysical turn of mind , Borges was preoccupied in his work by philosophical and theological questions having to do with illusion and reality , the multiple nature of selfhood , the possibility of reincarnation , the logical paradoxes inherent in all conceptions of space and time , the ultimate unity in the plurality of things , esoteric systems of knowledge ( such as the Cabala ) , and the symbolic and real correspondences between language and the world ( both of which are infinite constructions made from orderly repetitions of finite and arbitrary elements ) . Thus , in " The Library of Babel " he supposes a cosmos composed solely of an endless number of books ; in " TlOrt , Uqbar , Orbis Tertius " he posits an imaginary planet described in a 40-volume encyclopedia , whose concepts gradually usurp those of the real world ; in " Everything and Nothing " God says to Shakespeare , " I have dreamt the world as you dreamt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are you , who like myself are many and no one . " Elsewhere in Borges time stands still or goes backward , people dream each other 's lives and deaths , earthly enemies are revealed in Heaven to be a single person , and elaborate works of mock scholarship are constructed in which historical fact and fiction are cleverly mixed . Calvino , Italo ( 1923-1985 ) . Italian short story writer and novelist . An unflagging experimentalist , Calvino was a practitioner of fictional deconstruction , trapping his reader in Chinese puzzles and frequently commenting in the course of his work on the processes of writing and reading it . He was able to do so while maintaining fictional suspense , often balancing his highly intellectual approach with a comic-book-like sensationalism of story line . A good example of Calvino 's method is his If on a winter 's night a traveler , a book consisting of first chapters of different novels that all break off in the middle , into which is woven a plot involving a notorious terrorist organization called " Apocryphal Power . " This organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlightened followers of the Archangel of Light and a sect of nihilist followers of the Archon of Shadow , " both determined to get their hands on a famous author 's manuscript ( which may be , in fact , the very novel we are reading ) ? the former because they are convinced " that among the false books flooding the world they can track down a few that bear a truth perhaps extrahuman or extraterrestrial , " the latter because they believe " that only counterfeiting , mystification , intentional falsehood can represent absolute value in a book . " These two factions wage a war of kidnapping and murder around the globe while we are at the same time made to consider highly theoretical questions of novelistic composition and intent . Simultaneously , two in-novel readers of the novel , a male and female , strike up a romance while pursuing the book 's secrets . The last page of If on a winter 's night a traveler finds them married and in bed , where they are comfortably reading ... halo Calvino 's If on a winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929- ) . Latin American novelist and " magical realist . " If magical realism is considered as prose fiction in which impossible events are casually related as though they were ordinary ones , with which they are interspersed , then the inventor of the genre was Kafka , when he wrote , " As Gregor Samsa awoke one morning from uneasy dreams he found himself transformed in his bed into a gigantic insect . " Unlike the fiction of Kafka , however , which commonly works out in great detail the logical implications of a single intrusion of the absurd into daily reality , in the fiction of Marquez such intrusions densely populate the page . At the conclusion of A Hundred Years Of Solitude , for example , a man who has just fathered a baby with a pig 's tail sits through a cyclone that is literally blowing away his house while absorbedly reading a family history that accurately describes his own death , " written in Sanskrit ... and encoded in the even lines in the private cipher of the Emperor Augustus and in the odd ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to others in the book 's opening , bringing the novel to a poetic , rather than a logical , closure . Hype . A form of publicity designed to convince the public that there is more to something than there is . Unlike hard sell , which overstates in crude terms to an undifferentiated public , hype appeals to the desire to feel special . A case in point is Knopf 's publicity for the new novel Dictionary of the Khazars ? which , the reviewer is told , is " already a best seller in Germany ... Number One in France ... soon to appear in England , Italy , Holland , Sweden , Denmark , Norway , Finland , Spain , and Latin America . " " Seekers of the deeper meaning of life , " says Knopf , " may be in some peril , because the Dictionary opens up a dizzying and ultimately bottomless dimension of philosophy .... Readers in search of Truth will inevitably try to unlock the puzzle of the universe by reassembling the very body of Adam ... " The book , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bedazzling philosophy .. , a romance wrapped in a mystery ... several murder stories wrapped in a romance . " The novel " comes in two versions , one MALE and one FEMALE , which differ only by 17 ( crucial ) lines . Readers may choose whichever edition they prefer as their passport : their journey through the world of the Khazars will be different depending on their choice . " ( See PUBLISHING . ) Khazars . An ancient Turkic people , partly nomadic , partly settled , who appeared in Transcaucasia in the second century and subsequently settled in southern Russia between the Volga and the Don . Subjugated by the Huns in the fifth century , they emerged again in the seventh century and rose to great power . They conquered the Crimea , levied tribute from the eastern Slays , including those in Kiev , and warred with the Arabs , the Persians , and the Armenians . The supreme ruler ( khaqan or khagan ) of the Khazars and the Khazar nobility embraced Judaism around 740 ; the legend that they did so after listening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a Jew is unsubstantiated . The missionary brothers Constantine and Methodius later made some Christian converts among them , and many Muslims existed in their midst , too . Religious tolerance was complete in the Khazar empire , which reached a relatively high degree of civilization . The empire fell when Sviatoslav , duke of Kiev , defeated its army in 969 . Lexicon Novel . A term used by the author of Dictionary of the Khazars ( see PAVIC , MILORAD ) for the book , which is written in the form of an alleged 17th-century encyclopedia on the subject of the Khazar empire and various persons associated with it . Most of these persons are imaginary , and even those who are purportedly historical , such as the Jewish poet and philosopher Yehudah Halevi or the Christian missionary Methodius , are treated in a highly fanciful manner . In the entry for Methodius , for instance , we are informed that " he knew the language of his Slavic subjects , who had bearded souls and in winter carried birds inside their shirts to keep warm . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those under the sign of the Trinity , a masculine sign , take in only the odd sentences of their books when they read , whereas we , under the sign of the number four , a feminine number , take in only the even sentences of our books , " Methodius , the Dictionary tells us , became a monk himself on the Asia Minor coast in a colony of ascetics called Olympus , where he was later joined by his brother . They watched the sand , swept by the Easter wind , reveal on each holiday yet another ancient desert temple at a new site , showing only enough for them to make the sign of the cross and read out the " Our Father " before it was buried again forever . Such nonchalant intrusions of absurdity abound in Dictionary of the Khazars . A typical entry begins : Sevast , Nikon ( 17th century ) ? It is believed that at one time Satan lived under this name in the Ovchar gorge on the Morava river , in the Balkans . He was unusually gentle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and worked as the head calligrapher at the St. Nicholas Monastery . Wherever he sat , however , he left an imprint of two faces , and in place of a tail he had a nose . Dictionary of the Khazars is not just oxymorons . It is also a book about the labyrinths of historical scholarship , about illusion and reality , about the unreal nature of space and time , about people who dream each other 's lives and deaths , about transpersonal identity , about reincarnation , about the search for God , about the parallels between language and the universe . Yes , and about deconstruction . " It is not I who mix the colors , " the icon painter Sevast tells us : It is not I who mix the colors but your own vision .... You could do the same with writing . Why should n't someone create a dictionary of words that make up one book and let the reader himself assemble the words into a whole ? Dictionary of the Khazars has a plot too , which concerns the efforts of certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are the same people , reborn ) to find the lost manuscript of a book called Dictionary of the Khazars and reconstruct from it the cosmic body of Adam Ruhani , the cabalistic Spiritual Adam , whose restoration will reunite man with God . Naturally , the satanic forces can not tolerate this prospect . Working through human stand-ins , they do their best to foil it , not even shrinking from the murder of an Egyptian professor ( and the pinning of the rap on an Israeli scholar ) at an international conference in Istanbul . The novel also has a male and female reader , who ( shortly before falling in love and into bed with each other ) meet on its last page to compare ... the masculine and feminine versions of Dictionary of the Khazars . Pavic , Milorad . The supposed author of Dictionary of the Khazars . According to his American publisher , Pavic was born in Yugoslavia in 1929 and has published numerous volumes of prose and poetryin the Serbo-Croatian language . He is the son of the sculptor Zdenko Pavic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descendant of the poet Emeric Pavic , who wrote Latin and Serbian verse in Budapest back in the 1760s . Currently , he is a professor of Serbian literature in Belgrade , where he also raises borzoi hounds . Precisely because publishers do n't usually send reviewers the family trees of their authors , however , one 's suspicions are aroused . A thorough check of the card catalog of the nearest university library , as well as of the latest available editions of the Encyclopedia Sritannica , the Encyclopedia Americana , the Columbia Dictionary of Modern European Literature , the Concise Encyclopedia of Modern World Literature , Cassell 's Encyclopedia of World Literature , and the Kindler Literatur Lexikon , reveals not only no Milorad Pavic , but no Pavices whatsoever ? an odd omission , it would seem , for such an illustrious family going back hundreds of years . Can there be a basis to the rumor that Milorad Pavic does not , in fact , exist at all , and is himself the fictional creation of an unidentified literary agent living in one of the capitals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that nobody cared to finish and of diet cookbooks whose recipes proved inedible , this agent , according to the best literary gossip , decided to fabricate a best-selling writer of her own . She knew exactly who the members of her writer 's audience should be : young , educated , trendy , upwardly mobile culturally , vaguely drawn to spiritualism and the occult , suitably impressed with themselves but not so self-assured that they would not be flattered to be taken into the confidence of a seemingly difficult and profound book , eager to feel intellectually sophisticated while loath to have to wrestle with genuinely serious writing : in short , the literary yuppies of the ' 80s . And so , after boning up on Cabala in the Encyclopedia Judaica ( no Pavic there , either ) and reading Dunlop 's History of the Jewish Khazars , in which all the primary sources are well summarized , our secret agent took the three most brilliantly inventive fiction writers of our times , Borges , Calvino , and Marquez , synth , sized their styles and subject matter in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apocryphal Yugoslavian ( si only Serbo-Croats read Serbo-Croatian , there was no need to produce an original text ) , and launched her pseudoepigrapha with such dizzying success that it must have astounded even herself . Knopf has published 40,000 copies of its first edition of Dictionary of the Khazars , an unheard-of number for a translated novel on a recondite subject by an unknown author , and it clearly expects to sell them all and then some . True , it is also rumored that Milorad Pavic has been in New York for the official publication of his novel , of which he signs all male copies with his right hand and all female copies with his left hand , writing with both simultaneously . But how do we know that this Milorad Pavic is the real one , or that a real Milorad Pavic can be found ? Even when his name begins to appear in the encyclopedias , as no doubt it now will , let the lesson of Thin and Uqbar teach us not to jump to hasty conclusions . Publishing . A branch of manufacture concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditional problems of this industry has been the unitary bottleneck , that is , the fact that while you can easily sell a customer two bars of the same soap , two shirts of the same stripe , or two chops off the same lamb , it is extremely difficult to sell the same person two copies of the same book . Now , with the introduction of separate " His " and " Hers " editions of the identical novel , the house of Alfred A. Knopf has broken this barrier . Married couples , of course , have to buy both versions of Dictionary of the Khazars . Most singles , however , do too , since who has the patience to wait to meet someone of the opposite sex who has read the book and can tell us their understanding of the 17 ( crucial ) lines we have missed ? Still , despite the text 's hint that a careful application of these lines ( which can be found , in case you are browsing , on pp. 293-94 ) may enable you and your boyfriend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living room ( be forewarned , however , that , as with the Sorcerer 's Apprentice , there are no in-structions for getting rid of him ) , they are ultimately ? like most of the novel ? an inconsequential gimmick . Buying both copies of Dictionary of the Khazars will not buy you , as promised , a double journey through the world of the Khazars . It will merely set you back $39.90 instead of $19.95 . Two books for the price of one has long been the come-on of many aconventional book club ; one book for the price of two is the chic offer that Knopf is presently making you . It may be an offer you can refuse . 