@@494120

AFTER PLAYING HOST to several embarrassing for ? eign leaders , such as Zia ul-Haq of Pakistan and Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines , the White House welcomes to Washington this week the man whom everyone admires : King Hussein of Jordan . Through the several wars and violent disturbances of his thirty-year rule , he has always come up smiling . Like Gallant Little Belgium in its day , Jordan is perceived as struggling to hold its own . The King 's personal qualities of courage and tenacity are not in doubt . What is coming more and more into question is his statesmanship . He has been developing the habit of pandering to his enemies and distancing himself from his friends . It is not Machiavelli alone who would judge this to he the way to the exit . The King 's Arab neighbors , Saudi Arabia , Syria , and Iraq , wish him ill with degrees of intensity that vary according to circumstances . Saudi policy toward Jordan is chronically suspicious and confused , which may not matter much so long as some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Jordan 's relations with radical Syria , and now with radical Iraq , have been dangerously based on passing expediency . After two years of murderous warfare , the Iranians are encroach ? ing upon Iraq , and may consolidate their gains . Every so often King Hussein or his prime minister flies off to Baghdad to hear the latest news ; invariably he returns gloomier than before , but still eager to help . In the watches of the night , it is not hard to imagine hordes of Ayatollah-crazed Revolutionary Guards swarming to ? ward Amman . Contemptuous of pan-Arab solidarity , Syria is so hostile to Iraq that it supports Iran in this war , and has turned on King Hussein for his pro-Iraq stand . The Syrian-Jordanian friendship , which blossomed upon the rejection of Camp David , has been exposed as the fraudulent politicking it was . In the exhausting business of Arab radical brotherhood , Jordanian diplo ? mats have been kidnapped by Syrians ; Syrian murder squads have been dispatched to Amman to shoot down anyone they can in the royal entourage ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King 's face . Turning in the other direction , toward Jerusalem , King Hussein can catch on the wind the slogan bellowed by David Pryce-Jones is the author of The Face of Defeat : Palestinian Refugees and Guerrillas ( Holt , Rinehart &; Winston ) , a history of the Palestinian Arabs . General Sharon , that " Jordan is a Palestinian state . " The fact that this slogan is without substance does not diminish its menace . What if General Sharon took it into his head to redesign politics in Jordan , as in Lebanon ? Another nightmare takes shape : that it may no longer be in the interests of Israel to have Hussein on the throne . To date , no Israeli government could have stood by idly while Jordan slipped into Baathist-style milita ? rism along the lines of Syria and Iraq , or , alternatively , was taken over by the Palestine Liberation Organiza ? tion . In more than one crunch , Israel supplied vital arms and fuel to the King , or allowed such supplies to be airlifted across its own territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in today 's climate , perhaps , some de facto annexation of the West Bank might he compen ? sated for by paying off Yasir Arafat with power in Jordan . The Bedouins would fight to the last man , and would win ; but never mind , Likud cynics and fantasists might reply , only Palestinians need be killed . Isolation from America , Jordan 's backer of last resort , is even more serious . The King has only himself to blame . No doubt President Carter took it for granted that the King would join the Camp David peace-making , and that was tactless . It could not have been foreseen that he would prefer to fall in with Syria and the rejectionists , even putting himself at their financial mercy ( complaining now that their checks have a way of remaining unsigned , while American grants and loans have fallen in the last year to little more than $200 million ) . No sooner was President Reagan installed in the White House than King Hussein visited him , only to hurry off to Moscow to ask for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet block . Luckily for him , the Russians have decided to be ungenerous . If President Sadat was able to go to Jerusalem , why has King Hussein 's proverbial courage failed when it comes to political negotiations on his own behalf ? Let it be conceded at once that his position is fraught with peril . He , his attractive American wife Lisa Halaby , now Queen Noor , and all his children could well be butch ? ered as a consequence of gross misjudgment . His cousin , King Faisal of Iraq , was trampled to death while trying to escape from the 1958 uprising in his country , and the recollection of it must color those depressing journeys to Baghdad . In Amman , the mob would be Palestinian . Census figures are unreliable ; but of the two to three million Jordanians , more than half are Palestinians . They have proved loyal Jordanians , but the King has had to be looking over his shoulder just in case they were to swing over to the P.L.O . Debate in Amman about how to handle the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abdullah , Hussein 's grandfather , was then on the throne . The war against the Jews promised the expansion he had longed for , and his Arab Legion captured the West Bank , including the Old City of Jerusalem . The United Nations had already voted to create an independent Palestinian Arab state in this area , alongside the new Israel . Abdullah annexed it instead , a step recognized by Britain and Pakistan alone . Constitutional devices were then arranged in order to show that the majority of West Bankers approved of being annexed and given Jordanian citizenship ? which was probably the case . Here was the basis for what has subsequently developed into " the Jordanian option . " Abdullah , a realist , knew that in the long run he could hold the West Bank only by agreement with Israel . He negotiated secretly with Golda Meir , who visited his summer palace at Shuneh disguised as an Arab . Nothing had materialized by the time Abdullah was shot to death by gunmen in the pay of Haj Amin el-Husseini , Mufti of Jerusalem and leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assassination , Abdullah was killed while leaving Friday prayers in the Mosque of Omar in Jerusalem . The seventeen-year-old Hussein was also present , and his life was saved because the medals on his uniform deflected one of the bullets . HOW HUSSEIN ruled the West Bank between 1952 and 1967 has been a matter of controversy , much of it now academic . Palestinians claim that their legal and political rights were suppressed by a hostile military government , and that there was chronic and probably deliberate unemployment , and hence widescale emigra ? tion . Jordanian officials answer that times were hard , and West Bankers received their due . In May 1967 , Carnal Abdul Nasser , mobilizing the Egyptian Army , pressured other Arab states to put an end to Israel once and for all . Rather than hold out , Hussein flew to Cairo and allowed himself to be per ? suaded to join the anti-Israel front . Early on the morning of June 5 , as war was breaking out , King Hussein received messages from the United States as well as the Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignored both warnings , instead ordering his troops to open bombardments in Jerusalem and elsewhere along the Israeli border . Retaliation followed . By the end of the Six Day War , Jerusalem and the West Bank were in Israeli hands . At a stroke , and to no good purpose , Abdullah 's work had been undone . Still more complex and dire , the future of the Palestinians had become indissolubly linked to Israel 's need for secure and inter ? nationally recognized frontiers . From this fateful error of judgment the King drew the conclusion that he was no longer strong enough to declare what his true interests were , but for the sake of survival had to appease his enemies as far as possible . The 1970s were bad years for him . The P.L.O . at once took advantage of his setback and erected a power base of its own within Jordan . For a time Jordan appeared to be becoming truly a Palestinian state . But the Bedouin tribes forced the King to fight for independence . The civil war of 1970 was an assertion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloodier for having been delayed until the last moment . While the P.L.O . had been in the ascendant , Palestinians in Jordan had judged it prudent to pay lip service to it . During its expulsion from Jordan , they remained inactive but clear-eyed . They have been un ? derstandably bitter that their response to the King 's vacillations should have been exploited afterward to bring their loyalty into question . Jordan was not privy to the conspiratorial Egyptian-Syrian attack on Israel in October 1973 , and therefore was protected from repeating the 1967 blunder . But a fence-sitting attitude on the King 's part ensured that he would become a scapegoat in the aftermath of the war . At the Rabat summit meeting in 1974 , the King was obliged to go through an ordeal much like a daylight mugging . The Arab states voted that henceforth the West Bank was to be represented by the P.L.O. , not Jordan . Instead of opposing Arafat 's claim to the prop ? erty , the King decided to grin and bear it . Ever since , the King has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to immediate pressures from his neighbors . To exclude himself from Camp David was another facile negative . Postponement has not made the hour of decision easier or safer . ' THERE ARE SOME in Jordan ( Crown Prince Hassan , 1 for example ) who advocate abandoning the West Bank on the grounds that the Israelis and the Palestin ? ians deserve one another and should best be left to batter themselves to bits . Of all the Arab countries , so this argument runs , Jordan remains by far the most pleasant in which to live , and it can manage well enough . A Fortress Jordan , manned by Bedouins , will survive . The King does not agree . Recovery of the West Bank and the Old City of Jerusalem goes to the roots of his identity as a Hashemite , a dutiful grandson of a respected grandfather , and he wants back what was his . In the military defeat of the P.L.O. , he rightly sees an opening . Such threat as Arafat now offers is minimal ; he can be spoken to bluntly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the usual fudging seems to have taken place . Far from saving that he hopes to recover his heritage , the King is asking Arafat for some " mandate " to speak on behalf of the Palestinians ? in other words , seeking to reverse the Rabat decision as though circum ? stances had not rendered it obsolete . It is appeasement , futile as well as unnecessary , to ask Arafat for a " man ? date , " which he is in no position to grant . What does a rigged vote of the Palestine National Council , itself already rigged by Arafat to suit his purposes , mean to King Hussein ? President Sadat , in a comparable position where Sinai was concerned , made it plain that the satisfaction of Egyptian national interests was the indis ? pensable prelude to meeting Palestinian rights . And he went to Jerusalem to say so out loud . As though it were still 1950 , King Hussein only keeps secret lines of com ? munication open to the Israeli Labor Party , at the level of whispering about " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in danger of choking upon the King 's lack of firm resolve . T F HE BELIEVES that repossession of the West Bank 1 is in Jordan 's interest , and that Palestinian auton ? omy or perhaps a form of federation can be suitably arranged afterward , King Hussein must act accord ? ingly . And it wo n't do to search for vague verbal for ? mulas ? like the announcement on the eve of his de ? departure for Washington that he and Arafat had agreed to a " special and distinctive relationship between Jor ? dan and a liberated Palestine " ? that can both satisfy the most irredentist Palestinians and sound sweet to eager Western observers . He has to negotiate with the Palestinians living on the West Bank , with the Israelis at present ruling it , and with the Americans who alone can persuade the parties to compromise . President Reagan can pressure Israel over the autonomy issue only once he is sure that King Hussein will stay put within the accepted Camp David framework . What reason is there for King Hussein to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that courage of his ? Hid ? ing his aspirations by pleading the need to appease his enemies , and the P.L.O . in particular , is , in a phrase of Shakespeare 's , to lose the name of king . King Hussein does have , sad to say , one incentive to continue his dangerous equivocation . American Admin ? istrations , fascinated as they occasionally are with the idea of " linkage " in other contexts , seem congenitally unable to apply it to Hussein . The U.S. has asked only one thing of Hussein : that he come to the negotiating table . He has refused . Hussein has demanded much of the United States : economic , military , and diplomatic support . The U.S. has obliged him . On September 1 , 1982 , President Reagan even offered to return to him title to the West Bank . The King has accepted all these is with a smile , but never with action . Even now , as he prepares for his visit to the United States , and as he finds more and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace process , the Reagan Adminis ? tration appears to be putting the final touches on a massive arms deal to Jordan . It is said to include two squadrons of F-5G war planes , advanced AIM-9L side ? winder missiles , and laser-guided bombs . King Hussein might have expected these gifts to be contingent upon his willingness to enter negotiations . But it appears that any rhetorical figleaf will do . Once again , the King sees that he need not act , only charm . Once again , an Ameri ? can President is telling the King of Jordan that timidity has its rewards after all .                     