@@494079

Comrade Glagolev 's Gap The lowdown on the Kremlin 's next step toward world hegemony is on sale in Washington for the modest sum of $100 . That 's the going price for two hours with an aging Soviet defector named Igor Glagolev , who claims to have a corner on the Russians ' plot so control the world 's supply of key " strategic " minerals . Under the plan , says Glagolev , who fled his job with the Soviet Academy of Science four years ago , South Africa and neighboring Namibia will be invaded by tanks from Soviet-backed Angola and Mozambique to secure key minerals such as cobalt , chromium , and manganese . " This is not a theoretical discussion anymore , " says Glagolev . " It is a very practical instruction for immediate aggressive action . . . I heard these instructions many times from representatives of the Soviet gove ment . " Like the born mber gap and missile gap of yesteryear , the strategic minerals gap is gaining wide currency in Washington . The incoming Reagan administration has assigned a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ academics , former military officers , and captains of industry ? to make recommendations on the subject . Candidate Reagan , asked by Walter Cronkite whether he would use military force to protect foreign materials such as " chrome from Zimbabwe and South Africa , " a nswered reassuringly , " Well , again , we ca n't have military force without chrome , we ca n't have ONIT automobiles , and we ca n't have airplanes or anything else . I do n't know that military force is necessary . " Although the kind of conspiratorial right-wing alarms spawned by Glagolev 's spiel are pooh-poohed by most experts , the imbalance between East and West in mineral dependency is real enough . While the Soviet Union until now has relied almost entirely on its domestic supply , the US dependency on foreign supplies has grown steadily since the Korean War . In 1950 only four of 13 key strategic minerals were imported into the US in quantities of 50 percent or more ; today nine are imported in quantities of more than 90 percent . The EEC countries rely totally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 . But although the Russians for the first time appear to be moving into the international market as buyers of these so-called strategic minerals ? rather than the sellers they have always been ? and although they continue to support national liberation struggles in southern Africa , observers at the CIA , NSC , and the State Department find no real evidence of a concerted Soviet strategy to cut off the West from its supplies . When we posed Glagolev 's plot to the CIA minerals expert he giggled into the phone . In Washington , though , the mining industry is already using the " minerals gap " to campaign against environmental laws restricting minerals exploration . On Wall Street financial advisers are offering speculators a ton or two of titanium ( excellent for submarine hulls ) or a bar of antimony ( good for bullets , shrapnel , and camouflage paint ) instead of Krugerrands as a hedge against inflation . Until this year the military establishment has been reluctant to use the " minerals gap " as a fundraising tool when more easily understood " gaps " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer . On November 13 General Alton Slay , chief of the Air Force Systems Command , did his best to scare members of the House Armed Services Committee by warning that " only a few more nations would have to fall under Soviet influence for the elements of a communist supercartel to coalesce . " Brandishing a map of Africa entitled " Persian Gulf of Minerals , " with shaded patches for " Marxist controlled nations , " the general reminded the committee what Brezhnev is supposed to have told Somali president Siad Barre in Prague in 1973 : " Our aim is to gain control of the two great treasure houses on which the West depends : the energy treasure of the Persian Gulf and the mineral treasure of Central and Southern Africa . " General Alexander Haig , former NATO supremo and now president of United Technologies ( makers of jet fighter engines , among other things ) told the House Interior Mines and Mining Subcommittee in September : " Personally I have long been troubled by what is rapidly becoming a crisis in strategic and critical minerals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , to free the United States from third world " resource battlegrounds . " N A CLOSED hearing earlier this year , subcom- mittee chairman Representative Jim Santini of mineral-rich Nevada extracted a confession about the " minerals gap " from the Defense Department 's high-tech boffin , Dr. William Perry , undersecretary of defense for research and engineering . Perry , according to Santini , admitted his department had ignored the issue for too long . " At last , " Santini said later , " the Department of Defense has dropped the ' do n't worry ' banalities and admitted we are in bad shape with certain strategic minerals . " In the same hearings , a leading steel industry representative , E. F. Andrews of Allegheny Ludlum Industries , told Santini 's committee , " We have seen cartels formed in the oil business and I truly believe that there are several other commodities potentially cartelable sick " In an interview with the Pittsburgh Press Andrews conjured up the specter of a Russian submarine blockade of the sea lanes surrounding southern Africa . Without chrome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to go back to eating pickles out of a wooden keg . " This is surely the kind of plain talk Wall Street operators understand . Recently two companies , one on each side of the Atlantic , took up the challenge . In London the Strategic Metals Corporation gave $10,000-plus investors a chance to hold vault receipts for security-bonded barrels of chromium , cobalt , columbium , indium , magnesium , rhodium , and tungsten . In New York James Sinclair , a precious metals broker , is selling investors a lavishly produced booklet ( cost : $235 a year ) with official government charts of strategic metals sources of supply . Sinclair advises : " I believe that since governments have so far failed to recognize this impending crisis , it behooves us as citizens to do so . If the Soviet strategem of mineral starvation is played out to the full , it is better that citizens own materials that are critical to our national defense . . . " In a November investment newsletter ( cost : $125 a year ) Sinclair urged , " Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic metals and critical materials . " Investors also were alerted to America 's apparent minerals peril in an August 21 Washington Star story headlined " The Strategic Materials Gap . " Daniel James , described by the Star as a " Washington-based journalist , " exclaimed : " The dangers are obvious . When are U.S leaders going to start taking them seriously ? " A few weeks later , the American Geological Institute , which claims to represent more than 50,000 geologists and other earth scientists , warned that the US " is in a resource war , conducted by the Soviet Union , whose objective is to interrupt or deny this country access to strategic and critical materials . " Investors may not have noticed that the press spokesman for the institute was Daniel James , the author of the Star article . The Washington Post , however , took exception to the geologists ' report . It provided " no specifics to support the allegation , " the Post noted . " Is there a resource war ? . Has the Soviet Union in fact adopted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The " minerals gap " may be a new political phenomenon , but scare stories of the " rninerals gap " are not . In 1978 , when the Soviet-backed Katangese rebels invaded the cobalt-rich Shaba Province of Zaire , stories in the Western press suggested the rebels were out to destroy the mines and the Soviet Union had cunningly made preemptive purchases of cobalt : neither was true . More recently , the Soviet Union has purchased some chromium from Khomeini 's Iran , a more signaled by Business Wrrk as an " ominous shift " in Soviet minerals-purchasing policy . Indeed , the amount imported , 20,000 tons , seemed like a lot to the lay reader , but in fact it is less than one-tenth of one percent of the 1979 total world production . In the same article , the Russians were said to be stockpiling another key strategic mineral , titanium . Further evidence of a new policy ? Perhaps , but as Steven Warnecke , a Columbia University minerals expert , points out , " Titanium is impOrted from Australia , a western country with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In a letter to Business Week Warnecke went on , " In addition the Soviet Union may not be a net exporter of raw materials in the future , but ' the share of resources that will be imported will certainly be too small to allow her to challenge the market power of her western colleagues . " A recent research paper prepared by the Congressional Research Service for private circulation among legislators also strongly discounted the likelihood of third world mineral producers forming OPEC-type cartels against the US and other consuming nations . CRS specialist Dr. James E. Mielke wrote : In contrast to the OPEC countries , the metal exporting countries do not have an excess of funds which can permit them to withhold or reduce supply for an indefinite period of time In addition the each more divergent economic , political , historical and cultural backgrounds of the mineral exporting nations tend to reduce their chances for sustaining a successful cartel . What the minerals gap seems to boil down to is the imagined strength we attribute to our adversaries . As a minerals expert in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians are importing where they formerly exported . That drives up prices . But to jump from there to saying they have a plot to deny the West access requires acertain leap of faith most observers are reluctant to take . All one can say is that the Russians have proved they can play the game in the international market . " In short , the minerals gap is the Soviets ' problem as much as anybody else's. against the Salvadoran government , the first crack in a year-long policy of support . Though the suspension is partial ( fiscal year 1980 aid already " in the pipeline " will not be affected ) , it represents a tacit admission that the regime in San Salvador is not the moderate reformist government portrayed in Foggy Bottom 's press releases . A year of diplomatic cajoling and $90 million in foreign aid have not managed to force the Salvadoran government into the centrist mold envisioned for it by Washington . Even US officials now concede that the government 's security forces have been responsible for much of the violence racking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heretofore , though the murders of the past fortnight are only the most recent and dramatic crests in a wave of right-wing violence that began to swell after the US presidential election . At this point , there is little the Carter administration can do to arrest El Salvador 's tailspin into civil war . Ronald Reagan 's staunch anti-communism , his attacks on Carter 's human rights policy , and his advisers promises of increased military aid have convinced the right in El Salvador that they will have a friend in the White House . They feel they no longer need to curry favor with Jimmy Carter . The day after US investigators questioned senior Salvadoran military officers about the missionaries ' deaths and warned them that the rightist offensive must come to an end , those same officers removed the one remaining progressive , Colonel Adolfo Maja no , from the five-member gov-erning junta . As the incoming administration surveys the ruins of Carter 's policy , it should be wary of the facile conclusion that the policies of reform and human rights produced the chaos in El Salvador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of violence because it never was able to translate its reformist rhetoric into reality . In October 1979 the right-wing military government of General Humberto Romero was ousted by a coalition of progressive military officers and civilian leaders who promised socioeconomic reform and political democratization . This new government became the first test case in Washington 's grand design for stability in Central America . By rallying moderates to the cause of peaceful reform , the Carter administration hoped to engineer incremental change , dissipate popular pressures for revolution , and thereby avoid " another Nicaragua . " Unfortunately , divisions within the Salvadoran officers corps prevented the October government from carrying out its promises . Right-wing officers resisted every significant reform ; progressive officers refused to risk the unity of the armed forces by challenging their right-wing brethren . The result was governmental paralysis . In December the civilians within the government confronted the officers , demanding the resignation of                     