@@432256

 | Berl Falbaum lost his job . But the Howard Hughes Medical Institute will soon be able to double its scientific outlays . Residents of Yonkers , N.Y. , lost their biggest employer . But shareholders of Continental Group reaped a windfall . These events ? good and bad , great and small ? are just a few ways merger mania is changing Americans ' lives . Encouraged by a healthy economy , generous tax policies and virtual carte blanche from the Reagan administration , the nation 's fourth and largest wave of business marriages in this century roars on . Last year , there were 2,543 corporate mergers and acquisitions with a combined value of more than 122 billion dollars . Through May of this year , the merger pace quickened to about 11 every working day , and it shows no sign of slackening . These mergers involve thousands of companies and millions of workers . The 100 biggest mergers of 1984 involved firms employing 4.5 million people , or 4.3 percent of the nation 's work force . If one tenth of those people were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives of 450,000 ? some for the better , some for the worse . As the boom continues , it will touch the lives of many more . Concludes Wesley Cann , Jr. , a law professor at the University of Connecticut : " There is no such thing as a neutral merger . Everyone is affected in one way or another . " Proponents say mergers are essential to a dynamic economy . They promote more-efficient production of goods and services and hold down consumer prices . Stock prices rise in anticipation of such benefits . But critics contend that mergers , like a rampaging elephant , can maraud once tranquil communities , trample innocent workers , ruin profitable companies and vaporize well-laid plans . The truth may be that mergers are both good and bad good for the economy when well thought out , yet almost invariably traumatic for many who live through them . Jobs on the Line Berl Falbaum was manager of news and public affairs for Bendix Corporation in 1982 . He recalls the titanic fourway struggle over the company that summer as " an emotionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was vast . " Bendix , headed by Harvard Business School whiz William Agee , tried to take over Martin Marietta , which launched a counteroffensive with the help of United Technologies . Finally Allied Chemical bought all of Bendix and 39 percent of Martin Marietta . " The real question among 800 corporate staff members , " Falbaum says , " was , Will I survive this deal ? ' Careers were ruined , normal job paths were completely disrupted , people were forced to delay normal things like buying homes . On the business side , everybody was working on the merger . Productivity fell dramatically . " After the merger , Falbaum and about 300 others in " redundant " posts lost their jobs as Allied slashed Bendix 's headquarters staff in Southfield , Mich . Falbaum is now an assistant vice president with Perry Drug Stores near Detroit . Agee left Bendix with a 4.1-million-dollar " golden parachute . " Though Agee 's hefty payoff was un- usual , his fate was not . More than half of the senior executives in acquired companies studied by Goldman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a takeover . The Association of Outplacement Consulting Firms estimates that more than 20,000 managers will be dismissed as a result of mergers in 1984 . Consider the fate of corporate managers at Continental Group , a conglomerate based in Stamford , Conn. , which was acquired by an investment group last year for 2.8 billion dollars . Within six months , the firm had been dismembered and the corporate staff slashed from 600 to 40 . " They handled it very poorly , " says Francis Oatway , former executive vice president . " They ended up needing people whom they had already fired . " Oatway was among those dismissed but concedes that shareholders " got one fine deal . " Their stock , which had sold in the mid 30s , was bought out for $58.50 a share . Some of the largest job losses have been in the merger-prone oil industry . Texaco , which bought Getty Oil last year , recently announced plans to trim 26 percent of its work force ? some 20,000 persons . Chevron , purchaser of Gulf Oil , offered generous severance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely protested layoffs . Now , they actively try to avert takeovers and save jobs . For example , when Pantry Pride , a Florida supermarket chain just emerging rim r-Ms-lo. from bankruptcy reorganization , was threatened with a takeover and liquidation , the union sprang to management 's defense . Some 4,500 jobs were at stake . The AFLCIO helped the local work with management to stave off the raid , then negotiated an agreement requiring any buyer to preserve the jobs . The Ripple Effect Mergers can endanger not only jobs but also workers ' future security . Pension plans and other employe benefits are increasingly being used ? or abused ? to help companies ward off takeovers . United Airlines announced in June that to pre-empt a takeover bid it would strip its employe pension fund of 962 million dollars in assets that exceed its legal obligations . The excess funds could have been used by a buyer to defray part of the purchase price . Since 1980 , some 700 other companies have taken 6.6 billion dollars from overfunded pension plans . The maneuver is perfectly legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But critics maintain that the loss of the excess funds could endanger employe pensions in leaner years . Besides , some argue that the employes , not the company , are entitled to the surplus funds . When a merger disrupts a community , effects linger for years . Mayor Angelo Martinelli of Yonkers , N.Y. , is still furious about " the rape , the absolute betrayal " of that New York City suburb by United Technologies when it bought Otis Elevator in 1976 for 398 million dollars . A new plant had just been built on property acquired with public money . Then , United Technologies began a series of layoffs . By 1982 , the operation , opened in Yonkers by Elijah Otis in 1853 , and employing 1,800 persons , had been shut down . United Technologies maintains that Otis was inefficient and losing money in Yonkers . Now based in Farmington , Conn. , Otis is a key part of a profitable building-systems division . Martinelli remains convinced that Yonkers was " devastated by pencil pushers who came up and said , Hey , we got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not permanent . The old Otis site has been acquired by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey as an industrial park . Kawasaki plans to manufacture commuter-train cars there . About 2,600 manufacturing workers will get jobs . The beneficial effects of some mergers are immediately obvious . The Howard Hughes Medical Institute , which sold Hughes Aircraft to General Motors , will get a 5-billion-dollar windfall , making it the largest private philanthropic foundation in the country . It will channel the money into medical and scientific research , doubling its annual outlays to 200 million dollars . Good Mergers and Bad Despite the human dislocation and community upheaval , some mergers make lots of business sense . Allied recouped its 900-million-dollar cash investment within a year and earned nearly 200 million on Bendix operations last year , thanks to a booming auto-parts unit . But an estimated one third or more of mergers in the past decade have failed , hounded by poor fit , poor management , poor timing or poor luck . McKinsey &; Company , a management-consulting firm , found that half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return the capital poured into them . The buyers , in other words , could have buried their money in coffee cans and ended up in better shape financially . Economist Frederick Scherer of Swarthmore College examined profits of 3,000 manufacturers . His conclusion : Those acquired at premium prices produced lower profits than similar companies that remained independent . The corporate landscape is littered with examples of mergers gone bad . Mobil Oil is searching for buyers for two acquisitions made nine years ago ? Montgomery Ward &; Company and Container Corporation of America . Seeking to diversify , the oil giant paid a total of 1.9 billion for the retail chain and the packaging maker in 1976 . Subsequently , Mobil sank 600 million more into Montgomery Ward . It has earned only 17 million dollars since the purchase ? a showing that has helped depress Mobil 's stock price . Container Corporation has done little better , and earned just 1 million in 1983 . Concludes Warren Law of Harvard Business School : " Large firms make bigger but fewer errors , tend to continue wrong policies too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmistakable . " Even a thwarted takeover can be costly . Phillips Petroleum staved off successive attempts to acquire it by raiders T. Boone Pickens and Carl Icahn in 1984 and 1985 . Now , capital spending and operating expenses have been slashed . One casualty has been long-term research on nuclear fusion and biotechnology . John Norell , president of Pro- vesta , Phillips 's biotech subsidiary , says a 15-million-dollar plant to produce a single-cell protein from sugar or natural gas has been killed . The protein has possible wide applications in Third World agriculture as a feed supplement for animals and humans . Morale among Provesta scientists plummeted . To repay the 4.5 billion it borrowed to buy back 73 million shares , Phillips is selling some 2 billion in assets . On the block : The firm 's geothermal , coal , fertilizer and mining-chemicals businesses and a luxury hotel in Fort Lauderdale . Bonanza ? but for Whom ? Conventional wisdom is that mergers make money for shareholders . But that 's only partly true . The owners of acquired companies who sell their shares for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jensen and other economists at the University of Rochester show that in the month of the initial announcement of a merger , stock prices of target companies in successful takeovers rise an average of 30 percent . Initially , the bidders ' stocks also rise , by about 4 percent . If mergers make economic sense , the share prices of the surviving company should continue to do well . But not always . The Rochester economists found that a year after a merger , the bidders ' stock had dropped on average by 13.7 percent . The Boston Consulting Group studied 150 mergers in 1982 and concluded that virtually no acquirer saw a " notable improvement " in stock prices . The firm found that " 95 percent of large public mergers and acquisitions destroy value for shareholders " of the surviving company . Clearly benefiting from mergers are arbitrageurs , raiders , speculators and other short-term shareholders . Arbitrageur Ivan Boesky , who recently made a killing buying up CBS stock , argues that his rapid-fire trading allows shareholders to make handsome gains in takeover contests . Boesky insists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the risk that a merger may not go through . Many executives , however , make a different case . " Why should an arbitrageur who owns the stock for an hour have power over an institution with 40,000 employes ? " asks Andrew Sigler , chairman of Champion International . To keep the raiders at bay , Champion and hundreds of other firms are rewriting their corporate bylaws . The antitakeover provisions ? or " shark repellents " as they are known in the trade ? generally have the effect of strengthening management 's control . One device now in vogue allows management to issue new classes of stock with greater voting rights than those held by other shareholders . General Cinema , Hershey Foods and Coastal have recently adopted such measures . Some institutional shareholders who hold large blocks of stock are incensed . New York City Comptroller Harrison Goldin notes that greater concentration of voting power in fewer hands amounts to " corporate fascism . " Says Harold Williams , former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission : " The whole idea of corporate accounting to shareholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are under pressure to ban companies with stocks that carry unequal voting rights . What Happens to the Economy It is almost impossible to assess mergers ' effect on the overall economy . Most economists argue that mergers are generally benign or healthy . The thinking is that mergers can help industries shed excess capacity and thereby become more competitive in world markets . There is also little evidence that mergers have adversely affected competition . The President 's Council of Economic Advisers has approvingly cited a study that found a widespread increase in U.S. competition between 1958 and 1980 . A McKinsey &; Company report attributed the increases in concentration of business more to internal growth than to merger-related growth . One of the most pernicious effects of mergers may be on corporations themselves . Corporations are issuing mountains of debt to finance mergers . Often this debt takes the form of low-rated or unrated " junk " bonds . Credit experts have little or no confidence that the interest on them can be paid and the principal retired . Buyers do n't mind taking risks on junk bonds because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prominent critics . Felix Rohatyn of Lazard Freres , who has spent a good part of his career as a merger broker , accuses financial institutions that buy junk bonds of " seeking performance at the expense of safety . " Preston Martin , vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , says that mergers leave the surviving company " vulnerable to downturns in earnings or sharp increases in interest rates . " Maybe so , but mergers may also make company managers do a better job . Economist Jensen of Rochester argues that mergers force management " to compete for the right to control corporate resources , " and therefore to make more-prudent decisions . Takeovers are a way to oust poor managers and install new ones . Still , there is no assurance that new managers will , in fact , perform better than the old ones . It is unlikely that Congress or the states will stop merger mania , although more than two dozen pieces of legislation have been proposed . Some would set limits on mergers by prohibiting such practices as " greenmail " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not offered to all shareholders . Other bills would trim tax benefits . At the state level , a new Minnesota law requires that the impact of a merger on a community be assessed before a deal goes through . Few experts favor legislative solutions or give them much chance of success . They fear patchwork solutions that would inhibit the workings of a free-market economy . How and when will merger mania end ? Merger waves of the early 1900s , the 1920s , and the 1960s collapsed of their own weight . Excesses took hold . Financial failures dampened enthusiasm for mergers . In all likelihood , this wave , too , will crest and recede , having changed forever American communities and the lives of their citizens .                     