@@486762

" but this is a family secret . " The utility of religion is a commonplace of Western discourse from Protagoras to Habits of the Heart . Educated unbelievers , however unenthusiastic about contemporary political and economic arrangements , have nevertheless worried that widespread unbelief would make social cohesion impossible . In the capitalist democracies of the late twentieth century , unbelief is widespread ; and though the bourgeois virtues may be less in evidence , anomie does not yet loom . But this may be in part because of the currency within these societies of secular substitutes for religion , especially the metaphysics of " human nature , " " natural rights " and " objectivity . " As long as something absolute , something transcendent , is believed to validate a society 's institutions , the necessary minimum of solidarity and self-discipline may be expected from its members . Locke , Rousseau and Kant ? the church fathers of the Enlightenment ? bequeathed us the philosophical doctrines that have come to underwrite liberalism : inviolable rights , moral autonomy and responsibility , the uniqueness and ineffability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional epistemology of " objective truth . " Throughout two millenniums of classical philosophy , truth meant correspondence to something " out there , " to the essential nature of reality , conceived variously as the mind of God , the Platonic Ideas , rational substances and the realm of thingsin-themselves . Likewise , justice meant treating human beings according to their essential nature , which , by definition , could not vary between cultures or epochs . Then came science , capitalism and the French Revolution , and along with them philosophical modernity . " About two hundred years ago , " Richard Rorty George Scialabba writes frequently on politics and philosophy . writes in Contingency , Irony , and Solidarity , " the idea that truth was made rather than found began to take hold of the imagination of Europe . " This idea ? that " where there are no sentences there is no truth , that sentences are elements of human languages , and that human languages are human creations , " as Rorty puts it ? implies that individual and social moralities are human creations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things . For there is no human essence , no nature of things . There are only alternative scientific and moral vocabularies , better or worse suited to our diverse purposes . And these purposes are themselves contingent , dependent on our socialization and our community 's history . The most compelling and influential account of morality yet produced is Nietzsche 's . Rightly perceiving that the purpose of most moralities heretofore has been to suppress the self-assertion of exceptional individuals , Nietzsche concluded that every form of social solidarity is a mystification based on envy . In particular , democracy is merely the attempt of the masses ? the " last men " ? to secure their welfare by legislating universal mediocrity . Less explicitly , Nietzsche 's successors ? Shaw , Lawrence , Heidegger , Foucault , Adorno and many others ? have also assumed an opposition , at the level of individual psychology if not of social policy , between equality , compassion and other liberal virtues , on the one hand , and , on the other , the disenchantment and self-cultivation of the gifted few . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims of both disenchantment and democracy , both irony and solidarity , and none so successfully as Richard Rorty . One of his two previous books , Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature , interpreted the history of philosophy as an increasingly thorough emancipation from metaphysical illusions , culminating in the utterly different but equally decisive critiques of Dewey , Wittgenstein and Heidegger . Consequences of Pragmatism , an essay collection , filled in details of this idiosyncratic narrative and speculated about the " post-philosophical " future . Contingency , Irony , and Solidarity , another collection , is also about the consequences of pragmatism : not , this time , for philosophy and the other academic disciplines but for the soul of the pragmatist . It is no longer possible to believe confidently , with Plato and the Christian or Enlightenment philosopher , that a proper conception of justice will fuse the public and the private , that individual perfection and the common good must coincide . Instead we have to ask anxiously whether they may even ? as a practical matter ; as live , motivating concerns within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Rorty writes , " to be able to admire both Blake and Arnold , both Nietzsche and Mill , both Marx and Baudelaire , both Trotsky and Eliot , both Nabokov and Orwell . " We would like , that is , to be both detached and committed , autonomous and connected , fastidious and fervent , subtle and savagely indignant . No theory , no philosophical formula , will enable us to strike an ideal balance . No theory can resolve this dilemma ; Rorty offers only to describe it . But that 's a help . Rorty 's description ingeniously plays off exemplary " public " and " private , " political and antipolitical , writers : Nietzsche against Proust , Habermas against Foucault , Nabokov 's scorn for " topical trash " in literature against his horror of cruelty , and the first two-thirds of 1984 against the last third . Rorty explicates Nietzsche 's ( " to become who one actually is " ) and Proust 's ( " the discovery of our true life " ) famous mottos , which name a similar project : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrative of the people who had offered descriptions of them ; they wanted to become autonomous by redescribing the sources of heteronomous descriptions . " But Proust accepted more fully the contingency of those previous , inherited descriptions and the consequent incompleteness of his own narrative . Nietzsche , in his ambiguous exposition of the will to power , sometimes " claims to see deeper rather than differently " and thus " betrays his own perspectivism and his own nominalism . " These occasional lapses from irony are the source of Nietzsche 's adventitious antiliberalism . Of the two most original contemporary philosophers , Habermas is " a liberal " ( Rorty borrows Judith Shklar 's definition of liberals , those for whom " cruelty is the worst thing they do " ; but his usage throughout embraces social democrats and even libertarian socialists ) " who is unwilling to be an ironist " ( someone who has come to terms with the contingency of all philosophical vocabularies and political ideas ) ; Foucault is " an ironist who is unwilling to be a liberal . " Habermas insists on " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory of " communicative reason , " which will allegedly escape the fate of all previous epistemologies , and about which Rorty is , here and elsewhere , persuasively skeptical . Foucault demonstrates brilliantly that " the patterns of acculturation characteristic of liberal societies have imposed on their members kinds of constraints of which older , premodern societies had not dreamed . " But he fails to see ? or refuses to acknowledge ? that liberal societies have also evolved humane values and institutions roughly equal in strength and flexibility to the manipulative discourses he expertly analyzes . The chapters on Nabokov and Orwell in Contingency , Irony , and Solidarity are superb . Chief among the consequences of pragmatism is that philosophy makes nothing happen : It is politically useless . No political order , including liberalism , can be theoretically grounded . Progress depends rather on extending our ? " we " being the politically competent citizens of the rich democracies ? imaginative range , identifying with those who are unnecessarily suffering . And this is a task not for philosophers but for social scientists , journalists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , temperamentally , poles apart . But both of them , according to Rorty , " warn the liberal ironist intellectual against temptations to be cruel " ; both of them " dramatize the tension between private irony and liberal hope . " Nabokov notoriously despised the " sociological side " of literature and was scathing about writers who aspired to be " teachers " and " reformers " rather than " enchanters . " But as Rorty shows , Nabokov 's aesthetic pronouncements are irrelevant ; his " best novels are the ones which exhibit his inability to believe his own general ideas . " Although Nabokov asserted the moral sufficiency of pure art , Lolita and Pale Fire are actually " reflections on the possibility that there can be sensitive killers , cruel aesthetes , pitiless poets ? masters of imagery who are content to turn the lives of others into images on a screen , while simply not noticing that these other people are suffering . " For all his mockery , Nabokov understood that " the pursuit of autonomy is at odds with feelings of solidarity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield a moral problem . Without the liberal virtues , the ironic intelligence may turn inhuman . Nabokov 's Humbert and Kinbote are apolitical genius-monsters . O'Brien in 1984 is a political genius-monster ; he lacks the liberal virtues not because he is indifferent to other people  --  he is anything but that  --  but because in his society solidarity is no longer possible . Many critics have not seen the point of Or-well 's extended portrait , supposing it a specimen of his unfortunate " mysticism of cruelty . " But in this case , the mysticism is all on his critics ' side : the assumption that an atemporal , noncontingent human nature endows us with at least some measure of inner freedom and rationality and will prevent the permanent disappearance of liberal institutions . O'Brien is plausible  --  not because sadism or power hunger is innate but because nothing is innate . O'Brien illustrates the truth to which the failure of classical philosophy points : Socialization goes all the way down . Orwell offered no consistent program , and certainly no theoretically based program , for avoiding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes infuriatingly vague advocacy of " decency " and , far more important , a terrifyingly explicit depiction of where the lack of such solidarity had led and might yet lead . Both as a journalist and a novelist , Orwell worked on his readers ' moral imagination , showing them suffering they had failed to notice and then showing them what the best , the most intelligent , of them would turn into if this moral obtuseness overwhelmed the fragile culture of liberalism . Rorty believes with Shelley , an earlier radical pragmatist , that " the great instrument of moral good is the imagination " ( A Defence of Poetry ) ; or , in his own formulation , that " detailed descriptions of particular varieties of pain and humiliation ( in , e.g. , novels or ethnographies ) , rather than philosophical or religious treatises , are the modern intellectual 's principal contribution to moral progress . " So Orwell is , for him , a paradigmatic example of the responsible intellectual . But Rorty respects the prerogatives of irresponsible intellectuals . Nietzsche , Proust , Heidegger and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-creation . How can a democratic society avoid either alienating or privileging its spiritual elite ? One can ask these men to privatize their projects , their attempts at sublimity ? to view them as irrelevant to politics and therefore compatible with the sense of human solidarity which the development of democratic institutions has facilitated . This request for privatization amounts to the request that they resolve an impending dilemma by subordinating sublimity to the desire to avoid cruelty and pain . Such a request will be based not on a theory of justice but on nothing more profound than the historical facts which suggest that without the protection of something like the institutions of bourgeois liberal society , people will be less able to work out their private salvations , create their private self-images , reweave their webs of belief and desire in the light of whatever new people and books they happen to encounter . In . . . an ideal society , discussion of public affairs will revolve around 1 ) how to balance the needs for peace , wealth , and freedom when conditions require that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others and 2 ) how to equalize opportunities for self-creation and then leave people alone to use , or neglect , their opportunitities . Rorty would be the first to acknowledge that these prescriptions are little more than banalities . They are , however , the best that philosophy can do . Rorty 's accomplishment has been to help liberate us from the illusion that things are otherwise , that we can turn                     