@@487725

On March 26 , 1982 , the Boston Symphony Orchestra proudly announced that it had engaged the theatrical services of Vanessa Redgrave to glamorize its 100th birthday festivities . The British star was to narrate Stravinsky 's opera-oratorio Oedipus Rex as part of a series of centenary concerts planned for Carnegie Hall in New York City and Symphony Hall in Boston . The young theatrical wizard Peter Sellars would stage and produce the events , and Seiji Ozawa , of course , would conduct . The performances sold out well in advance , and B.S.O. managers brimmed with excitement at their coup in securing Redgrave . Before the month was out , the Boston Symphony Orches- . tra had canceled Redgrave 's contract in response to emotional protests from a number of supporters and at least one member of the board of trustees , who accused the orchestra of grave insensitivity to the Jewish community . Redgrave 's political radicalism and endorsement of the Palestine Liberation Organization had led to protests in the past , including a notorious incident in 1978 , when members of the Jewish Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to receive an Oscar for Julia ; but never before had a cultural institution acquiesced quite so quickly and publicly in those protests . The B.S.O. later claimed that it canceled on Redgrave in response to threats of disruption , although in fact the decision to fire her preceded the one communication that might have been construed as a serious threat : a phone call from a member of the Jewish Defense League who allegedly said there would be " bloodshed and violence " should Redgrave appear at Symphony Hall . Symphony officials tried to persuade Redgrave to withdraw . When that failed , and when Sellars , accusing the orchestra of blacklisting , refused to go forward without Redgrave , the B.S.O. canceled the entire Stravinsky program . Its April 11 press release cited " causes and circumstances beyond its reasonable control . " Redgrave sued the B.S.O. ; the trial took place in the fall of 1984 in Federal District Court in Boston . She had two legal claims : breach of contract and violation of the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act , a relatively new law that prohibits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or coercion , " with the constitutional rights of Marjorie Hems is staff attorney for the Massachusetts Civil Liberties Union and participated in writing its amicus brief in the Redgrave case . She is author of Cutting the Mustard : Affirmative Action and the Nature of Excellence , to be published in February by Faber &; Faber . another . This " baby civil rights act , " as it was called , had been enacted in response to the violence that had accompanied school desegregation in Boston . But the law was broadly worded to protect all constitutional rights  --  including , presumably , Vanessa Redgrave 's right to free speech . At this writing , it appears that Redgrave has won her suit , but the victory did not come easily or quickly . When , on October 14 of this year , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit ruled that the B.S.O. had violated the actress 's civil rights , it was the culmination of a five-year legal battle that included a sixteen-day trial , two trips to the Court of Appeals and one detour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these legal proceedings it became increasingly apparent that the state and Federal judiciary  --  if its Boston contingent is at all representative  --  had great difficulty with the notion that the venerable Boston Symphony Orchestra could be legally liable for giving in to expressions of outrage by some well-heeled , influential or at least noisy critics of the Redgrave hiring . To begin with , the trial judge , Robert Keeton , a former Harvard law professor and respected scholar , took an excessively narrow view of the state civil rights act , instructing the jurors that they could not rule for Redgrave on this claim unless they found that the B.S.O. decision-makers deliberately intended to punish the actress for her political views . In Judge Keeton 's opinion , the state law could not be violated when an employer or contractor like the Boston Symphony Orchestra simply acquiesced in the discriminatory pressures of third parties . Although there was evidence that at least one orchestra trustee had indeed wanted to retaliate against Redgrave because of her politics , the jury , after hearing all the evidence , rejected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so found against her on the civil rights claim . In an unusual letter to the judge , however , the jurors explained , " We were convinced that there was indeed an abrogation of Ms. Redgrave 's civil rights by the B.S.O. , " but " could find no way to express " that conclusion " within the confines of the verdict questions and your explanation to us as to the parameters within which the law required we must decide . " Judge Keeton also had trouble with Redgrave 's suit for breach of contract . Her attorney , Daniel Kornstein , had introduced evidence that as a result of the widely publicized firing , Redgrave 's job offers fell off dramatically and she had little work for some nineteen months . Producer Theodore Mann testified that after hearing of Redgrave 's discharge by " one of the premier arts organizations in America , " he decided not to hire her for an upcoming performance of Shaw 's Heartbreak House at the Circle in the Square Theatre in New York City . The jury awarded Red-grave $100,000 in " consequential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But Judge Keeton , in a post-trial decision , overruled the consequential damages award on the unprecedented theory that the Boston Symphony Orchestra could have caused the damages only by communicating its opinion by implication ( the orchestra had been careful to say nothing directly ) that Redgrave was too dangerous to employ . Since the communication of opinions is protected by the First Amendment , reasoned the judge , the B.S.O. could not be held liable for the consequences of its cancellation . Redgrave appealed these rulings , but as her appeal inched its way through the courts , it became apparent that Judge Keeton was not alone in his ambivalence about her claims . Although there is ample precedent under Federal law for the proposition that civil rights violators can not claim as a defense the fact that they acted at the urging of others , the U.S. Court of Appeals was hesitant about applying that principle to Massachusetts ' baby civil rights statute . Instead , it decided to " certify " two questions to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court , the ultimate expositor of state law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be liable under the state civil rights law if it " had no personal desire " to interfere with another 's rights " but acquiesced to pressure from third parties " ; and second , whether it was a defense under the state law " for the defendant to show that its actions were principally motivated by additional concerns , " such as the threat of economic loss , fear for physical safety and the like . A majority of the State Supreme Court justices opted for an expansive reading of the civil rights law , holding that Judge Keeton had been wrong in ruling that acquiescence was a defense . But they went on to offer arguments why , in this case , Redgrave should still lose . Three judges strongly implied , and two explicitly stated , that the orchestra had a First Amendment defense to Redgrave 's charge that by blacklisting her it had interfered with her exercise of free speech . The judges opined that the B.S.O. 's fear of possible disruption of the performances of Oedipus Rex justified its cancellation of the contract , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artistic integrity " and therefore constitutionally protected under the First Amendment . The B.S.O. 's lawyers had not argued at the trial that the cancellation was an exercise of the organization 's First Amendment rights . The logical conclusion of such a theory is troublesome , for if the decision to fire Redgrave was itself constitutionally protected , then presumably the actress would not even be able to recover ordinary contract damages . The case now returned to the Federal tribunal . When the U.S. Court of Appeals finally ruled , on October 14 , one judge agreed with the ruminations of the State Supreme Court on the B.S.O. 's First Amendment defense , but the majority of two rejected the argument . Judge Hugh Bownes , writing for himself and Judge Bruce Selya , explained : Although we can understand why the BSO would want its performance to be free from audience interruption , we hold as a matter of law that the first amendment is not implicated . We do not think that any performing artist , or group of artists , has a first amendment right to perform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judicial Court , we hold that , under the facts of this case , there is no first amendment artistic integrity defense under the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act . To recognize a first amendment defense of " artistic integrity " under the facts of this case would flout the very values that the first amendment and the MCRA protect . It would mean that a performing artist , or group of artists , could deny another artist her statutorily protected right to perform because of the fear that the audience might interrupt the performance . This is the opposite of " artistic integrity " ; it allows the audience to dictate who shall perform and what shall be played . " Artistic integrity " under this view would be a license for a heckler 's veto in the arena of artistic expression . Allowing the defense of artistic integrity would withdraw the protection of the MCRA from artists , such as Redgrave , who openly espouse unpopular political views . The effect would be to give free rein to those seeking to intimidate artists engaging in political activity . Or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who ended up writing a dissent , put it during oral arguments on this point , permitting an artistic organization to justify its firing of a politically controversial performer on the basis of fears of disruption would open the way for a return to the blacklisting of the 1950s . Judge Coffin 's remark reflected a growing awareness of the implications of the Redgrave case and of its ominous resemblance to the political blacklists of thirty years ago . Both the actress 's claims and the orchestra 's defenses  --  fear of performance disruption or economic loss  --  echoed arguments made at that time by studios defending their firing and blacklisting of hundreds of writers and performers , and indeed by universities , governments and industries that purged employees who had suspect political associations or opinions or who failed to clear themselves before legislative committees . The appellate arguments by Redgrave 's attorneys , as well as by organizations that participated as amici curiae , including the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts , the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights and the Screen Actors Guild , reminded the courts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Appeals quoted seven books about the McCarthy era inquisition . Yet , at least four and probably all seven of the justices of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court , as well as Judge Coffin , ultimately rejected the proposition that the Boston Symphony Orchestra could be held liable simply for caving in to community pressure . The three judges of the U.S. Court of Appeals did agree on one thing . Judge Keeton 's creative reason for depriving Redgrave of her $100,000 in damages  --  namely , that the B.S.O. cancellation was a constitutionally protected statement of opinion  --  had no legal basis . There is a distinction between actually expressing an opinion and taking action from which others may infer meaning . If the latter was constitutionally protected , then , as Judge Coffin wrote , " the cancellation of almost any contract with a notable figure could be effectively transformed into a statement protected by the First Amendment , thereby unnecessarily diluting the protections intended by contract law . " ( For evidentiary reasons , however , the appellate court reduced the $100,000 award to $12,000 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Unless the orchestra 's lawyers succeed in persuading the full six-judge bench of the U.S. Court of Appeals to take yet another look at the case ( they have already requested such a rehearing en banc , supported by the Boston Ballet and a number of local universities ) , Redgrave will soon be back in front of Judge Keeton for an assessment of additional damages under the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act , as well as an award of her considerable legal expenses . If a rehearing is granted , there will probably be yet another round of briefs and oral arguments . What has Redgrave accomplished by this protracted battle , and what , if anything , have the Boston Symphony Orchestra and other artistic organizations learned ? Is the Federal appellate court 's decision a favorable sign that political blacklists of the breadth and depravity of those in the 1950s will not be allowed to recur ? Not necessarily . The state civil rights law is just one of many innovations in employment law since the 1950s . Labor and employment discrimination statutes , as well as new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including whistleblowers and others who exercise First Amendment rights , in ways not available thirty years ago . Yet when Vanessa Redgrave 's case came to court , most of the judges were clearly uncomfortable extending any of these theories to a situation in which they perceived the employer to be an innocent victim of political pressure , or the employee to be an advocate of extreme or unpopular views . That so many judges had such difficulty with the notion of protecting a politically controversial artist 's right to be controversial and still earn a living is sobering . A collateral issue in the Redgrave case involved the rights of those who advocate boycotts and blacklists . Although only the Boston Symphony Orchestra was a defendant in the case , the American Jewish Congress filed two briefs , one in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit and one in State Supreme Court , arguing that , whatever the B.S.O. 's liability might be , the conduct of those who pressured and threatened the orchestra was an exercise of free speech . By contrast , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BSO was itself a victim of violations " of the state civil rights law . David Caute , in his book The Great Purge , terms " ironic " the First Amendment defense asserted by two blacklist compilers who were successfully sued in 1962 by radio personality John Henry Faulk . Yet the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1982 , in a decision widely regarded as a great victory for civil rights , that the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People could not be held liable for damages to white businessmen who were economically harmed as a result of a boycott which leaders of the organization had urged . The issue of blacklist proponents ' right of free speech is troubling but may not be critical . The message of the Red-grave case , as the Massachusetts Civil Liberties Union and others reminded the courts , was that the blacklist that engulfed entertainment , academia and industry in the 1950s was precipitated not just by intolerant screamers but by employers who acquiesced when faced by their vitriolic noise . The screamers ca n't readily be stopped ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations " cave in to them that blacklisting begins . ? 