@@485732

erhaps even Papa Doc is a comedian , " suggests a character in The Comedians , Graham Greene 's 1965 novel about Haiti .. " Oh , no , " comes the reply , " he is real . Horror is always real . " On November 28 , Papa Doc 's son and successor , Haitian President of the Republic for Life Jean-Claude ( Baby Doc ) Duvalier proved that he is no comedian , either . In a swift and secret wave of arrests , Duvalier 's police swept more than 100 of Haiti 's leading independent journalists , human-rights activists and opposition party leaders into jail , where some prisoners were brutally beaten . A few were sent into exile . Most remain in - jail , where , their exiled colleagues fear , they may stay indefinitely unless international pressure is exerted to save them . In a twinkling , Duvalier has undone years of work by lobbyists and public relations firms hired to convince foreign donors , tourists and businessmen that Haiti is a peaceful , stable society progressing toward democracy and human rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Duvalier has claimed carte blanche for whatever he decides to do . Observers are uneasy about the consequences for the imprisoned leaders of Haitian society , the Haitian refugees ejected in November from the tiny Bahamian island of Cayo Lobos , the thousands of Haitians scheduled soon for forced repatriation from the Bahamas and the millions of impoverished people Duvalier rules . Upon his arrival at Miami 's International Airport , exiled journalist Pierre Clitendre , shielding his reddened eyes from the glare , said pf the purge : " Everyone who could speak out has- been taken , and nothing is left but a great void . " The swollen , gashed face and bloodshot eyes of Clitendre , a senior editorial writer for Haiti 's leading independent newspaper , Le Petit Samedi Soir , bore eloquent testimony to the ordeal he had suffered during four days in Duvalier 's Dessalines Prison in Port-au-Prince . Clitendre was sent into exile with nine others : Christian Socialist Party of Haiti leader Gregoire Eugene , economist Jean-Jacques Honorat , physicians Dr. Gregy Eugene and Dr. Nicole Magloire , and journalists Marcus Garcia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richard Brisson of Radio Haiti-Inter- and Jean-Robert Herard of Le Petit Samedi Soir . The exiles said they were placed by twos and threes in Karen - Payne is a reporter for The Miami News . tiny , windowless cells in Dessalines Prison . Their clothes were taken away , and they were forced to sleep on thin mattresses on damp , chilly concrete floors in cells infested with mice , cockroaches , mosquitoes and bedbugs . Clitendre and , Brisson were beaten . Haiti would like to expel other prisoners , but so far the United States has balked at granting visas . Those who left  --  nine for New York and Miami and one for Canada ? accepted exile unwillingly , according to Garcia , who was news director of Radio Metropole . " We do n't want to become exiles , " he said . " We can stay outside Haiti for a while , but we want to go back , to be there , to be present  --  even if we ca n't work as before . We ca n't do anything outside . " Ironically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribunal of history as the person who set Haiti on an irreversible path to democracy . " Just three days before the arrests , Foreign Minister Georges Salomon , in Miami for a conference on Caribbean development , boasted-of Haiti 's progress toward freedom of the press . " We intend to consolidate that progress , " he said . But starting at noon on November 28 , police violently attacked the press , smashing the equipment at independent Radio Cacique , rounding np everyone  --  journalists , technicians and visitors  --  at independent Radio Haiti-Inter , where a recording was left to play over and over on the air until someone thought to shut it off . Both stations remain closed . As the days went by , the ranks of prisoners were swollen by leaders from every sector of society . Among them , were attorney Lafontant Joseph , a founding member of the Haitian League of Human Rights , and authors , economists , students , professors and political partisans . Haitian officials remained incommunicado after the arrests , but government statements issued four days later spoke of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist obedience " connected to the media . However , the free press in Haiti has always been considered an " opposition " press by the Duvalier Government . ( The official press prints only what the regime approves ; thus , any effort to gather information from nongovernmental sources would , by definition , oppose the regime . ) As independent radio journalist Ivens Paul put it before the recent coup , " As journalists , we have the position of trying to give objective news . " Paul was arrested and tortured by Haitian police in October , and was in hiding at the time of the raids . U.S. officials protested the crackdown as " a setback to democratization . . . of grave concern . " Said State Department Haiti desk officer Howard Davis : " The independent press was very valuable , and we would certainly hope independent media activities would be allowed to resume as before . " Disappearance of the free press , he said , " does not augur well for the future stability of the country . " The United States made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation from Washington to the December 8-10 meeting of the Organization of American States Joint Donors Committee in Port-au-Prince , but the local U.S. Agency for International Development representative attended the meeting , where $148 million in aid for Haiti was approved . The Haitian Government prevented the U.S. and Canadian representatives from commenting on recent human-rights developments in Haiti . On the whole , the U.S. response to Duvalier 's coup was mild . Ambassador Henry Kimelman , who claimed two days before the arrests that there was " no reason " for refugees to leave Haiti except economic betterment , was not in Port-au-Prince . A senior U.S. Embassy official admitted that for several days U.S. protests were delivered to only one Haitian minister because others could not be reached . The State Department was surprised , Davis said , when no questions were asked about Haiti in a briefing less than a week after the purge . But by then journalists were preoccupied with Poland , El Salvador and the Reagan transition . The arrests in Haiti have come at a time when relations between the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haitian diaspora has occurred since Francois ( Papa Doc ) Duvalier took power twenty-three years ago . As many as one-fifth of Haiti 's people now live outside their country . By 1965 , some 80 percent of Haiti 's qualified professionals ( doctors , lawyers , teachers , engineers , public administrators ) lived in the United States , Canada or Africa . The exodus continues . In recent years the influx has been concentrated in south Florida , with most of the new arrivals from Haiti 's peasant class . The U.S. Government resists granting political asylum to Haitians . Last spring , U.S. District Court Judge James King of Miami ruled that Haitians should be considered for asylum . He found " an absenCe of a rule of law " in Haiti , which is " essentially closed to information gathering from the outside world , " a place where there is " no political freedom . " King 's decision remains on appeal . In early December , the Government dusted off its plan to ship refugees to Puerto Rico for exclusion hearings , but flights were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not anxious to receive any more refugees . U.S. officials are said to fear another influx like that from Cuba when the Government of the Bahamas begins forced repatriation of its more than 20,000 Haitians . According to Foreign Minister Salomon , the refugees will try to head for " anywhere but Haiti . " The U.S. Government allocates about $18 million annually in loans and grants to Haiti ; military aid was cut off earlier this year by the House of Representatives . Davis claims that the State Department has " discussed increased aid levels in connection with reforms , but the discussions have not yet borne any fruit . " Haiti 's rulers may feel they can afford to wait . The Government has been unable to distribute all the aid it gets to the Haitian people because of administrative incompetence , corruption and poor planning , according to a 1978 Congressional Research Report . The New York Times recently noted that three development projects  --  a sugar mill , a fishing fleet and a vegetable processing plant  --  are of dubious or nonexistent economic value . Despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and international agencies , the country is experiencing cash-flow problems . Duvalier 's Government was bailed out by a $41 million International Monetary Fund loan a week after the November 28 purge . Other major donors , in addition to the United States , include the International Development Bank ( $17 million in 1979 ) , West Germany ( $9 million ) , the World Bank ( $7.6 million ) , the O.A.S. , France , China , Canada and Israel . Private organizations supply about $10 million . Investments by American companies in Haiti total more than $130 million . These lenders , if they had cared to look , could have seen that tension between Duvalier and his critics had been building almost since he took office in 1971 . After Duvalier promised an " economic revolution " and greater freedom , independent journalists at Le Petit Samedi Soir , Radio Haiti-Inter , Radio Metropole and Radio Cacique began broadcasting nonofficial news . In 1975 , Ezechiel Abelard of Radio Metropole was arrested . He died after a year in prison , during which time he was not charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gasner Raymond , a reporter for Le Petit Samedi Soir , was found by the side of a road , and the Government was blamed for his death . " His death was very dramatic , and it was done to terrorize the journalists , " said Marcus Garcia . " But we were n't afraid . We continued our work . And little by little , the rest of the country started to participate . " Official labor unions , such as the Haitian-American Sugar Company and the Ciments d'Haiti ( cement workers ) , elected new boards and began to protest working conditions . Some union leaders were killed and these deaths , too , were blamed on the Government . Then community action councils began to formulate demands for the peasants they - represent . Finally , in February 1979 , opposition political parties were formed . They added to the growing barrage of criticism directed at the Duvalier regime . The political parties were formed after the Government failed to carry out its promise to hold free elections in February 1979 , according to Gregoire Eugene . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Case for Political Parties in Haiti " ? the first time anyone spoke openly of political parties during the twenty-three years since Duvalier pere took power . Eugene founded the Christian Socialist Party of Haiti , and a week later Sylvio Claude , who is now in prison , founded the Christian Democratic Party .  - -  1 ugene and Claude promoted their ideas through party organs . " My friends in. the press said they could not constantly publish articles for me , " Eugene said , so he founded a magazine called Fraternite , which grew to a circulation of 7,500 . " We tried to motivate the people of Haiti ; " Eugene said , " and we succeeded in creating a state of mind that allowed Haitians to feel we could have a better society . " In May 1979 , the Government imposed censorship on the theater in order to close down a Creole-language play by Ivens Paul , a popular playwright and a reporter for Radio Cacique . Paul 's play , Debafre ( Telling the Truth ) examines what he calls " the things in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Miami or elsewhere  --  the things like unemployment , malnutrition , terror . " The play  --  and independent news broadcasts in Creole  --  brought a new perspective on events to Haitians , most of whom do not read Creole or French . In October 1979 , a repressive press law was passed , forbidding journalists to insult the President for Life , his mother , or other Government officials . In November 1979 , Gerard Gourgue , president of the Haitian Human Rights League , and several foreign diplomats were attacked during a public meeting by sixty men said to have been members of the Tonton Macoutes , Papa Doc 's infamous private police . Gourgue , a law professor , said last month that he had " no hope " for the future of the human-rights movement in Haiti . " We took some risks after President Carter 's announcement of a human-rights policy , " he said , " but now we realize that it was an ideal and theoretical position . The State Department still tolerates everything the Duvalier Government does . " Many Haitians had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crackdown on human rights in Haiti , and the November 28 raids appear to confirm their fears . " The right to be informed is a human right , " Jean Dominique , owner of Radio Haiti-Inter , had said before the police invaded his station . " If the Government in ' Washington forgets about human rights , it will be finished for us . It will be the end of independent thinking . " During the press purge , Dominique sought refuge in the Veneiuelan Embassy . Criticism of the Duvalier Government had been intensifying immediately prior to the raid . In October , a leading Creole-language broadcaster , Anthony Pascal , was jailed without cause but released unharmed after a few hours . Then , opposition party leader Sylvio Claude was arrested with many of his followers and charged with incitement to sedition after he published an issue of a party magazinewith a photograph of Duvalier beside pictures of assassinated dictators . During the return of refugees from Cayo Lobos , the influx of foreign journalists strained the Government 's patience with the methods of the free press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees were shoved and pushed by police . American journalists were interrogated ( The Miami News ) and harassed by police ( Miami Herald ) . Their reports of these incidents were dismissed by Foreign Minister Salomon as " fairy tales . " During and after the Cayo Lobos affair , internal criticism rose to new heights . Journalists , religious leaders and others demanded to know why the Government left their countrymen stranded on the island , and why it had not acted to solve the economic problems that drive Haitians to embark on such desperate voyages . Journalist Garcia described the Government 's reaction : " Suddenly it had the impression of being confronted not with many voices but with one voice . " Despite Duvalier 's vaunted " economic revolution , " Haiti remains the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere . At least three-quarters of the densely packed population of six million live below what the World Bank calls the " absolute poverty level " of $140 yearly income . Eighty percent of the people are illiterate . Malnutrition and starvation are rampant . The life expectancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets , and people bathe in open sewers . The air is filled with the stench of human waste . The people of the slums sleep in tiny , windowless concrete hovels or in the streets . In nearby Petion-Ville , a wealthy suburb , elaborate mansions sit on the hilltops , far from the ' misery below . According to the World Bank , in 1978 , 5 percent of the population received 50 percent of the national income . Exiled independent journalists say the stark disparities of wealth have angered the Haitian people . Although official publications claim that crime is virtually nonexistent , Garcia said that property crimes are burgeoning , as are suicides among people who have too little to eat . " These are the consequences of poverty , " Garcia said . " Eighty percent of the people are poor , 15 percent live more or less well and 5 percent are rich in a way that is visible and annoying , pushing the people toward violence . The independent press was the only vent for their frustrations . " . Garcia and Eugene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but because the press has been stifled , protests will be disorganized ? " like taking the starter out of a car , " Garcia said . " Perhaps the people will find other ways to protest . Since there is no one to give voice to their opinions , perhaps they will turn to violence . " " Since no independent voice can speak , " Garcia continued , " there will be no one to say if the Government becomes violent with the people . There will be no news , no one to announce it on the radio or write it in the newspapers . It 's not just that people wo n't be able to show their criticisms in a democratic manner , and may be pushed to protest with violence . Even if the Government massacres the people , we wo n't have any news  --  because the voice of the Haitian people is dead . The democratic process is broken . " ? 