@@431986

 | Critics describe it as a cabal of extremely powerful men " out to control the world . " In fact it is merely a nonpartisan forum designed to promote " partnership between North America , Western Europe and Japan . " Even so , the Trilateral Commission ? a private group of 290 international bankers , businessmen and political figures ? has become a strangely recurrent issue in the Presidential campaign . Last week in Illinois , GOP candidate John Anderson was questioned closely about his membership . Earlier , George Bush 's association with the commission in 1977 and 1978 was cited as evidence of his elitism and closet liberalism . And Jimmy Carter has long had to contend with accusations that his three-year membership ( he quit when he was campaigning for President ) has made him an Eastern establishment pawn . " This whole Trilateral thing boggles the mind , " says Bush . " For something like this to divert attention from substantive foreign-policy questions is crazy . " Global Issues : The Trilateral Commission is the brainchild of banker David Rockefeller , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America 's allies by announcing a series of drastic changes in U.S. international economic policy . As Rockefeller saw it , there was a need for more private consultation between American leaders and their counterparts in Western Europe and Japan . The commission publishes reports and sponsors discussions on a variety of global issues ? including energy , Arthur Lavine relations with the Third World and strategic-arms limitation . " Governments do n't have time to think about the broader , longer-range issues , " says Rockefeller , who personally and through family foundations finances a quarter of the commission 's modest budget . " It seemed to make sense to persuade a group of private , qualified citizens to get together to identify the key issues affecting the world and possible solutions . " The commission first came to prominence when Jimmy Carter was elected President . Though Carter had campaigned for office as an " outsider , " he wound up filling his new Administration with established insiders ? many of them former Trilateral Commission colleagues . ( Seventeen Administra- tion officials are past Trilateral members ? including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . national-security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski and Defense Secretary Harold Brown . ) The group made news again last fall when critics said that Rockefeller and fellow commissionmember Henry Kissinger had pressured Carter to let the deposed Shah of Iran enter the U.S. for medical treatment . Most of the Trilateral Commission 's harshest critics tend to be conservatives who do n't like its " elitist " make-up and its internationalist bent . William Loeb 's Manchester , N.H .. Union-Leader has accused the group of advocating " a world order in which multinational corporations ... can thrive without worrying about so-called national interests . " Adds chairman Mike Thompson of the Florida Conservative Union : " It puts emphasis on interdependence , which is a nice euphemism for one-world government . " Costly Association : In particular , Thompson accuses the group of trying to manipulate the Presidential election for its own ends . " The same people who gave you Jimmy Carter want now to give you George Bush , " he charged in a $25,000 series of newspaper ads that appeared in New Hampshire , Alabama and Florida . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear attempt to give David Rockefeller and his associates an opportunity to win the Presidency no matter which party wins the election . " Both Bush and Rockefeller dismiss such charges as " absurd . " But there seems little question that Bush 's association with the Trilateral Commission has cost him blue-collar votes . In part , the uproar reflects the thread of isolationism that runs through much of American conservatism . But it also has a lot to do with the widespread resentment many Republicans feel toward what they call the " clean fingernails , " Eastern establishment wing of the GOP . Though the Trilateral Commission may be politically nonpartisan and essentially powerless , it is unmistakably an elite , and that , at least in election years , is a dirty word . @#                     