@@333144

When Soviet-American relations come a cropper , as they so often do , it is rarely because the White House or the Kremlin seeks a crisis as part of a grand strategy . Rather , the setbacks are like road accidents during a cross- country rally in which the contestants are continually jockeying for position . Particularly when they feel their security has somehow been threatened , the Soviets can seem like road hogs , making it all the more likely that they will cause fender benders or worse along the way . They are aggressive but not reckless drivers . <P> So it was with the imprisonment of Nicholas Daniloff , which jeopardized the prospect of a summit meeting between President Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev . The cause seemed absurdly disproportionate to the possible effects : the FBI arrested a Soviet scientist who almost unquestionably was engaged in espionage , and the KGB retaliated by entrapping a U.S. journalist in Moscow who just as unquestionably was not . <P> It was a vivid reminder that Soviet-American relations operate according to Murphy 's Law : given the depths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go wrong will go wrong . Over the years a lot has gone wrong , and the timing has often scuttled the best-laid plans of statesmen , including some of the Soviet Union 's own . In May 1960 an American U-2 plane was downed near Sverdlovsk , and Nikita Khrushchev stormed out of a summit meeting with Dwight Eisenhower in Paris . In August 1968 , just as Lyndon Johnson and the Kremlin leaders were preparing to launch the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks , the Warsaw Pact invaded Czechoslovakia and SALT was postponed . In December 1979 the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan virtually guaranteed that the U.S. Senate would not ratify the SALT II treaty . In September 1983 Soviet air-defense units shot down a Korean passenger plane , prompting Secretary of State George Shultz to throttle back his effort to re- engage the U.S.S.R. in quiet diplomacy . In March 1985 a Soviet soldier in East Germany shot and killed Major Arthur Nicholson , a member of a U.S. military liaison unit , and hawks in the Administration clamored for retaliation . <P> While these incidents varied greatly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : first , the Kremlin 's concern with security takes precedence over propaganda and diplomacy alike ; second , when the Soviet Union reacts to a perceived threat to its security , it tends to overreact , sometimes brutally ; third , if the Soviets ' overreaction leads to a crisis , they are quick to blame the U.S. ; and fourth , the disruption has always proved temporary . <P> In Czechoslovakia and Afghanistan , the Soviet Union saw political instability on its border and the danger of unfriendly regimes coming to power . So Moscow , thumbing its nose at world opinion , moved in with tanks and paratroopers . In the other cases , there was either an act or an accusation of spying . The Soviets are preoccupied with espionage in a way that is difficult for Americans to understand . As custodians of a closed and paranoid political system , they are obsessed with protecting their own secrets and finding out those of their enemies .                     