@@494536

HIPNESS AT NOON BY jOSEF KVORECId Fr HE name of the organization was innocuous : the Jazz Section of the Czech Musicians ' Union . Its membership was restricted to 3,000 ? a mere club of aficionados of a type of music that ceased to excite the masses long ago , and was therefore taken off the Communist Party 's list of dangerous social phenomena . When , after thirteen years of existence , the Jazz Section was finally , for all practical purposes , forced out of existence , the event went unnoticed in the West . Time did publish a story , but ran it only in its European edition . In America this act of " minor " repression apparently was not considered newsworthy . And the bloodless demise of a small group of jazz lovers does pale in the reddish light of a world where even genocide is of declining newsworthiness . Still , for the student of " really existing socialism , " as the system in Czechoslovakia now defines itself , the brief history of the Czechs who liked syncopation more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " people 's democracies . " After sixty years of the Soviet state 's struggle against art , it should be obvious that Marxists in power do not trouble themselves about aesthetics . They ask only their variation of the query from the Jewish joke : " Is it good for the Jews , or bad for the Jews ? " Apparently jazz , that generous gift of America to the world , has never been good for Communists in power ; although before they damped down on it , jazz did help them to recruit quite a few young men and women . But once the Communist cause turned from liberating people to closely watching them , the jungle sounds of freedom became suspect . At times they were deemed superbly dangerous , at other times only alien to the new socialist man . The criterion was simple . If music fills a football stadium with raving youngsters , it signals danger . If it fills only a smokey jazz club with nostalgic middle-aged men , it is just a nuisance . A well-entrenched Leninist state can tolerate nuisances ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presley and hip gyrations reached first the proletarian dance halls , then the upper-New Class ballrooms . At that point the ideological gunmen switched their sights from the saxophone to the electric guitar . But in 1982 , after 20 years of comparative peace for jazz , something happened . In the course of the next two years the party media orchestrated a clamorous witch hunt directed overtly against punk rock , but covertly against the Jazz Section . For two years the public was treated to dozens upon dozens of articles and letters-to-the-editor written in classical Stalinese , all depicting the pop-and-jazz scene in Czechoslovakia as a hotbed of antisocialist conspiracies . The campaign closely followed the model of the 1950s : the victim , still at large and even holding some kind of office , was tenderized for the knock on the door , for the public confession , for the gallows . Why suddenly so much ado about a musical nuisance ? I SUPPOSE one has to go back to Lenin . This evil genius of a cause that once seemed so good to so many realized one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undirected mass movements . If a group of intelligent organizers channels the pent-up strength of popular feelings in the right direction , however , thrones will fall . It follows that once the well-directed power of the masses has achieved the aims of its leaders , the leaders must see to it that no more spontaneous movements emerge ; or , if they do , that they be made nonspontaneous by guides appointed " from above . " In the dictionary of victorious Marxism , spontaneity ( ivelnost in Czech ) has become anathema . It is a crime against really existing socialism . Yet one can not prevent spontaneous interest in various uncalled-for things , such as jazz , especially among the young ; and it is hard , moreover , to make them nonspontaneous . Such interest always arises " from below , " another term of opprobrium for something that is simply natural . A group of youngsters becomes excited by Elvis Presley , gets hold of a few guitars , tries them out in an abandoned barn . Other youngsters will come to the barn to listen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the local pub , crowded with rock ' n rolling teenagers . A spontaneous movement , in short , has emerged . In America the band might make a few records , disappear into obscurity or be catapulted into stardom . In the socialist states , in the good old days of Uncle Joe , the police raided such pubs and arrested such players . But that kind of directness creates martyrs , and raises interest in the forbidden fruit . Therefore it is used today only against the most hardened and incorrigible thought-criminals . Remembering Lenin , the party has established organizations such as the Socialist Union of Youth to channel spontaneous movements into riverbeds controllable " from above " by means of " interest groups " ( vijmove krou2lcy ) . It is hoped that , under the guidance of overseers installed by the party , jazz-and-rockloving youth will listen to the trimmed sounds of records carefully preselected by an ideological committee , and play low volume rock that will sound sweet even to the ears of the papaidg ( Czech slang for Communist big shots ) . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be controlled by fake interest . All that the Youth Union accomplishes is that the amateur band moves from the abandoned barn into the state-provided club room ; and instead of making them work for the money needed for equipment , the man " from above " buys the synthesizer with the money from the Culture Fund . There is a tremendous scarcity of dependable men " from above " ; the " really existing " ones are moved by hard syncopation much more than by the " Holy Script " of Marxism-Leninism . As long as it is only a local phenomenon , the deviations of an interest group can be handled . When worst comes to worst in Hicksville , the Hicksville cops will move in . They will beat up a few lads , crush a few guitars , and there is peace in Hicksville for another couple of months . But if a central group in Prague appears " from below , " a sort of Central Committee of fans , and they start building up a network of Hicksville rock groups all over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Section developed into such a central committee . It was headed by volunteers who received no pay ? another anathema in really existing socialism . The 3,000 members permitted by the party supported the leaders with enthusiasm , and they were remarkably disciplined . A spontaneous movement came into existence , directed by leaders who were not appointed from above , and were therefore " spontaneous " themselves ! It got out of hand . I T started in 1971 , three years after the Soviet ambush . After that exercise in historical dialectics , all artists ' unions were disbanded and new ones , presided over by carefully chosen , party-nominated " chairmen , " were cautiously established , among them the Czech Musicians ' Union . A group of jazz enthusiasts applied to the Ministry of the Interior for permission to form a separate Union of Czech Jazz Musicians . The Ministry turned them down and recommended that individual jazzmen join the Musicians ' Union . The functionaries of that organization interpreted the Ministry 's decision not as a recommendation that jazzmen merge with the others into a faceless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reliables , but rather as permission to form , within the Union , a special interest section . The statutes already permitted it , and the Union already had , for instance , a Music Critics ' Section . In this way the Jazz Section established itself and elected a chairman . The Ministry of the Interior , which neglected to pre-select someone for that position , restricted itself to setting the numerous clauses of 3,000 for the membership ? a figure that , in a nation of 11 million , was certainly quite insignificant . Thus at the outset an interesting legal situation was created : the Ministry of the In-tenor did not approve an independent organization , and since the Jazz Section did not originate with the Ministry , the cops had no legal power to disband it . That was the unpleasant prerogative of the Musicians ' Union . Later this circumstance played a part in prolonging the Section 's life . The fact that an organization not permitted de jure emerged de facto , and that although formally dependent on the Musicians ' Union , it acted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what I like to call the Gray Zone . By that I mean the " gigantic conspiracy to outwit the abysses of darkness " of which Kenneth Tynan spoke in the 1950s . Of course he did not have in mind the darkness that calls itself really existing socialism . There the Gray Zone is merely the conspiracy of normal people who stand between the fanaticism of the orthodox and the cynicism of the pragmatic on the one side , and the abnormal moral courage of the dissidents on the other . The overt solidarity of these men and women is with Caesar , but their covert sympathies belong to God . They hang portraits of the Big Brothers over their desks , but right under their eyes they read Orwell and listen to Charlie Parker . They have no organization , unless human decency is an organizing principle . All ministries , all offices , all schools , all factories are infiltrated by them , and the Musicians ' Union was no exception . They are the Gray Zone which makes really existing socialism livable ? in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself to the sort of activities permitted to such groups . It issued a not-for-sale , members-only bulletin called Jazz . It sent lecturers to Cultural Clubs , held jam sessions and disc jockey shows . It sponsored the yearly jazz festivals entitled Prague Jazz Days , which were distinguished at first by strict jazz orthodoxy and therefore did not attract multitudes . The authorities watched , occasionally they grumbled , but they did not much interfere . Their eyes were on rock ' n ' roll . Slowly , then quickly , all this changed in the mid- ' 70s , when jazzrock appeared on the scene , when a half-forgotten positive phenomenon of the ' 50s was rediscovered and soon achieved unprecedented proportions . The Gray Zone conspiracy always finds loopholes in the armor of orthodoxy , and in the ' 50s it detected a gap in censorship . Officially sanctioned organizations were allowed to print newsletters , and sometimes little booklets , for their membership . Such materials could not be sold to the public ; but the censors applied much lighter criteria of orthodoxy to them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for inspection . This may appear as an incredible leniency , or perhaps as an oversight . It was neither . In the early ' 50s the party simply relied on terror . The idea that the Association of the Keepers of Aquarium Fish , say , would print a volume of surrealist poetry seemed ? well , surrealist . And yet one of the very best , surrealistically inclined modern Czech fiction writers , Bohumil Hrabal ( Closely Watched Trains ) , made his literary debut in precisely this way . For years he had been known to everybody interested or working in literature , but since he was labeled a decadent non-Marxist naturalist no publisher would touch him . Then in 1956 a prominent poet and artist , Jiff Kola , convinced the Gray Zonists of the Bibliophiles ' Club that one issue of their members ' newsletter should contain , as a supplement , a little book of Hrabal 's stories , People Talking ( Hovory lidi ) . The booklet came out , for members only . Encouraged by this event , the Writers ' Union Publishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On A String ( Skfivitnek na niti ) for the general public in 1959 . The censors immediately killed the book and sent it to the shredder . In the ' 50s People Talking was an isolated phenomenon . In the mid- ' 70s , however , the loophole was suddenly stretched wide by the Jazz Section and its audacious chairman , Karel Srp . To the bulletin Jazz , the Section added two more for-members-only publications : a paperback series , Jazz petit , and a line of art monographs , Situace ( Situations ) . Both became the haven of authors , artists , and theorists of art interested in genres and trends that were , for all practical purposes , outlawed . Surprisingly , the old exemption of membership publications from the duty to submit them to the censorship office held ? perhaps because the Gray Zone has a branch even in the Cop Ministry . The Situace series focused exclusively on what that old really existing socialist Dr. Goebbels would call entartete Kunst : the stuff made from old wire and feathers , the strange looking holes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so on . I feel reasonably sure that rank-and-file jazz fans did not particularly care for such artifacts , but these things have always existed not only for their intrinsic value , but also to c'pater les bourgeois . Whereas the bourgeois , that splendid liberal creature , that basis of every decent society , grew tolerant after the initial shock , the Nazis and the Communists have never ceased to see red at the sight of a woman 's face painted in profile with her eyes en face , unless it was found in the pyramids . I am reasonably sure that , although the fans may not have particularly savoured the rusty-wire cum smelly-eggshells still lifes , they enjoyed the fact that the concoctions were veritable apples of Eden , gathered in violation of God 's law by the industrious gardeners of the Jazz Section to epater les Communistes . The Jazzpetit series was more diversified . It included , for instance , an anthology about New York 's Living Theater compiled by Jaroslay Kot ? n , the well-known translator of Ernest Hemingway , Kurt Vonnegut , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Concept Art , edited by the Section 's chairman , Karel Srp ; a sophisticated essay , The Body , the Thing , and Reality in Contemporary Art , by Petr Rezek ; a beautiful monograph of the photographic oeuvre of the leading prewar surrealist painter Jindrich Styrsky ; a book-length study of E. F. &Tian,; a pre-war Communist jazzman ( he published the first Czech book on jazz in 1931 ) and stage director which , due to the Marxist but not really existing socialist approach of its author , could not find an official publisher ; a fascinating study of how the Jews of the Terezin ghetto , facing death , managed to lead a far more cultural life than the Wagneradoring Nazis could ever boast of , entitled Music of the Theresienstadt Ghetto by Ludmila Vrkotova , deemed also too controversial ( probably Zionist ) . There was a book on John Lennon , edited by Tom8 Kraus and Lubor Sonka , with a series of photographs of the John Lennon Wall in Prague , another spontaneous creation of youngsters , covered with graffiti of grief , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lennon mourners repainted every day . There was Czech Rock ' n ' Roll by Vladimir Koutil , a history of rock music in Czechoslovakia that even contained photographs of stars who left the country without permission , and therefore became nonpersons . There was a two-volume dictionary of American rock musicians , Rock 2,000 , by Josef Wek , the second volume of which was eventually seized by the censors . There was an essay on Gary Burton which included a discography . By an irony of fate the whole enterprise climaxed where the loophole allowing membership publications had once started : with a book by Bohumil Hrabal . The post-invasion establishment managed to break this old man of Czech nonconformism , forced him to give a recantatory interview , and then permitted the publication of carefully expurgated editions of the writer 's least controversial works . Still , there were a few manuscripts which the master refused to have disfigured , among them the hilarious novel I Waited on the King of England ( Obsluhoval jsem anglickello krille ) . And that 's where the Jazz Section came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , large size , for-membersonly paperback ; and the conforming nonconformist gratefully dedicated the work to the " Readers of the Jazz Section so that they may have some fun . " The longhand dedication , printed in facsimile , appeared on the title page , and the cup of the cops ' tolerance overflowed . Hrabal was called to order , he was threatened that if he continued to commit such rascalities no more books of his would be published . He was allegedly forced to sign a statement claiming that the Section had published the novel without his knowledge . The facsimile dedication was left unexplained . But logic has never played an important role in the statements of the victims of the arrogant stupidity of power . Finally Karel Srp edited a book on Graphic Music and Phonic Poetry , and all cups overflowed . The Ministry of Culture received an order to put an end to this outrage ? remember , it was the Musicians ' Union , a province of the Ministry of Culture , and not the cops , which had brought the Section to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analyses of the shocking book to serve as scholarly arguments for the banning of the organization ; some of the Gray Zonists , I 'd like to think , secretly hoped that at least some of the arguments might be used to save something from the wreckage . Indeed , some readers ' reports contained very Marxist arguments . A V ? clav Cutych , for instance , wrote : Are you serious ? A specialist 's analysis ? Why organize a wise men 's dance around goose-shit ? Does n't the Music Department of the Ministry of Culture have more important things to do than prepare " specialists ' analyses " of what should be clear at first glance to every man in his right mind , not to mention educated Marxists . One could say that what we are here concerned with are negligible stupidities if they did not have a clear and transparent political background . One knows , does n't one , what IS the Jazz Section , WHAT it is engaged in , to WHOM it addresses its publications , and what are its REAL aims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could not use this argument . T HE PUBLISHING activities of the Section were one factor in the deepening drama . The other factor , as I said before , was the emergence , in the mid- ' 70s , of jazzrock , the consequent shifting of the Section 's interest from pure , orthodox jazz to hybrid forms , and finally , under the pressure of events , to rock . Parallel with this development ran a gigantic rise of interest in the Section 's activities . True , new members could be accepted only if someone dropped out , but the 3,000 possessors of the bulletin Jazz and of the volumes of Jazz petit did not keep them to themselves . According to conservative estimates , each volume had about 100,000 readers . It was not exceptional for one especially appealing title to be read by the entire student body of a high school ( as well as most of the teachers ) even if only one of its students was a Section member . The attendance at the Prague Jazz Days also multiplied ; in the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Wave , Rock-in-Opposition , and Modern Jazz . After various molestations and much bureaucratic chicanery , after the prohibition of any mentions of the Jazz Section in the media , the Jazz Days were finally banned ? characteristically neither by the Ministry of the Interior nor by the Ministry of Culture , but by an " individual , " the Prague cultural inspector Frantiek Trojan , under the pretext that " public disturbances " were expected . iNDEED , they were to be expected , 1 for the ban came on the eve of the event , when several bands from abroad were already in town , and thousands of young fans from distant country villages had already arrived in Prague , some bivouacking in the city 's parks . In hastily printed leaflets the Section explained the situation to the enraged crowds of youngsters and asked them to abstain from any display of anger . Miraculously , measured by Western standards , the crowd ( which contained quite a few punks ) maintained discipline ; the disturbances for which the cops yearned with all their hearts did not take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to many patrons and pay the foreign bands . This resulted in financial difficulties which opened a new road toward a " legal " method to curb and eventually to stop the Section 's endeavors . The cops used this road a couple of years later . After the canceled Jazz Day , the Section committed another grave sin . Instead of making appeals to " above , " it asked for support from " below , " and it got that support : in letters , in proclamations , in bold display of the Section 's statements on billboards in high schools and in the club rooms of the Socialist Union of Youth . Graffiti even appeared on the walls of the Ministry of Culture , with the challenging exclamation : WE SHALL NOT LET YOU KILL THE JAll SECTION ! ( JAllOVOU SEKCI NEDAME ! ) And the Section made another clever and provocative move which further complicated the life of the bureaucrats . It applied for membership in the International Jazz Federation , which is an organization of the Music Department of UNESCO ? and it was admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arguing that the application had not been accompanied by the Ministry 's recommendation . Yet the statutes of UNESCO do not require any such thing ; the Section was definitely a member . And to ban a group that is part of an international organization is naturally much more difficult than to liquidate a pest that is only domestic . Very probably the UNESCO affiliation also prolonged the Section 's life . Caught unprepared , the Ministry again resorted to chicanery . It started denying exit visas to the Section 's delegates to international meetings of the Jazz Federation . It began to spread rumors that the jazz fans were " subsidized from the West . " It even mailed a fake announcement to all county councils according to which the Section had been abolished by the Musicians ' Union . It did n't work . And so , since the Interior Ministry still did not want to interfere directly , since the Cultural Ministry was unable , and the Musicans ' Union unwilling , to perform the killing , eventually the party itself had to rush in . IT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prepare ground for the final " administrative measures . " The campaign was triggered by an article in the party 's politico-cultural weekly , Tribuna , in March 1983 . The article was titled " New Wave with an Old Content " and was signed by one Jan Kryzl , in fact a pseudonym hiding the identity of two Interior Ministry employees . It tried to sound knowledgeable but it did n't quite succeed ; it became , rather , a source of amusement for the Section 's thousands of supporters . Then the Section itself made another unorthodox move . It started yet one more series called Dokumentry ( Documents ) , which included a pamphlet in answer to Kryzl , entitled Rock on the Left Wing ( Rock na levem Kfidle ) . With elegant doses of irony , the booklet corrected the many mistakes of the Kryzl twins , from subtleties apparent only to the initiated to gross errors in dates , critical judgments , and personalities . Kryzl , for instance , presented Pete Seeger as a famous rock star of the early ' 50s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of Kryzl 's qualifications . The cops also gave their own original interpretation of the punk phenomenon . Punk rock , it appeared , was the invention of capitalist manipulators who intend to implant in young people 's minds the conviction that one should identify with life under capitalism and not revolt . This display of Marxist thought gave the Section an opportunity for a counteroffensive . It was not difficult to prove that punk rock started as genuinely proletarian music , created not by the sinister plotters of some British Tin Pan Alley but by unemployed amateurs . Rock had always been a left-wing phenomenon , claimed the Section . In the concluding lines of the pamphlet , its writers accused Kryzl of the gravest sin a Communist can commit : of spreading right-wing concepts , and therefore " harming the interests of the Communist Party . " OFTEN wish Westerners would I know " small " languages , such as Czech . If they could read the debate that followed this clash of minds , they would shed all illusions they might still have about the quality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coined by the French Communist Party after the Soviet ambush of Czechoslovakia , has implications that are quite horrifying to socialists . The correct translation is " really existing socialism , " suggesting a parallel to Marx 's old distinction between " utopian socialism " and " scientific socialism , " which was the only way , according to Marx , of achieving utopian ideals . But the parallel is false . In Czechoslovakia the term " really existing socialism " became the official description of the status quo in party documents . It was introduced after another term had been officially accepted in the late ' 505 -- dovr ? eng socialismus , " accomplished " or " realized " socialism , which indicated that the first phase on the road toward the ideal paradise of communism had been scientifically reached , to be followed shortly , perhaps in that generation 's lifetime , by the scientific establishment of communism . In actual fact , what followed " realized socialism " was a gruesome economic and intellectual crisis which prompted Communist reformism ; it paved the way to Dub &k's; attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which " realized socialism " quietly metamorphosed into " really existing socialism , " also achieved scientifically but with no utopian vistas of communism mentioned any more . But to define a police state as " really existing socialism " is tantamount to confessing that socialism can really exist only as a police state . Many people may resent me for saying this , but if this is socialism , then it " really existed- once before : in the National Socialist State of Germany . Whatever ideological differences may have existed between the two totalitarian movements , there is ample but largely ignored evidence that there were indeed many ideological similarities . The Nazis and the Communists were deadly competitors for the leading role in combating a common enemy ? Western democracy and the fruits of its culture . Jazz was to both of them the degenerate outpouring of either barbaric or sick minds belonging to either a wrong race or a wrong class , or both ; the anti-jazz exhortations of Dr. Goebbels do not differ in tone , knowledge , or argument from the effusions of Gorodinsky 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-sax squads . ( Interestingly enough , the music produced by the two camps was practically identical , both in its melodic and harmonic structures , and as far as the lyrics are concerned . Remember that quite a few of the dread SA men were former C.P. members , as SA music leader Hans Bajer demonstrated in his book Songs Make History . No wonder , then , that among the gems of the Nazi repertoire of songs one finds also a thing like this one : " Einst waren wir Marxisten , Rotfront and SPD , 1 heut sind wir Nazionalsocialisten , Kampfer der NSDAP ! " " We used to be Marxists , Red Frontists and SPD , /Today we are National Socialists , warriors of the NSDAP ! " ) Unfortunately these similarities are not a thing of the forgotten past . The Tribuna campaign against rock demonstrated that totalitarian thinking , and the resulting diction , is common to all who believe in the iron rule of any sort of party . Here is one of the many letters published in Tribuna after the debacle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punks appear to him as " animals that bear only a superficial likeness to human beings . " This very phrase , of course , was frequently used on the pages of Der Stiirmer . This is how Jews appeared to Parteigenosse ( comrade ) Streicher . And the final solution offered by Beran 's friends , whom he quotes in the article , is this : " Command these crowds of half-wits , adorned with their cow bells and chains , to form columns and make them march in the direction of the foundries of Kladno , Ostrava , KoAice ! " In these foundries , particularly in Ostrava , many workers are political prisoners . The playwright Vaclav Havel was one , until recently . All that is missing from the recommendation is a suggestion to build showers for the arriving humanoids . Another righteous contributor to the witch-hunt revealed that a group which " shone brightly " at the Festival of Political Songs ? a musical nonevent sponsored by the establishment ? was Janus-faced ! As the law bid them , the musicians at the festival performed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( There was n't much of an audience . ) At a gig after the festival they outdid themselves playing ugly , high-decibel New Wave rock , indulging in " indecent songs . " Of course this is an age-old trick of all people living under repressive governments . As far back in history as ancient Rome , for example , not all Christians were ready to let themselves be devoured by the lions . The not-so-courageous secret members of the sect bowed to the statues of the pagan gods by day , and by night they crawled into the catacombs to worship the God they really believed in . One group that was willing to expose itself to the lions ' teeth was the legendary Plastic People of the Universe , whose English-singing vocalist was Paul Wilson , the translator of my novel The Engineer of Human Souls . In 1976 they were all put on trial charged with " creating public disturbances " and " singing indecent songs . " Sentences of a year and a half in jail were meted out to them , and Paul was expelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disagreeable questions about the legality of sending a Canadian citizen to jail for singing a ditty that included the noun " shit , " The charges centered on such nouns . In the repertoire of the group was a song addressed to an anonymous but apparently ( self- ) important citizen , which culminated in the following lines : the refrain repeated eight times . The state prosecutor and the three judges did not indict the insults to the unnamed public personality , but instead the use of the scatological expression . The courageous defense attorney Stepanek then delivered a learned speech demonstrating that scatological words were common in the life of the working class , that they had always been an indelible part of folk song vocabulary . He cited a seventeenth-century folk song from the collection of Jan Jenik z Brattic which went : He further quoted from the works of Ha ? ek , Chaucer , and other literary luminaries to show that sometimes the word " shit " was essential to conveying the message . The public in the courtroom , represented by proxy by plainclothes policemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ignoring the historical evidence , ruled that the use of " shit " in songs was a criminal offence under socialism ; and anyway that socialist Czechoslovakia was not Chaucer 's England . rr HE JAILING of the Plastic People in 1976 led directly to the emergence of the Charter 77 , a petition signed by a group of daredevils from all walks of life which challenged the government to respect the Czechoslovak Constitution . Far from respecting that piece of paper , however , the Government damped down on them , and sent some to jail ? among others , the playwright Vaclav Havel , who got four and a half years and barely escaped death in prison . Still , the cops were never able to completely eradicate the Chartrists , and so , in 1983 , at the peak of the witch-hunt , the group issued an open letter entitled About Popular Music . Its main thesis ? a very valid one ? was that the " controversial " lyrics of contemporary Czech rock are probably the first example since the nineteenth century of genuine folklore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrelevance of the officially approved songs . Although such impotent products flood the radio and the TV shows , they do not appeal to the young , because they do not reflect the reality of Czechoslovakia . They reflect only the cautiousness of greedy hacks eager to make a fast buck while staying out of trouble . No wonder that young rockers resorted to self-help , with the result that lidovd toofivost ( people 's creativity ) , which for many years had been only a propaganda myth , suddenly became a fact . But a spontaneous fact . And such facts , again , do not have the approval of the people 's government . Then a most unexpected source offered to help . The Critics ' Section of the Musicians ' Union composed an open letter which they asked Tribuna to print . It took several months and , I am sure , countless meetings of cops and functionaries , before the letter ? rewritten many times , cut and edited ? finally appeared in the journal . It was not presented as originally intended , as a collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead by three individuals , Lubomir Dor Lka , Ivan Poledilak , and Peter Zapletal . They are the three most eminent jazz musicologists and folklorists in Czechoslovakia , and have a long list of scholarly books to their credit . Their main thesis ? also an easily documented one ? was : We indulge in cultural protectionism ? . . We indiscriminately refuse any influences from the outside ; but if such influences are strong they will penetrate our defences anyway , and then we are not prepared . . . . We care too much about nobody stepping out of fine ( and this line usually expresses only the average taste ) , about not making a mistake , about not introducing something improper , incorrect . . . It is a big question whether the present attack on the ideological diversion by rock music is as effective as it is loud . The main direction of this ideological diversion can be found not in the form of rock " excesses " but elsewhere : it is realized by the mass and frontal operations of the bourgeois model of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporting the production of cheap and commercial pop songs which benumb people and divert their attention from the problems of life . This is as far as you can go in a totalitarian state if you want to tell the plain truth , using the obligatory party jargon ( " bourgeois " instead of " bad " or " kitchy " ) . The critics ended their expos ? with what sounds ? and was , think , meant to sound ? like a warning : " The generations that follow one another identify quite strongly with the music of their youth , and it remains their music throughout life . " In other words : if you make enemies of young people by suppressing the sounds they love , they will hate you until their dying days . Such observations may be true , but they lack the conditio sine qua non of " Marxist " analyses : the " class " approach which , for a ruling Communist Party , is more important than any truth , than any reality . That was the line taken by the authors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Jifi Kohout . They opened with a categorical statement : " Art is Party ? and class ? conditioned . There can be no discussion about that ! " Such an opening , naturally , precludes any discussion ; and the rest of the article boiled down to a ritual restatement of well-known Stalinist dogmas . Reading their reply , one comes to the conclusion that the government and its repressive policies are not at all responsible for the widespread acceptance among the young of degenerate punk rock , for the general anti-establishment mood of the young generation . The responsibility rests with ? guess who ? ? what they call " Western Diversion Centers , " which apparently commissioned the creation of jazz , rock , and similar abominations for the special purpose of undermining socialism . ( If this is correct these Diversion Masterminds must be geniuses . ) In fact , I know of only one government-sponsored attempt to create a type of modern pop music that would counteract American rock . It took place in East Germany , and never got off the ground . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A thoroughly unexpected source of aid came from what I believe are the Gray Zonists at the Ministry of Culture itself . True , the publisher of the brochure is identified as the Theatrical Institute in Prague ; but why would theater people bother about Entertainment Music in the Czech Socialist Republic , its Values and the Preconditions of its Social Effectiveness ? ( What a peach of a title ! ) Besides , the text bears the indelible stamp of the Ministry 's ponderous writing style . It is yet another rephrasing of the few early letters in Trihuna and of the critics ' article , couched in cautious and ambiguous language . It makes frequent use of what ' , lathy Havel once termed " dialectical metaphysics , " which is the dialectics of " On the one hand this thing is bad , but on the other hand it is also good . " Just one of the pamphlet 's many profound observations : If we , on any level , in any place of work , are faced with phenomena that work against the interests of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but at the same time also sensitively , so that we would not suppress hopeful talents , hopeful creativity which , after proper redirectioning , can have the prerequisites of successfully asserting itself . And so on . But the Ministerial brochure appeared too late . By then somebody somewhere had reached a decision , and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior finally took " administrative action. - First , dozens of rock groups were forced to disband the most outrageous was the ban of the excellent experimental jazzrock orchestra of Michael Kocab , Prague Selection ( Pratsky *Jr ) . Others were forbidden to perform in Prague . Dozens of musicians were asked to take " requalification exams , " which they naturally failed . ( Without passing such exams , you can not perform in public , even as an amateur . ) Then the editorial board of Melodic , the only pop music monthly , was totally purged . Melodic had never openly supported the Section or the punk rockers , but by providing excellent objective information about the world 's jazz-and-rock scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is , of a party ? approach . Since its circulation was enormous , it was a continuous thorn in the side of the really existing socialists . The journal 's editor-in-chief , Stanislav Titzl ( who brought Out the illegal , underground magazine Bop Times in the early ' 50s ) was fired , along with theother lifelong students of jazz on the staff . They were replaced by one com-rade Miroslav Kratochvil , whose occupation is that of a " professional direc-tor . " ( Just one taste of his kind of expertise : in 1968 he was made director of the newly established Radio Hvezda ( Star Radio ) which purported to be a clandestine station of the " true Marx-ists " broadcasting from somewhere in Dubtek 's revisionist Czechoslovakia , but was really filling the air with viru-lent anti-Dub &k; and often anti-Semitic propaganda from somewhere in the south of the German Democratic Repub-lic . ) His assistant , nicknamed Krahe-for KRAtochvil 's HEmorrhoid ? let it be known that from now on a photo on the cover of Melodic would cost a pop star 5,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This con artist , by the way , is a Candidate Member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia and , naturally , an employee of the Interior Ministry . He filled the vacated editorial posts with his colleagues from the Ministry , and for the several hundred thousands of its readers , Melodic became a humorous monthly , filled with ludicrous errors and ideological excesses . The destruction of Melodic was only a blow to the flanks . A direct hit against the Section followed . Its dedicated chairman Karel Srp was fired from his editorial job with a printing company on the pretext that a general reorganization had eliminated the need for his post . In Czechoslovakia this is one of the valid reasons to dismiss an employee . But as soon as Srp quit , a new man was hired to fill his old position . In perfect agreement with the law of the land , Srp sued the employer . The judge , a woman specializing in political trials and utterly disinterested in the facts of the case , dismissed it . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income ( there is no unemployment insurance in Czechoslovakia , since theoretically there is no unemployment ) ; he may be charged with social parasitism . Moreover , the Ministry of Culture resorted to the proven method of liquidating nuisances . In the old days the trumped up charges at the trials were political . In really existing socialism nondesirables may be attacked for political deviations , but when they are actually put on trial the charges are invariably economic or criminal . The Committee of People 's Control seized the Section 's accounting books , and one comrade is now busily meddling with them . By a strange " coincidence , " as soon as the commission confiscated all bookkeeping documents , astronomical bills for unpaid taxes since 1980 started to arrive from the revenue office . These unexpected taxes , about 3 million crowns , were to be paid immediately from the Section 's account , which was closed for all other purposes . The Section could have proven easily that the tax demands were incorrect , but for that they would have needed their books , to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( I suppose ) intervened again on behalf of the Section . The Section is a part of the Prague Division of the Musicians ' Union , and in February 1984 the Division had been told to stop all activities . In fact , the order was an indirect effort to stop the doings of the Jazz Section . But since the decree did not explicitly mention the Jazz Section , the Section carried on . The annoyed authorities sent an explicit command to the Prague Division to abolish the Section immediately . The Division duly responded that having been ordered to stop all activities , they could not carry on any and could not , therefore , oblige . EE VERYBODY is having fun . But through the laughter sinister rumors may be heard : a trial of the leading figures of the Section is in preparation . As is customary in Marxist states , the sentences have already been agreed upon and approved by the party : fourteen years for Karel Srp ; ten years for Josef Skalnik , the graphic designer of the Section 's publications ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If this proves not to be just a rumor , I would urge all jazz fans in the West , and everybody who is concerned about freedom , to send strongly worded letters of protest to President Gustav Husak , last known address Praha Hrad , Czechoslovakia . However it may all end , the efforts by the cops of the Interior Ministry ( thetrue holders of power in Czechoslovakia ) to hide behind the smoke screen of administrative measures undertaken by the Musicians ' Union , and then by the Ministry of Culture , have failed . Finally the Interior Ministry itself was forced to come out , and on July 19 , 1984 , it curtailed all activities of the Musicians ' Union for three months . This fall the curtailment is to be lifted , if the following conditions are met . The union will stop publishing any books , pamphlets , or periodicals . It will dissolve its Jazz Section . It will discontinue any work , theoretical or otherwise , in the field of jazz music . It will refrain from founding new orchestras , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this writing only God knows how the union will react . And what will remain for it to do , if such conditions are met . But at least power will have been revealed in its nakedness . HAVE written this article for those I who share my view that if what exists in Czechoslovakia is socialism , I would rather be a capitalist . But I am aware that many in the West are always ready to give the benefit of a doubt to any regime that calls itself socialist , except to national socialism , which was discredited because it lost a war . I also know that anyone who is no longer ready to give the socialist cops the benefit of a doubt is likely to be labeled a reactionary , and that the jazzmen and rockers of whom he writes with sympathy will ( perhaps subconsciously ) become suspect of antisocialism , indeed of fascism , or worst of all , of pro-Americanism . In an article entitled " What its like making rock ' n ' roll in a police state " ( Musician , February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London , soon after his expulsion from Czechoslovakia : It was in the summer of 1977 and punk rock was in full swing , joyful exuberance in grimy clubs , mindless weekend punch-ups on Sloane Square , instant analysis in the New Society . The same bands that the Plastic People had been inspired by ten years ago ? The Velvets , Captain Beefheart ? were now being rediscovered. 1 went to an early Slits/Sham 69 gig where the new Sex Pistol documentary was shown , full of arrests , protests , rage and lose-maieste . Afterward I approached someone in the Pistols ' entourage with a suggestion , why not smuggle a copy of the film into Czechoslovakia , give the Plastic People a lift . " The Plastic People ? " he responded in a dead-eyed , cocky public whine . " They 're antisocialist. 1 do n't support fascist rock hands . I 'd rather send the film to South Atrica . " Ah yes , images of Sid Vicious smelling his socks to raise consciousness in Soweto . I was sorry I 'd asked . H OW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of support . ers of the Jazz Section , the hundreds of thousand of readers of Melailie , all antisocialists ? I have known many , and some of them are convinced Communists even after all the pogroms , which is something I ca n't comprehend . Most of them are ? well , 1 would say they have no interest in capitalism , only in the freedom it offers . They have , in principle , nothing against socialism , nothing against the system , which is the normal human stance . Only fanatics support establishments wholeheartedly and under any circumstances ; surely the many critics of capitalism in the West agree , in principle , with its liberal and democratic structure . The Czech aficionados of jazz and art have nothing against socialism so long as it does not annihilate what they love , which inherently has nothing to do with politics , economic systems , or ideologies , but which may assume political overtones if an oppressive establishment endeavors to crush it . These youngsters are not blind to the advantages even of really existing socialism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security as long as you behave . But neither are they blind to the disadvantages : the arbitrary rule of the police ; the lawlessness of the courts ; the heavily curtailed freedom of the press , of literature , of the arts in general ; the terrible nepotism ; the political discrimination called , less offensively , " class discrimination " when you apply for admission to a university , or for a job ; the brutality toward those who do not keep their dislike to themselves ; the new-class greediness of the papal ig in governmental and ministerial posts , self-appointed through the ritual of " elections . " Can any decent person , socialist or nonsocialist , really like such such things ? Fortunately there are decent people everywhere , who sin daily against the the orthodox code of socialist conduct . The following story is taken from a letter I received from an amateur rock musician who recently escaped from Czechoslovakia and now lives in the United States . With a group of friends he intended to attend a private jam session and lecture in a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walked from the railway station to the village they passed a truck that belonged to the State Construction Company . The driver , a typical working-class character , stopped , leaned out of the cab , and warned them : " Boys , do n't go there ! The place is swarming with them ! They 've got wagons ready for you , they 've got German Shepherds and submachine guns ! " By " they " the man of the people naturally meant the cops . But the boys ignored his warning , and were promptly arrested ; they were subjected to a long process of chicanery and interrogations which resulted in their fleeing the country . Was the truck driver a reactionary ? He was n't an antisocialist . He was merely a decent person . A citizen of the Gray Zone . The kind of person who makes life bearable even in states of really existing socialism .                     