@@494219

While this book hardly deserves the ecstatic eulogies of the prepublication reviewers : " work of unmatched scope , " " breath-taking accomplishment , " " the birth of a classic , " etc. , it is a remarkable and , in certain respects , unique production . By any reckoning it is a very good value for the money . The 500 pages of main text contain about 240,000 words to which must be added another 100 pages of small print containing no less than 2,500 footnotes . Most of the text is in a spare undecorated style appropriate to an encyclopedia article ; the footnotes , some of which are themselves encyclopedic , even more so . But the reader has a hard time . In place of a general index we are offered an elaborately cross-headed seven-page table of contents , but the footpaths through the jungle that are posted in this way are very difficult to follow . The hundreds of author references in the footnotes are not reassembled into a bibliography . We are told hardly anything about the author except that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Columbia College , Oxford University , and the New School for Social Research , and that he was born in 1928 . The Oxford experience was clearly crucial since it brought him into contact with the social anthropologist Evans-Pritchard who stimulated his interest in the Durkheimians , especially Marcel Mauss , whose work provides the foundation on which O'Keefe 's skyscraper is constructed . O'Keefe was probably at Oxford in the early 1950s . His assiduous note-taking seems to have started around that time , though it must have continued , at least spasmodically , until quite recently . However , the general framework of his sociological thinking had evidently become set before 1962 . It belongs to the era of Talcott Parsons in his The Social System phase . Durkheim , Weber , and Freud are the key hero figures in the background , Vil Freda Pareto , who was Parsons 's fourth demigod , seems to have been dropped . O'Keefe refers occasionally to the work of the structuralist authors of more recent times , but he views it only at a distance . In the formal sense the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magic " that have been put forward during the present century . For the pre-1950 period this is well done , but the relatively early intellectual deadline means that the drastic consequences of Levi-Strauss 's La Pensh , Sauvage and Le Cru et ! e cult go unrecognized . This is the equivalent of writing a history of modern linguistics that ignored the work of Noam Chomsky . One other complaint . The spellings of authors ' names are frequently bizarre , e.g. Goldenweisser for Goldenweiser , Van Gennup for Van Gennep , not just once but many times over . But that perhaps is nit-picking ; considering the size of the hook , the standard of proofreading is high . In 1895 magic seemed to be what anthropology was all about . Frazer 's two-volume version of The Golden Bough had made its initial impact and was in the process of expansion to a final thirteen volumes . The scholars concerned took it for granted that magic was readily distinguishable from nonmagic and that all magic could then be reduced to two basic forms : " white ( i.e. beneficial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and socially approved , and " black magic " ( sorcery ) , which was performed in secret for socially destructive ends . The debate was mainly about origins . Did magical thinking precede religious thinking or does it represent a decay of religious experience ? Is magic " bastard science " based on childish ignorance and false premises ? Is it a form of . fleception practiced by rogues and politicians ? Why does belief in magic persist ? Is magic an activity of individuals acting against society or is it a " collective representation , " a projection of social ideology ? What is the psychological basis of belief in magic ? Can we distinguish the power of magic and the power of words ? In what sense , if any , is the power of magic " real " ? Most of these questions were briefly surveyed in a celebrated ( though , in my view , unsatisfactory ) monograph published in the AntreSociologique for 1902-1903 , " Esquisse dune th ? orie g ? ntrale de la magie " by Henri Hubert and Marcel Mauss . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his book has been built . His reading on the subject extends almost to the present day , but his own theory is the Hubert/Mauss theory modified in some respects by the commentaries of Evans-Pritchard and his colleagues . The erudition is formidable but distinctly archaic . M Y PERSONAL DIFFICULTY with O'Keefe 's book is one that would be shared by many of my anthropological colleagues . We feel that , with the passage of time , " magic , " like " totem-ism , " has become a nonsubject . The word has been so loosely used in so many different contexts that there is no longer even a family resemblance between the various different senses of the term . Moreover , those of us who have explored the various avenues of metaphor and metonymy opened up by the post-1962 writings of Levi-Strauss are likely to feel that it is now a redundant category . Whatever anyone might want to say about " magic " could always be said more clearly by referring to something else . O'Keefe is far from being naive about such matters , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we distinguish " strict " and " weak " senses of magic . He seems to attribute the apparent confusion to the fact that anthropologists , sociologists , psychoanalysts , and experimental psychologists have different professional language traditions . But " magic " is part of the vocabulary in each case and , although the penumbra of meaning varies according to who is using the word , there is something " real " that the various specialists are all trying to talk about . O'Keefe categorically asserts the existence of this global reality in his preface . Thereafter his central purpose is to display what this real something is . H E STARTS by breaking up the total field in which magical behavior can be discerned into seven " provinces " : Medical Magic , Black Magic , Ceremonial Magic , Religious Magic , The Occult Sciences , The Paranormal , and Magic Cults and Sects . But from then on he takes it for granted that these various magics are all aspects of the same thing and proceeds to discuss magic as a general phenomenon in terms of a variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subdivided into many cross-heads and sub-cross-heads . The treatment is encyclopedic but fragmented to the point of absurdity . For example , Book Three carries the general heading " Individuals and Selves . " This includes postulates 9-12 . Nine : " Magic Tries to Protect the Self " ; 10 : " Magic Helped Develop the Institution of the Individual " ; 11 : - Magic ? Especially Black Magic " ; 12 : " Magic Persists as an Expression of Certain Aspects of Civilization . " No douht this is very impressive as an exercise in erudition , but at the end of it all it does not seem to me that the reader is much the wiser . Some psychoanalysts said this , others said that . Some things that some psychoanalysts have said are consistent with some things that some sociologists have said . Others are not . So what ? Right at the end of Book Three there is a section headed : " Conclusion ? A General Sociological Theory of Magic . " It runs to just over five pages and seems to be intended as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a very small and undistinguished mouse of an argument . At this point our author abandons his economy of words and lapses into sociological jargon of the worst kind : In magic man expropriates symbolic operators from religion to survive its moral pressure and to dare to think and speak and act as individuals : but this theft embeds him in structures of domination and evil which stilt further mystify his religious representations and darken his understanding . Later , in legal rational institutions , man constitutes communities again , but retains his self-determining spontaneity , and disenchants his world . But in time these institutions rigidify into lifeless bureaucracies and inquisitorial moral agencies which often become oppressive . As these devices successively slip in his hands , man substitutes one for the other ; sometimes recourse to a religious or magical device is only temporarily regressive , like ' regression in the service of the ego , ' and so man 's capacities to reconstitute community through religion and to protect the self through magic are never given up . I find this kind of gobbledygook entirely repugnant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shorn of its verbosity , the thesis that " religion " and " magic " are polarized on the same axis as " community " and " individual " is already to be found in the Hubert/Mauss essay of 1903 and , as we read on in O'Keefe 's conclusion , it becomes apparent that the whole exercise has been set up in such a way it was bound to confirm this initial hypothesis . I am unimpressed . DIFFERENT APPROACH would re- ject both " religion " and " magic " as universal categories and confine the argument to the interconnections between three abstractions of a different sort : ( 1 ) aspects of human action which " do things , " i.e. alter the state of the world out there ; ( 2 ) aspects of human action that employ symbolic coding to " say things , " both about the state of the world out there and about human relationships ; ( 3 ) potency . The third of these categories is particularly ambiguous . It embraces both natural forces such as wind and water and human and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which men assert domination over " nature , " and also the metaphysical social " power " by which men assert domination over one another . All the argument about " magic " spins around the fact that the exercise of human potency , in any form , always involves both the operational ( " doing things " ) and the symbolic ( " saying things " ) aspects of human action , and that it is not only difficult but quite impossible to make any clear-cut distinction between physical and metaphysical forms of potency . In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , many Western scholars deeply resented this latter fact . Surely the advance of scientific knowledge meant that man 's new control over physical potency must reduce his tormer reliance on metaphysical potency to childish superstition ? O'Keefe , it would seem , is still of that persuasion . " Magic " is thus a term of abuse applied to forms of potency of which he does not approve . But for other types of scholars , the distinction between the rational and the irrational that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied to the practical circumstances of real life , and the category " magic " is therefore quite redundant . If we use the sort of criteria employed by Hubert and Mauss and O'Keefe , then I engage in a magical performance every time I go through the " rite " of making myself a cup of coffee . O'Keefe 's monster seems to me quite extraordinary , but I would rate its long term viability as zero .                     