@@487749

Doctrine begun to develop strategy and tactics for low-level warfare , and the Army has commissioned a study of combat requirements for any U.S. force that might be sent to fight in Central America . As in the heyday of counterinsurgency , the military press is full of theoretical studies of antiguerrilla warfare . In the January 1985 issue of Military Review , the journal of the Army 's Command and General Staff College , Col. James B. Motley wrote , " The most important security challenge confronting the United States . . . is to improve its military capabilities for low-intensity conflict . " The growing popularity of L.I.C. doctrine stems from two interrelated phenomena : the armed services ' desire to develop a publicly acceptable formula for the use of force in regional conflicts , and the Reagan Administration 's desire to build public support for its military campaign against pro-Soviet forces and regimes in the Third World . Both of those drives have encountered resistance from many Americans who remember the Vietnam War with considerable distaste . On the other hand , they also have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for military intervention . That is what L.I.C. doctrine is intended to do . It contains both a strategic blueprint for military activities abroad and a political program for manipulating public opinion at home . While counterinsurgency planning stressed the threat to American interests posed by Third World revolutions , L.I.C. emphasizes the threat of - terrorism , political turmoil and Soviet expansionism . In both cases , the favored solution is a mobilization of political will to overcome those threats through the vigorous application of military force . " We can not allow ourselves to become the Hamlet of nations , worrying endlessly over whether and how to respond , " Secretary of State George Shultz declared in a 1984 address on terrorism . To defeat terrorism , he averred , we must have " a broad public consensus on the moral and strategic necessity of action " ? meaning , in particular , military action . This quest for a political " consensus " on the use of force is what makes L.I.C. doctrine so dangerous to American society . To appreciate the risks posed by low-intensity conflict , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political-ideological component . It is useful to begin with the , legacy of Vietnam . Counterinsurgency Redux Low-level combat  --  called " brushfire war " and the like  --  emerged as a major concern of U.S. military officials in the late 1950s and early 1960s , when a series of revolutionary upheavals in the Third World demonstrated the vulnerability of American-backed dictators to the people's-war strategies of Mao Zedong , Che Guevara and Ho Chi Minh . In response the Kennedy Administration embraced the doctrine of counterinsurgency , a hybrid strategy combining traditional military tactics with political and economic measures intended to win the " hearts and minds " of the people . Kennedy also upgraded the Army Special Forces ( the Green Berets ) and created other " special " units for the implementation of counterinsurgency tactics . To test the strategy and to demonstrate its efficacy to would-be guerrillas everywhere , Kennedy in 1961 authorized the deployment of several hundred Green Berets and other counterinsurgency experts to South Vietnam . When they failed to defeat the guerrilla forces , Kennedy sent still more advisers , to protect the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisers had to be joined by regular combat troops , and the war thence became a major test of U.S. strength and endurance . In the wake of the Vietnam disaster , counterinsurgency was discredited and Congress followed a policy of avoiding direct American military involvement in Third World conflicts . This so-called Vietnam syndrome was expressed in the War Powers Act , the Clark amendment ( prohibiting U.S. involvement in the civil war in Angola ) ' and a ban on U.S. military and police assistance to repressive Third World regimes . For a time most U.S. leaders supported those measures and resisted any move that would embroil the United States in Third World conflicts . After the fall of the Shah of Iran , however , many policy-makers called for a revival of U.S. interventionist capability . Their demand became official government policy in June 1979 , when the Carter Administration activated the Rapid Deployment Force and dispatched a Navy-Marine contingent to the Indian Ocean area . ( The timing of that decision  --  three months before the U.S. Embassy in Teheran was seized and six months before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think Carter acted in response to those events , rather than as a result of government policy . ) The moves , however , were not sufficiently vigorous , to reassure a jittery public , and Carter succumbed to Ronald Reagan in 1980 . Once in the White House , Reagan moved quickly to increase military spending and to accelerate the development and deployment of new weapons systems . He also campaigned energetically to reduce opposition to the application of U.S. military power abroad , but he encountered unexpectedly stiff resistance . Although most Americans endorsed the attack on Grenada and the interception of the Achille Lauro hijackers , they showed little enthusiasm for the Beirut occupation and have serious doubts about the wisdom of direct U.S. military involvement in Central America . A formula that would justify intervention in the Third World has , therefore , been a major Administration objective . The Lethal Spectrum With the introduction of L.I.C. doctrine , the White House believes it has found the right approach . The name itself is reassuring . By stressing the limited nature of the combat involved , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entanglement in Third World conflicts . Moreover , by emphasizing the threat of terrorism , it can be portrayed as a reactive policy , a prudent and legitimate response to violence , instability , anti-Americanism and Soviet aggression abroad . The term " low-intensity conflict " derives from what U.S. military planners call the spectrum of conflict , a range of increasing military violence from low- to mid- to high-intensity conventional fighting , and thence to limited , theater and intercontinental nuclear war . The L.I.C. band of the spectrum ranges from terrorism and civil violence through guerrilla warfare , police operations , border skirmishes and other engagements below the threshold of-fullscale war . According to Pentagon strategists , the Vietnam War fell into the L.I.C. category for most of its duration , though with the massive U.S. air attacks on the North and the invasion of Cambodia , it escalated to a higher level , to " mid-intensity conflict . " The L.I.C. designation also applies to the current fighting in Afghanistan , Angola , Cambodia , Lebanon , the Philippines and Central America . The L.I.C. Triad As now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of military operations : classic counterinsurgency , " active " defense against terrorism and " pro-insurgency . " Each one , as noted below , entails a significant risk of military escalation . Classic counterinsurgency is the type of warfare practiced by the United States in the early stages of the Vietnam War . It combines military measures , aimed at combating rural guerrilla forces , with political , economic and psychological operations , aimed at neutralizing peasant support for the revolutionary underground . Although rarely employed by American forces since the debacle in Vietnam , these tactics are now being used by government troops in El Salvador under U.S. tutelage . The air strikes against rebel-held villages , the recurrent search and destroy operations , the military 's " civic action " projects , are direct borrowings from the Vietnam War ( and , before that , from the British campaigns in Kenya and Malaya ) . The problem with such operations is that many of the governments they are intended to protect are so alienated from the people that they can not successfully conduct a political-military campaign without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classic counterinsurgency can not work when the prevailing regime lackg popular legitimacy and can not mobilize at least some grass-roots support for its antiguerrilla efforts . In such cases an increasing number of U.S. troops must be substituted for the regime 's unreliable soldiers . This process is already under way in El Salvador , where U.S. personnel now exercise responsibility for the day-to-day management of combat operations , and is likely to occur in the Philippines if the United States assumes a more direct role in the counterguerrilla effort . Counterinsurgency , then , is not a method for avoiding U.S. entanglement in Third World conflicts but rather a formula for ever-deepening involvement . " Active " defense against terrorism is the Reagan Administration 's answer to what is perceived as an upsurge of anti-American violence originating in the Third World . Originally terrorism was viewed as a form of nonmilitary combat that fell below the threshold of L.I.C. Following the bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut , however , terrorism was redefined as a full-fledged military threat to the United States , requiring an appropriate response . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , approved by President Reagan on April 3 , 1984 . Although the text of the directive has not been made public , officials familiar with it say that it calls for " proactive " military measures , including pre-emptive raids against suspected terrorist strongholds and retaliatory raids against countries suspected of harboring terrorists . Thus , as suggested by Secretary of State Shultz in 1984 , the new policy holds that " our responses to terrorism should go . beyond passive defense to consider means of active prevention , pre-emption and retaliation . " That principle underlies the repeated U.S. threats to bomb alleged terrorist strongholds in Lebanon in response to any new attacks on U.S. peisonnel in Beirut , and the U.S. interception of the Egyptian airliner carrying the Achille Lauro hijackers . Like counterinsurgency , such a policy carries a built-in potential for escalation . A U.S. military strike against suspected terrorist bases in another country , however " surgical " in execution , would constitute an act of war against that country and could provoke a military response . If that re'sponse were directed against American forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. retaliatory strike  --  the United States could find itself drawn into a full-scale shooting war . - Pro-insurgency , or active support for what are defined as anti-Commuhist rebellions in the Third World , is the Administration 's favored response to perceived Soviet expansionism . Often described as the Reagan Doctrine , this policy holds that the United States should assist in the overthrow of pro-Soviet regimes . " For too long , " Under Secretary of State William . Schneider Jr . told a Senate subcommittee in 1985 , " the free nations have restricted themselves to drawing lines in the dust , conceding the Communists their conquests while at most seeking to resist further conquests . " Now we must " put the would-be totalitarians on the defensive , to help put uncertainty into their imperialist plans . " Although primarily described as a natural expression of American support for the forces of freedom and democracy abroad , this stance is also justified as a practical measure for promoting U.S. - security interests . Depicting the rise of leftist governments in Afghanistan , Angola , Ethiopia , Mozambique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union , Administration officials argue that U.S. military aid to antigovernment forces could result in the diminution of Soviet power . " When the United States supports those resisting totalitarianism , " Shultz explained in February , " we do so not only out of our historical sympathy for democracy and freedom but also , in many cases , in the interests of national security . " The principle underlies the Administration 's rationale for aid to the anti:Sandinista contras and to rebel forces in Afghanistan , Angola , Cambodia and other Third World countries allied with the Soviet Union . Such a policy entails just as high a risk of escalation as do the other components of L.I.C. doctrine . By providing military assistance to forces engaged in combat against a sovereign government , we become a party to that conflict and thus invite retaliation . That becomes even more likely when U.S. advisers and combat personnel are stationed in active war zones or at support bases in adjacent countries ( in the case of the contra war , U.S. forces are deployed in Honduras ) . Should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back at the insurgents ' support bases , the U.S. contingent could suffer significant casualties or the host government could appeal for American help . Either contingency would provide a clear-cut pretext for full-scale U.S. intervention . Shultz Grasps the Nettle ? Intervention Surprisingly , the leading advocate of the new doctrine is not Caspar . Weinberger , long considered the principal hawk in the Reagan entourage , but George Shultz , who is generally viewed as a moderate in Administration , Policy struggles . While Weinberger has cautiously defined the conditions under which U.S. forces would be deployed in Third World conflicts , Shultz has campaigned vigorously against falling prey to the Vietnam syndrome and has championed both the use of military force to combat terrorism and support for anti-Soviet insurgencies in the Third World . More important , Shultz has introduced a sweepirig thesis , akin to John Foster Dulles 's containment policy , to justify U.S. triilitary intervention on a global scale . - Shultz 's argument is based on two precepts : first , that the forces of democracy ( loosely defined to include any country or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a global terrorist offensive launched by radical regimes or organizations allied with the Soviet Union , Cuba , Libya or Iran ; and second , that the United States , the leader of the democratic forces , has a responsibility not only to resist but to destroy the terrorist threat . Shultz has enunciated those precepts in three major speeches : his April 3 , 1984 , address to the Trilateral Commission in Washington , his October 25 , 1984 , appearance at the Park Avenue Synagogue in New York City and his February 22 , 1985 , talk at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco . Shultz begins with a highly politicized and distorted view of terrorism . " What once may have seemed the random , senseless , violent acts of a few crazed individuals has come into clearer focus , " he said in his New York address . " We have learned that terrorism is , above all , a form of political violence . . . . wherever it takes place , it is directed in an important sense against us , the democracies  --  against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Ignoring the terrorist threat posed by neo-Fascist groups in Italy and right-wing death squads in Latin America , Shultz claimed that most terrorist activities originate among antidemocratic elements on the left . And although-he acknowledged that individual terrorists may be motivated by wholly personal or sectarian grievances , he added that " states that support and sponsor terrorist actions have managed in recent years to co-opt and manipulate the terrorist phenomenon in pursuit of their own strategic goals . " Paced with this challenge , Shultz argued , the United States can no longer afford to remain passive and reactive . Although we are relatively well prepared to deter a nuclear attack , we are not " organized to deter and counter the ' gray area ' of intermediate challenges that we are more likely to face , the low-intensity conflict of which terrorism is a part . " It is at this point that Shultz tackles Weinberger and the Vietnam syndrome . " It is often said that the lesson of Vietnam is that the United States should not engage in military conflict without a clear and precise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Washington audience . Does that mean that there are no situations where " a discreet assertion of power is needed or appropriate " ? The answer is no . " The need to avoid no-win situations , " he said , " can not mean that we turn automatically away from hard-to-win situations that call for prudent involvement . " Having established that force is legitimate in some situations , Shultz called for an active military response to state-supported terrorism : " We now recognize that terrorism is being used by our adversaries as a modern tool of warfare " against " our strategic interests around the world . " Given the nature of the threat , we are fully justified in using military power to overcome it . " We should understand that terrorism is aggression and , like all aggression , , must be forcefully resisted . " . The logic behind another component of the Administration 's L.I.C. doctrine  --  the provisiori of U.S. aid for anti-Soviet insurgencies in the Third World  --  was first set forth by Secretary Shultz in his San Francisco address . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ripe for turning into Communist insurgencies , " he said , " today we see a new and different kind of struggle : people around the world risking their lives against Communist despotism . " This " democratic revolution , " as he put it , is most apparent in Afghanistan , Cambodia , Angola and Nicaragua , where self-professed freedom fighters are combating Soviet-backed totalitarian regimes . And whereas " any victory of Communism was held to be irreversible , " today we can hope for the victory of these " democratic forces " over Communist tyranny . Proclaiming that the United States has a " moral respon- , sibility " to support freedom fighters in their struggle against totalitarianism , Shultz says that such assistance must go beyond moral support to include material and even military aid . " The forces of freedom can not place their trust in declarations alone , " he stated . It is not possible in an article of this length to discuss the numerous inconsistencies and contradictions in Shultz 's thesis , but it should be obvious to anyone with even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fallen to leftist insurgencies , including those in Vietnam , Nicaragua , Angola and Mozambique , were colonial artifacts or military dictatorships lacking even the slightest pretension to democratic rule . It is equally evident that the contras and many of the other forces championed by Shultz have a brutal and bloody record that belies any claim of their being democratic . What is important here , however , is not to critique the specifics but rather to reconstruct the basic thrust of Shultz 's argument : a nation or movement allied with Moscow is , by definition , an instrument of terrorism and totalitarianism ; thus , by extension , the op --  ponents of these nations or forces are the guardians of democracy and U.S. national security and are worthy recipients of U.S. military aid . ? Gathering Support Shultz 's thesis constitutes the ideological rationale for U.S. aid to the contras and other right-wing insurgents , and is being used to build a case for direct U.S. military action against Nicaragua , Libya , Cuba and other countries . Unless repudiated , it will govern U.S. foreign policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of repudiation looks slim . The Shultz view is attracting growing support among U.S. policy-making and media elites . The " strike back at terrorism " approach has already received widespread Congressional approval , and opposition to the pro-insurgency policy has substantially diminished . Congress has also increased funding for the Special Operation Forces and other units committed to L.I.C. actions . What is especially worrisome is that significant elements of the Democratic Party appear to have embraced the doctrine at least partially , as witnessed by two recent votes in the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives : ? On June 12 the House voted 248 to 184 to provide $27 million in nonmilitary aid to the contras , reversing an earlier decision to ban any form of U.S. assistance . Although the White House had to make some compromises to gain a majority  --  the measure includes no arms aid and prohibits the Central Intelligence Agency from dispensing the money  --  the appearance of seventy-three Democrats in the pro-aid column was considered a major victory for President Reagan 's Nicaragua policy . ? On July 10 the House voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocated by Republican legislators , the motion finally passed with the help , of sixty Democrats . Repeal of the amendment will enable the Administration to provide economic and military aid to the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( Unita ) , a South Africa-backed rebel group that seeks to overthrow the Angolan government , Which is supported by Cuba . And while the White House prefers to aid Unita through covert channels , Representative Claude Pepper of Florida , a Democrat , introduced a bill in October calling for $27 million in overt , nonmilitary aid to Unita . Accompanying those votes has been the growing adoption of Shultz-like rhetoric by leading Democrats . One of the most prominent disciples is Representative Stephen Solarz of New York , who has undertaken to fashion a more hawkish stance for the Democratic Party . " If Democrats are going to regain the confidence of the American public , " he wrote in a New York Times Op-Ed article in June , " we will have to develop a new , and more tough-minded , consensus on foreign policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require adoption of a vigorous promilitary posture and a " resolute anti-Communist policy . " It also means  --  and herein lies the debt to Shultz ? " resisting Communist expansionism in the Third World by providing arms and aid to non-Communist forces , such as those in Afghanistan and Cambodia , resisting Communist invasion and occupation of their countries . " Solarz is not uncritical in his endorsement of the Shultz doctrine : he opposes U.S. military aid to Unita and the contras . However , by endorsing U.S. support for the insurgencies he approves of , he lends legitimacy to the Administration 's drive to gain public backing for aid to groups he disapproves of . Furthermore , by appearing to speak for the " moderate " wing of the party , he will only encourage the wholesale adoption of Shultz-style rhetoric on other key foreign policy issues , with all that implies for future U.S. relations with the Third World . Mobilizing the Left The growing adherence to L.I.C. doctrine in Washington and the accompanying popularity of the Shultz doctrine pose an enormous challenge to those on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere in the Third World . Unless we can advance a persuasive critique of Administration logic and introduce a credible noninterventionist response to terrorism and other Third World perils , we will lose the support and sympathy of more and more Americans . At that point the White House will be able to claim to speak for the majority . And when that happens , there will be pitifully few domestic restraints against another round of interventionism . The ascendancy of the Shultz doctrine will also pollute the domestic political atmosphere . If U.S. intervention in the Third World is defined as a necessary defense of freedom and democracy , those who oppose it are perforce enemies of democracy and , by extension , legitimate targets of government repression . Indeed , perhaps the most frightening aspect of the Administration 's public explication of its L.I.C. doctrine is the degree to which language is distorted to justify a policy that is the opposite of the prodemocratic one the Administration claims to be pursuing in its foreign relations . If that distortion is allowed to continue unchallenged , we could face a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the new doctrine is , it presents the left with an opportunity . If the Democratic Party emulates the hawkish posture of the Reagan Administration , it will abandon its claim to be the principal bulwark against another Vietnam , creating space for the formation of a broadly based , grass-roots alliance against interventionism . If animated by a vigorous critique of Shultz 's thesis and a strong commitment to global democracy , such an alliance could prove to be a potent political force in this country . Ultimately it is our only sure defense against another decade of war , repression and domestic turmoil. , ?                     