@@432199

 | A weary , bitterly divided Israel is heading into a decisive election that holds out the prospect of profound changes at home as well as for American hopes for Middle East peace . At the very least , say analysts here , a change of government ? now foreshadowed by polls running heavily in favor of the opposition Labor Party ? will produce a shift in the hard-line tone marking Israeli policies in recent years . Beyond that , the door maybe opened to the revival of President Reagan 's moribund initiative aimed at ending decades of Arab-Israeli conflict . This assessment is based on a widespread assumption that Labor not only will win in the July 23 vote to choose a new parliament but also will adopt more flexible approaches than those pursued by the ruling Likud coalition , led first by Menachem Begin and more recently by Yitzhak Shamir . Signs of the change of course that a Labor government presumably would initiate are evident in the campaign . On the key war-and-peace issues Israeli control of the West Bank of the Jordan River . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Labor Party leader Shimon Peres says that he would curb the building of new Jewish settlements in Arab neighborhoods , reinstate ousted Arab mayors and consider returning sizable parts of the territory to Jordan . Altogether , this would make a sharp break with Prime Minister Shamir 's commitment to strengthen and expand the Jewish presence in the occupied territory . Occupation of Lebanon . Peres and his fellow Labor Party leaders urge a three-to-six-month schedule for withdrawing Israeli forces from southern Lebanon . They also propose creation of a mobile strike force for protection of Israeli border settlements against Arab terrorist attacks . The Likud , although advocating eventual withdrawal from Lebanon , insists that even talking about a pullout timetable or new defense strategies at this time increases dangers to communities along Israel 's northern frontier . Negotiations with the Arabs . Labor Party policymakers , though hardly pacifists , are seen as willing to initiate negotiations with Jordan 's King Hussein or other Arab moderates in pursuit of peace and security for the Jewish state . Shamir and other Likud ministers emphasize a security policy based essentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the U.S. Few of these differences are presented in clear-cut fashion as voters argue issues and candidates along Jerusalem 's crowded alleyways , in quiet kibbutzim meeting halls around the country or across cafe tables in bustling Tel Aviv . Nevertheless , no one can really duck the debate over security and relations with the Arabs . The reason : It is impossible to divorce such problems , with their attendant soaring costs , from the No. 1 issue of the campaign ? a punishing 400 percent annual inflation rate . Labor campaigners pound the domestic inflation theme constantly , sometimes even setting up street corner food stalls with " pre-Likud " prices to demonstrate the 80-fold increase in the cost of commodities , such as tomatoes , in recent years . They also claim that hundreds of millions of dollars could be pared from the massive government deficit by pulling the Army out of Lebanon and trimming investment in West Bank settlements . It is the pervasive anger over inflation and a general discontent with things as they are that , more than anything else , is contributing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show the party running anywhere from 7 to 16 percent ahead of the Likud coalition . Such findings are no guarantee of victory , however . Only days before the balloting , great numbers of voters were still listed as " undecided . " That could produce major last-minute shifts in a country where voter turnout traditionally is high . Even more important , neither of the country 's major parties has ever won an absolute majority of the Knesset 's 120 seats . Analysts do not expect that to happen on July 23 either . The election is almost certain to be followed by days or weeks of bargaining among the 26 religious , Arab and other minor parties . In the end , the price of forging a ruling coalition could severely limit any new government 's future options . No election fireworks . Compared with past noisy and often nasty campaigns , the current contest has been subdued , sometimes even soporific . This is partly because neither party has rabbits to pull out of the electoral hat , as was the case in previous elections . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a striking Likud victory , Prime Minister Begin galvanized the country with the order to bomb Iraq 's nuclear reactor and with eco- nomic concessions that spurred fastpaced consumer buying . Even more fundamental is a recognition among politicians and ordinary citizens alike that whatever is attempted to rebuild the shaky economy and revive stagnant peace efforts will be painful ? and could easily backfire . In fact , neither party has come to grips with what economic specialists now consider inevitable : A rigorous postelection belt tightening including the prospect of wage and price freezes , currency controls and higher taxes . More often than not , both major parties are on the defensive . Thus , Likud stresses its commitment to national security and claims credit for achieving peace in the Galilee region in northern Israel . But Shamir and his government 's backers also shy away from discussion of Israel 's costly invasion of Lebanon and the casualties its occupying forces still are suffering . Stress on economics . Peres , at the same time , asserts that he can more successfully end the Lebanon stalemate . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli electorate toward basic questions of national security , he and chief aides soft-pedal the prospects of pursuing compromises with the Arabs . They strive to focus attention on economic issues , declaring that a Labor victory is " the only hope " for avoiding national financial ruin . Israel 's special relationship with the U.S. and its dependence on continued American financial and military support have not been an issue in the campaign . However , many Israelis agree that Washington feels a Labor government under Peres would be more amenable to new American diplomatic initiatives than would a re-elected Likud administration . Private comments from U.S. officials reflect that sentiment . As one put it : " We 're not taking sides , but I think most observers would say that Labor would offer new possibilities of a peace resolution . " The day-to-day electioneering ? as observed by a reporter traveling with the candidates on the campaign trail ? seems to be aimed at countering negative images on the peace issue rather than offering new policies . Although the Camp David peace process initiated by former U.S. President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has tried to improve his party 's " peace " image by saying that he intends to revive that approach . And the party 's more outspoken hawks , such as former Defense Minister Ariel Sharon , have been kept on a tight leash throughout the campaign . For its part , Labor , fearful of being labeled " too soft " on the Arabs , has stressed its " four noes " : No return to Israel 's pre-1967 borders ; no independent Palestinian state ; no negotiations with the Palestine Liberation Organization ; no uprooting of Jewish settlements already established on the West Bank . Even so , after the election , say some political analysts here , the issue of American relations will surface again . Shamir , it is felt , clearly would not welcome any U.S. initiatives intended to bring about a major change in the Mideast status quo . He made this apparent in a brief July 10 television " debate " with Peres in which the candidates answered questions but did not confront one another . " I do not anticipate any change for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the steering wheel remains in our hands , " the Likud Prime Minister stated . " Of course , adventurist ideas about a new division of the Land of Israel might strike those relations . " In Shamir 's mind , say analysts in Jerusalem , " adventurist ideas " would almost certainly include such things as proposals to relinquish occupied Arab territory or Reagan 's September , 1982 , peace initiative calling for negotiations between the Israelis and King Hussein for creation of a Palestinian entity on the West Bank federated with Jordan . While Reagan 's overture collapsed then , U.S. officials insist that the basic idea is " very much alive " and could be revived when conditions are better . Some analysts feel a Labor victory would provide that opportunity . During the July 10 debate , for instance , Peres maintained that , while he would not compromise on security issues , he is willing to explore negotiations with Jordan . Guaranteeing security . What both parties share is opposition to any demands calling for a total withdrawal from Arab lands occupied in the 1967 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security . Is there any chance for accommodation then ? If the Likud wins , Shamir almost certainly will continue his present policies toward occupied Arab land , including construction of more Jewish settlements . He insists these are not only successful , but widely supported by ordinary citizens . This claim is backed by some recent public-opinion polls here . Should he pursue that path to the point of actual annexation of the West Bank , Shamir is certain to clash with the Reagan administration , which is opposed to such a controversial action . That could chill the current warm relations between the two countries . As for Peres , although he is committed to maintaining present West Bank settlements , he opposes construction of new ones , especially in areas heavily populated by Arabs . He also has indicated that , under certain conditions , as much as 60 to 70 percent of the region could eventually be handed back to Jordan without endangering the security of Israel . None of this would solve the West Bank tangle or affect the status of Jerusalem , considered holy by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world 's most complicated disputes . But diplomats say that they might be enough to get Israel and some moderate Arab leaders around the same table . If that happens , the 1984 vote here indeed would be a watershed election in Israel and beyond .                     