@@432367

 | Claude Monet admired Lilla Cabot Perry 's impressionist paintings so much that he placed one in his home . Rachel Ruysch created 18th-century flower paintings in Holland that the Dutch of that time considered more valuable than Rembrandt 's portraits . Lavinia Fontana supported her 11 children by painting altarpieces in 16th-century Rome and serving as court artist to the Pope . Yet these women ? and many who are more contemporary ? are virtually unknown in the art world . Few if any of their works hang in major art museums . Even H. W. Janson 's History of Art , the standard college text on the subject , made no mention of art by women until the 16th edition came out in 1985 ; it cited only one , the renowned American impressionist Mary Cassatt . Now , however , women artists have a national showcase ? the National Museum of Women in the Arts ? which opened last week two blocks from the White House . Crucial question The museum is designed as a noncontroversial showcase for women 's art ? no divisive issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very existence is churning debate in feminist and artistic circles . The question that keeps coming up is this : Does such a museum really promote women 's work , or does it isolate it ? Several curators around the country do concede that museums have been slow to recognize outstanding women artists , but they question whether a one-sex showcase is the answer . An art historian at Washington 's American University , Norma Broude , sums up feelings of many critics . A separate museum for women 's art , she told ArtNews , " trivializes the position of women as artists , reinforcing their artificial separateness and second-class status in a culture to which they have made central but unrecognized contributions . " The founding force behind the museum , Washington , D.C. , philanthropist Wilhelmina Cole Holladay , insists that it will be a credit not only to women but also to the world of art . " No museum in the country will buy a work of art unless the artist is established and well-known , " she says . " I guarantee you that women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five . We hope through exhibitions , programs and publishing that we can make them well-known so they will be included in all the great collections . " Most masterpieces hanging in galleries around the world were created in past centuries when hardly any women were trained to paint . Now , however , half of America 's degrees in art go to women . Two fifths of the country 's selfemployed artists are women . But men still dominate exhibitions of new art . In this decade , males have given 89 percent of the solo shows at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art , 90 percent of those at New York 's Whitney Museum and 96 percent of those at the Guggenheim in Manhattan . " Is n't it statistically improbable , " asks Ofelia Garcia , president of Atlanta College of Art , " that so many women should be so bad ? " What happens , some contend , is that women 's art suffers from a gender stereotype . " If you look at juried exhibi(1917) Alice Bailly tions , where the jurors do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women make up one third to one half of the artists who are selected , " reports Judith Brodsky , an art professor at Rutgers University . She says works by women are selected far less often when it is known that women were the artists . Extensive exhibitions The six-story museum , in what used to be Washington 's Masonic Temple , houses 14 galleries of art dating from the Renaissance into the 20th century . Many of the works come from Wilhelmina Holladay 's personal collection , which she started 20 years ago while traveling in Europe . She bought a 17th-century Dutch still life by Clara Peeters and then was astonished to learn that art historians had collected virtually no information about Peeters or any other female artist . Since then , she and her husband , architect Wallace Holladay , have assembled artworks by women from 19 countries . More than 60,000 individuals and a bevy of corporations contributed money to establish the museum . How good is the museum 's art ? Many pieces are considered top rank . And the collection , though uneven , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances to judge for themselves in coming months . A large portion of the museum 's collection has been shaped into an exhibition , " American Women Artists , 1830-1930 , " which will travel to Minneapolis , Hartford , San Diego and Dallas .                     