@@432066

 | The Supreme Court ruling upholding all-male draft registration comes at a time when the nation 's feminists are fighting to preserve the legal rights they have won over the last decade . In the most controversial women'srights issue of the Court 's current term , the Justices decided on June 25 that Congress last year acted within its authority in reinstituting registration for a military draft excluding females . Justice William Rehnquist declared for the six-member majority that courts generally must defer to lawmakers in national-security matters . He added that because Congress and the military bar women from combat , " men and women . . . are simply not similarly situated for purposes of a draft . " Justice Thurgood Marshall , one of three dissenters , contended that a menonly draft violates constitutionally guaranteed equal legal protections for all since it " categorically excludes women from a fundamental civic obligation . " A blow . For women 's groups , who argued that the Constitution requires both sexes to register for the draft , the decision was a setback . Eleanor Smeal , head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " perpetuates the myth that somehow men can defend their country but not women . " In another case , the Court ruled on June 26 that divorced spouses are not entitled to share in their former spouses ' military pensions . The new rulings are consistent with a series of reverses suffered by feminists since the early and mid-1970s , when they scored legislative and judicial victories on issue after issue ranging from job bias to abortion . But the movement 's momentum has stalled . Today , prospects for the proposed equal-rights amendment to the Constitution are bleak , the Reagan administration and conservatives in Congress are working to curb enforcement of some key laws that have aided women , and court decisions keep dealing blows to the feminist cause . " We 've cracked the easiest nuts ? the most blatant forms of discrimination , " declares Judith Lichtman , director of the Washington-based Women 's Legal Defense Fund . " What 's left are the most difficult problems . " Many women believe these would be largely alleviated by passage of ERA , which declares that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or abridged ... on account of sex . " No state has approved ERA since Indiana in 1977 . Still three states short of the 38 needed , women's-rights advocates must meet a June 30 , 1982 , deadline or the amendment will die . They will concentrate efforts next year in six states ? Florida , Illinois , Missouri , North Carolina , Oklahoma and Virginia ? where they believe they have the best odds for favorable votes . Even if three more legislatures endorse the amendment , court fights are certain over the validity of action by three states rescinding earlier approval . Already being challenged is Congress 's 1978 vote extending the deadline for ERA ratification by 30 months . The amendment 's supporters note that 17 states have added equal-rights language to their own constitutions . But this drive , too , is at a standstill . Iowa voters overwhelmingly turned down such a proposal last year , and no other state votes are scheduled . On the other hand , states have been steadily wiping out statutes that discriminated against women . For example , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and half bar bias against women in housing . Since feminism flared anew around 1970 , judges have tended to outpace lawmakers in granting rights to women . An early victory for women's-rights forces was the Supreme Court ruling in 1973 legalizing abortion in the first three months of pregnancy . Recently , the Justices have issued a spate of decisions putting women on an equal footing with men in obtaining many jobs and government benefits and ending disparities that formerly were typical in divorce cases . Equal pay . The Justices ruled on June 8 that women employes who are paid less than men doing comparable work may sue for higher wages . Although courts and lawmakers have eliminated many discriminatory laws , women are finding it difficult to overcome the kind of bias that remains . For example , judges generally are denying discrimination claims unless women can establish that they were victims of intentional bias , proof that often is hard to come by . Women also have lost challenges to laws that give veterans preference in hiring for government jobs . The Court declared such measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On abortion , the Supreme Court in recent years has restricted its 1973 ruling . The Court upheld last year a law barring use of medicaid for most abortions . This year , it affirmed a Utah statute requiring physicians to notify the parents of girls under age 17 before performing an abortion and an Indiana law curbing abortions outside hospitals . In Congress , many legislators are  | making a strong push this year for a ban on most abortions . Lawmakers voted in May to put new limits on the use of federal funds for the operations . Schools are another battleground for sex-bias issues . Women have a right to equal educational opportunity under civil-rights laws , but legal fights to define the right are seemingly endless . Some defeats . Women won many early rulings , but their success rate is declining . In one case , a Detroit judge last February rejected a father 's protest that his daughter 's school had illegally set up a golf team for boys only . The judge said that despite the ban on sex bias in education , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no U.S. aid for athletics . With the Reagan administration cutting back on federal programs generally , women fear that a key tactic they have used to combat bias is slipping away : The threat to seek a cutoff of funds to punish discrimination . Affirmative action is another antidiscrimination tool in danger of being weakened . A number of congressmen are attempting to outlaw the concept , which they contend has caused unfair discrimination against men and whites . President Reagan is a strong opponent of hiring quotas , and his aides are studying possible changes in federal affirmative-action rules . The Labor Department already is circulating a plan to relax anti-bias rules for firms contracting with the government ? a **25;349;TOOLONG business . Women 's groups complain that the administration is hurting women , too , by slashing budgets for programs that a disproportionate number of women depend on , such as Social Security and welfare . " Many of our gains in the last decade may be whittled away by these and other actions , " says Smeal . Undaunted by these setbacks , women are pressing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aim is to enforce the Supreme Court 's " comparable worth " decision by pursuing claims seeking pay equal to men 's in a wide range of jobs . Another subject of more court action is alleged bias against pregnant women , which was banned by Congress in 1978 . But suits testing interpretations of the law ? such as when an airline can ground a pregnant stewardess ? are yet to reach the Supreme Court . More workers ' health and safety issues are headed for the courts . Women have filed suits challenging their exclusion from some jobs deemed by employers to be potentially hazardous to the health of their future children . Women argue that firms must assess dangers for men , too . Slim odds . Though women hope these and other lawsuits will extend their gains , they feel that the Supreme Court has become less sympathetic to their cause in recent years . Viewed as even more threatening by women 's organizations is Reagan 's promise to appoint strongly conservative judges . The President 's critics say that such persons are likely to reverse the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional view that a woman 's true role is to be a wife and mother . Some major policies , such as the decision legalizing abortions during early pregnancy , could be reversed outright . Another disappointment for women : White House aides are playing down speculation that Reagan will name a woman to succeed retiring Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart . " We expect to be taking rearguard actions in the next few years , " Wendy Williams , a law professor at Georgetown University , says of women 's groups . She adds : " I 'm not optimistic about moving ahead very far ; we may be lucky to hang on to what we have won . "                     