@@487769

It seemed as much a comic whodunit as the throes of a nation in crisis . In mid-November President Ferdinand Marcos was missing , and rumors were flying : The President ? vas in Houston for open-heart surgery ; the President was at Stanford University Medical Center for a kidney transplant ; the President was dead ; the President was on board his yacht en route to Australia ; a team of foreign doctors had taken over the presidential palace to tinker with the old man 's innards . Finally , a leak from the inner circle disclosed that an operation had been performed , in Manila , probably on his kidneys which had been damaged by systemic lupus erythematosus . It was thought the President might yet have to venture abroad for treatment . The government refused to confirm the report . It maintained throughout that Marcos was suffering from the flu and had been placed in what was called " reverse isolation " to protect him from germs . The government aired a videotape showing him in good health , but the press identified it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " No one in his right mind or her right mind would try and keep this from the people . If the President is sick , I 'll tell you . I promise . " Then , on December 8 , Marcos bared his chest on television to scotch rumors that he had undergone heart surgery . But the fact remains the President is sick . Marcos 's illness , coming at a time of pervasive economic crisis and evidence of a military conspiracy in the 1983 slaying of Benigno Aquino , has dramatized the fragility not just of the chief executive but of the entire government . Indeed , most observers say that the government is hardly functioning . The communist insurgents of the New People 's Army are gaining adherents rapidly in the countryside ; in the cities , the left controls the trade unions and orchestrates protest demonstrations . Cabinet ministers quibble openly about succession ; bankers have made it clear they have lost confidence in the regime 's ability to enforce a package of harsh austerity measures mandated by the International Monetary Fund in September ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a candidate to succeed Marcos or a platform to govern by . The best guess anyone has on the outcome of the governmental crisis that will inA . Lin Neumann is a freelance journalist based in Manila , whose work has been featured by NBC Radio , Business Week , Maclean 's and Interlink Press Service . evitably follow Marcos 's demise is that a juntalike " working committee , " as one Cabinet member called it , will oversee the succession process . According to a law Marcos rushed through earlier in 1984 , the Speaker of the National Assembly , Nicanor Yniguez , would serve as interim chief for a sixty-day period , during which time an election would be held and a new president installed . But most here believe that the working committee , composed of key Cabinet members and Imelda Marcos , would exercise the powers of state during the interregnum . The Marcos regime is a deft practitioner of survival tactics . Nothing demonstrated that more clearly than its manipulation of the fact-finding board 's report on the assassination of Aquino . When it became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chaired by former Justice Corazon Agrava , was applying itself seriously to the task of uncovering the military conspiracy behind the killing , it took action . Indirect pressures were brought to bear on members of the board , and according to sources on the panel , only Agrava succumbed . She stonewalled on the most important issue : the role played by Gen. Fabian Ver , the Armed Forces Chief of Staff and one of the President 's most trusted men . On October 23 , Agrava filed a separate opinion exonerating Ver and confining the conspiracy to a lower-ranking general and six soldiers . The President accepted the Agrava version in a public ceremony , giving it equal status with the majority opinion , which named Ver and which was released a day later . Only U.S. pressure and the fear of a public backlash kept Marcos from burying the majority report altogether . In a letter to Ver , the President said it was " fraught with doubt and great contradictions . " One diplomat called the investigation a farce and predicted Ver would be acquitted if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-five officers and enlisted men named by the majority . So far no one has been indicted . The case is now in the hands of an ombudsman 's office , which has the power only to make recommendations to a special court created during the martial law period to hear cases involving corruption . The court has not tried anyone above the rank of captain . Since all its members , including three judges rushed to the bench in September , are presidential appointees , there is considerable skepticism about the likelihood of a trial taking place . Thus Marcos 's maneuvers have accomplished one thing : the Aquino case has been taken away from the dem- t ' onstrators in the streets and dropped into Manila 's legal maze , perhaps never to be heard from again . Most observers here feel that the Agrava board 's unexpectedly bold findings will take the steam out of the middle-class protest demonstrations . Marcos 's impatient overseers in the American Embassy secured a boon from the process . Ver had to go , not so much for his possible complicity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces . Diplomatic observers have pointed out repeatedly that continued growth of the insurgent forces is partly attributable to the ineffectiveness and brutality of the military . The man running the show while Ver is on indefinite leave , Gen. Fidel Ramos , a 1950 graduate of West Point , is said to be forthright and honest  --  the antithesis of his predecessor . He has close ties to the opposition and the Catholic Church . " I can rest easier knowing Ramos is there , " said the editor of a prominent opposition newspaper . Ramos has U.S. support and the confidence of moderates in the government . What he lacks , however , is the power to reform the corruption-riddled military . At a press conference Ramos admitted that Marcos zealously supervises the military structure and must approve all major appointments . As for instituting major changes , he said , " I do not have the authority . " That authority may be in the offing , however . A Cabinet minister said that Ramos would head the working committee in the event of Marcos 's death and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But a host of uncertainties remain . According to insiders , Imelda Marcos wants to be president , and she could move behind the scenes to secure the position de facto . She and a tight circle of advisers , including her brother , control access to Marcos . A majority of the nation 's generals are Ver loyalists , and his primary allegiance is to the First Family . Other powerful presidential cronies  --  most notably , coconut baron Eduardo Cojuangco  --  maintain private armies and vast sums of money which could come into play in a succession struggle . The moderates in the business community and their American allies fear that when Marcos is gone , his coalition will disintegrate in the battle for the spoils . The U.S. Embassy has sought to counter what it calls the " wrong impressions " conveyed by Reagan 's statement in the second Presidential debate that the only alternative to Marcos is " a large communist movement , " but hard-liners here took it as a sign of encouragement . Of course , a takeover by the right  --  led , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communists . Regardless of what happens , leaders of the left , which includes religiousgroups , students , workers , peasants and the guerrillas , are confident that the nation 's economic troubles and the pace of both urban and rural mass actions is certain to keep the revolution on track . The New People 's Army , with some 15,000 fighters , is operating throughout the islands and , according to diplomatic estimates , exercises a measure of control over 20 percent of the nation 's villages . In the cities , the National Democratic Front , a broad coalition of leftist and communist groups and representatives from different sectors of Philippine society , controls the timing and strategy of street protests . One of its leaders has said that 1985 would be a time of consolidation for the movement . The opposition intends to emphasize the economic hardships people are suffering and to concentrate its organizing efforts among workers , peasants and students . With interest in the Aquino assassination fading , said the source , " We have to project the issues of the masses " and downplay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful transit strike in Cebu and Davao , the Philippines ' second- and third-largest cities , respectively , precipitated by an increase in gasoline prices and held the week the , 4grava report was released . The strikes paralyzed those urban centers , and underground leaders regard them as a model for future urban activism . With its revolutionary rhetoric and proclaimed devotion to the poor , the Philippine left is fast becoming a genuine threat to Marcos and the moderates . " This country needs a revolution , " said one diplomat . " We would like to see a White revolution , but if we are not careful we will get a Red revolution . " With growing disarray in the government at a time of change and upheaval , the left will be well positioned to carry out its timetable for insurrection . Sources in the Communist Party say that if all goes according to plan , within five years it will establish a coalition government made up of representatives from business , labor and other segments of society , patterned after the government set up in Nicaragua @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Marcos made that goal possible , if not exactly probable . When he declared martial law in 1972 ( it was lifted in 1981 ) , he replaced much of the traditional local leadership with functionaries whose loyalty was to the central government . That system has been unable to gain the respect of the people in the countryside , where the leadership vacuum is increasingly being filled by the guerrillas . Filipinos blame the central government for abuses by the military ( troop strength has been increased to six times what it was before martial law ) and for the corruption of local officials . The United States finds itself in the unenviable position of being linked to that government . Despite a born-again faith in the democratic opposition , it bears the onus of having supported Marcos virtually without reservation before the Aquino assassination . The embassy 's dire predictions about the growth of the left have served to underscore the United States ' increasing vulnerability . And with two major U.S. military installations in the Philippines ? Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Base  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was handled by the regime and the uncertainties of the succession process have done little to instill confidence in the future of the Philippines as a U.S. ally . The country was kept on the diplomatic back burner for too long , its problems masked by authoritarian rule . Although it has now become a high-priority crisis spot , that wo n't make America 's choices any easier , nor will it increase the chances for a peaceful resolution of the situation .                     