@@324511

Sadat broadens his options and revives an old controversy <P> With President Reagan still settling into the White House and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin girding for an uphill election campaign , Anwar Sadat has been fearful that the peace process might lose so much momentum as to expire altogether . So the Egyptian President has undertaken a one-man campaign to keep the process alive . Two weeks ago , he addressed the European Parliament in Luxembourg , where he solicited Europe 's help in persuading both Israelis and Palestinians to accept " mutual and simultaneous recognition . " Afterward , he stopped over in Paris for talks with French President Valry Giscard d'Estaing . Last week Sadat stoked the fires again : he renewed a long-forgotten , highly controversial proposal that Palestinians create a government in exile . <P> Sadat first raised the idea of a provisional Palestinian government in 1973 . He brought it up again for two reasons . First , he views the Palestinians as the linchpin in a comprehensive Middle East agreement under the Camp David accords . Second , he feels that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Organization Chief Yasser Arafat , is unable to withstand pressures from Syria and the U.S.S.R. Sadat reasons that a government in exile formed by all Palestinians , P.L.O . members as well as Palestinians living in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip , might yield a stronger leadership . It would also help the Palestinians move toward a more neutral position , which would enhance their appeal and attract broader support in the world . " The moment a Palestinian provisional government is formed , we shall recognize it immediately , " he said . <P> Sadat 's proposal evoked anger among Israeli officials . Interior Minister Yosef Burg , who is also Jerusalem 's chief negotiator at the stalled talks on Palestinian autonomy , called it " a complete contradiction to the spirit of Camp David . " For that matter , the P.L.O . evinced no excitement about the idea . Farouk Kaddoumi , the P.L.O . ' s unofficial foreign minister , called the time " inopportune " for such a government , adding that " we do not place any trust in Sadat . " American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping all the options open " that offered little chance of immediate success . <P> Egyptian officials were the first to admit that Sadat 's maneuver stemmed from multiple motives . They emphasize that Sadat has effectively given up any hope of reaching an agreement on the Palestinians with the Begin government , and has now pinned his hopes on a probable Labor Party victory in Israel 's June 30 elections . During a four-day visit to Egypt last week , Austrian Chancellor Bruno Kreisky passed along his belief that Labor Party Leader Shimon Peres would be prepared to reach an early agreement on autonomy , perhaps even by the end of the year . Although Sadat 's proposed government in exile would not play a role until after the transitional period called for under the Camp David accords , such a government would help pave the way for a future Palestinian state .                     