@@487743

Visiting the galleries of Baroque painting at the Metropolitan Museum of Art one afternoon , some friends and I paused before Rubens 's portrait of himself with his family , and reminded one another of what a remarkable man he was . A painter of stupefying energy and force , he ran a workshop , listened to music as he painted , did the classical scholarship for cycles of paintings that required erudite references , conversed easily in six languages and discharged ambassadorial missions of great delicacy  --  his second wife , Helen Fourment , was delivered of his last child nine months after his death . One of my companions , the painter David Reed , said , meditatively , that most artists he knows strive to emulate Van Gogh : " Maybe we ought to try to be like Rubens instead . " I thought then of the balm it would bring those artists , uneasy with their intact ears and stubborn sanity , if they were to embrace an alternative model of the artist as cultivated , emotionally secure and at home in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from our centers of art is likely to dissolve the mandatory artistic persona of the romantic misfit and lunatic genius . So if we use Van Gogh and Rubens as taxonomic markers , the few artists who volunteer for in : elusion in the latter 's class must ' resist considerable peer pressure and face accusations of shallowness and embourgeoisement . John Singer Sargent was among the unabashed Rubenses of art : urbane , polyglot , at home with the milords and millionaires from whose portraits  --  and those of their families and mistresses ? he earned a handsome living ; an extrovert , diner-out , clubman , traveler , marvelous musician and intellectual of sorts , unmarked to a singular degree by the darker passions or stronger drives of the acceptable . bohemian . His life , with some exceptions , was a succession of successes , and reviewers of a recent biography seem uniformly resentful of a man who made it through life as an artist without much spiritual agony or material want , and who even died , painlessly , in his sleep . Against the psychopathology of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , Sargent seems . to have been too happy to have been deep . Still , those who hold briefs for the artistic benignity of suffering might ponder the fact that Sargent 's one salient episode of serious reversal  --  the outrage that his great portrait of Madame Pierre Gautreau ( Madame X ) aroused when exhibited in the Paris Salon of 1884 ? had just the opposite effect on his career . The brilliant society portraits with which he will be eternally associated came after that , when he removed himself from France and set up as a sort of superficial Impressionist in England . Up to that critical moment he was a child of fortune but a very deep painter indeed , and on the basis of what he achieved in the early 1880s he might have gone on to be very great as well . The wonderfully opportune exhibition of the many sides and phases of his teeming achievement at the Whitney Museum of American Art ( until January 4 , and at the Art Institute of Chicago from February 7 until April 19 ) offers us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adversity . Sargent was trained , as it were , to be an old master . The old master style works from halftones backward to darks and forward to lights which , against the somber tonalities of the canvas , acquire a diamantine luminescence . ' Think , as example , of Rembrandt , in whose paintings a metaphysically brilliant light splits darkness like a sword , and at the same time vests forms with such radiance that it is as though they were redeemed by some holy intervention and touched with grace . Each canvas executes a metaphor of redemption from shadow to light  --  as if the biblical moment when darkness was lifted from the face of the waters were miraculously re-enacted in each biblical episode Rembrandt painted  --  and even secular episodes take on a kind of biblical intensity . The same amazing light defines special forms against the surrounding darknesses in the painting of Velazquez , and it was Velazquez above all whom Sargent , like the other j students in the atelier of the fashionable portraitist Carolus-Duran , was encouraged to emulate . " Velazquez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Study Velazquez without respite ! " Sargent 's first great works ? I think , in fact , his greatest works  --  were done in that mood of darkness slashed and split by light that re-creates the inner force of the Spanish master . These were done in the early 1880s , in Venice , and in terms of their bravura and poetry they are among the most compelling paintings I know . One of them , the Venetian Interior of 1880 ( or 1882 , these works being evidently difficult to date with precision ) has obsessed me since I first saw it , at the Clark Art Institute in Williainstown , Massachusetts , partly because of its depth and partly because of the disparity in depth between this early masterpiece and that of the familiar florid portraits through which we mainly know him . The interior of Venetian Interior , as in the other paintings from the brief remarkable period , is a wide corridor that recedes sharply to a back wall where , through a doorway or grilled window , an intense outdoor light is revealed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own : the mauve and silver halftones give it a certain submarine quality , perhaps referring to the watery essence of the city of canals and lagoons , and the light is seen as through water . Within these dramatic spaces , shawled women sit , working at monotonous tasks such as bead stringing ; or stroll , waving fans ; or cluster in intimate groups , exchanging gossip . Doors open on either side , and , somewhat mysteriously , the walls are hung with pictures , as if the spaces had the architectural identity of galleries and the social function of waiting places for slender courtesans . In one of these pictures , a woman looks boldly out at the viewer , as if at a reluctant patron . There is throughout a subdued , suffused but unmistakable eroticism . Because . the spaces have a light that is quiet in comparison with the enveloping light we see through the apertures , they seem enclaves of shadow in a world of radiance . This gives them their intimacy and their mystery . In a way , the interiors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we know oft from Las Meninas , where , as here , an opened door in the aback wall allows in an abrupt golden light , as opposed to the white and mineral light with which Sargent invades his cavernous corridors . These are not , of course , self-portraits in any obvious sense , but Sargent is present through the bravura of his touches . In the Clark 's Venetian Interior a blade of light crosses the floor with incredible velocity . In the Carnegie Institute 's Venetian Interior a flat blade of light is laid in a single sweep , while a vertical flash summons the face of a heavy Venetian chest out of the darkness . In the Venetian Bead Stringers three horizontal slabs of light constitute openings on the left ; six vertical slashes cut a grille into the outer sky . Sargent is inside and outside at once , not part of the reality depicted but present in the depicting , where we are aware of his astonishing brio . The poetry comes from the desire to be inside among the women . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her chair precariously against a wall , having let a goblet crash at her feet , while Sargent lights her dark partner 's cigar ( or pipe ? ) with a single flash of blazing white . The girl is unimpressed by this ; Sargent is an intruder , hopelessly alien in this world he can only make visible . It is difficult to imagine a more vivid example of artistic alienation . Sargent had the ambitions of a Jamesian hero : he wanted to be great as well as successful in worldly terms , which , in the economics of the time , required portraying the rich and powerful . And in his great portrait Madame X , he came close to achieving some of the erotic profundity of the Venetian interiors and making a fine fee . This time , of course , he and the subject were of the same world , and there is a familiarity , an intimacy , an almost conversational ease , implied in the relationship between the master painter and the great beauty he depicts . Madame Gautreau , like Sargent an expatriated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wit , her looks and her social strategy . Sargent portrays her as a creature of tense elegance , with a profile as sharp and precise as if carved out of some hard , brittle material : the pink ear conveys the cameo intentions in her outlined features . She wears the crescent-shaped tiara of Diana the huntress ; she is a woman of predatory sensuality , whose black velvet d  --  collet ? and lifted flounce is her costume de , chasse . The costume is tas witty as her sly nose and brilliant as her gemstones . The painting provoked a scandal when first exhibited in Paris . The reasons are obscure , but rather than culminating the efforts of a decade in a searing success , Sargent created a furor the like of which had not been seen since Manet exhibited his notorious Olympia . ( I am touched that Sargent , together with Claude Monet , headed a private subscription to purchase Manet 's masterpiece for an ungrateful French state : Olympia was not shown until 1917 , and Sargent kept Madame X in his studio until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result , Sargent cut his ties with Paris , where the great promise of the Venetian years might have been fulfilled , and removed himself to England , which has been an artistic backwater at the best of times . There he turned into a rather superficial artist , the maker of dazzling portraits and dubious Impressionist studies . He tried to make contact with some deeper source of artistic meaning when he undertook the mural cycle for the Boston Public Library . But all light has fled from these turgid works ; one feels , for all the glamour of his career , that he had made a profound mistake . The subjects of tragedies can also live happily ever after , the tragedy consisting in just that . Sargent never lost the Velazquez touch , which is there for us to marvel at in the gallery of stunning portraits that is the heart of the show ( even if a heart worn on the sleeve ) . I had the pleasure of Patricia Hills 's company in walking through the exhibition on my second visit ? Hills organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributed some fine essays  --  and together we responded to the authority with which Sargent transacted a lavender sash or evoked a bow out of a few curls and dabs of white paint . No one alive today could show the flesh through thin fabric as in his portrait of Lady Agnew 's left arm . No one alive today Could , as in a scene of Venetian glass blowers , drag a brush across the canvas so that each bristle picks out a separate rod , and we see brushstroke and rod bundle in a single glance . Of Velazquez , Sir Kenneth Clark once wrote : I would start from as far away as possible , when the illusion was complete , and come gradually nearer , until suddenly what had been a hand , and a ribbon and a piece of velvet dissolved into a fricassee of beautiful brushstrokes . I thought I might learn some-thing if I could catch the moment at which this transformation took place , but it proved to be as elusive as the ' moment between sleeping and waking . The elusive moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps between body and mind . But you can have that experience over and over in the work of Sargent . He really had the divine prerogative of lifting life out of paint with the turn of his amazing wrist , and it is , I think , a lost art . There is no Carolus-Duran any longer to teach us how . Spehd some time studying the buckle on the belt of Mrs. I.N. Phelps Stokes , from 1897 . And contemplate her white skirt , which falls in heavy folds to the ground . Sargent is said to have painted it over seventeen times , according to Hills . But there is none of the poetry that left the work after the fiasco with Madame Gautreau 's portrait , and that is so palpable a substance in the Venetian interiors that you will want to ? return to them again and again . Except for the portraits , in the years after 1884 the work seems to me dry and flat . Sargent tried Impressionism , but that is not a country for old masters , and I feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vision Impressionism implied . His watercolors have the look of examples of how to do watercolors , and if one did not knOw them to be by Sargent , one would suppose them resurrected from the annual of some provincial watercolor society . It was a style of depositing wash on paper that others could and did acquire . I find his drawings equally dry , for all the certitude of touch and his perfect draughtsmanly control . In none of the work after 1884 do we sense any urgency of feeling or the presence of a soul . What we sense , only , is the presence of a great arm , a genius wrist , the dazzle of a virtuoso performer executing , as on a violin , ' a bomposition written in order to make virtuosity possible  --  where the piece is finally about the playing of it by the rare talents capable of doing so in public , with confidence and flourish and flash . There are those who think that painting is what painting is all about , and for them Sargent should be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but there is enough of what art is about on my view of it to make this exhibition a joy as well as a moral puzzle . If nothing else there is the pleasure of the menagerie , in which his lords and ladies , his flounced amazons , his opulent merchants and silken mistresses , his candy children and austere dowagers glare past us , as exotic specimens , from an upstairs our very downstairs antecedents could barely guess at . ?                     