@@432328

 | Few diseases are more dreaded than Alzheimer 's , the degenerative brain disorder that is the fourth leading cause of death among the elderly and afflicts some 2.5 million Americans . The disease robs its victims of dignity and memory and ultimately , in a cruel twist of fate , turns them into pathetic children who can not speak , walk or tend to their most basic needs . Then it kills them , sometimes rapidly but usually with agonizing slowness . Millions of research dollars have been poured into the quest for a better understanding of the incurable malady ? and at last the search seems to have paid off . Four groups of researchers reported last week that they have identified a specific gene involved in producing a brain-tissue abnormality characteristic of Alzheimer 's , and a fifth team , from Boston 's Massachusetts General Hospital , has found a genetic " marker " linked to the disease . The discoveries provide the first solid evidence that at least one form of Alzheimer 's is inherited ? and bring researchers a giant step closer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Alzheimer 's offers long-awaited evidence that a gene is responsible for a form of Alzheimer 's that runs in certain families . FAD ( familial Alzheimer 's disease ) is distinguished by its early onset and especially rapid progress ; some sufferers develop it in their late 40s and are incapacitated within just a few years . FAD may account for only about 10 percent of Alzheimer 's cases , but a number of researchers believe there is also a strong genetic component in the other , " sporadic " cases of the disease . In this larger group , sufferers may simply inherit a propensity for the affliction , with the fullblown ailment requiring a combination of additional factors . Scientists located the marker on the 21st chromosome ( one of 46 in every human cell ) . They focused their investigation on this site because it is the chromosome involved in Down 's syndrome ; Down 's sufferers have an extra 21st chromosome . Victims of Down 's who live to the age of 35 or beyond exhibit the same kind of brain-tissue abnormalities that Alzheimer 's patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very large families with a high incidence of Alzheimer 's ; one was German , one Russian , one British and one Italian . The Italian family had 48 cases of Alzheimer 's in eight generations . Medical sleuths traced branches of the clan that had immigrated to the United States and France and even dug up 19thcentury records from a village madhouse , where family members with Alzheimer 's had been sent for what was then termed insanity . Among living members of the families , the researchers examined dozens of sequences of DNA ( the chemical substance in which genetic commands are encoded ) on chromosome 21 . After two years of what Massachusetts General 's molecular geneticist Peter St. George-Hyslop calls " fishing , " the team found a critical genetic pattern . This marker , associated with the Alzheimer 's defect , was found in an area of the chromosome encompassing some 500 genes ? one of which is presumably the Alzheimer 's culprit . It is believed to lie close to the gene or genes that actually cause Alzheimer 's and to be inherited along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the prevalence of Alzheimer 's in their families ? For the moment , not much . Anyone whose parent has FAD has a 50 percent chance of developing it himself , but there is still no way to determine precisely who will be affected until symptoms set in . The newly identified marker is not useful for general testing , because the telltale sequences of DNA must be determined separately for individual families . And it will probably take at least another year before scientists can isolate the specific gene or cluster of genes that cause Alzheimer 's ? which would be necessary before any testing could begin . Indeed , the prospect of testing raises complex questions for people who might be at risk for Alzheimer 's . When a genetic marker for Huntington 's disease , another devastating degenerative brain disorder , was isolated in 1983 , many people whose families were afflicted said they would prefer not to know what might lie in store for them . In families with Alzheimer 's , some healthy members might worry about having children after seeing what their afflicted parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Others might reason that since FAD seldom strikes before the late 40s , it would still be worth having children ? especially if a cure may now be on the horizon . The other significant finding announced last week involves the clumps of dead and dying nerve fibers that autopsies have shown clog the brains of Alzheimer 's patients . These " plaques " are composed pri-  | marily of a substance called amyloid protein . Working independently , scientists from the National Institutes of Health , the New York State Institute for Basic Research , Boston 's Children 's Hospital and Cologne , West Germany , have now located ? also on the 21st chromosome ? the gene responsible for manufacturing amyloid protein . The newly identified gene may by itself cause Alzheimer 's , but some researchers think it may also combine with other genes or environmental factors to produce the disorder . Amyloid plaques are not unique to Alzheimer 's but are found in smaller amounts in the brain tissue of all elderly humans . And new research by scientists at Boston 's Brigham and Women 's Hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well . " Everybody has the gene that makes amyloid protein , " explains David Drachman of the Massachusetts General team . " In familial Alzheimer 's patients it might act like the sorcerer 's apprentice and get turned on in a way it should n't . Alzheimer 's is an acceleration and exaggeration of a normal aging process , perhaps because our genetic instructions go haywire . " Drachman thinks genetic malfunction also may be involved in many cases of " sporadic " Alzheimer 's that do n't run in immediate families . " We will probably find a complex interplay of genes and environment , " he predicts . One environmental factor could be blows to the head ; the brains of boxers , who experience repeated head traumas , sometimes reveal amyloid plaques at autopsy ? and some boxers also exhibit a form of dementia . Once the gene ( or genes ) for Alzheimer 's has been identified , it could be introduced into bacteria or animal cells to find out under what conditions it sends out its defective instructions . Then researchers could use genetic-engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the new research findings have no immediate therapeutic benefit , says Massachusetts General 's Dr. James Gusella , " we 're not shooting in the dark anymore . Now we have a starting point to get at the gene that causes the disease . For the first time , we have a direct route toward a cure . " None of the researchers would speculate how far away that cure might be . " This whole area is moving so rapidly that things that appeared impossible tasks are being done in a few weeks , " says Drachman . On the other hand , he speculates , " it could be 20 years or more , and maybe we 'll never know . It could be that this is such a universal process that it 's akin to normal aging and you would need the fountain of youth to stop it . We do n't know . " Lost keys : Still , the new research offers some degree of encouragement for families like that of Diane Young , who heads the New Orleans chapter of the Alzheimer 's Disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Young and her husband have parents , grandparents and other close relatives who have died of Alzheimer 's . Every time Young forgets where she put her car keys , she wonders if her time has come . The specter of the disease , she admits , is always lurking in the back of her mind . " But at least now we know there is some hope for the future , " she says . " Maybe there wo n't be a cure by the time I get Alzheimer 's , but there might be by the time my daughter does . " @#                     