@@487003

spree appears to be corning to an end , the laws he was able to manipulate remain in place . He has yet to pay a cent in penalties to the State of Louisiana . And every day that the appeals process continues , Marine Shale Processors goes on burning anything it pleases . " The wheels of justice grind slowly , " Willie Fontenot in the Attorney General 's office said , reviewing the record op  --  timistically . " But they do grind . " q - ' WE HAVE N'T SEEN PERESTROIKA ' Behind the Soviet Miners ' Strike LEWIS H. SIEGELBAUM On the hottest day of the summer , as a thick haze hung over the city of Donetsk , I sat with Yuri Boldyrev on a bench in a park shaded by acacia trees . Boldyrev , a witty , self-confident man , had been elected chairman of the strike committee at the Gorki coal mine , one of the city 's largest and most productive . Before this summer , many miners say , the word " strike " was not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miners went on strike , more than half of them in the Donets Basin , the country 's most important coal-mining region , of which Donetsk is the capital . Boldyrev joined the Communist Party shortly after the Twenty-seventh Congress in February 1986 , inspired , he says , by Mikhail Gorbachev 's call to expand perestroika and determined to reorganize his section of the Gorki mine ac  --  cordingly . Another inspiration was an article in the party 's theoretical organ , Kommunist , in 1987 . The article , titled " The Rejection of Clich  --  s , the Destruction of Stereotypes , " argued that perestroika would succeed only if small groups took initiatives rather than wait for instructions to come down from above . The initiative that Boldyrev and two of his comrades took in January 1988 was to operate their sec  --  tion , devoted to the raising of coal to the surface , on a leasehold basis . This idea met with the approval of other party members , who elected Boldyrev as party group organ  --  izer and his collaborator , Sergei Vasil'ev , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment did not in itself challenge the authority of the mine administration , but its assumption of responsibility for assigning personnel and controlling the distribution of funds did . This threatened to deprive management of its power over the allocation of re  --  sources and favors , thus striking at the heart of the adminis  --  trative command system , or what Boldyrev archly described as " Soviet feudalism . " Under this system managers receive their own means of production and distribution in the form of discrete funds with which they pay workers , nominally employed by the enterprise , to perform personal services . Thus , for every twenty workers , five may be engaged in fix  --  ing the boss 's car , building his dacha or doing similar favors for inspectors , trade union officials , the police and others who are supposed to prevent this sort of thing . Boldyrev referred to these workers as podsnezhnila ( " snow  --  drops " ) because their activities are hidden from public view in the snow job performed by their bosses . The public or  --  ganizations ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) wink at the existence of snowdrops be  --  cause , like the assemblies of medieval Novgorod , they are stacked with gorlopani ( " shouters " ) ? people who are bribed by the princely bosses to shout loudest for their benefactors . Endemic to mining and other industrial enterprises , this sys  --  tem of corruption also exists in the military , in the service sector of the economy , and undoubtedly in other spheres . Challenging the system at the local level , Boldyrev and his friends soon provoked a response in kind . At the request of the section 's chief mechanic , an administrative appointee , the mine 's party bureau investigated Boldyrev 's activities and resolved to remove him from the ranks of the party " for the political demoralization of the collective " and the " con  --  scious and purposeful distortion " of state decisions . The mine 's party committee confirmed this resolution , noting that Boldyrev had been guilty of " political immaturity and excessive haste in seeking to democratize the administration of production . " As Boldyrev reminded me , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party 's Central Commit  --  tee to remove Boris Yeltsin from his position as Moscow party chief in October 1987 . A lengthy appeals process en  --  sued . Eventually , Boldyrev was reinstated as a member of the party but with a reprimand , and he and his collaborators were reassigned to different sections of the mine . There mat  --  ters stood until July of this year . I n the meantime , other signs of miners ' disaffection were surfacing . In March there were work stoppages at the Lidievka and Kirov mines in the Donets Basin , which were terminated after the intervention of the party 's city commit  --  tee and the regional coal administration . In May , Yuri Ka  --  chura , an electrician at the Kuibyshev mine , notified the party bureau that he was resigning from the Communist Party because he no longer believed in a one-party political system . This , it should be recalled , was just after many party members had suffered humiliating defeats in the elections to the new Congress of People 's Deputies , even ( or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , following a visit by Mikhail Gorbachev to Donetsk , the city committee forward  --  ed a demand from a group of miners to remove the minister of the coal industry , Mikhail Shchadov , from office . Incidents like these must be seen against the backdrop of a long-term deterioration in the living conditions of coal miners throughout the Soviet Union . The immense problems confronting the industry are clearly beyond the capacity of local authorities to solve . In the Donets Basin , it takes cut-ters as long as an hour to reach the coal-face , which is any  --  where from one to two kilometers underground and in some places no more than a meter high . The regional associations have been increasingly hard-pressed to fulfill quotas as  --  signed by Moscow and thus to earn enough to renew equip  --  ment , carry out capital repairs and distribute bonuses . The 1988 law on state enterprises , which provides for the marketing at higher prices of goods produced over and above state quotas , has largely remained a dead letter . Then there is the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines , literally chokes on coal dust . The city is also host to the Lenin Steel Factory , with 13,000 workers , which operates around the clock , seven days a week . Figures cited in the local press show that in June , the factory discharged 7.2 times the amount of sulfuric anhydride considered minimally acceptable by health authorities , 6.7 times the amount of hydrogen sulfide and 2.1 times the amount of dust . ( The environmental degradation in the Kuzbas region of western Siberia , where workers also struck this summer , is even worse . According to newspaper reports , the incidence of cancer is ten to fif  --  teen times the national average , life expectancy is ten years less and 87 percent of children born in the Kemerovo district have physical or mental " anomalies . " ) Miners are relatively well paid . According to two Kuiby  --  shev cutters , they and other underground workers typically earn 400 rubles a month , more than twice the national average . But , as we were told repeatedly , the problem is not money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy that the Soviet Union has become in the 1980s , there are many items in short supply . They include not only automobiles and refrigerators but places in the union 's rest home and seaside resort , meat , sugar , soap and , yes , even coal for domestic heating . There is also a desperate shortage of housing . To the foreign visitor , the villages surrounding the mines look picturesque . Single-story stuccoed cottages painted blue and white abut on dirt roads , and with their fruit and vegetable gardens in the rear they present an image from another time . That is just the problem . As one coal cutter put it with only slight hyperbole , " Many miners still live in such conditions that if a film were shot here , you would think it was 1905 . " Of course , this situation did not develop overnight . What many considered intolerable , hoWever , was that at a time when other groups in Soviet society were seizing oppor  --  tunities to express themselves and experiment with new organizational forms , the coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , appropriating goods and services for themselves and their favorites and bringing into their magic circles trade union and party officials . " We have n't seen perestroika , " was a comment heard often . It was not fear of the disruptive effects of economic reform that moved the miners to strike but rather anger that perestroika was passing them by . If hitherto the intelligent  --  sia had been most vociferous in supporting perestroika , it was now the turn of workers , particularly the miners . As the chairman of the Kuibyshev mine 's strike committee told us with evident pride , " We are now ahead of the intelligentsia . " On the morning of July 19 , just as a weeklong strike in Siberia 's Kuzbas region was ending , work stopped at several mines in Donetsk . By evening the square facing the head  --  quarters of the regional party committee and soviet execu  --  tive committee was crowded with miners . As successive shifts of workers arrived , strike committees were formed to articu  --  late the miners ' demands . They in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as bargaining agent for twenty-one mines . Here , as in the Kuzbas , a gov  --  ernmental commission arrived to negotiate . On July 22 the two parties issued a forty-seven-point protocol , and on the following day the miners returned to work . The protocol was incorporated into the general order issued by the coal ministry on August 3 , which contained a list of provisions for the improvement of miners ' material and social lives . It confirmed the right of each enterprise to control an unspecified proportion of what it produces , and granted all of them the right to sell coal both domestically and abroad at prices determined through contract bidding . It approved the right of workers ' collectives to constitute themselves as cooperatives and otherwise engage in lease  --  hold relations with the state , and mandated an increase in the base wage rate for evening and night work . It also pro  --  vided for supplements to pensions for workers suffering in  --  jury or job-related illness ; the elimination of fines for viola  --  tions of labor discipline ; the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , a program of housing construction to reduce the waiting time for miners ' families to no more than six years by the end of 1992 ; and the im  --  mediate distribution of 800 grams of soap per worker . These concessions , while significant , pale beside the fact that for the first time since the early 1920s , the Soviet government has acknowledged the legitimacy of organiza  --  tions ? the strike committees ? that were created by workers and neither mediated nor dominated by the Communist Party . To be sure , approximately one-quarter of all strike committee members in Donetsk belong to the party and many others have been active in the trade union committees and the councils of labor collectives . But the presence of party members such as Yuri Boldyrev in the strike commit  --  tees hardly signifies the miners ' faith in party organs . Quite the contrary . As the bureau of the party 's city committee ac  --  knowledged after the strike , " Many party committees and bureaus , their secretaries and many economic and trade union leaders had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ad hoc basis , the miners ' strike committees did not disband once a settlement was reached . Point 19 of the July 22 protocol stipulated that committee members were to be freed from their normal work for two weeks after the termination of the strike , during which they were to organize re-elections to the councils of labor collec  --  tives and the trade union committees . The councils in turn were to decide whether to organize elections of management . In practice , the procedures for these elections varied from one mine to another . Strike committees from the Kuibyshev and Panfilov mines held a joint session on August 5 that was attended by some 250 delegates chosen by their fellow workers . The meeting lasted all day but rarely departed from agreed-upon procedure . By contrast 3,700 miners from the Gorki mine gathered in a soccer stadium on the evening of August 6 to re-elect their trade union committee and labor collective . The meeting was chaired by Boldyrev , who characterized it as " a real circus . " At the October mine , in violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tain key personnel even before the new elections . At the Kuibyshev-Panfilov meeting , the director and his staff sat in the front rows as observers . In some cases , the elections were by secret ballot ; in others , by a show of hands . Varied and even arbitrary as these procedures were , they did represent a major departure from the past , when such meetings were largely formal affairs , usually precooked by the party and culminating in unanimous if perfunctory votes . At Kuibyshev-Panfilov , the meeting began with a lengthy report by the chair of the trade union committee , who attempted to justify his actions , or more accurately his inaction , on a broad range of matters . Then , one after the other , delegates rose to put questions to him . Sitting in the balcony , I could not help but be struck by their intensity and passion . Why had the few cars allocated to the mine gone to management ? Why do people who do not work at the mine get to go to our resort on the Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have you gone to the resort , all expenses paid ? Would you describe yourself as a bureaucrat ? Are n't you ashamed to be standing there with  --  out having done anything for us ? In the end the delegates resolved , by a fairly close vote , to send a letter to the Ukrai  --  nian Council of Ministers requesting that it rescind the title of " Honored Miner of the Ukraine " that had been awarded , with associated privileges , to the feckless trade union leader . The bookkeeper , who could not explain how certain funds had been misappropriated , was also summarily dismissed . But even more than the settling of old scores , the meeting was distinguished by a sense of awakening and renewal . One strike committee member , who had been dismissed from his job several times for disruptiveness , made an especially im  --  passioned speech . He rattled off the high salaries and priv  --  ileges of the director and assistant directors to gasps and imprecations from the audience . And why is this so ? he asked . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Stalin to Brezhnev we have put up with the monopolization of power , because we have been politically immature and in  --  active , because we were asleep . " Concluding that leaders of all organizations must be elected and held accountable by the rank and file , he evoked the loudest and most prolonged applause of the day . The situation in the coal fields is still tense . The strike committees continue to operate , functioning as shadow authorities to monitor the fulfillment of the July 22 agree  --  ment . More than that , they are coalescing into regional councils . On August 17 , the Donets Basin regional council issued a declaration calling on strike committees in other parts of the country to follow its example with the aim of creating a national council . Indeed , what seems to be a strike committee movement is gathering pace among the workers . In early August workers at the Enakievo Steel Mill elected a strike committee that lodged no less than 700 demands with the mill 's administration , the city soviet , the Ministry of Ferrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local party and trade union or  --  ganizations , having failed to re-establish their authority , re  --  main in disarray . By contrast the strikes breathed new life into the councils of labor collectives , institutions set up two years ago to give rank-and-file workers a consultative voice in enterprise decision making but hitherto dominated by snowdrops and others dependent on the administration 's favors . When , or if , the strike committees disband , it is like  --  ly that their functions will be assumed by the councils . Cer  --  tainly , there is considerable overlap of membership . At the Gorki mine , for example , the chair of the new council is a strike committee member , as are his four assistants , among them Yuri Boldyrev . Whatever the ultimate institutional framework , many problems will remain . Raising the price of coal may have some short-term benefits for miners but will undoubtedly have an inflationary effect . Enterprise cost accounting , profit sharing and other arrangements provided for by the agreement will make for more local control , but profit shar  --  ing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massive investment in new technology and a radical pro  --  gram to address environmental problems , it is hard to see how the gains made by the miners can be sustained . Beyond these concerns , the Soviet government has indicated its uneasiness about the negative effects that strikes would have on an already shaky economy . On October 3 , the Soviet leg  --  islature temporarily banned miners and all other workers from striking . The draft of a new law , euphemistically titled " On Procedures for the Resolution of Collective Labor Dis  --  putes , " is now before the Supreme Soviet . While permitting strikes in principle , it prohibits wildcat strikes , requiring a cooling-off period and arbitration . Still , the miners of the Donets Basin , the Kuzbas and elsewhere in the Soviet Union have learned important lessons about their own collective strength and the necessity for self-organization and solidarity to achieve their goals . How ambitious they are and whether other workers will follow their example is still unclear . But something other than coal dust is in the air . As we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day , observed annually on the last Sunday in August . This year , unlike so many years in the past , there appeared to be something to celebrate . q MI WHITE HOUSE DIARY Exhaust-Op and The P. ? Rind Flap F Aug. 16 : Before we left D.C. , Sunu told Prez Sen. Mitchell had called w/new info re : Prez 's role in Iran-contra . Prez 's eyes crossed , banged apart and he laughed . Then he said , " Super ! " Told Sunu to invite Mitchell to Kennebee . Because of above , as well as upcoming Big Drug Speech , Atwa urged Prez to implement Presidential Security Meas  --  ure 67XXOD ? " Exhaust-Op . " Every day , all day , Prez will haul press around through so many sports that by the time briefing comes , reporters will be too exhausted to ask any  --  thing . ( Atwa is so smooth . Whole time he 's explaining this phenom. plan , he was leaning back in his chair , lighting matches and throwing them on his tongue . ) Prez not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll have to pasadena on that one , Attie ! " Aug. 18 : You 've got to hand it to Atwa . On our way to Drug Speech meeting , Brit Hume said source had informed him there were n't any pork rinds in house . Hume said he had seen Prez eat a pork rind only once , during the cam  --  paign at a Rind Opportunity I set up . Asked Prez if his so-called passion for pork rinds was n't just an election-year come-on to give him more appeal to the blue-collar , rind-eating voters . Prez told him , " Humester , let me help you with something about me : was , am and always will be a rind-a-holic . If that 's a crime , fine , I 've got a record . " In  --  vited press to pantry tomorrow to view pork rinds . Emergency meeting . Me , Sunu , Atwa and Prez . Natural  --  ly , no p. - rinds in house and all stores in this hick town are closed . Sunu called Situation Room . Sub is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near the shore . Prez v. irritated by all the rind ado , esp . since , " now it means I 'll have to eat one again . " Immediately told Atwa ac  --  tivate Exhaust-Op . Atwa v. pleased re : this . Said : " I knew it would pay to leak rind stuff to Hume . " Aug. 19 : Pork rinds secured . ( I had to snorkel out at 3 A.M. to procure them from sub . ) Press behay. typical . When they saw rinds in pantry , everyone dropped the story , except for USA Today . ( They had color graph and headline : " We Have Lots of Rinds . " ) Then somebody wanted Prez 's response to day 's events in Poland . Prez said all q 's about Poland would be answered at day 's briefing . Then told everyone to meet him at pool in 15 minutes for swim meet . Emergency meeting . None of us knew what day 's events in Poland were . Sunu had been having swimsuit let out ; Prez in chin-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is pathetic . He only did one ! ) Sunu was sup  --  posed to get house wired for CNN after the inaug. but let Q. do it , since Mrs. Q. made stink about Q. having no responsi  --  bilities . Q. ordered ESPN instead . ( Ironically , Poland was on ESPN . Apparently , Poland has a good shot at a pole-vaulting bronze in upcoming Friendship Games . ) Called Baker in Houston . He was as reluctant as the rest of us to ask anyone at State , but luckily he gets CNN . Solidarity will actually form govt. , putting in their own P.M. Both Baker and Prez feared gloating would be counter  --  productive . So , after pillow fight with media in the Big Room , Prez gave this statement : " The United States con  --  gratulates Poland on its chance for a pole-vaulting bronze in the upcoming Friendship Games . " Then challenged every  --  one to a rope climb and a game of night archery . Mitchell called . Will be here end of month . Everyone worried about what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to multiply some square roots to relax . Aug. 21 : Exhaust-Op going beautifully . Media has no idea what 's going on , even though Prez played 18 holes of golf in 45 minutes . The toughest question at today 's briefing was from Leslie Stahl , who kept dropping her mike because of tennis elbow . She asked , " Was the sky this blue last year ? " Only person who seems to be holding her own with Prez is Helen Thomas . She 's amazing . She water-skied this morning on one ski ! Aug. 25 : Finally , important things settled on Drug Speech : 1 . Pictures behind Prez . We 're going with family pic                     