@@432040

 | Stung by criticism that they are bolstering the institutionalized racism of South Africa simply by operating there , many multinational corporations have sponsored social reforms : equal pay for equal work , management training for blacks and desegregated company facilities . Now some U.S. and other foreign firms are taking on a new mission : upgrading black education . It is a move born of necessity as much as compassion . The South African economy has boomed at a rate that outpaces the training of skilled white workers , and the segregated educational system does not produce enough trained blacks . Since the government seems unwilling or unable to fill the gap , foreign corporations are taking the initiative themselves through a variety of grants , scholarships and special projects . Almost any help would be welcome . When the school year ended last month , 60,000 of South Africa 's black and Colored students ? who have been in the front lines of popular resistance against apartheid since the bloody Soweto riots of 1976 ? were still boycotting classes in a strike that began last spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much per capita on the education of the 18 per cent white minority as it does on the black population ? an imbalance that produces inferior teaching , shoddy equipment , overcrowded classrooms and inadequate recreational facilities . Even government officials privately concede that , as one put it , " We have a crisis in education . " The most conspicuous U.S. business involvement so far is a private commercial high school now being built for black students in Soweto . Known as Pace , to suggest progress , the $6 million project will be the only black private school in South Africa . " We will prove that if black students have educational facilities as good as those enjoyed by white students , you 'll get the same results ? good graduates , " says Darrell Huffman , president of the American Chamber of Commerce in South Africa , which founded the school . When it opens in June , Pace will enroll 600 of Soweto 's best and brightest for a five-year program beginning at 13 . The youngsters will study math , languages , accounting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will include a theater , gymnasiums , tennis courts , a swimming pool and one of the best school libraries in South Africa . Foes : Pace 's staff will be multiracial , with all teachers paid 10 per cent more than white teachers in public schools . The principal , Rex Pennington , is a white former headmaster of Michaelhouse , one of South Africa 's most prestigious private schools . The vice principal will be Oswald Mtshali , the country 's leading black poet . Most of Pace 's graduates are expected to move onto the payrolls of the corporations backing the school ? among them , IBM , Citibank and Eastman Kodak . Other multinational corporations are also pitching in to improve black education generally ? most notably Shell South Africa ( Pty . ) , Ltd. , a subsidiary of the BritishDutch oil giant that has become a favorite target of apartheid foes . One method is providing scholarship aid ; 400 black students selected and financed by Shell have already been graduated from universities at home and abroad . The firm offers grants for math @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the country 's first colleges for blacks , and has poured money into technikons ? technical schools ? that have produced skilled black workers for its own plants . Control Data ( Pty . ) , Ltd. , the South NEWSWEEK/JANUARY 12 , 1981 African subsidiary of the U.S. Control Data Corp. , helped finance the $1.5 million St. Anthony 's Learning Centre in Boksburg , Transvaal , which attracts more than 4,000 black students a year . More than half are adults receiving literacy training , and others learn skills such as welding and auto repairing that help them land jobs . Next spring Control Data will introduce specially designed computers to enhance the training at St. Anthony 's and at a dozen other such centers . Departure : Such efforts have spurred similar programs among South African corporations , which worry about losing skilled black workers to big U.S. and European companies . Rand Mines Ltd. , a wing of South Africa 's Barlow Rand group , plans to spend $3 million over the next five years to improve the 25 primary and pre-primary schools that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The decision to tolerate black private schools like Pace is a significant policy departure for the Afrikaner government of South Africa . In the past two years Anglican and Catholic Churches have forced a crack in apartheid by enrolling some black students at their schools , but those are so expensive that few blacks can afford to attend . The establishment of Pace is a bigger breakthrough ? and perhaps a measure of the cautious pragmatism that has prompted Prime Minister Pieter Botha to relax some of the country 's rigid racist policies . " This is the realization of a dream , " black journalist Percy Qoboza says of Pace . " This is the sort of freedom of education that can give blacks their rightful place in South African society . " It may not be all that , but the corporate community is betting that at least it helps to make the best of an impossible situation .                     