@@494255

As the Times of London 's correspondent in the United States , Claud Cockburn 's singular achievement was to send it reports that were total fabrications , which the Times , trusting its correspondent , naturally printed . The schoolboy in each of us may snigger when we first hear of such a prank . But pranks ? even more , pranksters ? soon irk ; and when they involve such a betrayal of trust as Claud Cockburn 's , they call into question his commitment to fact , and to truth . Now his son Alexander Cockburn , regular columnist for the Nation and erstwhile columnist for the Village Voice , tells of an occasion when his father arrived at his school for " vital negotiations with the headmaster " wearing no socks . The father gave the embarrassed son a cock-and-bull explanation . The story itself is engaging enough , until the younger Cockburn adds : " It was a fine try , and . . . I felt the powerful urge to become a journalist , since only a journalist ( such as my father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment 's notice and within moments recounted it with such vibrant conviction . " This willful comment not only recalls his father 's own dispatches ; it reinforces the wariness with which one reads anything the son writes , including the columns , and the flakes peeled from columns , that are collected in this volume . It also brings to mind the father 's indifference to the truth as a reporter for the Communist Daily Worker during the Spanish Civil War , although the truth was painfully clear to George Orwell ( who was actually fighting for the Republicans ) and was set down by him in Homage to Catalonia . The same disrespect for the truth is all too plain in the son 's defense of every anti-American tyrant and regime in the Third World , including Qaddafi . This volume provides almost 500 pages of proof of the facility of someone who felt " the urge " to become a journalist out of admiration for a talent to concoct a " preposterous story " and recite it with " vibrant conviction . " Even more than his father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British malcontent and expatriate ( usually of the left ) who , already disagreeably at odds with his own country but unable to impress it with his ill-humor , sets off to find some other country in which he may more easily indulge his bile . As an expatriate , he is not expected to be knowledgeable , indeed his distance from his surroundings is admired as the very condition of criticism ; and he can not be accused of disloyalty to all that the country cherishes . These British roamers have been the reverse side of the imperialist . The world is their oyster . They 've never lacked for an audience , as Shaw observed when he got off the boat in New York ; he announced to the waiting reporters that he knew what they expected , and wanted , from a British visitor : some malignant , ill-informed criticism of Americans . In our time the exemplar of this imperial arrogance of the free-booting left has been Graham Greene , expatriate in Paris , ever traveling at someone else 's expense , ever ready with criticisms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Moscow or Havana . Since Alexander Cockburn arrived in the United States in 1972 , his journalism has been published mainly in journals that hover on what remains of the radical left . ( Like a good radical , Cockburn also contributes to House and Garden . ) In other words , he writes for a coterie , he feeds the yawns at Elaine 's . And he has also been a contributing columnist to the Wall Street Journal . How so ? The Wall Street Journal is not dumb . Dow Jones knows how to add . It asked Cockburn to contribute ( and he obliged ) because he is about no really serious business . The mouthpiece of American capitalism prints Cockburn to show how shallow and frivolous the left is , and sends the radical giggling all the way to the bank . This collection of Cockburn 's columns is divided into two almost equally long sections . First there are the " Life Studies " of the subtitle , in which his longer essays are separated into sections : " Deep Background " ( two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Countries Lost and Found , " " Tastes of the Times , " " War Fevers , " and " Terms of the Trade " ( discussions of journalism ) . The second half is what he calls " An Archive of the Reagan Era , 1976-1957 . " In this " archive " ? a word usually reserved for precise records of fact ? he reprints in chronological order some of the columns and the comments he wrote in those years . Cockburn calls himself an " exile , " from Ireland to England to America . Who , exactly , " exiled " him ? He is , rather , a self-exile , choosing to live among the rich and the celebrities . Cockburn has lived in and off America for 15 years , yet even the pieces of this volume that pretend to describe American society speak only of someone who never met an American . The thinness of Cockburn 's experience of America is striking . No historian who comes to study the Reagan era will find anything of use in this " archive . " MANY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called " Tastes of the Times , " which is enough of a giveaway -- our radical is an epicure . They are : a review of Gay Talese 's Thy Neighbor 's Wife ; a review of the chic cookbooks selling in America , which he calls " gastro-porn " ; an explanation of the popularity of ethnic foods from the Third World in terms of the imperialism of the United States , in which he quotes with approval a friend 's remark , " You integrate the Third World into American cuisine while at the same time segregating it from American society " ; an account of Des E. Seint 's luxurious 15-acre property and house in Pennsylvania ; a description of the Deco District of Miami Beach ; and a long gaze at Vanna White . That is the America of this book . It tells of someone who lives mostly among the media , who draws his knowledge of America from newspapers , magazines , and books he is sent to review . This champion of the underdog has scarcely a sentence about the poor . or the underclass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blacks , or even the ordinary middle-class Americans who are the mainstream , the steadying ballast , of this country . They are all absent . Cockburn 's is an America without geography . There is no Indiana , no Missouri , no South , no West , no regions at all ; only the coasts of Medialand , Cockburn 's own dizzy Disneyworld . And having no geography , Cockburn 's America has no history . One would not know from these 500 pages that America has grown , changed , suffered . Cockburn 's picture of America is static . In the " Reagan Era , " there is no debate anywhere , not in Congress , not inside the administration . There is only conformity , and conspiracy . But one never learns who it is that Cockburn thinks runs or " owns " America . This enemy of capitalism never sufficiently identifies any corporate structure , or indeed any corporation , that would tell us any-thing about the nature of capitalism . Capitalism is not a system that has grown and changed ; it is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no existence for Cockburn ; it is merely a label for the upscale consumerism from which he takes his swill . Cockburn 's America is also riddled with militarism , another label to which he gives no meaning . Nothing in these pages suggests that he has looked at the " military-industrial complex " with the insight even of Eisenhower when he first used the phrase . So what is this militarism ? It is " folly . " The 19th-century American installation on the Tortugas was " folly . " The recommissioning of the USS New Jersey was " folly . " The F-I4 is " folly . " Now , they may all be folly , but to present them only as such is not an analysis . Marx was never satisfied to dismiss anything as folly . A HE ANNOUNCES , Cockburn arrived in the States when the burglars entered the Democratic Party 's offices in Watergate . In reaching back from Oliver North to Gordon Liddy , he tells us that Liddy " embodied the spirit of fascism at the level of grand guignol . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but it is the meaninglessness of " fascism " in Cockburn 's mythology that finally becomes crushing in its repetition . When one is told that Baden Powell , the founder of the Boy Scouts , was " the erhi British fascist , " or that the Klansmen and neo-Nazis who killed five demonstrators in Greensboro in 1979 represented the " native fascism " of America , one loses all sense of the relationship of words to reality . Thus , toward the end of this collection we find that Reagan 's media role during a crisis , such as the downing of KAL 007 , is " master of ceremonies in electronic equivalents of a Nuremberg Rally , " an analogy as indecent as it is inappropriate . But then the real estate developers in Miami Beach have already been compared to " the Goths massing before Rome , or Bomber Command proceeding toward Dresden . " ( It is typical of Cockburn that when he searches for a World War II equivalent to the Goths , he finds the Americans and the British . ) These preposterous analogies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mind , avoidances of any demand to be exact . " The British authorities " during the war were " scarcely less hostile to Communists than to the Nazis ? and in many cases more so . " Wrong . Anyhow , the war broke out in 1939 because at the very time that the British authorities werenegotiating earnestly with Stalin to try to deter the anticipated Nazi aggression , Stalin was going behind their backs to negotiate a pact with Hitler instead . " At school I would hear grim tales of the Kenyan Mau Mau and then go home to hear my father consider such events in a very different way . " Then his father was wrong ; those grim tales were accurate , and there is no lightly " different way " in which to consider the Kikuyu ferocity that was eventually turned against blacks in Kenya , especially the Nilotic-speaking Luo , as well as against whites . But then Cockburn elsewhere brushes aside any notion that tribal conflicts have remained a problem in Africa : that is another " imperialist " fable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stories , " we would have had no OSS , hence no CIA . The cold war would have ended in the early 1960s . We would have had no Vietnam , no Nixon , no Reagan , and no Star Wars .... Bond became the embodiment of Western discourse on the cold war . " Wrong . Fatuous . Meaningless . " The unanimity with which the anti-Sandinista consensus has been carried forward is truly totalitarian . " Wrong . It is impossible to find ( Reagan has found it impossible to find ) any anti-Sandinista or pro-contra consensus in Congress , the press , or the American people . EXAMPLES OF the vibrant lie in these pages could be multiplied . But let us see what Cockburn says of those he befriends and exonerates . Consider the terrorists , and Qaddafi . Throughout this volume , terrorism is discussed as if it were a mischief as trifling as wearing no socks to visit a headmaster . The hijacking of the Achille Laioro is airily dismissed , although it included the cold-blooded murder of an old man in a wheelchair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause Cockburn no affright . Why should it , when he makes this case for Qaddafi : A war against " terror " substitutes the geography of political paranoia and prime-time posturing for the geography of the real world . Is terrorism the main enemy , as opposed to famine , disease , underdevelopment ? Is it a matter of national self-congratulation that when it comes to the map of paranoia , the U.S. inhabits the same latitudes in which it locates its foe Colonel Qaddafi , though with infinitely more consequence for the world , and thus deserving of far greater censure . That was printed by the Wall Street journal . Nine days later Cockburn pursued his case in the Nation : Only when we examine the roots of the Qaddafi obsession can we understand why press coverage of the Libyan leader has been so consistently appalling . The function of the superfiend is to act as receptacle for fantasies of an imperial , military , racist , and sexual nature , with the fantasist experiencing no moral qualms about his reveries , reasoning that when it comes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In these self-exposing passages , the placement of " terror " in quotation marks is only the first giveaway . Cockburn appears to be utterly without qualms that the avowed method of the terrorist is to kill and to maim innocent people . In the two personal memoirs with which this volume opens , and in many of its bits and pieces , Cockburn makes much of his filial attachment to , his admiration of , and his professional debt to his father . So it is he who leads us back from the " Reagan Era " to the penumbra of the world in which Claud Cockburn thrived ( even if not financially ) in Britain in the 19305 , and later in the cold war : the world in which the Communists ( Claud Cockburn was one ) enjoyed the protections of a democracy , even as theybelittled and sought to overthrow it . It was a time of treachery , actual and possible ; the capacity for treachery seemed to be in the very warp and woof of almost every personal relationship . There had been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnerving in Britain was to wonder who would have collaborated if Hitler had invaded and occupied the island , not only among the titled , the successful , and the powerful , but among one 's own friends and acquaintances . Even in the Resistance movements , among the partisans and the guerrillas whom we were exhorted to admire , there was treachery . Alongside the genuinely brave were those who used the Resistance to pay off old scores , above all the Communists , who found a cover for systematically liquidating their political enemies . And after the war , there was worse . In much of liberated Europe , but especially in the countries subjected to Soviet domination , the " People 's Tribunals " went to work , and two forms of treachery were brought into play : the betrayer who informed on his friend or neighbor , and the accused who gave way and " confessed " to his " crimes " against the state . Even if we had been unable to understand what the tribunals were doing fromnewspaper accounts , we had ? thank God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Orwell 's implacable denunciations of the manner in which the Communists seized power in Spain . But beyond the seizure of power that he had observed , what made one so alert to the Communists ' behavior was its appropriateness to a postwar Europe in which the air reeked of treachery . I remember inventing a " game " that we played over drinks in pubs on Fleet Street . " Which of our friends would one ( a ) least and ( b ) most like to be the presiding judge of the People 's Tribunal before which one was summoned ? " I can not deny the black humor in the game ; but we played it . ( Neoconservatives might be disconcerted to know whose name was most frequently chosen , almost unanimously , to be ( a ) . ) As a young journalist at the time , I vigorously acquainted with Claud Cockburn ( an enjoyment I have been spared with his son ) , His company could be engaging , if resistible ; in argument he was disarming even when he was provocative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stories about himself . A lack of veracity is not as troubling in a raconteur as it is in a journalist . What I found disturbing was Cockburn 's former but long-sustained communism ? this was the mid- ' 50s and the early ' 60s ? and the levity with which he asked one to accept it ; not to worry about it a bit ; to think nothing of it . AND ALWAYS the fellow travelers slunk behind , alongside , and sometimes even ahead of the . Communists , gifted in deceit , more practiced still in self-deceit , despised even by the Communists who , where they came to power , exterminated such despicable and untrustworthy allies . As Alexander Cockburn leads us back , then , he returns us to himself , to some questions about the fellow traveler of today . For the sake of appearances ( the fellow traveler of the late 20th century has learned his lessons ) , he does not rush to the defense of the Soviet Union . Instead he avoids criticizing it , and " travels with " every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " enemy of Western democracy , and offers his apologies for terrorists . ( Though in the Voice on January 20 , 1980 , Cockburn defended the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan exactly as the fellow traveler of the ' 40s and ' 50s would have : We all have to go one day , but pray God let it not be over Afghanistan . An unspeakable country filled with unspeakable people , sheepshaggers and smugglers , who have furnished in their leisure hours some of the worst arts and crafts ever to penetrate the occidental world . I yield to none in my sympathy to those prostrate beneath the Russian jackboot , but if ever a country deserved rape it 's Afghanistan . Nothing but mountains filled with barbarous ethnics with views as medieval as their muskets , and unspeakably cruel too . And as proof for his prejudice , Cockburn cites the very " Victorian child 's fiction " that he condemns in everybody else 's hands . Please note also that Cockburn , who has made a career out of checking for other people 's omissions , omits this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough what Cockburn is about . His object is the steady and monotonous detraction of any virtue from the struggles and achievements of the United States ( which he has ungratefully chosen to be his home ) ; of England ( which he also , as a self-proclaiming Irishman , fed off for many years ) ; of Western imperialism ( naturally there is a column about the awful massacre at Amritsar , and just as naturally no mention of the horror of the British government at what General Dyer had done ? and of the British army itself , and of the board of in-quiry that condemned him ) ; and of Western civilization itself . But even in Cockburn it is startling to come across an attack on nothing less than the " Judeo-Christian Tradition . " " We need only glance at the Old Testament to find a deity of savagery , urging his chosen people to acts of genocide . It is a saga of unremitting ferocity rivaled only by that other foundation stone of Western culture , the Iliad . " Anyone who can read the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illiterate ; it stands at the entrance to our civilization as an unrelenting picture of the horror and the waste of war . Of course , it would be a strange Jew or Christian who had not at one time or another made some jest about the record of human struggle , grandeur , quarrelsomeness , and even absurdity to be found in the Old Testament , But even Cockburn must know that the " deity of savagery , urging his chosen people to acts of genocide " is an image that has frequently been used over the centuries to castigate the Jews . In fact , in this century it has been used for a specific political purpose ( as in Edward Said 's recent emphasis on Joshua 's wars in Canaan in an argument against Israel ) ? to stoke the fires of anti-Zionism . Never mind that Cockburn glibly misreads whole books of the Bible . Never mind that under the instruction of the deity of savagery Moses did not urge his Jews to kill the Egyptians , but led them peaceably out of Egypt ; or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose Jewish slave Joseph serves him wisely and well and is not faithless even with his wife ; or that in this record of unremitting ferocity there are Job and Jeremiah and Ruth , and the prophecies of Isaiah . In attacking these " foundation stones " of our civilization , Cockburn is feeding his relentless hostility to Israel with an interpretation of the Jewish god so one-sided and spiteful that it is hard to see how his anti-Zionism can be altogether disentangled from anti-Semitism . IT IS the old game of the fellow traveler to disguise enmity as criticism . Cockburn can represent his treachery to the West , its democracies , and its values as just opposition to political and economic systems he deplores . What needs to be emphasized , therefore , is that his final betrayal is of precisely such opposition , of precisely the left itself . These pages are spattered with sneers at those who used to be called social democrats in Europe and are generally known as liberals in America . The postwar Labour government in Britain , which created the welfare state that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its entirety , is dismissed in a sentence : " Social democracy in the Attlee variant , so impotent in the face of the United States , had also fostered a new audience for middlebrow comedy , " The first statement is untrue ( it would have been interesting to ask Truman if Clement Attlee , or his commanding foreign secretary , Ernest Bevin , was impotent ) ; the second statement is a snobbish put-down with a pretense to aestheticism . This is the vein in which Cockburn likes to cite Noam Chomsky on , say , " the current pontification about human rights , " and then proceed to be withering about Carter 's campaign : " In the course of this process of rebirth of American concern for human rights abroad nothing has been more distasteful than the spectacle of American liberals once more scrambling to action stations and in fact stoking up cold war furnaces . " ( Carter was doing that in 1977 ? ) And the same spirit presides in the sly Marcusian observation , " But very often the ' liberal ' is nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right " ; or the equally Marcusian remark that all that has improved in Britain since 1945 is " the coercive apparatus of the state . " IN SUM , the people that Cockburn really loathes are the active reformers of the left . FDR and the New Deal receive no commendation from Cockburn , as they did not from the Communists ( " such as my father " ) in the 1930s . Yet the social democrats were astonishing men , and their tradition is an astonishing tradition , one that still informs some of the left . The social democrats , the liberals , would not sell one good ? freedom or democracy ? in order to attain another good ? equality or social justice . They may have been , as their successors are today , modest men , inhabiting a gray world of complex truths and ambiguity , where one 's loyalties are often divided ; but if one picks one 's way through the trouble with some honesty , none of the loyalties need be forsaken . These were the men , Leon Blum in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the left in standing resolutely against dictatorship of either the left or the right ; and after the war men now forgotten , Kurt Schumacher in West Germany and Alcide de Gasperi in Italy , as socialists , held their nations free from Communist domination at a time when we fearfully watched every election in Western Europe , expecting the worst . Alexander Cockburn feeds to a new generation of the left ( many of whose members in America are protected and pampered at home , and have never faced the treachery that can run into every political as well as personal relationship ) the old arguments for dishonor , for disrespect for the truth , for regarding democracy as a disease . This left may seem to be small , it is indeed a coterie , but it is vocal and active ; and it saps the confidence and confuses the mind of what ought to be the true left in the Democratic Party , making it feel guilty if it thinks to keep America strong , or to agree that only a healthy economy , from which some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful and caring hand of help to the poor and the disadvantaged . What is more , in Cockburn 's kind of left there really is no wish to win . If anything is clear from this collection it is Cockbum 's comfort with the right wing in power , and the further to the right the better , because then the world is simple , and the extremist looks brilliant , and everything is easier to criticize . That is the classical perversion of the radical : beyond the attraction to left-wing dictators is the virtual incitement of the right-wing to take power . In the end totalitarianism , of the right as well as left , is more exhilarating to Cockburn than the quiet committee ways of a democracy . He likes to live where people will hurt each other . Then there will be something to write about , something to make his cynicism smart .                     