@@432335

 | It was supposed to be a calm and collected gathering of rational minds . But last week , as nearly 8,700 scientists , health officials , journalists , salesmen and gay activists from 50 countries converged on Washington for the Third International Conference on AIDS , there was more heat than light shed on the virus that has already killed more than 20,600 Americans . Vice President George Bush was booed during his keynote address when he urged increased AIDS testing ; so was President Reagan , who spoke at an AIDS fund-raiser the day before . Outside the White House , policemen pulled on long , bright yellow rubber gloves to " protect " themselves before arresting 64 demonstrators protesting the administration 's AIDS policy . And inside the Washington Hilton , conference participants jammed auditoriums . Meetings spilled into hallways , where researchers like Robert Gallo of the National Cancer Institute , one of the discoverers of the AIDS virus , and Albert Sabin , developer of the oral polio vaccine , got a chance to compare notes . In the nearly 250 formal presentations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small steps . Among them : Gallo reported finding a new virus in 10 Nigerian patients with a disease that resembles AIDS . He said there was no reason to believe it existed elsewhere . A long-term study of the wives of hemophiliacs who became infected with AIDS through blood products suggests that the longer people carry the virus , the more contagious they become . Another disquieting finding from the study : inconsistent condom use among these women even though they knew they could become infected through unprotected sex . French immunologist Daniel Zagury , who made news last year when it was disclosed that he had inoculated himself and several other volunteers with an experimental AIDS vaccine , reported that the vaccine and subsequent boosters seemed to have raised his antibody levels . The mood of the meeting was restrained but hopeful . There was also frustration at the predictably slow progress of science in treating an ever-spreading disease . That @# @# may be one reason why much of the public attention turned to the controversial issue of AIDS testing . Dozens of politicians have recently seized on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that leave unexamined tricky moral and medical questions . The methods : The most widely used blood test ( called ELISA , for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ) detects the presence of antibodies to the AIDS virus . However , a negative result does not necessarily mean that a person is free of AIDS ; researchers have turned up false negatives . Even an infected person may initially test negative , since it can take three months for antibodies to develop . A positive result is not an absolute indication of infection either . There are false positives , and blood banks and other test  | sites routinely perform a second ELISA test on samples that test positive . If that also indicates the presence of AIDS antibodies , then an even more sensitive and expensive test ? called the Western Blot ? is performed . A confirmed positive test result does not mean that a person has AIDS ; it only indicates that AIDS antibodies have been detected in the blood . Doctors now say that at least 20 to 30 percent of people who test positive will develop AIDS-related diseases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who test positive can pass on the virus even if they show no symptoms of the disease . Among public-health experts and politicians , there is wide disagreement on the issue of who should be tested . Few suggest taking blood from the entire population in a mass survey . Such an awesome undertaking would be extremely expensive ? and without adequate counseling and education , it probably would not be effective in stopping the spread of the virus . Targeting highrisk groups such as homosexuals and intravenous-drug users is another option . Other possibilities include testing patients at clinics that treat sexually transmitted diseases , persons convicted of rape , engaged couples , women who are pregnant or are considering pregnancy and prisoners . On the federal level , testing has been mandatory for members of the armed forces since 1985 . Last week the Senate passed a bill requiring testing of new immigrants . In state legislatures , close to 100 bills for various forms of mandatory AIDS testing have been introduced so far this year ; premarital testing , being considered in 34 states , seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should the infected person 's betrothed be notified of the disease or simply informed that the marriage application has been turned down ? Officials have used terms such as " universal , " " mandatory , " " compulsory , " " rou- tine " and " voluntary " to describe various plans . Universal , mandatory and compulsory tests are the most controversial . Expanded routine testing , which is supported by the Reagan administration , could mean , among other things , that all hospital patients would be tested for AIDS ? unless they specifically refused the test . Just about everyone thinks there should be more facilities for voluntary testing because there are often long waiting lists at test sites in cities with large populations of AIDS victims . The case for testing : Proponents of routine testing say it will help define the extent of infection . " We need to know who is infected and who is n't , " says Dr. Robert Redfield , an infectious-disease specialist at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington . The information gathered through military testing , which includes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far on the spread of the virus into the general population . The Centers for Disease Control recently expanded anonymous testing of patients in certain hospitals and clinics to find out more about the spread of the disease . Testing helps identify those who are infected so that they ? and their partners ? can take precautions ( either abstaining from sex or using condoms ) . Some doctors , such as Redfield , say that early detection could also help prevent complications and prolong life . If AIDS victims are identified before they are really sick , doctors maybe able to prescribe drug therapy to slow progression of AIDS-related diseases . The case against : Objections to widespread mandatory or routine testing are both pragmatic and ideological . Testing high- NEWSWEEK : JUNE 15 , 1987 61  | risk groups makes sense , but how do you define who is at risk ? A homosexual who has been in a monogamous relationship with a faithful lover for many years is at less risk than a heterosexual who has had many sexual partners and has n't used condoms . Testing at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many doctors feel that the threat of an AIDS test may scare away people who need medical care . Furthermore , to be effective for sexually active people who do n't take precautions , testing should be repeated at least every three months ? because a negative result is only reliable until the next encounter with a potential carrier . Many doctors feel mandatory premarital testing is pointless because young heterosexual couples are not considered a high-risk group for AIDS or other sexually transmitted diseases . Premarital blood tests for syphilis used to be almost universal ; now only 21 states require them . Most of the other states repealed such screening in recent years after studies indicated that few cases of syphilis were detected through the tests . Testing hospital patients might yield valuable information for public-health experts and would give doctors a better picture of a patient 's overall health , but including a positive AIDS test in a patient 's medical history may make it impossible for him to get health or life insurance . Most insurance companies say that they will not sell individual policies to applicants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they plan to limit the amount of life insurance they will offer to people who refuse to take an AIDS test . While anonymous testing of hospital patients does help to determine the extent of the disease , it also raises ethical problems because there is no way to alert those who are positive or their sexual contacts . But the biggest argument against mandatory or routine testing is that it will result in discrimination against those who are infected . Even though proponents promise confidentiality , there 's no way to guarantee that the results wo n't end up in the wrong hands . People known to be infected with the virus face social ostracism and loss of jobs and housing . Although several states have anti-AIDS-discrimination laws , they can be difficult to enforce . Evaluating results : Most public-health officials agree that testing is useful in stopping the spread of AIDS only if it is accompanied by follow-up procedures . But what should those be ? At one extreme , people argue that AIDS victims should be tattooed or quarantined . Aside from the civil-liberties issues raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnecessary since the virus is not transmitted through casual contact . Some of those proposals are qualified . Last week , for example , the Texas Legislature voted to quarantine AIDS patients who act irresponsibly and spread the disease . But how will it identify them ? Counseling and education seem to be a more reasonable approach . People who test positive for AIDS are often in a state of shock immediately afterward and need help to learn how to live with the implications of the diagnosis . Guilt , depression and even attempted suicide are common reactions to a positive test . Even those whose results are negative should be told that there is a possibility that they have been exposed and the antibodies just have n't shown up yet . Counseling must emphasize safe sex ; studies suggest that victims of AIDS sometimes become more sexually active , perhaps because they feel they have nothing to lose . Tracing contacts : Who else is entitled to know the results ? Many public-health officials think all sexual partners should be informed . Programs to notify sexual contacts are a traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but so far there have been few such efforts to notify partners of AIDS victims . That task is impossible without the cooperation of the infected person ? who may have been tested anonymously in the first place and may not even know the names of all his or her sexual partners . In the case of immigrants trying to enter this country , who should be notified that their applications have been turned down because of AIDS ? Federal officials have not yet decided what should be done with the AIDS-test results . Some politicians are trying to place legal limits on the sexual activity of AIDS carriers . New York Gov . Mario Cuomo and others have suggested imposing criminal sanctions against people who knowingly spread the virus ( although it is hard to imagine what penalty could deter someone who may , in fact , feel he is already under a medical death sentence ) . And last week the Army announced that a a 27-year-old soldier will face a court-martial for allegedly having sex with others while knowingly carrying the AIDS virus . The dilemmas raised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government is given free access to people 's private lives for the sake of a greater public good . But AIDS is a life-and-death battle ; some people feel all weapons to combat it should be at least considered . A petition circulated at last week 's meeting called upon political leaders to listen to doctors and public-health officials before developing policies . More than 1,000 conferees quickly signed it . Explained Dr. Edward Brandt , chancellor of the University of Maryland in Baltimore : " We ca n't let AIDS become a political toy . "                     