@@378802

Soviet diplomats frequently call at the State Department . Particularly since the Geneva summit , there has been a great deal of mid-level diplomacy . So there was no reason to expect anything out of the ordinary when Oleg Sokolov , the Soviet charg d'affaires in Washington , arrived early last Wednesday morning to see Secretary of State George Shultz . But when Sokolov handed him a lengthy letter from Mikhail Gorbachev to Ronald Reagan , Shultz became the first man in official Washington to be startled by a sweeping and unexpected new arms-control proposal . It was studded with ambiguities and potentially risky approaches , but it also set forth a bold schedule for making the world nuclear-free and left the Administration scrambling for a way to respond . One quick reading of the letter sent Shultz straight to the White House . <P> Some three hours later in Moscow , the proposal was presented to the world 's public  --  the audience at which it was largely aimed  --  in typical Soviet fashion . The anchorman on the nightly newscast Vremya ( Time ) , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced , with no more emotion than he might have used to present a weather report , that he had a " statement by the General Secretary of the Communist Party . " Then he droned on for half an hour as the news agency TASS distributed the statement around the world . <P> As many Soviet and American leaders had done before , Gorbachev called for total elimination of nuclear missiles , warheads , bombs and other weapons from the planet . But this was not presented as a vague goal for the future ; he proposed a fairly detailed , three-stage timetable culminating at the end of the century . He also offered tantalizing hints about ways to break specific deadlocks . If his plan is adopted , Gorbachev grandly concluded , " by the end of 1999 there will be no nuclear weapons on earth . " <P> Propaganda ? Certainly , and very skillful propaganda too . Both its grand vision and many of its specifics are clearly designed to win Moscow public support in Western Europe and around the world while allow in to retain certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decreeing a timetable for eliminating nuclear weapons the way the Gramm-Rudman Act has decreed a timetable for eliminating the U.S. budget deficit . As with Gramm-Rudman , the cuts proposed by Gorbachev seem to have an easy and automatic simplicity , but the plan ignores the hard and complex choices that will have to be made down the road to preserve the delicate nuclear balance . Indeed , the initial reductions in strategic weapons would tilt the balance dangerously in the Soviets ' favor . In addition , the whole scheme appears to hang on a condition that Gorbachev knows Reagan resists : U.S. abandonment of the Strategic Defense Initiative , or Star Wars , whose goal is to develop a defensive shield against nuclear missiles .                     