@@486761

Only fifty miles southwest of the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolis sits the Comanche Peak nuclear power station , waiting to go on-line after fifteen years of construction . One engineer who worked on the plant calls it a " completely unsafe nuclear facility with a great potential for killing or injuring millions of people . " Despite such warnings , as well as a history of opposition by local citizens and stinging rebukes by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , Texas Utilities ( T.U. ) , Comanche Peak 's owner , is moving to apply for a low-power operating license , the penultimate step before commercial operation . Ironically , Comanche Peak was put on the fast track to operation by the very citizens ' group that , over the past decade , was most responsible for uncovering its chronic safety and quality-control problems . In July 1988 , in an unprecedented agreement , the Citizens ' Association for Sound Energy ( CASE ) suddenly withdrew its opposition to the plant 's license , triggering the dissolution of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board , which was created by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ design . In return , CASE was awarded a seat on a company-controlled oversight committee and a secret $10 million cash payment . For the nuclear industry , eager to defuse popular resistance to the next generation of power plants , Comanche Peak 's ability to co-opt its opponents and short-circuit essential public oversight establishes an encouraging precedent . For opponents , the story of CASE should stand as a warning . Juanita Ellis , a church secretary , formed CASE soon after Comanche Peak broke ground in the mid-1970s . In cooperation with a number of plant employees , CASE developed a critique of the plant 's design and construction and took it before the licensing board . The campaign against Comanche Peak received its first dividend in 1983 , when the board refused to approve an operating license for the plant . Instead it rebuked the N.R.C. staff for " acquiescing " in T.U. 's sloppy design and construction and ordered the utility to undertake reinspection and reconstruction of the entire project . Geoffrey Aronson , a freelance writer living in Washington , D.C. , specializes in nuclear issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ licensing board , " casts doubt upon the design quality of Comanche Peak , both because applicant T.U. has failed to adopt a system to correct design deficiencies promptly and because our record is devoid of a satisfactory explanation for several design questions raised by intervenors . " The board found that these allegations , based for the most part on testimony by two whistleblowers cooperating with CASE , " raise serious questions about the adequacy of the design of the remainder of the plant . " The licensing board 's censure was a double whammy for T.U. The reinspection and reconstruction order meant huge additional costs for a project that was already monstrously over budget . Conceived when construction began as a $769 million venture , mismanagement and inflation had increased that figure more than tenfold , to almost $10 billion . Even more important than increased costs was the delay in the plant 's licensing and operation , for not until the plant went on-line could T.U. begin to recoup its costs by petitioning the state 's pro-business Public Utility Commission for an increase in rates paid by consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peak . A September 1987 CASE newsletter asserted that " Comanche Peak was and is still unsafe and unable to be economically operated . . . . CASE does not believe that anyone can identify , much less correct , all of the many problems at Comanche Peak , and we therefore believe it should never receive an operating license . " In April 1988 , just a few months before the licensing board was to reconvene for an extensive review of the work it had ordered in 1983 , CASE , in a letter to the board , noted that " very serious questions have been raised regarding such important matters as how T.U. 's reinspection program is being implemented , and who is in control at the Comanche Peaksite . " Even the usually deferential N.R.C. issued a report acknowledging that T.U. had lost critical documents and that its backlog of 20,000 problems awaiting correction was " unusually large . " Then , suddenly , Juanita Ellis had a change of heart . That April , William Counsil , T.U. 's executive vice president in charge of nuclear engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aimed at removing Ellis and CASE as public opponents , short-circuiting the licensing board review and speeding the plant 's opening . " Mr. Counsil called me up and said that he 'd like to meet with me , " explained Ellis . " He wanted to show me a letter , but said that I first had to sign a confidentiality agreement . " Ellis agreed to keep the letter secret " until and unless the licensing hearings were in fact dismissed . " The letter turned Ellis around . In it Counsil acknowledged her " unselfish contribution " and CASE 's " untiring efforts " to make Comanche Peak a safer plant . He also admitted that Texas Utilities had misled the N.R.C. and acknowledged that " nuclear expertise did not exist to meet N.R.C. demands and that management did not have full sensitivity to the regulatory environment . " Counsil 's letter could have provided powerful ammunition to opponents of Comanche Peak . " It must be obvious , " Ellis later acknowledged in written testimony before Congress on May 4 , " that no utility in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that CASE would have turned right around and used it against them in the operating license hearings had we remained an intervenor . " But at the time , T.U. 's mea culpa had an entirely different significance for Ellis . The company 's secret letter , she said , " was an indication to us that . . . TU 's attitude and mindset was changing , that there was hope at last that upper management . . . was beginning to get the message we 'd been trying to send all those years . " From April through June 1988 , CASE 's executive board and T.U. engaged in confidential horse-trading . The utility wanted to muzzle CASE and rid itself of the delay and adverse publicity caused by the licensing board process . Ellis , physically exhausted after a decade of activism , wanted to assure CASE continued access to the plant after operations had begun and to reward a group of twelve whistle-blowers , many of whom had suffered severe financial hardship as a consequence of their cooperation with CASE . On June 30 in a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agreed to withdraw from the soon-to-be reconvened licensing hearings , thereby sealing the demise of the hearings as the only forum with oversight powers available to plant opponents . In return CASE was granted unprecedented access to the plant until 1993 and a seat on T.U. 's in-house Oversight Review Committee . In addition to the public agreement , CASE , a nonprofit group , had simultaneously arrived at a secret $10 million settlement with T.U. A leak forced CASE and T.U. to divulge details of this settlement : $5.5 million of this cash payment was to go to the twelve whistleblowers , and $4.5 million was to be paid to CASE for expenses incurred in its long battle against the utility as well as to pay for costs associated with CASE 's monitoring of the plant under public agreement . This was an extraordinary sum . In the only previous settlement between intervenors and a utility , an Oregon citizens ' group received a mere $15,000 from the Trojan Nuclear Power Plant . In the CASE agreement , however , payment was conditioned upon N.R.C. dismissal of the licensing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two widely respected public-interest attorneys who had helped CASE negotiate the agreement : Tony Roisman , formerly of Trial Lawyers for Public Justice , and Billie Garde , an attorney for the Government Accountability Project . At a July 1988 meeting with Roisman that was attended by many antinuclear advocates , Ralph Nader expressed doubts about combining the potentially divergent interests of private parties , such as whistleblowers , with those representing the public interest of nuclear safety . Nader said that he was more concerned about the possibility of another Chernobyl at Comanche Peak than he was about compensating individual whistleblowers . Nader had even phoned Ellis in an unsuccessful effort to win her agreement for a delay in the board 's imminent dissolution . But Roisman insisted that T.U. had satisfied CASE 's safety and quality-control concerns ; that the licensing board had outlived its usefulness and would in any event soon license the plant ; and that Ellis now preferred to end the process of litigation in favor of " experts talking to experts . " Syed Hasan , a former T.U. engineer who was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal . Of all the whistleblowers set to benefit personally from CASE 's agreement to dissolve the public licensing hearing , Hasan alone refused to accept T.U. 's offer as long as it was conditioned upon his agreement not to testify before the licensing board . He was supposed to receive $200,000 from the settlement , but because of his activities he is still waiting for his check . In July Hasan , writing under the pseudonym John Doe , pleaded with the licensing board to call him as a witness " in order to forestall disaster . " " It is my duty as an engineer and citizen of this country , " wrote Hasan , " to do everything in my power to force the NRC to properly and completely investigate the life-threatening safety flaws I witnessed while employed at the Comanche Peak site . " Hasan 's petition fell on deaf ears . CASE , the N.R.C. and T.U. were bent on eliminating the board and there was no stopping them . The licensing board was dissolved on July 13 , 1988 . Hasan has gone to court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Antinuclear activists in Texas were shocked by the Comanche Peak settlement . They do not share Ellis 's trust in T.U. 's belated concern for safety . Nor do they see the wisdom in her decision to trade CASE 's role as an aggressive , confrontational public interest-oriented outsider for a seat at the utility 's table . Betty Brink , a freelance journalist who writes about environmental and political issues , is the president of Citizens for Fair Utility Regulation ( CFUR ) , an antinuclear group that pulled out of the licensing hearings in the early 1980s for lack of funds . " Up until she withdrew from the process , " notes Brink , " Juanita Ellis was telling me and putting out newsletters saying the plant could not be built safely . Without someone saying the emperor is naked , we 're going to get a plant down there . It 's very dangerous . And unless we get the licensing hearings reopened there is no way for us to know about the critical issues left hanging when CASE settled . " CFUR has taken the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Circuit to force the reopening of the aborted licensing hearings in order to win a delay in the granting of a low-power operating license to T.U. The organization is asking Texas Senator Lloyd Bentsen for a full-scale investigation of the plant before it goes on-line . In late October the N.R.C. itself received information from an anonymous source alleging that N.R.C. officials had falsified data provided by their own inspectors at the Comanche Peak plant ? data that raise additional questions about the plant 's readiness to receive a low-power operating license . The N.R.C. 's Office of Investigations and its inspector general are looking into these cover-up allegations , which may further delay approval of a license . Despite CASE 's presence on site , nothing seems to have changed at Comanche Peak . The N.R.C. , in a July 10 , 1989 , report detailing the failure of a critical test two months earlier , warned that the utility lacks a " management philosophy normally associated with safe reactor plant operation . " Today CASE is isolated from the very public whose interests it is supposed to represent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefers to resolve its differences with T.U. in private . And most of its share of the multimillion-dollar cash settlement is still sitting in the bank while CASE decides how to spend it . Together with a rump faction of the CASE board , individual members of CFUR have petitioned for a court order to require Ellis to open CASE 's financial records . Community interest organizations that were once united are now forced to expend valuable energy fighting one another . Worse yet , in the wake of its agreement , CASE seems unlikely to contest T.U. 's expected request for a rate increase before the Texas Public Utilities Commission . Forced to play catch-up , Comanche Peak 's other opponents would then have a much more difficult , if not impossible , task proving that the public should not be forced to pay for billions of dollars of cost overruns at the plant . Ellis , however , insists that a decision to fight T.U. before the utilities commission has not been made . " A lot depends upon when T.U. files a rate case , " she says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paperwork , " says Ellis , CASE may prefer instead to stick to its primary role as an observer . m he nuclear industry sees this agreement as a model , " 1 explains Nina Bell , an attorney long active in the antinuclear movement . And indeed , in a letter to N.R.C. chair Lando Zech Jr . opposing efforts to re-establish the licensing board , the Nuclear Management and Resources Council , lobbyists for the commercial nuclear industry , praised the Comanche Peak settlement as a " significant milestone . . . with important implications to all licensed facilities " and " a sound program for resolving technical issues , thereby eliminating the need for recourse to the ad-judicatory process . " " We have more confidence that the N.R.C. will follow through with similar agreements on operating plants , " says Tom Price , the resource council 's director of industry and government relations . Price mentions the Surrey plant in Virginia , where a solution to the problem of on-site storageof fuel may require an amendment to the plant 's operating license . " Normally such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Should intervenors try to question the soundness of their decision , then dispute resolution like that at Comanche Peak might be appropriate . " Price also suggests that the Comanche Peak precedent will prove useful when many other plants , such as Yankee Rowe in western Massachusetts , apply for a license to operate beyond their approved forty-year life span . ?                     