@@432221

 | It was seen as a minor curiosity the first time : 5,000 true believers swarming over Capitol Hill , brandishing red plastic roses . But that 1974 March for Life ? mourning the first anniversary of the Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion ? was the start of one of the most enduring protest movements in recent history . And last week an estimated 70,000 anti-abortion crusaders braved the post-Inaugural chill to make the 12th annual pilgrimage to Washington ? carrying the traditional red roses and waving hand-lettered signs with messages like , " Abortion : The Ultimate Child Abuse . " Many of the speakers at the rally on the Ellipse were familiar figures in the right-tolife movement , including Moral Majority leader Jerry Falwell . But this year there was an important breakthrough . Ronald Reagan finally gave the march his personal blessing . All through his first term , the president had treated the annual anti-abortion rally like the arrival of threadbare relatives whom he feared might overreact to anything more than minimal hospitality . Reagan 's own position has long been clear : he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would save the life of the mother . But in the past the president carefully limited himself to meeting privately with March for Life leaders ; in 1984 he also waved to the rally from the White House balcony . Presidential image maker Michael Deaver originally had dictated a similar arms-length script for this year . But pressure from congressional conservatives ? especially North Carolina Sen. Jesse Helms ? prompted the president to relent . He agreed to address the rally briefly by telephone from the warmth of the Oval Office , but Reagan 's nervous handlers blocked any " photo opportunity " of the president actually delivering his speech . But there was nothing equivocal about the president 's words . " I feel a great sense of solidarity with you , " Reagan assured the marchers huddling in the shadow of the Washington Monument . By all accounts , the president 's commitment to the cause is heartfelt : aides say that Reagan often talks at length in private about his controversial belief that fetuses feel pain during abortions . Earlier on the day of the rally , Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and he pointedly referred to it in his speech . " For the first time , " he said , " we 're able to see with our own eyes on film . . . the horror of abortion during the first three months of life . " As the president 's final words reverberated across the Ellipse ? " I am proud to stand with you in the long march for the right to life " ? the demonstrators responded by chanting , " God bless you . God bless you . " Later in the day , 29 right-to-life demonstrators were arrested in a nonviolent protest at the Supreme Court . But the 12th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision passed without the wave of anti-abortion violence that federal law-enforcement authorities feared . Local protests around the country were muted and restrained . Still , around 3,000 anti-abortion demonstrators rallied at the state capitol in Austin , Texas , and about 1,700 marched in Atlanta , where Georgia Gov . Joe Frank Harris proclaimed " Respect for Life Day . " Pro-choice activists held round-the-clock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Pensacola , Fla. , volunteers from the National Organization for Women escorted patients into the Ladies Center ? an abortion clinic that recently reopened after a Christmas Day bombing ? as angry protesters shouted , " Do n't kill the baby ! " Meanwhile , federal investigators continue to unravel the local conspiracies apparently responsible for many of the 31 antiabortion bombings since the beginning of 1984 . Over the Inaugural weekend , agents from the federal Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms ( BATF ) arrested three Prince Georges County , Md. , men in connection with the bombings in the last year of six abortion clinics in Maryland , Virginia and the District of Columbia and the Washington offices of two pro-choice groups . The key to the arrests , according to BATF officials , was that each of the bombings had an identifiable signature that allowed federal agents to laboriously trace the explosives to their purchasers . Of course , such terrorist violence is totally unconnected to the mainstream rightto-life cause . But veteran anti-abortion lobbyists in Washington , who sometimes liken their crusade to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a growing sense of frustration and unease . " If we go another 10 years , as we have the last 10 , with this issue at the boiling point and no resolution , " said Connaught Marshner of the Free Congress Foundation , " then I have concern . We 're talking about an absolute issue . " Ban : With the president unlikely to go beyond Gatlinggun bursts of anti-abortion rhetoric , the immediate prospects for congressional passage of a constitutional amendment overturning Roe v. Wade are virtually nil . But right-to-life activists in Congress are optimistic that they will be able to enact a permanent and airtight ban on federal funding for abortions . Even pro-choice leader Nanette Falkenberg admits that such legislation " is going g to be tough to beat . " Abortion foes are also preparing new legislative gambits ? including an " informed consent " bill that would require doctors to provide explicit warnings of the purported pain experienced by an aborted fetus . But right-to-life leaders ? and Reagan himself , intimates say ? have come to look to the Supreme Court as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reiterated their support for the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade ? but five of them are over 75 . It is a fragile majority that may not outlast Reagan 's second term . Small wonder that many March for Life protesters on the Ellipse last week carried signs like this one : " Pennsylvania Asks for Two More Supreme Court Justices . " @#                     