@@492127

" THE INFINITE RICHES OF BEN FRANKLIN " by Frederic A. Birmingham Chapter Two His experiments in electricity made Benjamin Franklin the most famous American in the world . One of the secrets to his scientific achievements in such a broad spectrum of disciplines was an insatiable curiosity . Nothing could escape Franklin 's roving mind , and what he observed often wound up in some sort of unusual invention or in his writings . We can note as an example his thoughts on spontaneous generation and suspended animation in living things . In April 1773 , he wrote to a friend in France , Jacques Barbeu Dubourg , a letter in which he anticipated Washington Irving 's " Rip Van Winkle " in a mixture of romantic whimsy and scientific speculation . It involved the use of Madeira wine , which was Franklin 's own special choice for its smooth , sweet taste . Your observations on the causes of death , and the experiments which you propose for recalling to life those who appear to be killed by lightning , demonstrate equally your sagacity and your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death in general is yet but little understood . .. . " I have seen an instance of common flies preserved in a manner somewhat similar . They had been drowned in Madeira wine , apparently about the time when it was bottled in Virginia , to be sent here ( to London ) . At the opening of one of the bottles , at the house of a friend where I was , three drowned flies fell into the first glass that was filled . Having heard it remarked that drowned flies came back to life in the sun , I proposedmaking the experiment upon these . They were therefore exposed to the sun upon a sieve which had been employed to strain them out of the wine . In less than three hours , two of them began by degrees to recover life . " I wish it were possible , from this instance , to invent a method of embalming drowned persons , in such a manner that they might be recalled to life at any period , however distant ; for having a very ardent desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hence , I should prefer to an ordinary death the being immersed with a few friends in a cask of Madeira , until that time , then to be recalled to life by the solar warmth of my dear country ! But since , in all probability , we live in a century too little advanced and too near the infancy of science to see such an art brought in our time to its perfection , I must , for the present , content myself with the treat , which you are so kind as to promise me , of the resurrection of a fowl or a turkey cock . " Franklin never held back from what he saw as the right . One of his most famous quips was made at the signing of the Declaration of Independence , When John Hancock signed with that famous flourish , declaring that he wanted King George to see his name clearly , he also added , " We must all hang together . " Seventy-year-old Ben Franklin then made his neat comeback : " Yes , we must indeed all hang together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Humor was an important element in Franklin 's style . It has been said , and with obvious justice , that perhaps it was just aswell that Thomas Jefferson was given the task of writing the first draft of the Declaration of Independence , because had old Ben turned to it , he probably could not have resisted hiding away a few wisecracks in what has been since regarded as one of the most solemn documents in all history . His general conduct reflected this quirkiness . When he went as our ambassador to France during the Revolution , he was quick to sense that he could not cut much of a figure sartorially among the perfumed , silken-garbed , periwigged and mincing dandies of the royal court , so he took to wearing a fur hat and the homespun , Quakerish garb which Europeans expected of an unsophisticated colonist from Pennsylvania . In this getup , he was able to present himself as something of a good-natured country bumpkin , while behind that bland smile and open countenance lurked the sharpest mentality of his time , ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he wanted them to do . Besides , it set him aside from the herd , just as so many New York executives these days are delighting in the touches of Western-style boots as a mark of individuality . When he returned to the New World and , in his later years , turned to the important business at hand in Philadelphia  --  to construct a new nation  --  old Ben flipped the coin over and appeared before the populace as a polished diplomat in fine clothes , going so far as to have himself borne to Independence Hall in a sedan chair carried by four bearers recruited from the Philly jail ( who no doubt enjoyed the outing under such eye-popping circumstances ) . Thus , he called attention to himself at the same time that he eased the pain of his " stones . " At home he had another method of lessening that torture  --  he stood on his head . He always liked to see things in a perspective opposite to the common view , anyway . ) Franklin was a puzzle , even to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among them . He had only been to elementary school for less than a year , before he was ten , and he had failed twice in arithmetic , but he must have had an I.Q. that would break through the top echelon by any modern method you can name to judge intelligence . His world recognized that . Harvard in the 18th century was the first and greatest college in America since its founding in 1650 , and it awarded to Franklin an honorary degree , even though he had once scribbled a sly satire on the education available in the Yard over at Cambridge . Yale and William &; Mary followed suit with the same honor ; as did the University of St. Andrews , Scotland , and Oxford . He was elected a member of the Imperial Academie of Sciences of St. Petersburg , Russia , so widely had his fame spread . He was elected a foreign member of the Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften at Gottingen , Germany ; a corresponding member of the Bata , afsch Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke Wijsbergeerte , Rotterdam ; he was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sciences of Paris ; and was given honors in many other societies in Italy , Spain and France . Nor were his honors limited to academia . Royalty was jostling one another in Europe to bask in the reflected light of this man of the world . He hobnobbed with the King of Prussia and signed with the King a treaty of amity and commerce for the U.S. , in which he embodied his views on neutrality , privateering and the exemption of private property from capture at sea , matters which were to boil over with England not very many years later and become a major cause of the War of 1812 . He also concluded a treaty of amity and commerce with the King of Sweden . When Ben set out for Havre on his return to America from France , during his last tour of duty there as an elderly man , he was so pained by the kidney stones in his body that he found the motion of a carriage insupportable . The Queen thoughtfully gave himher own litter for his travel , borne by Spanish mules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science often scoff at religion . Yet , like those advanced scholars of our day who study the philosophy of mathematics long after they become familiar with its mere figures , the really great scientists are usually above the pack of mere pragmatists in their recognition of religious truths . Franklin was one of these elevated men of science . He studied the Bible all during his life , and he stated that the moral system of Jesus Christ was " the best the world ever saw  --  or is likely to see . " In his later years , Franklin was to enjoy good fare as well as any man , but as a young man , there was a time when he became a vegetarian . Once again , there was a practical note there , as there always seemed to be with Franklin : He wanted to save money on his food and use it to buy books  --  and buy books he did . His library in Philadelphia became what a visiting clergyman and scientist from Massachusetts , Manasseh Cutler , described as " the largest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Benjamin Franklin , universally accepted as the leading writer of his day , perpetuated that when he started the newspaper that was to evolve into The Saturday Evening Post . But he was as fully and widely known for his almanac and his autobiography . As we well know , he called his almanac , " Poor Richard 's Almanack , " and it was a best seller from the very start . It was a triumph of style more than originality . Very few Americans owned libraries in Ben 's day , but almost every family cherished two books  --  the Bible and an almanac . The first told you how to believe and live , the second told you when to do it and how . Rich or poor , farmer or urban dweller , everyone lived by the almanac . It recorded the holidays , the days of the month , the quarters of the moon , the changes in season , the length of the days and tides , the dates of fairs and the days when the courts opened and closed . The public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the perfect role for Franklin  --  he was a volcano of humor , fact and fiction . He had not tried to be terribly original , in that he relied heavily on two established English almanacs , even to the extent of combining their names ? " Poor Robin " and " Richard Saunder " ? to create his hybrid " Poor Richard 's Almanack . " He gave himself plenty of room to move around in . This was his masthead for the almanac : " Poor Richard , 1733 , An Almanack for the year of Christ 1733 , being the first after Leap-year , wherein is contained the Lunations , Eclipses , Judgment of the Weather , Spring Tides , Planets Motions and Mutual Aspects , Sun and Moon 's Rising and Setting , Length of Days , Times of High Water , Fairs , Courts and observable Days . Fitted to the Latitude of 40 degrees and a meridian of five hours West of London , but may without sensible Error serve all the adjacent places , even from Newfoundland to South Carolina . By Richard Saunders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franklin at the New Printing Office near the Market . " Poor Richard 's maxims , of course , have lived to this day , and collections of them are still popular . Some Franklin sayings are so imbedded in our consciousness that he rivals even Shakespeare in everyday speech and thought . We need not reproduce too many of those here , but those such as " Early to bed and early to rise , makes a man healthy , wealthy and wise " and " Fish and visitors stink in three days " are part of our heritage . Casting down the lists of Poor Richard 's maxims , we find a fewless commonly known and much richer in humor and wisdom : " Old boys have their playthings as well as young ones ; the difference is only the price . " " Search others for their virtues , thyself for thy vices. - " There 's more old drunkards than old doctors . " " A countryman between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats . " " Three may keep a secret if two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wicked , witty , sonorous and often just plain brash  --  were the making of him . His almanac was by far the best seller of the years following its first issue in 1732 , and he ran it up quickly to a circulation of 10,000 and above . It was possibly the major reason why he was able to retire at the age of 42 , a relatively wealthy man , and devote the remainder of his life to science and the service of his country . Yet he could not resist during his lifetime two other projects that were each sufficient to have marked him for history . The first was the writing of an autobiography , which he took on late in his life , in 1771 , as a kind of personal record to pass along to his son . The second was his newspaper , which was to become the center of a sizable publishing empire and the forerunner of The Saturday Evening Post . We linger over the au-tobiography only to wonder at the total effect it has had upon American letters , al-though tossed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wrap-ping up some of his thoughts and some of his correspondence with the fortunate people he would write . Yet , accord-ing to the English his-torian , Lecky , Franklin " was one of the very small class of men who can be said to have added something to the art of living . Very few writers have left so many profound and orig-inal observations on the causes of success in life and on the best means of cultivat-ing the intellect and the character . " His style " was always terse , luminous , simple , pregnant with meaning , eminently persua-sive . There is scarcely an obscure or involved or superfluous sentence , scarcely an ambiguous term in his works . " Clinton Rossiter sums it up in his Seedtime of the Republic published in 1953 . The autobiography has been " translated and retranslated into a dozen languages , printed and reprinted in hundreds of editions , read and reread by millions of people , especially by young and impressionable Americans . The influence of these few hundred pages has been matched by that of no other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of art . His public image was already established when he wrote it . He was internationally known ; he had been a great success at the French court and was a member of the Royal Society of England , in addition to those other European honors we have noted ; he had published a book on electricity and a brilliant and polished series of essays , Bagatelles , in France ; his ironic essays published in England just before the Revolution were the delight of the world ; his state papers written as an agent of the Congress immortalized him as the first of our " founding fathers. - He had nothing to put down in his autobiography except a few personal facts . Yet he could not avoid turning it into a masterpiece ? " the first great book in American literature ... - which " in some ways remains the most important single book . " He could never completely hide the undercurrent of humor in any of his work , no matter how serious it might appear on the surface . Says one modern critic : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sturdy peasant 's face and that old man 's heavy figure ... nimbly , magically dancing to his own complex music , while permanently suspended in the heights above us . ' There is a tendency in Franklin for the man of intellect to overshadow the man of action . We have noted how he schemed out John Paul Jones ' assaults on the fortress of England and served as an effective CIA-type operative from his London and Paris bases . Franklin also had a crack at a military career , which many historians usually pass by very lightly . Yet there is an indication behind the situation that he was considered by most of his peers to he a very forceful as well as a thoughtful type of man . Franklin could brandish the sword when he thought it was needed . Franklin well realized that the imperial struggles of France-England-Spain could well break out into open warfare over the prostrate body of the American colonial settler , and he warned the Pennsylvania Assembly in 1747 to pay some attention to defense . When the Assembly failed to act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then took the proceeds to erect on the Delaware River a fort which could defend Philadelphia strategically . Later , when he had been appointed as a special commissioner in charge of the Pennsylvania frontier , he moved the militia to the front into the thick of hostile Indian country and built several forts at Bethlehem and Gnadenhutten . He capped his military phase by becoming Colonel of Philadelphia 's militia regiment , hacked up by the British regulars who were quartered at Philadelphia as part of the colonial garrison . The busy life of Benjamin Franklin came to an end on April 17 , 1790 . The entire world mourned him , and it was said that " no other town burying its great men ever buried more of itself than Philadelphia with Franklin. - France 's Chamber of Deputies went into mourning for three days . Cornmemorative portraits and designs specially commissioned in his honor abounded , the kind of thing still existing in our own world today when England crowns a new monarch . The northwest corner of what was then part of the State of North Carolina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although after a protracted political hassle , nothing came of it , and that section emerged as the State of Tennessee . But still , more towns , villages and hamlets have been named after Franklin than any other American  --  including even the revered George Washington . Some of Franklin 's own modest bequests live on , among them a fund to provide for silver medals for outstanding students in Boston 's high schools . Several recent recipients are attending Harvard College . The U.S. House of Representatives went into mourning for one month " in memory of a citizen whose native genius was not more of an ornament to human nature than various exertions of his have been precious to science , to freedom and to his country . " Today , his spirit and culture live on in one of the world 's greatest organizations , The Franklin Institute in Philadelphia . The Institute did not come into being until 35 years after his death , but it owed its creation in no small way to a trust established by him for the furtherance of science and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world , a living monument comprised of many parts  --  the Bartol Research Foundation , the Franklin Research Center , Franklin Institute Research Laboratory , Franklin Institute Science Museum and Planetarium and the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial . The latter , called Franklin Court , is a breathtaking and dramatic exhibit , designated as a national memorial on April 12 , 1975 , by Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller , and a fitting tribute to the great man . It reads : " To the only man who signed all four documents on which our United States was founded : the Declaration of Independence , the Treaty of Alliance with France , the Treaty of Peace with Britain and the Constitution . " ? French economist Turgot summed up Franklin thus : " He snatched the lightning from the skies and the scepter from tyrants. - A                     