@@328371

THE FUROR over cold fusion began on March 23 , as chemists B. Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann shocked the scientific world with the claim that they had beaten the physicists at their own game . Other scientists were cautious , but Dan Rather dived in headfirst . He led off the CBS Evening News that night with a fusion report , gushing about " what may be a tremendous scientific advance . " Only a week later , physicist Steven Jones of Brigham Young University announced that he too had been producing cold fusion independently , generating neutrons but not heat . On April 1 , two Hungarian scientists said that they had produced neutrons as well . Next Texas A &M; scientists showed off an experiment on April 10 that they said had confirmed the heat readings recorded previously by Pons and Fleischmann . Fusion fever was rising now . Georgia Tech said on the same day that its jean-clad researchers had detected neutrons . Maddeningly , no one seemed to be looking for both heat and neutrons in a single experiment , to nail down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no doubt on April 12 as he addressed 7,000 members of the American Chemical Society , who had crowded into a basketball arena in Dallas . When he was questioned , it became clear that his paper was sketchy because his technique was sketchy : he and Fleischmann had failed to do elementary control tests before going public . But it was fusion , Pons insisted , not just an unusual chemical reaction , as others had suggested . A Soviet group chimed in that day to say it had found its own neutrons . Indian scientists said the same . And on April 13 , two graduate students at the University of Washington announced that they had recorded no neutrons or heat , but did detect other fusion by-products . Pons met the public again on April 17 , at a press conference , to say there were some 30 institutions that had confirmed his results but were reluctant to go public with the information , in part " for legal reasons . " But Robert Huggins , a Stanford materials scientist , had no legal qualms . He reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picnic cooler . Because he performed a control experiment to rule out a conventional chemical reaction , this was the strongest confirmation yet . The next day , Francesco Scaramuzzi , a bearded physicist with the Italian National Agency for Nuclear and Alternative Energy , reported what has been dubbed " Frascati fusion , " for the town near Rome where his team detected the neutron signature of cold fusion . This , plus other announcements from India and South America , was beginning to give the doubters pause . Then , on April 25 , the tide turned . Georgia Tech , having hastily withdrawn its fusion results the previous week for fear that its equipment was bad , made the reversal official . " I do n't think fusion occurred , " said embarrassed team leader James Mahaffey . There was worse news to come . The collaboration between Brookhaven National Laboratory and Yale , using an array of the most sophisticated equipment available , concluded its tests of cold fusion and found nothing . No other national lab had done any better . And on April 27 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had submitted their paper , then withdrawn it when asked to give more information , published an editorial on fusion fever . Verdict : it had been fun , but Pons and Fleischmann had been sloppy . Cold fusion , editor John Maddox bet , would most likely be a flop .                     