@@432237

 | It took 6 ? years to build and minutes to destroy . Sometime around 4 o'clock on the morning of Sept. 30 , a fire broke out in the office of Margie Lehrman , the Washington producer of the NBC " Today " show , vaporizing most of the contents of two Rolodex files ? more than 1,800 cards with the names and phone numbers of some of the most important people in Washington , of their favorite restaurants ( where they might be found at lunchtime ) , of their country homes ( where they might be found on Sundays ) and of their relatives ( where they might be found at Christmas ) . As dawn broke , Lehrman and her co-workers were crawling through a pile of sodden debris outside her window , looking for the remains of her Rolodex cards . The hundreds with phone numbers still legible but no visible names were painstakingly reconstructed by volunteers who would dial the number and ask : " Who are you and why were you in Margie 's Rolodex ? " Amazingly , by last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along , naturally , by the fact that most politicians would rather be in the " Today " show 's Rolodex file than the Encyclopaedia Britannica . At one time , of course , a powerful man was one who did n't have to call anybody because people came to him . J. P. Morgan never owned a Rolodex , but his kind of monolithic power has all but disappeared from American society . In its stead , we have elevated the fixer , the broker , the go-between who can push the right buttons ? like former Democratic National Committee Chairman Robert Strauss , whom Walter Mondale once hailed as " a Disraeli with a Rolodex . " Or , for that matter , reporter Cyndi Stivers , who writes the " Faces &; Places " column in US magazine . Her editor , Jann Wenner , waxes lyrical over her twin Rolodex files ? " the hugest you 've ever seen " ; carefully covered , on the day she moved into her new offices , " like the family jewels . " This is the modern gloss on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretch of definition could Gloria Vanderbilt 's telephone number , say , be considered " knowledge . " Today , contacts are power . You are whom you call . Mammoth Collection : Wherever connections are more important than experience ? which is to say , in New York , Washington and Los Angeles ? the Rolodex culture is in its fullest flowering . Dawn Steele , the young production chief at Paramount Pictures , is said to have hired a second secretary solely for " Rolodex management . " Indeed , there are businesses that are essentially just giant Rolodexes , like Celebrity Service , Inc. , a clearinghouse of information on public figures . At the heart of a collection of some half million file cards are the 4,000 numbers contained in the mammoth , twin-wheel personal Rolodex file of chairman Earl Blackwell , which sits in a locked office in his penthouse apartment and will be burned when he dies . One might imagine that the personal computer would have begun to replace the box ( or wheel ) of file cards at many businesses , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey-based company , the leading manufacturer of desk-top address files , has 32 different rotary models , ranging up to the $204.50 three-wheel model that can hold 6,000 cards and features " Torque-A-Matic " knobs for precision dialing . Partly , the Rolodex has held on for practical reasons . The computer has its advantages , especially for cross-referencing and for deleting names wholesale in case of a lost election or a studio purge . But if a great natural disaster ? an earthquake , say ? blacks out southern California , agents with Rolodexes can lock up the docudrama rights while their computerized rivals are still thumbing through the phone book trying to reserve a table for lunch . There also is nothing in the field of software that has quite the elegant simplicity of one Hollywood wheeler-dealer 's system of color-coded checks on his Rolodex cards , with which he can identify everyone he knows as belonging to one of three categories jerks , soft touches and guys to party with . But the Rolodex also has advantages that transcend its mundane function of filing and retrieving phone numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rolodex cards ? a reminder of an old girlfriend , say , or one 's first six-figure book deal ? that is impossible to summon up in a line on a computer monitor . Broadway producer Alexander Cohen staples new cards on top of the old ones to update his collection of 4,000 phone numbers , so that a single entry can trace an acquaintance 's career over nearly four decades . " My old Rolodexes are all out in the garage , " says a California former record executive . " I could n't bear to throw them out . I mean , I still have Linda Ronstadt 's phone number at her place in Malibu ? written in her own hand ! " Social Cachet : Ahh , and that gets to the heart of it , of course , which is that a Rolodex carries a social cachet that no data base can ever hope to achieve . One over-the-hill Hollywood director kept up appearances by having people wait for hours in his outer office , with nothing to look at but his beautiful secretary and a Rolodex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " You 'd have to read upside down , " recalls one visitor . " So he made it easier by writing Kate ' in big block letters . " Eliot Hubbard , director of publicity for CBS Records , keeps five big Rolodexes on his desk . Once one was knocked into a trash can and got tossed out , requiring him to sift through six-foot sacks of garbage in the basement of the CBS building . Worried that a cleaning lady might be tempted to call Michael Jackson , he has coded his most important phone numbers , switching the digits around according to a complicated system . But it is worth it for that moment when someone comes into his office and sees those five big Rolodex wheels and knows that the person behind that desk is someone to be reckoned with . Contacts are power . You are whom you call . @#                     