@@480183

WHAT HAS PASSED for the study of war in the service academies in recent decades gives some cause for alarm , Increasingly since the end of the second world war , the curriculum has been slanted in a manner that has produced an officer corps overconfident ? nay , arrogant ? about its ability to direct , manage , and control that most awesome and unpredictable of human experiences , the clash of arms and men on a battlefield . . The service academies have had their share of public attention during the past few years , what with the cheating scandals , the admission of women , and the " liberalization " of curricula . Practically no note has been taken , however , of what has happened at the very core of military education , in the subject area that distinguishes West Point , Annapolis , and Colorado Springs from the liberal-arts campus ? namely , the study of armed conflict . The salient development here has been the decline of the study of war 's history as the foundation stone of the military curriculum . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educators many of whom are not professional students of war but rather touring officers getting " tickets punched " on the way up the promotion ladder ? to treat war as a science . The empirical record of the past has given way to war technology and techniques of command as objects of inquiry . The focus is on tactics , strategy , logistics , the marshaling of hardware , and the organization of ever-unfolding technology ( e.g. , the " electronic battlefield " ) . This rationalization or " scientification " of warfare breeds a disconcerting hubris in its practitioners because it de-emphasizes , if it does not altogether deny , the role of what Frederick the Great called " His Sacred Majesty Chance " ? whimsy , the irrational or unpredictable event or circumstances , Fortuna ? in shaping victory or defeat on the battle . field . It is a hubris that disregards the elder Moltke 's wise caution that " no plan of operations can look with any certainty beyond the first meeting with the ... enemy , " because it can not govern " the independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history , in contrast , is a humbling experience ; the historical record bulges with one aborted attempt after another by the best and the brightest to identify , assemble , and manipulate the ingredients of military triumph . Inattention to the history of warfare is perhaps the greatest weakness in the training of American military officers . The lack of all but a cursory familiarity with the object of their chosen profession has encouraged a mentality characterized by unwarranted confidence in the malleability of war , and by a faith that most . if not all , problems on the battlefield are susceptible to technological or administrative solutions . It has also fostered an insidious conviction that leadership is little more than a question of good management . / DRAW THESE conclusions from more than a decade of intimate association with military men both on and off the battlefield , from countless conversations with ofJeffrey Record , formerly legislative assistant for military affairs to Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia , is now a senior fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Washington , D.C. He is the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ficers from all branches of our armed forces , and from familiarity with the curricula of our professional military academies . West Point , Annapolis , and Colorado Springs provide their charges with only momentary glimpses of the history of war . Of the 373 courses of instruction that make up West Point 's academic program , seventeen are offered in electrical engineering , of which one at most is required ; twenty-six in mathematics ( two required , including one titled " Advanced Placement Calculus , Multivariable Calculus , Introduction to Linear Algebra , Differential Equations , and Probability Theory and Statistical Inference " ) ; and five courses in what is boldly labeled " Military Science . " In comparison , the academic program provides but sixteen courses in military history , of which at most two are required . Moreover , both required courses ? " History of the Military Art " and " Advanced History of the Military Art " ? focus mainly on warfare in the twentieth century . The two millennia spanning the campaigns of Alexander the Great and Napoleon receive comparatively little treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which no course is offered . ( But then , what did Clausewitz or Alfred T. Mahan know about semiconductors , electromagnetics , and microproces-sors ? ) A cadet at the United States Air Force Academy receives even less exposure to military history : five courses ( one required ) out of a total of 394 offered , including twenty-two in electrical engineering and some sixteen in the techniques of management . At Annapolis , would-be Farraguts , Deweys , and Nimitzes may graduate with a knowledge of what happened at Mobile , Manila , and Midway , but not at Actium , Trafalgar , and Jutland ; the Naval Academy 's sole required course in military history is " American Naval Heritage . " Our military academies produce some gifted students of war ( both MacArthur and Patton were exceptionally well read in the history of their profession ) , but for the most part the schools grind out officers captivated by the idea that a science of war exists and that this most complex , uncontrollable , and least understood of all human activities can be " managed " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is an officer corps , as historian Edward N. Luttwak has noted , that treats the enemy " as a mere inventory of targets " and warfare as little more than " the orderly administration of firepower . " It is an officer corps inadequately tutored in the more fundamental truths of warfare , which can be learned only on the battlefield and through a thorough knowledge of history . It is an officer corps that is intellectually indisposed to accept the dominant role of Fortuna in war ; that embraces the pretensions of Henri Jomini but neglects the cautions of Clausewitz ; that regards the Vietnam war as all but irrelevant to its own future ; that still ascribes the failure of American arms in Indochina to the malevolent machinations of a timid if not morally suspect civil authority ; and that places less value on the study of war as a human encounter than on the ability to balance an equation , draft concise memorandums , and salute smartly . In all fairness , it must be said that the American military 's assumptions about the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society have made about human endeavor in general ? at least until recently . The American political ethic was formed primarily by children of Montesquieu and Locke , rather than by progeny of Hobbes and de Maistre . Our Constitution reflects a pronounced confidence in the role of reason in human affairs . The subsequent history of the United States has tended to shield these assumptions . With the exception of the Civil War and short-lived outbursts of racial and industrial strife , our country has managed to resolve without resort to major violence , most internal problems that continue to tear other nations asunder . As a nation we have been extraordinarily lucky . Ours for the taking was the richest continent on the planet . Insulated by vast expanses of ocean , we were free to subdue and organize it with little interference from abroad . Our principal adversary was not a foreign foe but nature itself , whose challenges we mastered through technological innovation . We have never been invaded , wasted by famine , or ravaged by plague . We have waged comparatively few wars and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have never fought a war thatirreparably damaged our country or society . No other nation has had so few skirmishes with the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse . In short , there is little in the American historical experience to encourage proper respect for the inherent infirmity or paradox of human endeavor . Although Vietnam has tempered the American public 's faith in the tractability or manageability of war , there is little evidence that it has had the same result among the military . The spirit of " can do " ? " The difficult we can do immediately , the impossible takes a little longer " ? still flourishes at West Point , reflecting persistent confidence that a commander can impose his will on the battlefield simply by applying proper technologies and leadership techniques . The failure of U.S. military leadership ? despite an overwhelming preponderance of measurable resources at its command ? to impose its will on the North Vietnamese , and the virtual immunity of the Indochinese conflict to technological resolution , appear to be lessons largely lost on the Pentagon . A N EXCELLENT EXAMPLE of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technological innovation to determine outcomes on the battlefield is its ongoing infatuation with " smart " antitank weapons . Indeed , one of the more dangerous illusions being entertained in certain quarters of the Pentagon these days is the belief that such weapons , if simply deployed in sufficient numbers , can neutralize . if not defeat , the powerful Soviet tank armies that for so many years have petrified NATO military planners . It is an illusion especially pervasive among unmechanized U.S. infantry forces , like the marines and the army 's 82nd Airborne Division , which are institutionally indisposed to accept the fact that , however elegantly equipped , light infantry forces , which still make up more than half of U.S. ground forces , can rarely be a match for armored or mechanized forces . In their embrace of the new laser-and wire-guided antitank weapons . the army and marine corps characteristically pursued a technological " fix " for a problem essentially structural in nature ; it is more the lack of mobility and less a deficiency in firepower that cripples foot infantry in the face of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army 's infantry branch , ever on the lookout for a means of dethroning the tank as queen of the land battle and restoring infantry to the prominence it enjoyed in the centuries from gunpowder to Guderian , failed to appreciate either the inherent limitations of the new antitank guided missiles or the degree to which they could be effectively countered by comparatively cheap measures based on common sense . Whether guided to the target by wire or laser beam , antitank guided missiles ( ATGM ) , such as the U.S. TOW and Dragon , have one thing in common ; they are " line of sight " weapons that can hit only those targets that are visible to the naked eye of the ATGM gunner or the person " designating " the target during the entire flight of the missile . Some ATGMs , such as the TOW , take as much as fifteen seconds to reach targets at optimum ranges , during which time the gunner or designator himself must remain exposed to the threat of hostile fire . These deficiencies of ATGMs have been carefully noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on night operations , camouflage , and the use of smoke has been expanded in an attempt to obstruct the clear vision so necessary to ATGM gunners . Virtually every first-line Soviet tank and armored fighting vehicle has been equipped with externally mounted smoke dispensers that can render an entire armored column invisible within a few seconds . Soviet mastery of the art of camouflage has been increasingly directed toward the specific problems posed by ATGMs . Night fighting . always prominent in Soviet doctrine , is now regarded as providing a combat environment particularly well suited for avoidance of the ATGM threat . Moreover , the Soviets understand that the same eccentricities of Central Europe 's terrain , ? climate , and demography that might inhibit their own high-speed armored operations also inhibit the employment of ATGMs in defense against such operations . Like such natural barriers as forests and mountains , the urban sprawl that has engulfed much of the North German plain since World War I/ constitutes no less an obstacle to the use of " smart " anti-armor weapons than to the use of armor itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ATGM gunner as tanks behind hills or tree lines ? or , for that matter , tanks shrouded in the thick morning fog that lies heavily on the North German plain during much of the year . Thus it would seem that Soviet shrewdness , German terrain and urbanization , and the heavens themselves ? factors beyond the control of any American or Allied commander ? have conspired to downgrade the putative effectiveness of a technological innovation that is still regarded in some quarters as revolutionary . ATGMs are no less vulnerable than any other weapon to the whims of Fortuna , or , as we have seen , to the " independent will of the opposing commander . " In short , their introduction does not render a potential conflict in Europe more tractable or its outcome less uncertain . p ERSISTENT FAITH in the trac tability of war is both unfounded and dangerous . It is unfounded because it underestimates the importance of what Clausewitz termed " friction " in war ? that which separates the theory of war from reality . It is dangerous because the penalty for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the outcome of combat is determined by factors over which commanders and armies have little control indeed , can-not even foresee . As Clausewitz wrote in his monumental On War , No other human activity is so continuously or universally bound up with chance . . . Absolute , so-called mathematical factors never find a firm basis in military calculations . From the very start there is an interplay of possibilities , probabilities , good luck and bad that weaves its way throughout the length and breadth of the tapestry . In the whole range of human activities , war most closely resembles a game of cards . The proper study of war is the study of history , not the study of electrical engineering , parade manuals , football , or even military tactics . As Clausewitz repeatedly emphasized , " historical examples .. . provide the best kind ofproof in the empirical sciences . This is particularly true of the art of war . " Note that Clausewitz speaks of the art rather than the science of war . Note also that the German general staff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Western world , elevated the systematic study of military history to a position equal in importance to the preparation of operational plans . The German general staff 's success in what historian T. N. Dupuy has called " institutionalizing military excellence " rested to no small degree on a profound respect for Fortuna derived from rigorous inquiry into past campaigns ; from 1817 onward , despite numerous reorganizations in the general staff , its Division of Military History remained a prominent and distinctive feature . If cadets and midshipmen at our professional military schools spent less time practicing close-order drill and memorizing meaningless axioms and more time exploring the true nature of the object of their profession , they , too , might gain the profound respect for Fortuna that every great captain has exhibited . For example , they might learn that the success of Hannibal 's generalship at Can nae hinged precisely on rigid Roman adherence to the discipline that characterized Roman legions ; that the Spanish conquest of the Aztec and Inca empires was due not to the superior arms the conquistadores carried in their hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bodies ; that the Spanish Armada was destroyed less by Drake 's " sea dogs " than by wind ; that Frederick the Great 's famous order of march was the product primarily of the propensity of his troops to desert ; that the success of the American War of Independence was clinched by a French king 's unwise political decision ; that Napoleon 's Grand Army was destroyed in Russia not by the wily tactics of Kutuzov but by subzero temperatures ; and that Wellington 's victory at Waterloo was gained only through flagrant disobedience of orders . They might learn that McClellan failed to crush Lee at Antietam because a Union corps commander assumed that a bridge was the proper way to cross a creek ; that a Confederate detachment 's search for shoes determined the location of the Civil War 's bloodiest battle ; that Missionary Ridge was overrun by Federal troops who had been instructed not to do so ; that mosquitoes dictated the timing and location of the U.S. Army 's campaigns in both the Mexican-American and Spanish-American wars ; that dysentery accounted for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that measles and diphtheria played a far greater role than the U.S. Cavalry in deciding the outcome of the Indian wars ; that the Russian disaster at Tannenberg in 1914 was attributable in no small part to a longstanding personal feud between the two principal Russian commanders ; that its own preparatory artillery fire guaranteed the defeat of the British Army at Passchendaele ; and that famine , not Foch , brought the Germans to the peace table in 1918 . They might learn that the freezing of Lake Ladoga prevented the Germans from capturing Leningrad during the second world war ; that the Allied strategic bombing campaign during that same conflict probably prolonged rather than shortened German resistance ; that Rommel was beaten in North Africa less by Montgomery than by distance ; that " Market Garden , " the great Allied airborne assault on Holland in 1944 , was crushed as much by fog in England as it was by German forces in the drop zones ; and that the real foundation of Israeli military prowess is a social structure vastly superior to that from which Arab armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cadets and midshipmen also might develop a healthy respect for the difficulties of translating technological advances into battlefield successes . They might learn , for example , that new technologies are virtually worthless if unaccompanied by appropriate changes in force structure and tactics , and that such changes are usually long in coming ; that some 500 years separated the introduction of gunpowder and its full exploitation in war ; and that the horror of World War I was to a large extent the product of a deadly combination of twentieth-century weapons and nineteenth-century tactics . The disconcerting truth is that the tactical lessons to he learned from the impact of the rifle , machine gun , barbed wire , and entrenchments on attacking massed infantry were already glaringly apparent at Malvern Hill in 1862 , at Gettysburg a year later , and during , the Japanese siege of Port Arthur in 1904-05 . They might learn that the consequences of new technologies are not easily predictable in advance ; that the full exploitation of the crossbow in the Middle Ages was delayed in 1139 by a papal ban on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preserve food in tins contributed as much as railroads to the strategic mobility of Union armies during the Civil War ; that the substitution of steam propulsion for sail during the nineteenth century severely restricted the global reach of many navies ; that the first tanks were designed primarily as barbed-wire crushers ; that what came to be the most effective antitank weapon of World War 1I ? the German 88 millimeter gun ? was designed to shoot down aircraft ; and that the mechanization of infantry has had little appreciable effect on the pace at which it can advance into enemy territory . Finally , the future officer corps might learn that even profound technological superiority is no guarantee of success in combat ; that history is littered with battles and wars the Little Big Horn , Isandhlwana , Adwa , the Chinese Civil War , Vietnam ? in which the loser enjoyed vast technological advantage ; that true grit and not the Welsh longbow destroyed the French feudal array at Crecy ; that low Russian morale and not superior Japanese gunnery proved decisive in the great naval engagement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and better tanks than the Germans ; that Russian manpower and not the superior quality of Allied arms defeated the Third Reich ; and that hand-to-hand fighting on Iwo Jima and Okinawa rather than the atomic bomb sealed the fate of Japan in 1945 . T HESE OBSERVATIONS about the history of warfare should not be misconstrued as a conclu- sion that command and tech-nology are irrelevant in war . On the contrary , generalship and weaponry have always exerted a significant influence on the battlefield ; and in many instances that influence has been decisive . Few would subscribe today to the proposition , implicit in War and Peace and in Tolstoy 's subsequent writings on Napoleon 's campaign in Russia , that the outcome of any violent human conflict is predetermined by cosmic forces . Napoleon 's presence on the battlefield did make a substantial and often crucial difference , as did the presence of Alexander the Great , Hannibal , Caesar , Marlborough , Gustavus Adolphus , Frederick the Great , Lee , Jackson , Grant , Sherman , Moltke , and Manstein . Nor can the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , screw propeller , rifle , Maxim machine gun , internal combustion engine , tank , airplane , wireless radio , radar , ballistic missile , and nuclear weapon have exercised profound influences on the conduct of war . Certainly in modern war , technological expertise is essential . Generalship and technology , however , are but two of the major influences at play on the battlefield . Significantly , most of the major determinants ? weather , terrain , troop morale , lack of complete information about the enemy ? are beyond the immediate control of the commander . Of critical importance is the necessity to remember that generalship and technology can dominate war only with the permission of Fortuna . Great commanders are invariably lucky men . Acceptance of these realities is critical for any military leadership ? particularly one still obsessed with the notions that leadership is a question of technique and that technology can control Chance ? and can be gained only through a thorough knowledge of war 's history . If West Point and our other professional military schools are to produce a genuine military elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they must accept the fact that the study of war is the study of history . A " historically illiterate " officer corps , which counts on science as the guide to triumph and therefore ignores Fortuna , could lead this country into disaster by its overconfidence . Ignorance of history is dangerous . It is not enough for officers to get some inkling of Fortuna secondhand . They need to be immersed in it in a way that can come only from an intensive exploration of history . Better to learn about Fortuna by precept of historical example than on the battlefield ? when it may be too late .                     