@@326099

Franois Truffaut : 1932-1984 <P> Ten years ago , Franois Truffaut stood in the wings of Avery Fisher Hall at Manhattan 's Lincoln Center , chatting with an admirer while waiting to go onstage to speak at a tribute for Alfred Hitchcock . On cue the lights went down and scenes from Hitchcock films flared onscreen . Stopping himself in , midsentence , Truffaut exclaimed , " Oh ! La projection ! " and turned , eyes bright , to a peephole that gave access to the magic images . The old lure was irresistible for this French movie master who was , first and forever , a child of the American cinema . <P> America , in all its promise and excess , has long intoxicated the French . Truffaut 's achievement was to reconcile , with a uniquely canny buoyancy , the polar tugs of these two cultures . Six of the 21 features he directed were based on works by American writers , from Cornell Woolrich ( The Bride Wore Black ) to Henry James ( The Green Room ) , yet they were unmistakably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of directors , Hitchcock rubbed shoulders with Jean Renoir , and his own films sizzled with the tension between Hitchcock 's manipulative elegance and Renoir 's sharp-eyed humanism . The French title of Day for Night , the 1973 valentine to film making in which Truffaut plays a director , is La Nuit Amricaine . So it seems sadly fitting that when he died of cancer last week , he was a patient at the American Hospital of Paris . <P> The calendar says he was 52 at his death ; but the enthusiasm he brought to his life and his work indicates that Truffaut remained in part a perpetual enfant adorable . That life began in rebelliousness . The son of a Paris architect , young Franois spent time in reform school ( an ordeal he memorialized in his first feature , The 400 Blows ) and was kicked out of the French army ( an incident that begins Stolen Kisses ) . Luckily for Truffaut , the great film critic Andr Bazin saw in the layabout a ferocious intelligence begging to be channeled . By his early 20s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directors whose point of view and command of visual style entitled them to the respect given novelists and painters . In 1958 , at 26 , he directed The 400 Blows , brought the new wave of film makers to its crest and became a budding auteur . With fellow New Wavers Jean-Luc Godard and Alain Resnais , Truffaut yanked film into the modernist age . No longer would the screen serve merely as a window through which the spectator sees " real people . " Now it could show anything , in any and all fashions . Time could be stretched or collapsed , as in Jules et Jim ; the narrative could be interrupted for capricious movie references , as in Shoot the Piano Player ; the film could jettison the neat happy ending for a character frozen in indecision , as in The 400 Blows . With these first three features , Truffaut helped provide a new grammar for the international cinema vocabulary .                     