@@486759

The Berlin wall may still be standing , but it no lon  --  ger divides East from West . All manner of propos  --  als have been made about the future of the physi  --  cal structure itself , ranging from Willy Brandt 's suggestion that it be kept as a historical ( to which one should add , bearing in mind its graffiti , artistic ) monument , to the enterprising idea , put forward by a member of the Central Committee of the East German Communist Party , of selling off its bricks as numbered collector 's items . As a symbol of the cold war in a divided Europe , however , the wall is now history . Predictably enough , the Western news media and right-wing politicians have greeted the opening of the frontiers of the German Democratic Republic as yet another victory in the battle against Communism . The spectacle of hundreds of thousands of East Germans pushing through the gaps in the wall toward the shopping arcades of West Berlin and the Federal Republic  --  and this against the backdrop of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed conclusive proof of the historical bankruptcy of socialism and the vitality and attraction of free-market capi  --  talism . Yet things are not that simple : One British TV jour  --  nalist observed that his most powerful memory was not of the jubilant scenes of the first few hours of " freedom , " but of the long lines formed later in the day by East Germans returning home . Indeed , the joyous expressions on the faces of those step  --  ping onto Western soil , in many cases for the first time in their lives , were hardly those of refugees . Far from celebrat  --  ing their escape from the G.D.R. , they were welcoming the dawn of a new age in which they could at last remain in their own country without feeling , as someone put it , " incar  --  cerated in a huge concrete prison . " Freedom at last , yes , but the freedom to leave and then return to the socialist German state . First indications are that only a tiny minority will choose to remain in West Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the G.D.R . among those who joined the sum  --  mer exodus to the Federal Republic via Hungary and the West German embassies in Czechoslovakia and Poland . To be sure , there will always be a steady stream of migrants be  --  tween two societies so closely related in language and culture but so far apart in wealth and income . By opening the bor Gunter Minnerup is the editor of Labour Focus on Eastern Europe . ders , however , the new East German leadership has removed in a single bold stroke the principal cause of the discontent : the feeling of imprisonment and isolation , the despair that nothing would ever change for the better . This despair had reached its height on October 7 , when the fortieth anniversary of the G.D.R . was celebrated by the leadership of party and state in the most cynically self-congratulatory manner . Erich Honecker , then General Sec  --  retary of the ruling Socialist Unity Party ( S.E.D. ) , seemed to be impressing on East Germans and guest of honor Mikhail Gorbachev alike that perestroika and glasnost were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than a week later Ho  --  necker was gone . He was pushed out of office by a Central Committee under intense pressure from huge demonstra  --  tions sweeping through all major East German cities . His successor , Egon Krenz , could only hope to regain the political  --  cal initiative by making a clean break with the most deeply detested aspect of the old regime : its fencing-in of the entire citizenry . The nature of the crisis facing the S.E.D. is revealed by the difference , or rather the lack of it , between Krenz and his predecessor . Honecker , after all , was no bloodstained Stalinist tyrant . Since 1971 , when he assumed power , the G.D.R . had made considerable strides in its relations with the outside world , seen considerable liberalization in the fields of artistic and intellectual expression and tackled some of its chronic social problems , especially the housing shortage . Few of this summer 's ? migr  --  s had suffered acute political persecution or economic hardship under Honecker . The malaise had different , deeper roots . Whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fist of the " Red Prussians , " with little or no opportunity for the people to participate in discussions or decision making . For a country with as high a level of technical , cultural and polit  --  ical sophistication as East Germany , and as exposed to out  --  side influences in the shape of West German television and millions of visitors , this authoritarian tutelage was harder and harder to maintain . The breaking point finally came when the Soviet reforms and the upheavals in Poland and Hungary raised popular expectations of change and shook the loyalties of the hitherto homogeneous party apparatus . Krenz , in turn , represents anything but a break with the Honecker era . The youngest member of the Politburo , he was Honecker 's chosen successor , and rumor has it that the old man was persuaded to resign only on condition that Krenz be selected to replace him . Krenz 's nomination was greeted with dismay and suspicion . After all , this was the same man who had heaped praise on the Chinese leadership for its suppression of the democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreted his elec  --  tion as a victory for hard-line reactionaries eager to get rid of an ailing and dithering Honecker . Yet only weeks later , the new leader has decisively swept away much of the legacy of the old regime by opening the borders , legalizing the opposition , freeing the media and announcing free elec tions . There are only two rational explanations for this sud  --  den about-face : the enormity of the pressures from below and the state of the ruling party . The East German reform movement must rank as one of the most spectacular examples in history of a truly sponta  --  neous revolution from below . Week after week , hundreds of thousands took to the streets in cities throughout the G.D.R. ? often well over half the local populations . This is all the more impressive when one considers that there was no organized opposition to orchestrate the movement . The lively , nonconformist group of young activists centering around the Protestant churches was in no position to rally the masses against a heavily armed and efficient state . The Protestant Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has none of the charismatic influence of Polish Catholicism . Given these organizational deficiencies , such a spontane  --  ous upsurge was possible only because the ruling party failed to check it . The S.E.D. has well over 2 million mem  --  bers in a population of 16 million , and most of the member ship clearly took part in  --  or at least sympathized with  --  the reform rallies . Local functionaries quickly made their peace with the movement and passed the pressure on to the higher echelons of the party bureaucracy . The S.E.D. simply lacked the will to resist the reformist tide . After four decades of di  --  rect dependence on Moscow and the systematic education of its cadres in the spirit of the omnipresent slogan , " Learn  --  ing from the Soviet Union means learning how to win ! " Honecker 's refusal to follow Gorbachev 's new course had left the ranks of the party ideologically disoriented . The S.E.D. , furthermore , is not merely a collection of bu  --  reaucratic careerists ; it is also , in however deformed a way , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tions in the parts of the former German Reich that now con  --  stitute the G.D.R . It has not suffered the traumatic splits and purges of its Hungarian , Polish and Czechoslovak counterparts since the 1950s , and its considerable reform-communist potential has not so far been displayed . The full force of its reformism will be seen at the coming Party Con  --  congress , scheduled for December 15 to 17 , where Krenz will have too much of a struggle on his hands to survive as leader even to contemplate reversing the concessions that have al  --  ready been made . This does not mean that we shall now see the S.E.D. re  --  assert its leadership over East German society in a demo  --  cratic fashion , as opposed to the **26;2955;TOOLONG techniques it has employed since the 1940s . But it does mean that the struggle over the future of the G.D.R . has much more of an internal dimension than Western commentators , hypnotized by the prospect of speedy German reunification , have been prepared to acknowledge . The long lines of day-trippers returning from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G.D.R . will be the chief actors in that struggle . As far as they are concerned , the G.D.R . can never be the same again . But what will it be like ? One of the most striking aspects of the East German reform movement so far has been the virtual absence of any demand for a return to a capitalist market economy . From New Forum , the largest group with tens of thousands of supporters , to the newly founded So  --  cial Democratic Party , the entire opposition appears to accept the status quo of a socialized economy not only out of tactical circumspection but also out of genuine convic  --  tion . At issue is the way society , and hence the socialized economy , are run . The political monopoly of the S.E.D. must , and will , fall . Speedy progress toward reunification is therefore not the only possible outcome of the present upheaval . To be sure , if the S.E.D. fails to live up to its current promises and at  --  tempts to claw back its concessions , or if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pending elections , the inevitable backlash could quickly drive East Germany into the arms of the Federal Republic . That in it  --  self would be enough to cause panic among the North At  --  lantic establishment , as the initial reaction to the breaching of the wall has amply shown . After all , much of the real purpose of the postwar edifice of NATO and Western Euro  --  pean integration has been to maintain the division of Ger  --  many , not contain a largely nonexistent Communist threat . In the long run , a democratic and socialist East Germany would be far more destabilizing than a united capitalist Ger  --  many . Such a transformation would do even more to under  --  mine the anti-Communist , pro-Atlanticist consensus in West Germany than the revolt against nuclear weapons and the popular sympathy for Gorbachev 's program of pere  --  stroika have already done . Either way , the long-term maintenance of the European status quo appears even less plausible now than it did before the political earthquake that struck Berlin in November . The dawn of the post-wall era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Europe . q al LIBERATION IN SOUTH AFRICA Moving to the Next Stage MARK GEVISSER There was a time in the history of South Africa when the African National Congress was not banned and its leaders not imprisoned ; when , as part of the living , breathing existence of the coun  --  try , it set the quotidian calls to resistance and functioned not as mythology but as tangible leadership for the millions of blacks and smattering of whites seeking liberation . It was a time when people like Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu supplied the rhetoric of change within South Africa ; when they fought the legal battles in court and led the demonstra  --  tions in Sophiatown and the marches to Pretoria ; when they existed not as demons or gods but as leaders . That time seems to have come again . Now the young people of Soweto , those on the front lines in 1976 and 1985 , dance in the dusty streets around the feet of white-haired leaders who were imprisoned before the young comrades were born . Now the body of an exiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought home to the Transkei to be interred , and the homeland 's puppet President allies himself with the A.N.C . at the funeral . Now , with the govern  --  ment 's consent , 80,000 people gather at a rally to chant " Viva A.N.C. ! " and listen to Walter Sisulu proclaim that " the A.N.C . has captured the center stage of political life in South Africa . " South Africa 's newspapers are filled with images of celebration and statements by A.N.C . leaders . The unprint  --  able is printed , the unthinkable is thought , and there is a sense , throughout the country , of being on the brink . There has been a de facto suspension of the state of emergency , and rumor has it Nelson Mandela will be home by Christmas . So much energy has been expended on the demands for these changes  --  both in South Africa and in the international community  --  that now that they are being met it is tempting to cry " victory " and dance with the octogenarians and com  --  rades in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have declared a willingness to negotiate a settlement . Yes , we should dance , but carefully . Nelson Mandela might well celebrate this Christmas at a dinner table in Soweto , but the designs for the table at which all South Africans must sit and sort out their collective future have yet to be drawn . Walter Sisulu may be free , but his son Zwelalche ? who edits The New Nation ? remains under severe restriction and the paper has just been threatened with a shut  --  down for repeatedly giving " positive publicity " to the A.N.C . Even though the release of Sisulu and seven others in mid-October does make tangible the prospects for resolution of Mark Gevisser writes regularly on South Africa for The Nation .                     