@@330560

Spreading like a brush fire out of control , the violence that has racked South Africa for the past two months last week engulfed areas that had previously been relatively untouched . Outside Cape Town , police and soldiers brutally smashed an effort by antiapartheid forces to hold a mass protest march . The police used shotguns , rubber bullets , whips and tear gas , and were assaulted in turn by rocks , bottles and homemade gasoline bombs . Angry mobs blocked main highways with barricades of burning tires , mattresses and even barbed wire . At least 32 people were killed in the week 's disturbances , most of them by police shotgun fire , bringing to 160 the number who have died since the state of emergency was declared in many black townships . The death toll from political violence over the past year now stands at more than 650 . <P> As the situation in South Africa steadily grew more dangerous , and inevitably began to damage the country 's economy , the government of State President P.W . Botha seemed embarked on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation deteriorated that a senior Washington official was led to remark caustically last week that the Botha government has demonstrated a pronounced tendency " to shoot itself in the foot . " <P> The government has reacted to even the mildest episodes of unrest by calling out legions of police . After responding to the worldwide condemnation of apartheid by hinting that genuine reform was on the way , it abruptly reversed itself in Botha 's blunt reaffirmation of the present system . It fought a school boycott in the black township of Soweto two weeks ago by arresting more than 700 black youngsters , many of them no more than eight or ten years old . Last week , when Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu 's son Trevor , 29 , expressed his indignation that a nine-year-old was being brought before a magistrate for participating in the school boycott , the authorities claimed that the younger Tutu had uttered an obscenity and slapped a 14-day detention order on him . When the Rev. Allan Boesak , president of the World Alliance of Reformed Churches and one of the country 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through with the plan to stage a peaceful demonstration to demand the release of Black Politician Nelson Mandela , he was arrested under a law that permits the authorities to hold him indefinitely . Mandela , a principal leader of the African National Congress ( A.N.C. ) , has been in prison for more than 20 years . In a further crackdown , the government outlawed the country 's largest organization of black secondary school pupils , the Congress of South African Students . The group is an affiliate of the United Democratic Front ( U.D.F. ) , the multiracial antiapartheid organization that has been at the center of the current protests .                     