@@480916

Excerpted from an interview with Yehoshafat Harkabi , in the Spring issue of World Policy Journal . Harkabi was head of military intelligence in Israel from 1955 to 1959 and was Prime Minister Menachem Begin ' s intelligence adviser in 1977 , He teaches international relations at Hebrew University in Jerusalem . The interview was conducted by Robert I. Friedman , a journalist in New York City . FRIEDMAN : In your book Arab Attitwles to Israel , written in 1965 , you described Arab hostility to the Jewish state as being so extreme that nothing short of Israel 's destruction could satisfy it . In your latest book , Israel 's Fateful Hour , you write that the Arab position ? especially that of the Palestine Liberation Organization ? has moved toward accepting Israel 's existence within the framework of a two-state solution . And since the publication of your book , the PLO has explicitly recognized Israel and renounced terrorism . Do the PLO 's moves represent a genuine change of position or are they merely efforts to achieve a tactical advantage ? HARKABI : I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether and how its position is consolidated will depend very much on the reaction from Israel . An extremist Arab position stands on its own , independent of the Israeli position . But an Arab moderate position is not autonomous ; it is affected by the Israeli response . FRIEDMAN : Despite the evidence of changes in the Palestinian position , the official Israeli view , of course , is that the PLO is basically a terrorist organization and therefore unworthy of serving as a negotiating partner . HARKABI : In my opinion , there is a lot of exaggeration surrounding the whole subject of terrorism , and I believe there is some dishonesty as well . Israeli leaders do not really reject the PLO because it is a terrorist organization ; they reject the PLO because it aspires to be a national movement aiming to establish a state . But that is impolitic to admit , so instead Israel 's leaders stress the issue of terrorism . The truth is , we actually suffer relatively little terrorism . And the PLO is not now engaged in what it calls external @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This does not necessarily mean that the PLO has forsworn all acts of violence . But I do n't expect the PLO to stop struggling against Israel , because ? let 's be honest ? if it were to stop struggling against us , who would care about the Palestinian plight ? We have to admit that the Palestinians have succeeded in attracting attention through terrorism . Terrorism is ugly ( I do n't condone any terrorist acts , whatever their source ) , but put yourself in the shoes of the Palestinians and ask yourself what you would do ? climb on the roof and shout , " We deserve a state of our own ! " ? Who would pay attention to that ? The issue of terrorism has been deliberately exaggerated by Israel 's leaders . This has a useful political purpose : it serves to distort the Palestinians by presenting them as perpetrators of despicable acts who do not have a national movement with legitimate goals and grievances ; their movement merely expresses a lust for murder . This " terrorization " of the Palestinians thus undermines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's clear that in the end Israel will have to negotiate with the PLO . I do n't consider the 28 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE/ JULY 1989 PLO the prince of my dreams . It 's an ugly organization . ( They , too , may consider us ugly ; I can understand that . ) But it 's all we 've got . There is no hope of a local Arab leadership distancing itself from the PLO . Any attempt to drive a wedge between the PLO and the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza is doomed to failure . Even the Islamic rioters who criticize the PLO for its moderation still declare that it represents them . By describing the PLO as basically a terrorist organization we therefore criminalize not only the PLO but the whole Palestinian community . Such a stance is wrong both politically and morally . FRIEDMAN : Nevertheless , Israeli government leaders such as Yitzhak Shamir and Deputy Foreign Minister Benjamin Netanyahu insist that Yasir Arafat only wants the West Bank so that he can use it as a base to continue his attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to liquidating Israel and to that end has adopted a " strategy of stages , " which could even include a peace settlement . They point to various PLO leaders , such as Abu lyad , who , they allege , still talk about liberating Palestine a piece at a time until Haifa and Jaffa and Acre are all in PLO hands . What is to prevent the PLO from pursuing such a strategy of stages once it has wrested the West Bank from Israel through negotiations ? FEARKASI : Israel is enmeshed in a big contradiction . Israel considers itself a big power in the Middle East , one that can defeat the Arab states . But when it comes to the Palestinians , who are weak ? they do not have a state , a government , or an army ? suddenly Israel declares itself helpless . One has to question the integrity of this claim . I 'm not saying that Israel has no legitimate security concerns . But it is not security considerations that prevent Shamir and others from giving up the West Bank . What motivates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of entitlement to the occupied lands , which they refer to by their biblical names , Judea and Samaria . Israelis do n't understand that the PLO 's recent moves are of global , historical importance . It used to be that the Zionists were the conciliatory party ? ready for partition , ready for a two-state solution . And that is why Zionism ultimately triumphed ; our conciliatory position won worldwide support . If there is a Jewish state today , it is not just because of the efforts of the Jews but because of the world 's support . The Arab acceptance of a two-state position ? while Israel now accepts only a one-state solution ? will bring a radical change in the world 's support for Israel , including that of the United States . The Americans have addressed their demands only to the Palestinians ? demands that amounted to acceptance of a two-state solution . Now that the Palestinians have satisfied the American demands , they will turn around and say to the Americans , " You asked us to agree to a two-state solution and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand to the Israelis ? " FRIEDMAN : It must have been very difficult for Arafat and others in the PLO to finally accept the principle of partition . If these PLO leaders can make the psychological leap and call for negotiations with Israel , why ca n't Israel come to terms with the PLO ? HARKABI : I believe that Israel can come to terms with the PLO and will be forced to negotiate with it . We see throughout history that people have held certain positions adamantly but that eventually they have given them up . Nixon established diplomatic relations with communist China ; de Gaulle accepted Algerian independence . They did n't do it because they wanted to ? each surely would have preferred another option ? but they realized that there was no other option . Sometimes this realization comes of its own accord , sometimes because of outside pressure . By the time that happens , however , Israel may have to pay a high price . What I 'm most concerned about is ensuring that Israel gets the best deal possible , and l 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will get a better deal than if it comes to the negotiating table on all fours , goaded by the big powers or by circumstances . The sooner Israelis wake up to this fact , the better . My basic criticism of Israel 's leaders is that they ignore this fact and , therefore , they are going to bring about a situation in which Israel will have to settle for the worst conditions . FRIEDMAN : Shamir is expected to respond to the PLO 's recent diplomatic offensive and to pressures from Washington by proposing that some form of limited autonomy ? along the lines of Camp David ? be granted to the Palestinians in the territories . But autonomy , Likud-style , means Palestinian participation in Jordanian political life and integration into Israeli economic life . Is this a realistic option ? Is it something that the Palestinians would ever accede to ? And can the Camp David accords be resurrected by Shamir ? HARKABI : First of all , what you are describing is not Camp David ; it is a distorted version of Camp David . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading to not less but more autonomy , probably culminating in full Palestinian independence . ( It is not spelled out in the agreement . ) What kind of world is it that Likud envisions ? one in which the French will vote in the British parliament ! It wo n't work ; it can not work . The Arabs wo n't accept that only the Jews deserve to have a state of their own , while the Palestinians are somehow inferior compared with the Jews and thus must resign themselves to autonomy under Israel 's tutelage . My complaint against Israel 's leaders is that this kind of thinking relegates them to historical irrelevancy . As a result , history will be made elsewhere , and the price will be paid by Israel and the Israelis . Likud is living in an ideological cocoon . Its leaders assert that Israel must remain steadfast on the present borders . This idea of standing fast derives from Vladimir Jabotinsky 's idea of an " iron wall . " Jabotinsky , the Zionist Revisionist and ideological forebear of Menachem Begin who catapulted Likud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he countered inflexibly until they come to terms with the existence of the Jewish state . But what if the Arabs , too , erect an iron wall ? The Jabotinsky-Begin ethos is bankrupt , and that is very difficult for these people to accept . I can understand the appeal this ethos has ? rooted , as it is , in the tragedies experienced by European Jewry . I can sympathize with their tragedy , but why should our grandchildren have to pay for those experiences ? That is what haunts me most ? that we might betray our children and grandchildren , because a settlement , which we now perhaps can reach , though with great difficulty , will be impossible once there is an Arah majority in Israel . Why should we expect the Arabs to be conciliatory when they are in the majority and when world opinion is arrayed against Israel ? FRIEDMAN : What do you think are the contours of a viable settlement , and how would Israel 's security be guaranteed ? HARKABI : One thing is clear : you can not persuade the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you can not persuade an Israeli or a Jew that Judea and Samaria are not Israel . That is , both sides will have to differentiate between homeland and statemotedet and madina in Hebrew ; watan and dawla in Arabic . The solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict requires that both Israelis and Palestinians resign themselves to the arrangement that their respective states will occupy only part of their homeland . There will be two states , with each people exercising their political rights in their respective state , though each will have sentimental attachments to the territory of both . I 'm basically an optimist . I do not believe , as others do , that the situation is irreversible . There are no Gordian knots in history .                     