@@480709

" At fifty , " George Orwell said , " everyone has the face he deserves . " If this is true , the most deserved faces in America are surely those of the famous and powerful . Though some of our celebrities inadvertently manage to remove themselves from the glittering ranks of the notorious at an untimely age , the vast majority live long enough to reach their final and most telling appearance . A few lucky ones achieve apotheosis . Others suffer the dire fate of self-caricature , becoming stylized grotesques of their younger selves . Max Beerbohm , the British essayist and caricaturist , published a series of drawings in 1925 called The Old and the Young Self . In these drawings , Beerbohm imagined his subjects in youth and old age and caused the two selves to meet . The American repertory company of celebrity clearly merits similar treatment . How might the two selves of Richard Nixon look to each other ? Or Andy Warhol ? Or David Letterman ? Harper 's Magazine invited a group of artists to choose suitable subjects and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This series ? one of the most striking and Maxian of Max 's achievements as a caricaturist ? shows his subjects simultaneously in youth and in age , the Young Self confronting the Old Self . They are like little novels , done in a single drawing and a line or two of dialogue ? Max 's convex mirror miniaturizing a lifetime . By collapsing time altogether , by wiping out the inconvenient gap between the present and the past , by bringing the Young Self and the Old onto the stage at the same moment and letting them exchange a few words , he was able to dramatize the passage of time and catch the essence of a man 's character . ? from Portrait of Max , by S. N. Behrman Anita Kunz 's work has appeared in the London Sunday Times , Esquire , and Rolling Stone . Balvis Rubess is an illustrator and has worked as a designer for Porsche . David Suter 's drawings have appeared in Time , the Washington Post , and on the Op-Ed page of the New York Times . His first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Available Press/Bahantine . The Prenatal Abyss The cradle rocks above an abyss , and common sense tells us that our existence is but a brief crack of light between two eternities of darkness . Although the two are identical twins , man , as a rule , views the prenatal abyss with more calm than the one he is heading for ( at some forty-five hundred heartbeats an hour ) . I know , however , of a young chronophobiac who experienced something like panic when looking for the first time at homemade movies that had been taken a few weeks before his birth . He saw a world that was practically unchanged ? the same house , the same people ? and thenrealized that he did not exist there at all and that nobody mourned his absence . He caught a glimpse of his mother waving from an upstairs window , and that unfamiliar gesture disturbed him , as if it were some mysterious farewell . But what particularly frightened him was the sight of a brand-new baby carriage standing there on the porch , with the smug , encroaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if , in the reverse course of events , his very bones had disintegrated .... ? from Speak , Memory , by Vladimir Nabokov Michael Heath 's work appears regularly in Punch , the Spectator , and Private Eye . The Touch of the Chisel I saw Gilberte coming across the room towards me . For me the marriage of Saint-Loup and the thoughts which filled my mind at that date ? and which were still there , unchanged , this very morning ? might have belonged to yesterday , so that I was astonished to see at her side a girl of about sixteen , whose tall figure was a measure of that distance which I had been reluctant to see . Time , colourless and inapprehensible Time , so that I was almost able to see it and touch it , had materialised itself in this girl , moulding her into a masterpiece , while correspondingly , on me , alas ! it had merely done its work . .. . I was struck too by the way in which her nose , imitating in this the model @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was cut off by just that absolutely horizontal line at its base , that same brilliant if slightly tardy stroke of design ? a feature so individual that with its help , even without seeing anything else of a head , one could have recognised it out of thousands ? and it seemed to me wonderful that at the critical moment nature should have returned , like a great and original sculptor , to give to the granddaughter , as she had given to her mother and her grandmother , that significant and decisive touch of the chisel . I thought her very beautiful : still rich in hopes , full of laughter , formed from those very years which I myself had lost , she was like my own youth . ? from Le temps retrouye , by Marcel Proust                     