@@298243

It was 2 o'clock in the morning , and Muammar Gaddafi was weary . As host of an Organization of African Unity ( O.A.U. ) summit , he had been working around the clock for more than a week to try to salvage the conference . When not whisking about in his pale blue Bedouin robes or stylish dark suit , with half a dozen Kalashnikov-toting female bodyguards in blue berets swelling his progress , Gaddafi had spent the previous few days reading reports and consulting with other Arabs about the news from Lebanon . None of it was good from his standpoint . He had just seen off the last of his African guests and changed into a loose-fitting short-sleeve shirt and slacks . The exhaustion showed on his face and sounded in his voice . Instead of English , which he speaks well , he preferred to answer questions in Arabic as he conversed with TIME Diplomatic Correspondent Strobe Talbott . Sometimes Gaddafi 's comments were barely audible , but what they lacked in volume , they made up in vehemence . Talbott 's report on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only angrier and more implacable than ever toward Israel and the U.S. , he is disgusted with the Palestine Liberation Organization for even entertaining the idea of leaving Beirut , with the neighboring Arab states for accepting the Palestinians , and with the Soviet Union for not somehow preventing the U.S. from letting Israel get away with the invasion . <P> While refusing to name countries , Gaddafi was scathing about the eight states that have tentatively agreed to accept the P.L.O. , including Syria , with which Libya is supposedly still negotiating a merger . " The reactionary Arab regimes that have had a hand in arranging the expulsion of the Palestinian resistance will themselves face the revenge of the Palestinians , " Gaddafi said . " If the Palestinian fighters are dispersed to several Arab countries , the regimes there will suffer unrest . There will be destabilization in those countries . Moreover , the Palestinians will find a way to return to Lebanon and to fight against Israel across a number of fronts . Then perhaps the world will see that the only solution is to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic state . " Such a state , in Gaddafi 's view , would not exist alongside Israel . It would supplant Israel . <P> Gaddafi is equally furious with Yasser Arafat and the central P.L.O . leadership for agreeing to leave Lebanon . " The fact is that right-wing Palestinians and right-wing Arab regimes have been accomplices in bringing about this shameful catastrophe , this disaster that has befallen the civilians of Lebanon and this threat to international peace . I believe the current leadership of the Palestinians has lost the justification for its existence . Out of this whole situation will perhaps come a new leadership that will be able to undo the disaster in Beirut , one that will be able to take over from the old leadership now that it has been defeated and discredited . "                     