@@480566

On March 11 , 1983 , President Reagan issued to all agencies and departments in the executive branch " National Security Decision Directive -- 84 on Safeguarding National Security Information . " It was based on recommendations made a year earlier by an interdepartmental group chaired by Richard K. Willard , a top official in the Justice Department . The directive stated that all government employees with access to highly classified information must sign a form requiring them for the rest of their lives to submit any books or articles they write to a government censor before publishing them . Prior to the directive , only the CIA and the National Security Agency had insisted that their employees agree to prepublication review . Willard drafted the new " Nondisclosure Agreement , " and the first copies of it were made public last August 25 . It is estimated that more than 127,000 individuals would be compelled to " accept the obligations contained in this Agreement . " President Reagan , as an elected official , would not have to sign ; all nonelected high-level officials dealing with national security and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Defense departments would make up the bulk of those signing . The Administration has not explained how this vastly expanded review system would be set up or how much it would cost . " SCI " ( Sensitive Compartmented Information ) involves intelligence sources and methods . It is classified and " compartmented , " that is , shown only to those who absolutely need to see it . SCI is said to be the sort of information that , if revealed , " could cause irreparable injury to the United States . " According to the General Accounting Office , during the past five years SCI has been leaked through either writings or speeches of current or former government employees exactly twice . It is not known if these leaks would have been prevented by the review procedure , because the GAO will not say if people with official access to Sal were responsible . Fiord Abrams is a partner in the New York law firm of Cahill Gordon 6 ' Reindel . He is a lecturer at the Columbia University School of Law and has argued numerous First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nondisclosure Agreement An Agreement between ( Name ? Prod or Tyr 1 . Intending to be legally bound , I hereby accept the obligations contained in this Agreement in consideration of my being granted access to information known as Sensitive Compartmented Information ( SCI ) . I have been advised and am aware that SCI involves or derives from intelligence sources or methods and is classified or classifiable under the standards of Executive Order 12356 or under other Executive order or stature . I understand and accept that by being granted access to SCI , special confidence and trust shall be placed in me by the United States Government . 2. 1 hereby acknowledge that I have received a security indoctrination concerning the nature and protection of SCI , including the procedures to be followed in ascertaining whether other persons to whom I contemplate disclosing this information have been approved for access to it , and that 1 understand these procedures . I understand that I may be required to sign subsequent agreements as a condition of being granted access to different categories of SC1 . I further understand that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not I am required to sign such subsequent agreements . 3 . I have been advised and am aware that direct or indirect unauthorized disclosure , unauthorized retention , or negligent handling of SCI by me could cause irreparable injury to the United States or could be used to advantage by a foreign nation . I hereby agree that I will never divulge such information unless I have officially verified that the recipient has been properly authorized by the United States Government to receive it or I have been given prior written notice of authorization from the United States Government Department or Agency ( hereinafter Department or Agencyl last granting me either a security clearance or an SCI access approval that such disclosure is rmit. ( ed. 4 . I further understand that I am obligated to comply with laws and regulations that prohibit the unauthorized disclosure of classified information . As used in this Agreement , classified information is information that is classified under the standards of E.O . 12356 , or under any other Executive order or statute that prohibits the unauthorized disclosure of information in the interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access re SCI and of being assigned or retained in a position of special confidence and trust requiring access to SCI and other and the United States classified information , I hereby agree to submit for security review by the Department or Agency last granting me either a security clearance or an SCI access approval all materials , including works of fiction , that I contemplate disclosing to any person not authorized to have such information , or that I have prepared for public disclosure , which contain or purport to contain : any SCI , any description of activities that produce or relate to SCI , or any information derived from SCI ; ( 3 ) any classified tnformarion from intelligence reports or estimates ; or ( c ) any information concerning intelligence activities , sources , or methods . understand and agree that my obligation to submit such information and materials for review applies during the course of my access to SCI and at all times thereafter . However , I am not required to submit for review any such materials that exclusively contain information lawfully obtained by me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or other relationship with the United States Government , and which are to be published at such time 6 . I agree to make the submissions described in paragraph 5 prior to discussing the information or materials with , or showing them to , anyone who is not authorized to have access to such information . I further agree that ! will not disclose such information or materials unless I have officially verified that the recipient has been properly authorized by the United States Government to receive it or I have been given written authorization from the Department or Agency last granting me either a security clearance or an SCI access approval that such disclosure is permitted . 7 . I tikierstand that the purpose of the review described in paragraph 5 is to give the United Stares a reasonable opportunity to determine whether the in formation or materials submitted pursuant to paragraph 5 set forth any SC1 or other information that is subiect to classification under E.O . 12356 or under any other Executive order or statute that prohibits the unauthorized disclosure of information in the interest of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which 1 have submitted materials will act upon them , coordinating with the Intelligence Community or other agencies when appropriate , and substantively respond to me within 3 ( 1 working days from date of receipt . All the departments and agencies of the executive branch began formally " classifying " information pursuant to an executive order of President Truman in 1951 . Prior to that , only the military classified information . Under the new system , classified documents began piling up at a remarkable rate . The Information Security Oversight Office says there are currently 1,434,668 " top secrets " ? and each one has generated an average of 20 classified documents . In April 1982 , President Reagan issued Executive Order 12356 , which repealed several reforms the Carter Administration had undertaken to limit classification and do away with unnecessary secrecy . Since 1980 , the number of documents reviewed for possible declassification has decreased by 78 percent . In 1982 , the Pentagon classified weather information about the Falkland Islands . The generals , like most of us , were getting their information from the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the sale of copies of Decent Interval , written by former CIA agent Frank Snepp . The book criticizes the agency for abandoning its local operatives during the fall of Saigon ; Snepp did not submit it to CIA censors for review . He signed six nondisclosure agreements while working for the CIA ; the last one said he must submit only writings containing government secrets . But the first one he signed said he must submit all written material for review , and that is the one the Supreme Court declared valid in 1980 . The CIA conceded that Decent Interval does not reveal one item of classified information . Signature Social Security Number ( see notice Wow ) The execution of this Agreement was witnessed by the undersigned , and accepted it as a prior condition of authorizing access to Smirive C The " remedy " of a prior restraint ? " a court order prohibiting disclosure " ? has been viewed historically , in the words of Chief Justice Warren Burger , as the most serious and the least tolerable infringement on First Amendment rights . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , requires that federal agenci whether the disclosure is mandatory or voluntary , by what authority marten . You are hereby advised that authority for soliciting your Soc be used to identify you precisely when it is necessary ro Ocettlfy the that your access to the information indicated has terminated . or 5 ) to closure of your SSN is nor mandatory , your failure to do so may mix What does requiring officials to submit their writings " at all times " after leaving government mean in a nutsand-bolts way for newspapers and magazines ? The editor of Foreign Policy , former Assistant Secretary of State Charles William Maynes , notes that 34 percent of the articles published by the journal since 1970 would have been subject to review under the Administration 's plan : all told , 222 articles . In 1982 , according to one study , the New York Times and four other leading newspapers published more than 300 articles that the censors would have insisted on seeing . How many men and women will sign this agreement " without mental reservation " ? Robert L. Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a former government scientist , told a House subcommittee last October that the prepublication review requirement will " take its toll by reducing the willingness of academics to accept government responsibilities . " If there had been such a requirement when Nobel laureate James Tobin was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers , he would have had to submit his book The New Economics One Decade Older . Only a handful of low-level officials have signed the agreement , most of them new employees . No top White House official has signed , and there is resistance to prepublication review throughout the government . Congress put a moratorium on the use of the agreement last November 22 . Worried that Congress might move to kill the plan outright , the Administration has backed off for now , and the President has said he will seek a " bipartisan solution . " But he has not revoked the directive . Nor has Richard Willard lost faith in the plan . He said recently that the real security problem was not leaks through books , articles , and speeches , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House . " But the disclosure of information in books and speeches , " he said , " is something we could do something about . "                     