@@487755

It came up by chance , or apparently so . Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams was testifying on December 5 before a Hotise Foreign Affairs subcommittee when a Republican Congressman asked him about the Nicaraguan helicopter shot down by contras the previous day . Cubans were piloting the craft , Abrams offered , which fact revealed the sinister extent of Castro 's takeover in Central America . " You now have Cubans fighting , not just in Africa but on the mainland of North America , " he stated . " Cubans are running the war . " The helicopter incident does suggest that an escalation of the conflict has begun , although it has nothing to do with Cuban imperialism . It may be only mischievous nonsense for Abrams to assert that Cuba is running the Nicaraguan defense  --  not even the biased U.S. press . in Managua writes that  --  but it is fair to say that the United States is directing the contra effort . The Washington Post , among others , has reported that the rebels ' strategy flows directly from the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extensive U.S. military and intelligence presence in Honduras and other Central American oases has a hand in the hostilities . But it 's just not credible to claim that the contras would use a surface-to-air missile for the first time in Nicaragua without some form of assent from the Reagan Administration : a nod , a wink , a thumbs up or more official terms of agreement . The main contra force , the F.D.N. , has had the weapohs for a long time , but they have been restrained from using them precisely because their introduction would so clearly constitute an escalation . The Nicaraguans have indicated their interest in getting jet fighters to protect their MI-8 transport helicopters  --  one of which was the target of the contra missile  --  but the United States has warned them that any such - procurement would invite airborne retribution . Against that threat , Nicaragua says that it will have to get its own MIGs if the United States replaces Honduras 's old Mystere fighters with new American F-5s . The balance of power and weaponry in Central America is precarious , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the contra missile has shattered it . Whether or not the Administration approved the firing in advance , a simple word of caution or a second thought might have restabilized the situation . Secretary of State Shultz offered just the opposite . " Thank goodness that they did get hold of some weapons that can knock these choppers down , " he exulted . What will he say when the Nicaraguans move to protect their choppers in the air , which is their right and their responsibility ? Or if the neighboring Salvadoran rebels of the F.M.L.N . acquire surface-to-air missiles and use them against the U.S. planes now laying waste much of the countryside ? One shot can resonate throughout the region , with deadly consequences . The Administration is already using the Cuban bogey to justify increased U.S. military involvement in Nicaragua . Soon after the first of the year , President Reagan will ask Congress for a sizable appropriation for " lethal aid " to the contras  --  none of that " humanitarian " masquerade anymore . Another in the endless series of military exercises in Honduras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a permanent feature of the U.S. war effort in Central America . The shadowy strategists of the contra show are preparing to launch an F.D.N. second front from the Costa Rican border to replace the failed effort of Eden Pastora and his rebels , who proved to be squeamish about accepting old assassins , torturers and thieves from the Somoza National Guard into their ranks . In the United States , the battle to stop the next phase of the Administration 's escalation will be more difficult than ever . Liberal Democrats who blocked the military aid appropriation last spring admitted as the vote was being tallied that it would be their last clear legislative victory . Before Daniel Ortega ever took off for Moscow , they were searching their political linen closets for a likely towel to throw into the ring . The $27 million humanitarian aid package fairly sailed through Congress , and in an election year it looks like only a national political effort will convince representatives that there is a constituency against intervention . Sun City ' Rap S City " is a song , an album @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book and a kind of spontaneous media movement against apartheid in South Africa and complicity with racism in the United States . It partakes of this year 's most popular political model , message music , but it is as different from " We Are the World " as " The Battle Hymn of the Republic " is from " Old Folks at Home . " The multimedia " Sun City " package represents an extraordinary collabora ' tion of multiracial and multicultural elements , with the purpose of raising consciousness at least as much as raising money . It ' agitates more than it sanctifies , and it calls on its audience to press for change rather than to petition for charity . And as one critic remarked , " It makes every other message song seem like a nursery rhyme . " The actual Sun City is a Lag Vegas-like resort in the phony South African black " homeland " of Bophuthatswana , where white South Africans and token blacks with the means to engage in travel and leisure can escape to enjoy Dance of Death FRITZ EICHENBERG Sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the editorialist 's words . The woodcuts on this and the following pages , by Fritz Eichenberg , demonstrate this principle . They were selected from a cycle of engravings that comment on the dark and inescapable outrages of our time . During his long and distinguished career Eichenberg has frequently wielded his pen and engraving tool against political folly , beginning with the rise of Adolph Hitler in his native Germany . He is well known as an illustrator of fine editions , teacher , printmaker and pacifist . ? The Editors December 21 , 1985 The Nation . the guilty pleasures banned or restricted within the official borders of the white nation . Linda Ronstadt , Rod Stewart , Ray Charles and Frank Sinatra , among others , have performed there for huge fees . But Africans struggling against the Pretoria regime organized a Sun City boycott on the ground that the very existence of the resort and the international cultural support it drew were designed to legitimize the apartheid system by creating an artificial exception  --  the way the homelands themselves were meant to legitimize white rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and hundreds of local organizations throughout the world followed suit . " Sun City , " the song , album , etc. , mobilized a cast of musical greats and unknowns , from Bruce Springsteen and Pat Benatar to Via Afrika and the Malopoets of Soweto , to urge their fellow artists in song and dance not to play tie resort . With a mixture of rock , rap , reggae , salsa , jazz , - African sounds and British beat , the hard-driving rhythms create a new kind of protest music aimed at a mass audience that has been lulled into passivity or escapism . The lyrics specifically attack the Reagan Administration 's hypocritical policy of " constructive engagement , " and the video version intercuts shots of the singers hip-hopping down New York 's mean streets with searing images of streets of fire in African townships and Alabama cities . " What we waived to do , " said one of the directors , " was to bring the South Bronx to Bophuthatswana . " This month Penguin Books began selling an instant paperback about the making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It contains a slip-out fact sheet and guide to activism , which the organizers hope schools and colleges will use to fuel the growing antiapartheid movement . Naturally , the oppositional character of " Sun City " does not sit easily with political managers and cultural commissars in South Africa or the United States . Radio stations in both countries have banned the song . Some program directors here say they wo n't play it because it 's " too controversial " ; others insist " it does n't fit our format , " which is another way of saying it sounds too black for delicate white ears . But the video is climbing into the Top Ten in Silencing of the press is evil in its arrogant disregard of the right of the people to know what is going on . Moreover , press sanctions can backfire . Instead of quieting down an issue , they can inflame it . That was indeed the case.e After the blackout was announced , thirteen people were killed in Mamelodi in one day . We salute Winnie Mandela for her courage in defying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by speaking at a funeral there on December 3 . A Christmas Story 1 And it came to pass in those days that Congress in the land of Washington passed on October 19 , 1984 , a decree called the United States Institute of 0 Peace Act . Now many of the citizens considered the act a Good Thing , for it affirmeth that studying ways to end war was a legitimate concern of the government of the United States . The lawmakers appropriated $14 million for it ; then on the sixth day they recessed , saying , Lo , it is a Good Thing . 2 . Now in that same place dwelled a President named Pontius Maximus Reagan . When he looked upon this edict of Congress he said , Lo , it is a Bad Thing , but I ca n't veto it because it is attached to the defense appropriations bill . Sorely tried , Pontius Reagan plotted his revenge , though whenever he spake to the people he always said , Yea , peace is a Good Thing . 3 . Now the wise men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law said that Pontius Maximus Reagan must appoint unto it a board of directors . Days , weeks , months , went by but no word came down from Pontius Reagan . After the April 20 deadline passed , many forgot the Peace Institute , for though it was a Good Thing , there were matters of greater moment , such as Pontius ' decree that the taxes of all his subjects should be reformed . 4 . Meanwhile , Pontius Reagan 's wise men came unto him and said , Lo , we have seen a Red Star in the East . The peo , . pie wish you to make , peace , so you should go forth unto Geneva , in the land of the Swiss , and proclaim , Peace on earth , good will to all men . Pontius Reagan did as he was admonished , and spake as he was told . But he also said that the Red Star was a false sign and that he had found the true star ? Star Wars , to be exact  --  which would bring peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 . Upon returning to his palace , Pontius Reagan summoned his wise men to advise him about the Peace Institute , for the appointments to its board were long overdue . If I wash my hands of this cursed institute , he said , people will say I do n't think peace is a Good Thing . But if I do what Congress wants I 'll seem to be approving of the institute . I am sorely tried ; get me out of this fix . And so the wise men , said unto him , 0 great tribune , do as you did when you appointed James Watt , of the Interior- Department to ravage the land , and Ann Burford to the Environmental Protection Agency to ravage the environment , and Mark Fowler to the Federal Communications Commission to ravage public-interest broadcasting , and Kenneth Adelman to the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency to ravage disarmament . Pontius Reagan said , Yea , verily. 6 . And so he appointed the new members of the Institute for Peace , and their names inclUded John Norton Moore , archconservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the University of Virginia ; W. Bruce Weinrod of the Heritage Foundation ; Dennis Bark of the Hoover Institution ; W. Scott Thompson , a board member of the Committee for the Present Danger ; Allen Weinstein , president of the Center for Democracy and latter-day persecutor of Alger Hiss ; and Evron Kirkpatrick , husband of Jeane . Named as ex officio members were Kenneth Adelman ; Richard Perle , Assistant Secretary of Defense for Inter national Security Policy ; and Lieut . Gen. Richard D. Lawrence , president of the National Defense University . 7 . Lo , that night an angel of the Lord came unto Pontius Reagan and said , You ' call this peace on earth , good will to men ? Yea , replied Reagan . Peace is a Good Thing , but a defense buildup is a Better Thing .                     