@@432027

 | Influential Americans are entering the 1980s worried that their political leaders are unwilling or unable to grapple with the stubborn problems that confront the nation at home and abroad . The portrait of national discouragement emerges in the seventh annual nationwide survey of leadership conducted by US.News and World Report . Despite the promise offered by a presidential-election year , hundreds of leaders in 28 fields ranging from banking to labor hold a dreary view of America 's prospects . Aggravating the pessimism is the widespread opinion that America is getting less than it deserves , that the likely alternatives for President in November will offer voters second-best choices in a time of national crisis . " There 's no best candidate in either party , " said one of the 1,569 leaders who replied to the magazine 's questionnaire . " The U.S. seems to lack the type of leadership the history books indicate we used to have . " Disappointment and frustration abound . Fully 63 percent of those who replied to the survey said President Carter 's leadership today is no better than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . " The system is failing , " lamented Dr. William R. Roy , a Kansas physician who once served in Congress . " We need to carefully consider a modified parliamentary system . " Kathleen M. Haddad , editor of the University of Cincinnati News Record , was so troubled by what she called a lack of White House leadership that she said it was " imperative that one six-year term be initiated . " Like other Presidents , she said , Carter " is victimizing the U.S. citizenry through election-year politics . " Paralyzed leadership ? Underlying the frustration , influential Americans said , is inaction by the White House and Congress on serious daily problems such as inflation , energy development and conservation , national defense , government growth and spending . Yet , ironically , American leaders still are looking to the federal government and federal officials for solutions . Two of the five most influential institutions listed in the responses are part of the federal government , as are 15 of the 20 persons named most influential . The six issues described as most troubling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but angered by few results , opinion makers lashed out with criticism . Congress , said Union Theological Seminary President Donald W. Shriver , Jr. , is " largely unable to exercise leadership in getting the country to face the most serious of our problems : Energy and inflation . Who in Congress is making it his business to look after the country ? " The President faced even sharper complaints . David Y. Denholm , president of the Public Service Research Council , said Carter is " not really capable of leading . He symbolizes our aspirations but does not move us toward them . " " The economy is in rapid decline , and no firm program has been pursued to alter the situation , " declared Dr. Jack E. White , director of Howard University 's cancer center in Washington , D.C. " American prestige abroad is waning because of errors in international relationships , poor intelligence and declining military strength . " Argued Chester R. Upham , Jr. , Republican state chairman in Texas : " Inflation , energy , national security and for- page deleted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strauss more influential , as well . Blacks were seen as losing influence . Activist Jesse Jackson was the only black among the 40 most influential citizens , compared with last year when he and then-United Nations Ambassador Andrew Young were called influential . The overriding tone of frustration in comments by top opinion molders signaled expectations of troubled times for the nation . Traditional American optimism ? the belief that citizens and leaders can overcome problems ? clearly has been battered . Yet , below the surface , hope still flowers . " At first , after recent presidents , I thought that the country was simply ungovernable , " said one woman . " I no longer believe that . We simply have n't had a person in charge who had the ability to run it . " New Faces Join Nation 's Leaders A spreading sense of declining American fortunes domestically and overseas is propelling a new breed of leaders into the forefront of national influence ? economic and foreign-policy advisers who traditionally labor backstage with little public notice . Increasing recognition of the importance of these specialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worsening inflation and energy woes domestically and troubling U.S. setbacks around the world . The decision-making establishment considers Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker second only to President Carter as the leader who " through position , power , ability or wealth " has the most control over national policy . Reflecting the same focus on economic concerns , the nation 's most influential citizens ranked Chase Manhattan Bank Chairman David Rockefeller more influential than at any time since the survey began in 1974 . Labor unions and AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland were considered less influential than were unions or the AFL-CIO presidency in the days of George Meany . The same group of 1,569 who responded to the survey viewed the President 's national-security adviser , Zbigniew Brzezinski , as the third-most-influential citizen ? a degree of power never before enjoyed by a White House aide . Secretary of State Cyrus Vance also was considered more powerful than at any time in the last three years . While the survey found Americans regarding President Carter and the White House as more important than any other individual or institution in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the man . " The Presidency , " said Arthur S. Miller , professor of law at George Washington University , " is the most powerful single office in the world . When Carter sneezes ? in whatever direction ? the nation and the world catch cold . " Activist Jesse Jackson added : " Because of his : eal , imagined and centralized power . . . a President can set a tone , inform , educate and therefore influence public opinion and decisions as no one else can . " Worth noting : Few scholars , doctors , lawyers , government officials or business people saw any improvement in national leadership . Almost two thirds rated Carter 's record no better than in 1979 . The Senate and House were considered less influential than before , as were their leaders . Congressional influence may be on the wane because the country perceives inaction on Capitol Hill . Jarvis E. Miller , president of Texas A &M; University , found an " almost complete lack of leadership and statesmanship " and too much concentration on stopgap approaches by Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the wide-ranging influence of Rosalynn Carter . Consistently before the public eye as a campaign surrogate for the President , the First Lady now is regarded as the sixth-most-influential citizen ? up from 23rd last year . Who runs America ? Leaders in 28 fields inside and outside government agreed on these choices : Jimmy Carter , 55 , President of the United States Without regard to a Chief Executive 's party or performance , leaders have ranked the President as the most influential citizen in every one of the magazine 's surveys-rand 1980 was no exception . Yet decision makers more than ever expressed concern over the President 's effectiveness . Senator Robert Dole , an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican presidential nomination , faulted Carter for " declining leadership " and for creating " the appearance of competence in foreign affairs ? an appearance sure to fade . " William H. Daley IV , editor of the student newspaper at Manhattanville College in Purchase , N.Y. , said Carter 's " public image is still that of reaction , not action . " Norman B. Hartnett , national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up Carter 's term this way : " War is nearer , inflation is higher , unemployment has increased , taxes approach confiscatory levels and we 're losing stature on an international level . " Despite such criticisms , however , Carter was widely viewed as an honest man battling stubborn problems that often are beyond his control . William A. Medina , a presidential appointee in the Department of Housing and Urban Development , called Carter a man who maintains a " measured pace , does not panic , believes in American people . " Election-year politics have helped improve the President 's leadership , said Allen Y. Zack , director of information for the AFL-CIO . He said that Carter 's performance " improves according to the proximity of an election . " Paul Volcker , 52 , Federal Reserve Board chairman A newcomer to a position of national influence , Volcker 's ranking as the second-most-influential American is indicative of the survey 's finding that economic issues dominate . Not since the 1977 survey has a Federal Reserve Board chairman enjoyed such influence . Volcker 's status was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with unpopular policies . As James D. McMahon , president of the Santa Clarita National Bank in Newhall , Calif. , put it : " It looks like Mr. Volcker and the Federal Reserve may be the only governmental agency concerned with inflation . " Said a member of Congress : " In an economically determined society , the chairman of the Federal Reserve has a concentration of power second only to the President . " Zbigniew Brzezinski , 52 , national-security adviser For the third consecutive year , American decision makers regarded the White House foreign-policy expert as more influential than the Secretary of State . Even more significantly , Brzezinski 's prominence as the third-most-influential citizen dramatizes the grip that the subject of foreign affairs holds on the American scene . The Russian invasion of Afghanistan , as well as the hostage dilemma in Teheran , was widely cited as the reason . Paul M. Weyrich , director of the Committee for the Sur- page deleted  | page deleted  | vival. of a Free Congress , said : " Mr. Brzezinski , for the moment at least , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense issues dominate the current national electoral debate , he must be recognized . " Thomas P. " Tip " O'Neill , Jr. , 67 , House Speaker While the veteran of 28 years continues to be seen as the most influential member of Congress , O'Neill and the institution he heads show signs of losing prestige . The white-haired Speaker ranked second only to Carter in 1977 , after the Georgian 's first year in Washington . For Douglas Fraser , president of the United Auto Workers , O'Neill 's " position of power " and his knowledge about " how to exercise that power " still warrant a high ranking . The House O'Neill heads , however , has slipped from a ranking of sixth in 1975 , after its crucial role in the Watergate hearings , to the rank of 11th . The recent Abscam scandal implicating members of Congress with taking phony bribes offered by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents posing as underworld figures , said radio-news director Gary L. Laing of Dover , Del. , " only confirmed what we all believed . Money ? not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " David Rockefeller , 64 , Chase Manhattan Bank Reflecting the same preoccupation with economic issues that propelled the Federal Reserve chairman into prominence , banker Rockefeller is regarded as the nation 's most influential private citizen . Previously , he had ranked no higher than 10th . Rockefeller 's economic leverage most often was given as the reason for his selection . " The Rockefeller family has always played a prominent role in national affairs and deci , ion making , " said Bill Imada , president of Associated Students at California State University at Northridge . " Their money speaks louder than votes . " Gerald T. Wilkinson , executive director of the National Indian Youth Council , said he considered Rockefeller influential because " the administration does not generate the intellectual energy for policy and implementation internal : . It takes its cues from prominent outsiders . Rockefeller is the outsider with the most knowledge and access . " Not everyone , however , agreed that Rockefeller 's influence was restricted to economic matters . Some pointed to his leadership in the Trilateral Commission and his efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iran . Rosalynn Carter , 52 , First Lady Since moving into the White House in January of 1977 , Mrs. Carter has consistently ranked among the 30 most-influential figures on the national scene . A hectic political schedule in the past year , however , has prompted decision makers to take another look at the extent of her influence . Mrs. Carter is the first woman to rank among the 10 most influential Americans . Georgia State Senator Julian Bond called her the President 's " chief adviser . " U.S. District Court Judge William Campbell of West Palm Beach , Fla. , felt that Mrs. Carter had played a key role in presidential decisions on foreign policy . Said the judge : " It becomes more apparent daily that she is responsible for the recent switch to a firmer position internationally . " Robert Byrd , 62 , Senate majority leader The savvy West Virginian , though still in high-powered company , now is regarded as less influential than at any time since the first year he became Democratic leader . The Senate he leads has also lost stature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year ago when the **25;178;TOOLONG treaty was getting headlines . Still , Byrd is seen as a major force to be reckoned with . Said James D. McComas , president of Mississippi State University : " Senator Byrd has far more power and influence than is immediately apparent . He has quietly but effectively assumed a position of strong political leadership . " Walter Cronkite , 63 , television newsman The importance of television in a presidential election once again has propelled the CBS anchor man into a position of significant national influence . According to leaders surveyed , Cronkite and his medium enjoy greater influence than at any time since the last presidential election . As one lawyer explained : " Television shapes the public 's attitude toward decisions . It influences the public 's perception of what is and is not important . " The media , said a member of Congress , " have an overpowering influence on the American mind . Cyrus Vance , 63 , Secretary of State Judging by respondents ' comments , the former Wall Street lawyer has risen in stature because of foreign-policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently as 1978 , the decision-making elite viewed the Secretary as only the 12th-most-influential American . The qualities Vance brings to his post , however , are widely appreciated . The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh , president of the University of Notre Dame , praised Vance for having a stable " hand on the world crises , steady and calm . " Warren Burger , 72 , Chief Justice of the U.S. The Chief Justice and the Court he leads command less respect today than at any time since the survey of national leaders began . Burger 's current ranking compares with a high of third in 1977 . The Court rates fifth among influential institutions , down from a high of second in the mid-1970s . Perhaps complaints such as those from John R. DiMatteo , president of the Guy Gannett Publishing Company in Portland , Me. , contributed to the decline : " The Supreme Court in recent times has divorced its opinions from simple interpretation of the Constitution and now effectively has become a third legislative house with the power to create law quite differently from the intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Democratic contenders for President this fall is finding much election-year support among key opinion shapers across the U.S. It is newcomers to national politics such as Republicans George Bush and John Anderson who appear to be sparking the most excitement . Behind the lukewarm backing for front-running Democrat Jimmy Carter and Republican Ronald Reagan : An often-voiced conviction that neither is the best America has to offer . Estelle R. Ramey , a professor at Georgetown University 's medical school in Washington , D.C. , looked over the original list of three Democratic and seven major Republican presidential candidates and said : " There is n't much to choose from . Under these circumstances , one selects by exclusion rather than passionate advocacy . " Chicago activist Jesse Jackson held similar views : " I ca n't get excited about any of the above in either party . " Even backers of the President , although hailing his honesty and integrity , often said the first-term executive was ineffective . Carter was ranked the best candidate by 76 percent of the 597 Democrats who rated one of the contenders as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the weeks the survey was conducted . David J. Talbot , news director for radio station WDWS in Champaign , Ill. , called Carter " better than the competition , " adding : " That does n't say much for the quality in politicians , does it ? " " I pick Carter , " stated Donald W. Shriver , Jr. , president of Union Theological Seminary in New York City , " simply because I do not see a better candidate , or a more able person , among his rivals . " William M. Dietel , Rockefeller Brothers Carter 's " assessment ities of many critical ingly ill-informed . " Few leaders , however , were high on the President 's chief Democratic rival . They rated the national influence of Senator Edward Kennedy down compared with last year ? 14th as opposed to second in 1979 . Mirroring the same concerns with character that stymied Kennedy 's early campaign , 33 percent of the Democrats rated the Massachusetts lawmaker " unsuitable . " Only 8 percent held that unfavorable view of Carter . California 's Governor Jerry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsuitable . Brown , said Jim Hampton , editor of the Miami Herald , is " a curiosity . " Republican front-runner Reagan inspired little confidence , either . Only 13 percent of the 822 Republicans who responded said that the former California governor was best . One fourth called him unsuitable ? the highest negative rating of the three remaining contenders for the GOP nomination . Few of the respondents shared the sentiment of syndicated columnist James J. Kilpatrick , who saw Reagan as the " best qualified . " Alaska Governor Jay Hammond liked Reagan but called him " unsuitable simply because he can not win . " And Rita Ricardo Campbell , a senior fellow at Stanford University 's Hoover Institution , said that she supported Reagan only because " I can not find that other candidates are preferable . " Where the backing went . Moderate Republican presidential candidates attracted more support . Returns showed 31 percent ranked Bush the best candidate . " Bush has the brains , experience and ability , " contended Malcolm Baldrige , chairman of Scovill , Inc. , in Waterbury , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unite a sufficiently diverse voter base to win . " Anderson , the top rival with Bush for the non-Reagan vote , was rated best by 22 percent of the Republicans responding . " A good combination of the liberal and conservative ideologies , " William F. May , chairman of the American Can Company , said . He called the Illinois congressman " courageous , intelligent , experienced and a leader . " A 10-term member of the House , Anderson is " perhaps the most articulate and brilliant candidate to run for President in decades , " said Charles J. Orasin , executive vice president of Handgun Control , Inc . " He is honest and steadfast in his convictions ? a unique trait for a politician , and even more so for a President . " The survey found residual support for Gerald Ford until the former President announced in mid-March that he would not seek the nomination . Fully 15 percent of the Republicans ignored the list of declared presidential candidates to write in Ford 's name . Senator Robert Dole of Kansas , Ford 's running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said that Ford " could best unite the party and bring victory in November . " Dole since has endorsed Reagan . Bennett C. Whitlock , Jr. , president of the American Trucking Associations , suggested : " There are many Americans who would like to correct their mistaken vote of 1976 . " In the end , survey results indicated that America 's leaders were resigned to a choice in November between Carter or Reagan ? a choice few were happy about . " None of those listed has demonstrated an ability to perceive critical issues or the courage to risk popular dissatisfaction in effectuating creative solutions , " said Joyce A. Hughes , a professor of law at Northwestern University in Chicago . " The problem as I see it , " asserted Robert C. Fordan , news director for radio station KBRC in Mount Vernon , Wash. , is that the United States is in an " age of lightweight leadership . Our economic problems need political solutions . . . and our leaders are not up to the task . "  | page deleted  | page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women Influential women are even more critical of American leadership than are men holding comparable positions in the decision-making elite . Almost 70 percent of the women who responded to the magazine 's survey saw no improvement in presidential or congressional leadership ? a view held by 63 percent of the total of 1,569 respondents . While many women praised President Carter for his honesty and integrity , most also found fault with his performance . Only a few of the respondents expressed views as favorable as that of Helen R. Marvin , a member of the North Carolina State Senate , who said that Carter " needs four more years to implement his programs ? or to try to . " Ruth G. Adler , a vice president of an investment securities firm in Washington , D.C. , noted that the hostage crisis " has camouflaged our inflationary problem , which is now approaching crisis proportions . " She added , however , that Carter " must be given credit for not allowing provocative developments around the world to escalate into all-out war . " More common was the view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Houston , who said Carter is " unequipped to handle the job and has not surrounded himself with competent advisers . " Marabel Morgan , author of The Total Woman and Total joy , said Carter has been leading " indecisively , " and the results " are becoming more and more apparent . " A female lawyer argued : " Inflation is out of control , our defense policy is nonexistent and foreign policy is confused at best . A year ago , I thought the problems facing Carter were difficult to resolve under the best of circumstances , but things have deteriorated , and I think they would not have under a more competent President . " Women challenged Carter for failing to confront their problems . As Patricia Blau Reuss. director of the Women 's Equity Action League , put it : The President " has n't really addressed the long-range social changes that lie ahead of us. especially regarding women , work and families . " " Wife of No. 1 . " The women differed with men in other ways , too . They ranked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixth in the overall survey . Many echoed the views of Judge Caroline K. Simon of New York City , who said : Mrs. Carter " evidently uses her position as wife of No. 1 to influence him and has so stated . " Hannah D. Atkins , member of the House of Representatives in Oklahoma , said Carter is " basically an honest man of high integrity and has a superior adviser ? Rosalynn . " Among other government figures , women rated House Speaker Thomas P. " Tip " O'Neill , Jr. , more influential ? and Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd less so ? than did men . Warned one activist : Congress is " asking us to tighten our belts , but because women are on the short end of things , the belt encircles our necks and chokes us . " Women respondents attributed far more influence to White House Chief of Staff Hamilton Jordan , ranking the presidential aide seventh in influence ? well above his overall ranking of 12th . Women ranked National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski as a less influential sixth versus third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women differed little from others in that party on who is the best presidential candidate . Many women choosing Carter sounded a theme voiced by Judith Hilsinger , president of a publishing , publicity and promotion firm in San Francisco : " He 's the best of the worst ; none of them are inspiring America . " Bonnie Brown , legislative coordinator for the National Organization for Women in West Virginia , used virtually the same words for Senator Edward Kennedy : The " lesser of two evils . In my mind , there is no best candidate . " Republican women , however , had widely different views from men on the best GOP nominee . Fully 50 percent of women respondents labeled Representative John Anderson the best candidate ? a rating given by only 22 percent of all the survey respondents . Karen DeCrow , an attorney and former president of NOW , contended that if the nation elected Anderson President , " we would be so lucky to get him . " Lisa E. Vickery , editor of the Wooster Voice at the College of Wooster in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unpopular , but they would be most effective . " George Bush , favored as the best candidate by 31 percent of all Republican decision makers surveyed , was rated the best contender by only 11 percent of the Republican women . Dr. Tucker Hart Adams , a research economist for United Banks of Colorado , put it this way : " Bush is the lesser of seven evils . If he 'd take a position on something , " he might approach being satisfactory . Ronald Reagan , the front-runner for the GOP nomination , was rated " unsuitable " by 42 percent of the women Republicans replying to the questionnaire . Only 24 percent of the decision makers as a whole rated Reagan that poorly . While one educator said Reagan has " demonstrated ability to attract voters , " another chose the Californian " because all the other viable contenders have even more liabilities . " Despite such differences with other power brokers , influential women shared the widely held view that inflation , energy development and energy conservation are the three most important issues ahead . Disagreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth most important issue , compared to its rating of seventh by other respondents . Women rated national defense as the seventh most important problem ahead , while the overall survey placed it fourth . Women decision makers also occasionally called for more women to assume positions of authority in public and private life . Looking over a list of 75 names of major public figures inside and outside government , Wilma Scott Heide , former president of NOW , said : " Same old white male club ? that 's the basic problem . "                     