@@487861

We write in response to your recent letter to The New York Times putting forward again the claim that a secret intelligence service and a Freedom of Information Act are incompatible . If it could in fact be shown that there were some serious costs to the intelligence community of being subjected to an F.O.I.A. , we would still not hesitate to argue that , in order to satisfy the public 's right to know , these would be costs our society should bear . But there is no such evidence , and in all the years you and your predecessors have been fighting this act you have failed to provide a shred . The simple truth is this . You have ample authority to withhold any information that is properly classified or might somehow reveal intelligence sources and methods . Several recent decisions of the Court of Appeals underline the great deference the courts give to your assertions that information must be kept secret . To date not a single sentence has been released over the objections of the C.I.A. , and just last week the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this magazine to force the release of a list of the 1,000-plus books the C.I.A . subsidized through 1967 . Even so , a great deal of valuable information  --  on C.I.A . drug testing , covert operations , surveillance of Americans , the use of journalists and professors  --  has been released to the public as a result of F.O.I.A. requests without apparently ' harming the agency . That would seem to suggest that , if anything , the system needs to be altered to provide for greater access . Your persistent demands for total exemption from the F.O.I.A. thus betray a sad lack of understanding of the First Amendment . Not to mention a thoroughgoing contempt for the public you presume to serve . JUDGING THE JUDGES A SCORECARD FOR THE NEW COURT TERM HERMAN SCHWARTZ The new Supreme Court term that began this month will be an important one . Judging by its performance last term , when swing vote Potter Stewart was replaced by the more consistently conservative Sandra Day O'Connor , the prospects for individual rights and civil liberties do not seem too ominous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any prediction is risky . There are already 141 cases scheduled for this coming year ; the Court has averaged 185 in the last three terms and heard 210 in the 1981-82 session , one reason several Justices have revived complaints about their heavy workload . Five abortion cases are on the docket ( there were none last term , so O'Connor 's views on this subject remain unknown ) . These cases involve measures by certain states and localities to discourage abortions . Akron , Ohio , for example , requires second trimester abortions to be performed in a hospital ; parental consent for minors ; a twenty-four-hour waiting period ; and an effort by doctors to discourage the procedure . Virginia and Missouri require that ' second trimester abortions be performed in a hospital , and Missouri also requires that a second doctor be present . The Justice Department has filed a brief supporting the restrictions ; the American Medical Association and other health organizations have filed against them . The largest single portion of the Court 's time is likely to go to thirty-two cases involving law enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search and seizure , and , if history is any guide , the Fourth Amendment will take another beating . In almost all of thecases ( Continued on Page 367 ) Supreme Court ( Continued From Front Cover ) taken by the Court there were rulings in favor of the defendant  --  and , as Linda Greenhouse noted in The New York Times recently , the Court usually reverses the criminal cases it accepts , last year more than 80 percent of the time . The search-and-seizure cases involve airport stops , the use of balloons as containers for drugs , tips from anonymous informers , street stops for questioning , baggage detentions , the use of beepers and customs inspections . Other criminal cases taken by the Court focus on capital punishment , double jeopardy , injunctions against police use of force , damages for actions against police , self-incrimination , guilty pleas , grand jury disclosure , prisoners ' rights and sentencing . So far , few discrimination cases have been accepted . The most important case takes up the challenge to Internal Revenue Service rules against tax , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration again opposed to the civil rights position . The Court will also consider the constitutionality of tuition tax credits for religious schools ; the Administration is pushing such credits on the Federal level and the Court 's decision will obviously influence that . Of profound political importance will be the cases on the legislative veto . Although the most recent instances involve Congressional vetoes of Federal agency rules , there are more than 200 statutes now on the books that provide for legislative review of executive action . These range from the War Powers Act to laws providing for Congressional review of individual rulings by the Attorney General suspending deportation . Two lower courts have ruled that this veto is an unconstitutional encroachment on executive and judicial power as well as a violation of the requirement that all bills be presented to the President for signature . Constitutional experts are divided , however , and the outcome of the cases before the Court is uncertain . Resolution of this issue  --  which has no particular ideological thrust  --  will have a profound effect on relations between Congress and the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1981-82 term could have produced many critical setbacks , and it nearly did : the number of decisions on the liberal side that were decided by only 5-to-4 margins was unusually high . Most of the important cases , however , did come out the right way , albeit narrowly , and most of those that came out badly were not significant . Civil Liberties Two cases last term seriously threatened civil liberties , and in both the danger was either averted or deferred . In NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co. , a unanimous Court invoked the First Amendment to throw out a potentially huge judgment against the N.A.A.C.P. for a seven-year boycott of white-owned businesses in Claiborne County , Herman Schwartz , a contributing editor of The Nation , is a professor of law at American University in Washington , D.C. Mississippi ; had the judgment stood , the organization might have been financially crippled . In Board of Education , Island Trees Union Free School District v. Pico , the Court confronted for the first time the issue of removing books from school libraries , a form of censorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school board of Island Trees , New York , had taken books by Kurt Vonnegut , Desmond Morris , Pin Thomas , Eldridge Cleaver , Langston Hughes and others from the school libraries on the grounds that they were " anti-American , anti-Christian , anti-Semitic , and just plain filthy . " The Court 's decision  --  which produced eight opinions  --  settled very little but did avoid a disaster . Three Justices , in an opinion by Justice William Brennan , held that students have a First Amendment right to receive information and ideas ; Justice Harry Blackmun found a slightly different First Amendment right . They voted to send the case back for a trial on why the books were removed , and they were joined in this by Justice Byron White , although he refused to say anything about the First Amendment . The four dissenters on that point came close to allowing school officials " absolute discretion " over what may be in at school library , though two joined Justice William Rehnquist 's dissent , in which he " cheerfully conceded " that the First Amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivated by party affiliation , ordered the removal of all books written by or in favor of Republicans . . . or an all-white school board , motivated by racial animus , decided to remove all books by blacks or advocating racial equality and integration . " The Island Trees decision has been hailed as a victory for civil liberties , but that is not clear . Four Justices will not allow a book to be removed for its ideas , and three more say they would not allow a book to be removed for blatantly partisan or illicit motives ( though it seems certain that these three and Justice Lewis Powell would rarely overrule a school board decision ) . All nine , however , would seem to allow a book to be removed on the grounds that it is vulgar or lacks " educational suitability . " What the Court really did was to force lower court trials about motivation , vulgarity and " educational suitability . " School boards with good lawyers will therefore be able to compile records of removals citing reasons that conform precisely to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivation . The prospect of a trial may still discourage some school boards from removing books , since trials are expensive and few school boards are prosperous these days ; the Island Trees board returned the banned books to the shelves this August to avoid having to finance a trial . Civil , Rights Early this year , Attorney General William French Smith admonished the judiciary to " heed the groundswell of conservatism " that supposedly underlay the 1980 elections . Last term , the Supreme Court ignored him . By a 5 - to- 4 vote , it gave the children of illegal aliens in Texas the right to free education , despite prior decisions denying that education is a fundamental right . Five Justices were unwilling to let the government stand by while thousands of " innocent children were left on the streets uneducated , " even though the Justice Department backed out of the case because it did n't think the matter was of concern to the United States . In Washington v. Seattle School Dist. , No. 1 , an uncomfortably slim 5 - to- 4 majority struck down a statewide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busing plan voluntarily . The decision should have been an easy one under some longstanding precedents , especially since a contrary result might have doomed future efforts at voluntary desegregation ( rare as they may be ) ? antibusing forces are usually powerful enough to get bans adopted on the state level . This case was one of several in which the Court was unpersuaded by a Justice Department switch against the civil rights position . In other actions , the Court sanctioned the use of blacks ( though not whites ) to test for housing discrimination . It condemned discriminatory employment tests even when the employer 's overall hiring or promotion record was acceptable ; here too the Court rebuffed the Justice Department , which had supported the employer . The Justices also extended the law against sex discrimination in Federally funded educational programs and struck down a ban at a Mississippi nursing school against the admission of males . The Court condemned discrimination in fees against college students who are aliens and unanimously established a right to " minimally adequate or reasonable training " for the institutionalized retarded " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Court also ruled for the plaintiffs in two Voting Rights Act cases , both of which found O'Connor disagreeing with Rehnquist  --  with whom she usuallysided  --  and in one of which she provided the majority vote . There were of course some real setbacks . The 1975 Education for All Handicapped Children Act was construed as entitling a deaf first grader only to some personalized special instruction but not to a sign-language interpreter . The decision establishing something of a right to treatment for the institutionalized retarded also made it almost impossible to collect damages from the people who Tun the institutions . The Court again denied aliens a right to jobs in police or law enforcement work , this time in a case involving probation officers . Suits against employment discrimination were made more difficult . The Court held overwhelmingly ( 8 to 1 ) that California voters could deny their courts the power to go beyond the Federal Constitution in remedying school segregation , a decision that constitutional experts find hard to square with the Seattle decision , but which most observers expected . Three efforts by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act were upheld . The Court split on seven cases interpreting Section 1983 of the Civil Rights Act . Two decisions will make it hard to force state-supported " private " institutions to obey the Constitution , but in the most importaht of the seven the Justices solidly reaffirmed the right to go directly to Federal court to redress a violation of constitutional rights without first having to exhaust state administrative procedures . A contrary result has long been sought by state officials , would have been preferred by at least two of the concurring Justices and would have significantly weakened Section 1983 . Business The big surprise came in the cases concerning economic regulation . Last term the Court heard eight antitrust cases and three cases involving lawyer advertising , utility regulation and suits by private individuals under the law that regulates trading in commodity futures . Except for a 4-to-4 tie in a case involving F.T.C. power over nonprofit medical associations  --  which resulted in upholding that power  --  the Court ruled for the consumer interest in every case , almost always by a solid majority . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's decisions reaffirmed basic antitrust principles condemning price-fixing that are currently under fire from the Reagan Administration . In other business cases , the Court unanimously struck down Missouri restrictions on lawyer advertising as a violation of the First Amendment ; narrowly ( 5 to 4 ) upheld Congress 's right to make state utility commissions consider rate structures that are fairer or more efficient ; and , in an astonishing reversal of a seven-year trend , allowed ' a private securities holder to sue for fraud under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974 even though Congress had not expressly authorized such suits . That was another 5 - to- 4 decision , and whether or not it is an augury may become clear this term , when a similar case will be heard . These decisions are especially surprising given that six of the nine Justices were appointed as conservatives by Nixon , Ford and Reagan and are generally thought to favor business . Whether the uniformity in these rulings is anything more than fortuitous will be tested this term , when at least five antitrust cases will be heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  in the area of criminal law , though even there things could have been worse and almost certainly will be in the coming year . In fifteen significant criminal law cases decided in the 1981-82 session , the Court ruled for the prosecution in eleven , in all but one by 6-to-3 margins or more ; the four cases for defendants were decided by 5-to-4 votes . In criminal procedure cases , the Court 's record is even more one-sided , with rulings for the prosecution in ten out of twelve . The only comfort is that not many fundamental issues were decided . An O'Connor opinion narrowly limited the Federal courts ' habeas corpus power to review state court rulings on constitutional issues , but this is largely a formality anyway : few Federal courts reverse state courts , and those that do are often themselves quickly reversed by the Supreme Court . The symbolism is obviously not unimportant . A legal system should always be available to rectify errors of constitutional magnitude , and the arguments that prisoners ' habeas corpus petitions somehow impede rehabilitation or create instability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to habeas corpus is a combination of hostility to expanding the rights of criminal defendants , reluctance to oversee state courts and annoyance at having to review a great many prisoner petitions , almost none of which succeed . This decision , however , will keep very few prisoners in jail longer than they would otherwise be kept . The Court also settled the confusion it has created about searches of containers in cars by allowing police officers to examine practically everything in a car that is being searched lawfully . In a particularly egregious decision , it reaffirmed ( without even hearing argument ) that it would not interfere with barbarous state sentencing practices , sharply chastising the rather conservative Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit for annulling a Virginia sentence that sent a marijuana seller to prison for forty years . In a case from New York , a majority of the Justices saw nothing wrong in allowing a jury conviction to ' stand even though it came out after the trial that one of the jurors had applied to the prosecutor 's office for a job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret . And the Court again refused to impose any meaningful restraints on prosecutors who manipulate the charging process in order to force guilty pleas . In cases involving capital punishment , the picture was very different . By 5-to-4 majorities in two cases , the Court continued to refine and limit the conditions under which the death penalty may be imposed . In one of them , the Court  --  with O'Connor making the majority ? ruled that an Oklahoma court had wrongly refused to consider a 16-year-old 's history of family violence and neglect before imposing the death penalty , though it avoided deciding whether a child could be executed . In the other:the Court barred the death penalty for felons who participate in a robbery during whichsomeone is killed but neither do the killing themselves nor intend that lethal force be used ( the defendant was the getaway driver and was some 200 feet from the robbery ) . What is shocking is that this case could have gotten so far and that the majority was so narrow . The felony-murder doctrine  --  under which a felon is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the death is wholly accidental and unforeseeable  --  is one of the most criticized concepts of American criminal law . England has abandoned it , other European countries never had it , and the American Law Institute  --  hardly a liberal outpost  --  has proposed its abolition . One of the most interesting aspects of Supreme Court-watching is assessing new Justices and trying to predict how they will line up in the Court 's internal battles . In her first year , O'Connor aligned herself with Rehnquist and Chief Justice Warren Burger on most issues , often with tough , sharply worded opinions that lectured her colleagues , somewhat surprising for a new Justice . A Justice 's first term is obviously no basis on which to extrapolate long-term trends ? Blackmun ' s currently quite liberal voting record is strong proof of that . But O'Connor may be a bit more predictable . She comes to the Court with an express commitment to states ' rights and state courts , and that commitment is reinforced by an almost total lack of experience in national or Federal matters and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the story . In at least seven cases last term , O'Connor not only broke with Rehnquist but in doing so either made or solidified a majority : the Oklahoma capital punishment case , two sex-discrimination cases , the two voting rights cases , the alien student case and an Alaska case involving the state 's mineral-royalty distribution . She wrote for the Court in two of these and concurred separately in several others , including a powerful concurrence in the Alaska case , in which she tried to revive the almost dead " privileges and immunities " clause of the Constitution by locating a right to travel in that provision . In an opinion on behalf of illegitimate children trying to establish paternity , she went far beyond a Rehnquist opinion for the Court . These few straws  --  which , except for the two sex-discrimination cases , fall into almost no pattern  --  raise the possibility that she may not turn out as inflexibly hostile to constitutional rights as Rehnquist . The Supreme Court in its last term was certainly not the Warren Court of the mid-1960s . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sandra O'Connor and efforts by the Reagan Justice Department to push it far to the right , the Court was not the graveyard for liberty that many of us feared . But it yet may be : the fact that so many decisions upholding constitutional rights last term had only 5-to-4 majorities suggests that if Reagan gets one more Supreme Court appointment to replace a liberal or swing vote , the Court might indeed shift from being a protector of freedom to being part of the threat . ?                     