@@432120

 | Behind President Reagan 's call for a sharp boost in spending on chemical warfare is the belief that the Soviet Union may be preparing to use a powerful new generation of poison gases in any future war in Europe . Pentagon experts are convinced that Russia views chemical warfare as a logical step up from conventional combat ? a tactic that might be expected to achieve battlefield goals without triggering nuclear retaliation . Reagan seeks more money ? 705 million dollars in 1983 , up from 532 million this year ? to increase the protection of U.S. troops against gas attack and to produce chemical weapons for the first time in 13 years . To deter Soviet use of chemical weapons , he says that U.S. troops must be able to retaliate in kind . In the grim scenario sketched by Washington , Russia could decide to employ poison gas in a surprise attack on Western Europe . In addition to attacks on front-line troops , gas might be used as a terror weapon against civilians . Another use might be to knock out Allied forces while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration concluded that Soviet forces already had enough gas to lay down a lethal blanket from one end of Europe to the other . Adding to the threat is that the West does not know the nature of all the poisons . What is known is that the Soviet arsenal contains mustard gas , at least three varieties of nerve gas and hydrogen cyanide ? a fast-acting gas that kills by replacing oxygen in the blood . But now there is evidence of at least three Soviet " mystery gases " ? one a lethal nerve gas , the second a quickacting knockout gas and the third known as " yellow rain , " a deadly yellowish powder spread by aircraft or explosives . Use of all three has been reported in Indo-China and Afghanistan . For the past several years , Laotian and Cambodian villagers have reported fatalities from the yellow rain . Victims die writhing in agony . Only recently have American scientists isolated the fatal element in yellow rain as mycotoxins ? virulent poisons produced in nature by rotting grain . The Russians and Vietnamese deny their use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research on mycotoxins and has several factories capable of producing large quantities . In their natural state , mycotoxins have caused mass deaths in the U.S.S.R. In Afghanistan , use of yellow rain was reported primarily in the early days of the Soviet invasion . But there have been persistent reports of use of the other two mystery gases . Survivors shot . When bombs with knockout gas are dropped , anyone caught within a 200-meter radius of the explosion is made helpless for hours . Survivors of one battle near Asmar early in 1981 reported that guerrillas who had been felled by chemical bombs were then shot by Soviet troops wearing gas masks . Use of a deadly nerve gas different from the standard soman nerve gas known to be in the Soviet arsenal has also mystified American analysts . Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger asserts that " the United States now has many good reasons for believing that the Soviet Union has violated the Biological Weapons Convention " outlawing production , stockpiling or use of biological or toxin weapons . Weinberger also says that there is " evidence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet-supported forces in Laos , Kampuchea and Afgh , . Alston . " When possible poison-warfare attacks first were reported , experts felt that they were tailor-made for undeveloped parts of the world . It was assumed that no one would dare use such weapons against a well-armed foe backed by a nuclear arsenal . But that official view changed radically after Carter 's National Security Council staff completed its sevenmonth study . Its conclusion : Chemical weapons could prove to be an important part of any Soviet blitzkrieg in Europe . If the Russians were to use gas on key strongholds , Allied troops would be forced to don bulky protective gear that would impede their mobility . Soviet soldiers , knowing where gas had been used , could avoid these areas and dash forward unburdened by protective equipment . Such scattered gas attacks , it is felt , would not trigger a fullscale nuclear response from the West . To counter what is viewed as an increasingly serious threat , the U.S. has begun a major effort to improve defenses against chemical agents . Troops have been given new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up , and separate Army chemical-warfare units are being set up . In a highly controversial move , the administration is pressing ahead with plans to produce new gases , the first since President Nixon imposed a unilateral moratorium in 1969 . Reagan now wants to produce binary munitions , in which two nonlethal chemicals are mixed into deadly form only after the shell or bomb carrying them has been fired or dropped . Officials say that they would be safer to handle and store than the World War II-era weapons now stockpiled . Senator Gary Hart ( D-Colo. ) , who lost by only two votes in a fight last year to block funds for the binary-weapons arsenal , immediately introduced an amendment to bar use of any money for production of a new generation of chemical weapons . Such weapons , he said , were not only not essential to the nation 's security but " would constitute a needless escalation of the arms race . " Plans approved by the President call for production of two binary-nerve-gas weapons at Pine Bluff , Ark . One will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under study are chemical warheads for ground-launched cruise missiles of the type the U.S. and its allies plan to deploy in Europe and for a multiple-rocket system similar to one used by the Soviet Army .                     