@@331064

The question sounded facetious . " Was there anybody who had either given loans or financial aid to you or your family who was n't subsequently given a federal job ? " asked Vermont 's Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy . Laughter rippled through the crowded Senate Judiciary Committee hearing room . Presidential Counsellor Edwin Meese grinned . But Leahy said he was serious . Meese hesitated , then came up with a name : James Schmidt , a senior vice president of California 's Great American First Savings Bank , which had loaned Meese $423,000 in mortgages and loans secured by houses in California and Virginia . Leahy tartly reminded Meese that four other officials of this bank had received federal appointments . <P> Last week 's committee hearings on Meese 's nomination as Attorney General turned out to be bumpier than expected . Judiciary Chairman Strom Thurmond , a Republican , had scheduled only one day of testimony . But Meese annoyed some Senators by refusing to concede that his personal business dealings with men who later went to work for the Government had been wrong in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two lawyers in the Office of Government Ethics claiming that Meese had violated rules governing the conduct of federal employees was disclosed by the Wall Street Journal . As a result , the hearings continued for three full days as Meese underwent another uncomfortable grilling about the same issues raised in his confirmation hearings last March , which were suspended after Meese requested that a special prosecutor be appointed to look into the matters . <P> The 385-page report of the special counsel , Washington Lawyer Jacob Stein , cleared Meese of any criminal acts but did not pass judgment on the ethics of his conduct . Common Cause , a nonpartisan public interest lobby , claimed that the findings showed Meese 's actions to be unethical . The Common Cause complaint , in turn , prompted David Martin , director of the ethics office , to ask his staff to examine the case . Two civil service attorneys , F. Gary Davis and Nancy Feathers , wrote a memo last month that cited three " ethics violations " by Meese and one incident that presented an " appearance problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained that he had advised Fred Fielding , the White House counsel , about the staff 's concern . Fielding informed Meese 's lawyers , and one of them , Leonard Garment , discussed the matter with Martin . At the hearings , the two staff lawyers explained that after re-examining the matter with their boss , all three agreed that Meese had been guilty only of creating " the appearance " of a possible conflict of interest . While Davis urged that Meese be " counseled " about this conduct , Martin decided that it was sufficient merely to advise Fielding that the " appearance " matter still troubled the ethics office . Martin , who earned his political appointment by helping organize Reagan 's 1980 election campaign in Maryland 's Montgomery County , insisted that no one had pressured him to change his staff 's position . Even so , the agency 's turnabout did not satisfy some of the Senators .                     