@@485735

1 -i ven as Ronald Reagan was moving the furniture 1 of neoconservatism into the nation 's capital , a dissonant note was heard in the city : Europe 's J leading socialist luminaries came to Washington on December 5 for a three-day conference sponsored by the Institute for Democratic Socialism . Its purpose was to allow American and international socialists to discuss the future ; of their movement and to address themselves to concrete ' programmatic issues . The meeting was attended by more than 2,500 people  --  with hundreds turned away by wary ; hotel managers  --  making it the largest socialist gathering in this country since the 1930s . Yet , at the time , unless you ' read a report buried in the middle of The Washington Post , ' you would not know that this historic meeting took place.1 ( The Post did run a prominently displayed piece in the Style= section , which confined itself to a fashion report ' on the participants ' garb : " jeans without designer labels " and " bulky Peruvian sweaters . " ) In attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman Willy Brandt ; French Socialist Party leaders Francois Mitterrand hand Michel Rocard ; former Dutch Prime Minister Joop den Uyl ; the leader of the British Labor Party 's left wing , Tony Benn , ; and Spanish socialist chief Felipe Gonzalez . At a time when the nation 's press was giving inordinate attention to the twenty-fifth anniversary of William Buckley 's National Review , the apparent decision to make the socialist gathering a nonevent was particularly striking . But for those who attended , it was , as former Chancellor ; . Brandt put it , " inspiring . " Tony Benn characterized the meeting as the . " European cavalry arriving at just the right moment " to reinforce America 's beleaguered socialists . He argued that the British socialists had a duty to speak out in the United States since decisions made in Washington affected his countrymen more than those made in London . At a press conference and a panel discussion , Benn sounded a theme that ran through the entire conference : the failure of " monetarist " conservatism was leading to a revitalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thatcherism in Britain , he said , was that the Labor Party has gone back to the early socialist fundamentals it had subsequently abandoned . Disputing American press reports that the party had been captured by fringe Trotskyists , Benn stressed that its rank-and-file constituency had pushed for a more radical course , a return to the promise of the 1918 Clause IV of the party , which called for securing for laboring people " the full fruits of their industry and the most equitable distribution thereof that may be possible , upon the basis of the common ownership of the means of production , " in conjunction with " popular administration and control of each industry . " Similarly , Joop den Uyl , now head of the Dutch Labor Party , spoke compellingly for a policy that both defended the welfare state from attack and that also looked forward to more extensive democratization of the social structure . The question was whether democratic socialism could successfully come up with new answers to economic stagnation . He was candid in acknowledging that social democracy had become ossified and bureaucratic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for rejuvenating his party , by having them develop a more radical domestic program as well as a stance of solidarity with the Third World and " opposition to nuclear energy and above all to the nuclear arms race . " While others in Washington were calling for retrenchment , Joop den Uyl argued forcefully that employment and jobs can not be left to the free market and that the public sector " must be extended and strengthened . " Swedish Social Democratic leader Olof Palme also called upon socialists to move toward " the next step of our struggle  --  economic democracy . " Palme asked that " we all be evangelists for a revived sense of community against the new cult of the self . " That meant , he stressed , " planned management under popular control . " He pointed with pride to the co-determination laws passed in his country in the 1970s , especially those giving the unions the right to negotiate on all issues concerning work organization and management of the enterprise . Palme recalled telling Soviet Premier Aleksei Kosygin that , in Sweden , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute arose . " You mean you let the unions stop production ? " Kosygin asked . " Yes , " Palme told him . " We call it workers ' control . " Another recurring theme was the menace to world peace and the need for justice in the Third World . " It is my firm belief that we need d  --  tente , " Brandt said , " in order to safeguard peace and to find the strength for balancing the interests of industrialized states . . . and developing nations . " A world that currently spends $500 billion per year on arms , the former Chancellor noted , can not be allowed to continue arming itself to death . The obstacles were not technical ; it was rather a matter of forging the necessary " political will " to end the arms race . Olof Palme noted that both contenders for the Presidency had expressed their admiration for the courage and discipline of the Polish workers , and he praised them for this stance . But he offered his own challenge . Referring to the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolated case , since " in Africa and Asia millions of people suffer under the burden of exploitation , racial oppression and armed conflict , " Palme stated : " I now look forward to hearing the leaders of the United States express their admiration for the courage and the discipline of the poor and oppressed in El Salvador and Guatemala , not to speak of Argentina and Chile , and their support of democratic aims . " The S.I. , he told a press conference , supported a government based on the Democratic Revolutionary Front of El Salvador , which he thought was the only basis for a democratic alternative . And if it proved true that the incoming administration was to de-emphasize human rights , Palme stressed that " the absence of it means torture and death squadrons " and encouragement for the Pinochets . Indeed , concern for the Third World reflected an attempt by the leaders of the Socialist International to move out of their European ghetto . When the evening reception for the foreign guests was held , a crowd of 1,000 broke into cheers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements made an appearance . Behind the scenes , the S.I . leaders , including Brandt , Palme and America 's Michael Harrington , convened the first meeting of a body established by the Socialist International to support the Nicaraguan revolution and the Democratic Revolutionary Front in El Salvador . Although the conference included a fair sprinkling of union leaders , as well as political figures like Ron Dellums " the one-man socialist caucus in Congress , " as Harrington dubbed him  --  and Minneapolis Mayor Donald Fraser , the representation from abroad was confined mainly to European socialists , with only a sprinkling of trade unionists . Indeed , few top-level American union leaders , save the socialist head of the International Association of Machinists , William Winpisinger , showed up . " We can only advise our missing friends , " Winpisinger commented , " either lead or follow , but get the hell out of the way . " One of the reasons they did not come may have been opposition from the office of A.F.L.-C.I.O. president Lane Kirkland . Nine months ago , when the conference was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liaison from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to help with the meeting . He also invited Kirkland and fifty other major American union leaders to attend , and asked Kirkland himself to speak . Kirkland did not respond , and Harrington was later told that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president had been insulted because he felt that Harrington 's letter had been too imperional , and also that he had not been consulted enough . After vainly attempting to reach Kirkland 's top foreign policy staff aide , Tom Kahn ( who was supposedly not in even though his secretary first asked me to let her , know what I wanted so she could tell Kahn ) , I talked with a staff person who requested complete anonymity . This individual explained that Kirkland was annoyed that he was invited on- , ly after the meeting was " put to bed and fully developed , " although the evidence indicates this was not the case . One thing was clear . Kirkland 's cool response and displeasure were made known to American and European union leaders and many of them stayed away . When I asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responded : " I do n't reply to rumors . " Yet it is a documented fact that back in March , a top A.F.L.-C.I.O. adviser convinced Kirkland that the union should not do anything that would legitimize Michael Harrington as a contact between European unions and socialist parties and the A.F.L.-C.I.O . As Winpisinger told one reporter : " They abhor Eurosocialism , and they thought it was an abomination for us to bring them over here . " It was also clear that European unionists who desire A.F.L.-C.I.O. re-entrance into the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions have to think twice before they offend Kirkland . And Kirkland was also miffed by the S.I . ' s support of the Democratic Front in El Salvador ; the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has announced its support of the junta . European social democrats were also subjected to a small orchestrated campaign aimed at undermining the meeting in advance . An article in Der Spiegel not only confused the socialist Michael Harrington with the Congressman of thesame name , but went on to inform its readers ( incorrectly ) that the U.S. Government considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eve of the Eurosocialist meeting in Washington , the piece was clearly an embarrassment to Brandt and the S.I . The Neue Ziircher Zeitung , in a story on the S.I . ' s recent conference in Spain , referred to Harrington and the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee as " left socialists , " and attacked the newly adopted policies of the S.I . as leaning toward appeasement of Communism . It is apparent that in Europe , right-wing social democrats were doing their best to lower attendance at the Eurosocialist conference . These machinations , thankfully , failed . As one of the unionists from Europe who did attend put it , " They have a conspiracy , but we have a movement . " If anything , the meeting had much the effect Tony Benn hoped it would . It showed that even in America there was fertile ground for advancing a socialist alternative . " We have a country called the United States , " Harrington said at the meeting 's end . " Let 's go out and take the message heard here to that country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to undertake that mission . ? 