@@432111

 | An assailant brandishing a curved hunting knife raped and robbed a woman studying alone in a classroom at Catholic University in Washington , D.C. At the University of California at Los Angeles , head football coach Terry Donahue was robbed by a gunman in a campus parking garage . These incidents point up an alarming development : A full-fledged crime wave is threatening the lives of persons who work or study at hundreds of the nation 's colleges . To combat the trend , many schools are beefing up security forces and turning campuses into barricaded fortresses to keep out intruders . A spot survey by the Federal Bureau of Investigation found 56,439 crimes reported at 107 colleges and universities in 1980 , up from 54,217 at those schools in 1975 . Most disturbing , the statistics also showed a 55 percent increase in sexual assaults on women . Administrators say that many campuses , particularly those in urban settings , no longer can be considered secure havens for scholarly pursuits . Observes Eric Widmer , dean of student life at Brown University in Providence : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open , free and tolerant . " Dramatic rise . At the University of Southern California in south-central Los Angeles , where 28,000 students attend classes , crimes against persons ? robbery , assault and rape ? are up 150 percent this year . At the University of Maryland , a 1,300-acre campus at College Park , nine sexual attacks on women were reported in 1980 , prompting the school to install $600,000 worth of additional lighting on campus and increase patrols by security officers . Even traditional college pranks have increased tensions on several campuses . At USC , a rumor that a local gang had targeted female students and faculty members and faculty wives for rape resulted in what one student counselor called " mass hysteria . " Colleges near high-crime neighborhoods or in isolated settings appeal to muggers and rapists , who find easy prey among undergraduates and faculty . " If you go into the city after dark , you might drive all night and not encounter a single female , " says Rick Allison , a city policeman assigned to the University of Oregon at Eugene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you can probably find a girl walking alone somewhere , 24 hours a day . " Economic tie . Claude W. Spencer , director of safety and security at Miami University in Ohio and president of the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators , points out that hard economic times are making colleges likely targets for criminals . " We find that the number of offenses we see every year is tied to the economy , " says Spencer . " So , as long as prices are high and employment is low , we can expect to see an increase in certain kinds of crime . " Many schools are fighting back with a variety of innovative measures . At Brown , a 54-student-strong security force supplements regular campus patrolmen by checking parking lots and isolated buildings . A " People Are Watching " program at Clemson University in South Carolina encourages students to report suspicious activities to law-enforcement officers . Since last January , 2,600 reports have been made . One led to the arrest of a nude jogger who had harassed women on campus for two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UCLA now has 55 officers with full peace-officer status , unlike the typical college patrolman who has limited powers to make arrests or use force . The UCLA force includes a canine patrol with four dogs and a detective unit with 10 officers . The annual budget for the force is about 2 million dollars . At nearby California State University in Los Angeles , most patrolmen have police-academy training or experience with city police forces . Michael Kolb , a Cal State police officer since 1968 , says : " When I first arrived , many of the people interpreted their jobs as security guards . But there 's absolutely no doubt in my mind that we 're as good or better than the L.A. police or sheriff 's departments now . " The University of Maryland places guards nightly at the main gates of the campus to turn away unauthorized visitors . Also added : High-intensity lights , emergency telephones along footpaths and a costly " two barrier " locking system for dormitories that requires a key for elevators and inside doors as well as entrances . Most colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings to cars or dormitories . Opening eyes . The biggest effort , however , has been to make students more aware of how to avoid dangerous situations . Stanford University in Palo Alto , Calif. , ran a seminar entitled " Working Against Rape " that explored self-defense measures , including classes in the use of tear gas . At the University of Missouri , women are getting training in the use of handguns to ward off campus attackers . George Washington University in Washington , D.C. , offered a " Protect Thyself " information day . Cheryl Beil , GWU 's assistant dean of students , notes : " A lot of people take unnecessary risks , and when people are n't cautious , security ca n't help . " University administrators report that burgeoning budgets and other measures for campus security are now paying off . At Maryland , serious crime dropped more than 8 percent in the first six months of 1981 compared with a year earlier . In the surrounding community , the crime rate rose 13 percent during the same period . " I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says campus Police Chief Eugene Sides . " We have 50,000 persons on campus every day , and we have the muscle now to keep them safe for work and study . "                     