@@486756

The opening of the Berlin wall symbolically marks the end of an era , that of revolution from above and from abroad . It foreshadows the disappearance of the great divide separating two halves of Europe and two conflicting social systems . This prospect , however , depends on the dissolution of Eastern and Western blocs and thus of NATO and the Warsaw Pact . Only when that occurs can German reunification be put on Europe 's agenda . There will be time enough to draw up the balance sheet and ponder the consequences ; now we should rejoice at the crumbling of the wall under popular pressure . Those who take the occasion to celebrate the funeral of socialism show their ignorance of its principles . In 1953 a workers ' uprising in Berlin was crushed by tanks , causing Bertolt Brecht to remark bitterly that if people disagree with the rulers the simple solution is to " dissolve the people . " Recently , however , Hans Modrow , the new East German Prime Minister , argued that a party deprived of popular support does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the tide of events , while the men who sent in the tanks were more firmly in command , he is much closer to socialist principles than they ever were , because effective socialism is inseparable from democracy . Those who would dig the grave for socialism have one valid point : that its identification with Stalinism and then with imported revolution has largely discredited the very idea . To be resurrected , socialism may have to be partly reinvented . But the ideological morticians are wrong in assuming that this death of an epoch heralds a capitalist eternity . The lesson of events in East Germany is that people inspired by an idea can bring down walls . Two centuries after the French Revolution there are plenty of Bastilles to be stormed . FORMULA FOR PROFITS HEATING UP THE BOTTLE BATTLE FRANK A. OSKI Early this year millions of viewers of Wheel of Fortune and other network television programs began seeing commercials starring a 6-monthold baby happily guzzling a new infant formula from the Carnation Company called Good Nature H.A . In October Gerber Products served up " Nursing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sucking contentedly at her mother 's breast . The voice-over concedes that mother 's milk is the " most complete baby food " but quickly adds , " Nothing comes closer to your own milk than Gerber Baby Formula . " The slickness of these commercials may be nothing new , but their appearance in living rooms all over the country signals a major change in how infant formula is marketed . Until last year , formula manufacturers advertised exclusively to physicians about the virtues of their products and hoped that these pediatricians and family doctors would counsel parents to start feeding their babies formula sooner rather than later . But now Carnation and Gerber have decided to make their pitch directly to Mom and Dad in multimillion-dollar advertising campaigns on television and in print . Nearly 60 percent of all mothers in the United States initially breast-feed their babies , yet the infant formula industry enjoys annual sales of $1.6 billion . This seeming paradox is due to the fact that less than 20 percent of mothers breast-feed for as long as six least that long . More- c ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even though it is 0 beneficial to do so for at a ' ( Continued on Page 683 ) 0 377535 6 EDITORIALS . Tet in Salvador T he Salvadoran poet Roque Dalton once wrote that his country was afflicted with " cancers , peels , dandruffs , crud , sores , fractures , shakes , stenches . " That was before the United States got involved ; $4 billion in U.S. aid has turned El Salvador into hell , Since the government of Alfredo Cristiani took office in June , what little space there was for dissent has vanished . Thedeath squads run wild ; participants in the most innocuous civic activity once more risk being dragged into the dungeons of the Treasury Police , raped , hooded with the capucha filled with quicklime . Once such things stirred passions on Capitol Hill ; now Senator Christopher Dodd , who passes for the liberal conscience of the Democratic Party in such matters , says Cristiani is " our best bet " in El Salvador . This latest pattern of outrages escalated on October 31 with the bombing of the Fenastras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inter-American Affairs Bernard Aronson to hop on a plane to San Salvador to ask the far right to cool it . The answer came that same night when Salvadoran troops murdered two organizers of the center-left Popular Social Christian Movement . Army to Aronson : Take a hike . Smarter than its paymasters , the army knows that human rights scruples no longer impede the flow of dollars . The guerrillas of the F.M.L.N . responded to the Fenastras bombing by breaking off peace talks with the government and by launching , on November 11 , their largest offensive of the ten-year war . Whatever its outcome , the offensive was an extraordinary show of force , involving great risks , and its goal seems to have been , at a minimum , to force the government back to the negotiating table , acknowledging once and for all that no settlement will be possible without the rebels ' acquiescence . The logic of this war has never varied . The only result of building a " shield for democracy " ? as the Kissinger commission termed it in 1984 ? has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Where is Cristiani ? Who 's running the country ? " the rebels ask repeatedly over Radio Venceremos . Even if we grant that he represents a business class sick of war because it interferes with making profits , the fact is that Cristiani has no more room for independent action than his predecessor , Jos ? Napoleon Duarte . When army officers showed up for the first time at the October peace talks in San Jose , Costa Rica , they appeared to believe that the purpose was to negotiate the terms of an F.M.L.N . surrender . After the November offensive , that self-delusion is no longer tenable . But the Salvadoran right wing has always been an incarnation of human evil in its purest form , and removing the capacity for self-delusion from such people does not necessarily inspire a capacity for reason . Instead , it has reduced them to their most obscene instincts . Slum areas are strafed and rocketed ; even as we go to press , news comes that six Jesuit priests , their cook and her teenage daughter were dragged from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the dead was Ignacio Ellacuria , rector of the Central American University , who had been for years El Salvador 's most dogged advocate of a peaceful settlement . The army has served notice that it will no longer tolerate such voices . This is now a war to the death . The U.S. response to these events has been to step up arms shipments and lie about the source of the guerrillas ' strength . There is , as usual , the obliging truckload of Soviet-bloc arms , allegedly intercepted in Honduras last month . Maybe there was such a truck ; maybe it came through from Costa Rica and the Nicaraguans failed to intercept it ; maybe some helpful contras in Honduras fitted it up ; maybe it never existed . The question in the end is academic . The Administration 's pitiful fictions about what is happening in El Salvador may serve a larger purpose . As the Yalta-to-Malta summit draws near , Secretary of State James Baker accuses the Soviet Union of supporting " acts of terror " in Central America . In the Salvadoran offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immobile on the entire spectrum of East-West issues . At one side of the table in Malta will sit a statesman ; the other seat will be occupied by a man who calmly bankrolls the murderers of priests . Moderates ' Day ? T he election of four black candidates to high office in important localities on the same day should indicate that a new progressive politics is developing around the country . If so , the indications have been largely ignored . Even before voters went to the polls in the scattered off-off-year elections , Democratic politicians and media commentators were straining to put a very different spin on the predicted victories of David Dinkins in New York , L. Douglas Wilder in Virginia , John Daniels in New Haven and Norm Rice in Seattle . The conventional wisdom quickly produced the line that " black moderates " won precisely because of their moderation , which in this case meant catering to white racial fears , keeping Jesse Jackson at more than arm 's length , stroking anxious Jewish voters and contributors , and avoiding the progressive political agenda like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a re-count may follow ) Wilder told a meeting of the centrist Southern-based Democratic Leadership Council that future Democratic presidential candidates should heed the lessons of his election and embrace " the values of the overwhelming majority of the people in this country . " In D.L.C. terms , that entails running on a platform of high military budgets , cold war foreign policy , reduced social spending and tax abatements . Virginia Senator Charles Robb , one of Wilder 's predecessors as governor , seconded Wilder 's suggestions and condemned the " liberal fundamentalism " of progressive Democrats , " activists and interest groups who exercise disproportionate influence over the party 's nominating process . " Whenever a Democrat with national aspirations starts condemning the nominating process , it must mean that his ambitions are about to take a giant leap . Not for the first time , the prophets of the center are disregarding history and reality in their eagerness to rationalize their own interests . The success of African-American candidates was a direct result of the most far-reaching social mobilization in this century ? the campaign to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the political process . That drive began in the red-dirt counties of the Deep South in the early 1960s , and it continues to this day in the ghettos of the North . In its most recent form the mobilization has been led by Jesse Jackson , who not only helped register millions of new voters but injected enormous energy and a sense of possibility into black communities all over the nation . The resulting empowerment provided the base that led directly to the victories of the four candidates , and many others less publicized , in November . From the beginning , the mobilization had a political dimension as well as a racial one . It is important that blacks be visible in positions of power , but the symbols must have substance . Too many times , a people 's representative once in power ignores the needs of the people ? women , labor unionists , farmers or any other struggling community that Chuck Robb et al . disparagingly call " special interests . " Because needy communities rarely have enough electoral power to install their own members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be struggling ) , they form coalitions with groups that have similar political needs ? and thus give lasting , institutional substance to the symbols . The Rainbow Coalition that produced Jesse Jackson 's presidential primary victories in almost every major city of the country last year became the base for many of the local black ( and progressive ) candidates this time . In New York City , the vast majority of Dinkins 's support ? in campaign work as well as votes ? came from the same area as the Jackson rainbow . This support is in no way automatic . A candidate who could not make a commitment to the coalition , even tacitly , would surely lose the election . The problem comes when the candidate goes further and seeks votes and social legitimization , in the form of press endorsements and big contributions , from those who are opposed to everything the coalition stands for . Dinkins did some of that ; Wilder did a lot more . ( Daniels and Rice do not fit the catchall " black moderate " label attached to them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely that they will remain merely symbolic figures , that they will sacrifice the needs of their broad base  --  for economic investment , social restructuring and extended empowerment ? to the demands of the few outside the coalition who may have put them over the top . Dinkins got less than 30 percent of the so-called white vote . Of that , a significant minority was already in the progressive coalition that promoted his candidacy in the first place . He got very little support from the " white ethnics " he spent so much time " reassuring " about crime , drugs , taxes and whatever else his pollsters came up with . Perhaps that was what he had to do this time . But soon another candidate will be able to extend the coalition right into that constituency with economic , class and empowerment issues . Neither politics nor society is static , as the Robb/Wilder theory holds . The point of politics is to change society , and thus move from symbol to substance . Haiti Goes Back T he government of Gen. Prosper Avril , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretense aside and get down to the business of governing in the style to which Haitian dictators have become accustomed . For months , soldiers and government officials in the countryside have been interrupting or forbidding meetings of opposition activists , suppressing demonstrations and arresting , beating , torturing and sometimes killing members of democratic or peasant organizations . All this has become routine , and is done on the quiet , at least as far as the international news media are concerned , while Avril announces to the world that he is proceeding " relentlessly " toward democratic elections . This talk has also quieted his most vocal critics among the likely presidential candidates . On October 30 a group of thirty-three popular democratic organizations held a press conference in Port-au-Prince to protest the deteriorating human rights situation and to declare a month of nonviolent resistance to the regime , to culminate in a Day of Refusal march on November 29 , the second anniversary of Haiti 's aborted elections . Apparently this was too much for Avril . On the evening of November 1 , a truckload of soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the press conference : Evans Paul , a former journalist who was jailed by Jean-Claude Duvalier and is now the head of the Confederation of Democratic Unity ; Jean-Auguste Mesyeux , co-director of the Autonomous Haitian Workers Federation , Haiti 's largest labor union ; and Etienne Marineau , a former sergeant from the Presidential Guard who was one of the soldiers who helped bring Avril to power in September 1988 and was later dismissed . The next night , at prime time on the state-run television station , Maj. Leopold Clerjeune , of the newly baptized Anti-Gang Service ( formerly Recherches Criminelles , the political police ) , read an announcement : The three men had been arrested because they were planning a " terrorist " action against the government , in which the President and all the officers of the army were to be assassinated along with " certain civilians , " and a popular militia would be installed to run the country . As Clerjeune spoke , the camera kept panning off to his left . There stood the three accused , on exhibit like the arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost beyond recognition , his white shirt bloodied ; next to him was Marineau , his right eye swollen shut ; finally , Mesyeux , a bandage across the top of his head , his face bruised . They were not allowed to speak . For a week the three men were held incommunicado . On November 9 they were brought into court and formally accused . Their physical appearance was shocking . The three said they had been beaten by a contingent of forty men while in custody and that the charges against them were false . They were then remanded to the penitentiary . ? The phony conspiracy propaganda was not unusual from a regime that has been crying " communist " for months as it sets about decimating the opposition . What is more ominous is that the government took its repressive violence to a new level by exhibiting its victims on television . Avril has thus put the government 's seal of approval on the torture of political prisoners and sent a warning to the opposition that protests will not be tolerated . A full week after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued this weak and cynical statement : " The U.S. government urges the government of Haiti to ensure that any detainees are treated in strict accordance with Haitian law and with respect for their civil and human rights . At the same time , we urge all factions in Haiti Lo forgo violence . We believe that tree and ci edible elections leading to the inauguration of a civilian government is an essential step in finding solutions to Haiti 's problems . " The U.S. Administration still stands by its earlier conclusion that Avril is Haiti 's best chance for democracy , and by urging all factions to forgo violence , it implicitly endorses the Haitian government 's charges against the three men . But that 's no surprise , since the outgoing American Ambassador , Brunson McKinley , told a U.S. human rights delegation to Haiti not long ago , " I do n't see any evidence of a Haitian policy against human rights , any more than they have a policy about anything else . . . . It 's been the law of the jungle out there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the job in Haiti : from the 1950s to the 1970s the Duvaliers , father and son , who never held elections ; in 1987 , Gen. Henri Namphy , who preceded Avril in the presidential palace and helped mastermind the massacre of voters that stopped elections dead . The prospects for free and fair elections are no brighter under the current regime . It is time for the U.S. government to recognize a simple fact : Dictators have no interest in democracy . AMY WILENTZ                     