@@487907

Commerce Department documents recently obtained under the Freedom of Information Act reveal that more than 1,000 of America 's leading companies , including General Electric , Texas Instruments , Westinghouse and Du Pont , took part in the Arab boycott of Israel . . And when questioned in a random survey about compliance with the boycott , several companies lied about their participation . The American Can Corporation , Bendix International , , General Mills and the Scott Paper Company , among others , directly contradicted statements they had made in confidential " Exporter 's Reports " they were required by law to file with the Commerce Department see box on page 378 . The newly disclosed documents also reveal that from 1965 to 1977 , when official U.S. policy prohibited American companies from complying with the boycott , the government ignored its own policy , encouraged firms interested in doing business with Arab nations to observe the boycott and , in at least one instance , took part in the boycott itself . More than 1,400 U.S. companies complied with Arab boycott requests during the twelve years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact was the culmina-tion of three and a half years of legal effort . The project began in March 1977 , when one of the authors and the Public Citizen Litigation Group filed a Freedom of Information Act suit against the Commerce Department to obtain Exporter 's Reports filed by American firms that had been asked by Arab nations to cooperate in their According to an international treaty ratified by the Senate in 1968 , which has the same force as any U.S. law , " No contracting state shall expel or return a refugee in any manner to the frontiers of territories where his life or freedom would be threatened . " President Ronald Reagan seemed to have this treaty in mind when he recently ordered the Coast Guard to stop and board vessels suspected of carrying Haitians to the United States . This is not to say that the President complied with the law . He did not . He paid lip service to thelaw and , simultaneously , proclaimed a way to evade it . The President said , " No person who is a refugee will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in accordance with " our international obligations concerning those who genuinely flee persecution in their homeland . " But the procedure for determining who is genuinely fleeing persecution is another matter . The " hearings " are to take place on a Coast Guard boat on the high seas . Two officers of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will be on hand , along with some Haitian naval officers . There will be no lawyers aboard to represent the refugees , however , and no record will be made of the proceedings . Those who this drumhead court decides are not sincerely fleeing persecution will be handed over to President-forLife Jean Claude ( Baby Doc ) Duvalier 's police or to the Voluntaires de la securitO nationale , better known as the tontons macoutes . The lucky ones will be tried under the Haitian law that makes it a crime to enter or leave the country without the proper documents . President Reagan 's true intention was revealed in a provision of his order requiring that Operation Forced Repatriation take place " only outside the territorial waters of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he or she may obtain legal assistance and claim asylum . On the high seas , the President 's lawyers probably advised him , U.S. immigration personnel can say that they obeyed the law , and there will be no legal checks on their conduct . The callousness of I.N.S. officers toward the Haitians  --  even within the United States  --  has already been documented in the course of lawsuits brought by many refugees . Can the officers be expected to behave any better away from judicial scrutiny ? Ironies abound in the President 's new Haitian refugee polity . The United States led the world in denouncing Asian nations that refused to accept the Indochinese boat people . Today , the United States frequently denounces the Soviet Union for denying its people the right to leave their country . Members of the Administration who distinguish between abuses of human rights in totalitarian and authoritarian countries say that denial of the right to emigrate is a hallmark of totalitarian regimes . By this criterion alone , Haiti qualifies as totalitarian . Yet these same people insist that few Haitians attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is endemic in Haiti , and its pervasiveness has been documented in reports prepared by Amnesty International , the Organization of American States Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the U.S. State Department . These documents make chilling reading . The Inter-American Commission 's most recent report on Haiti , for example , contains a list of 151 prisoners who died under suspicious circumstances . The Haitian government 's response to an inquiry by the commission about these prisoners went as follows : Within its means , the Haitian government has always provided medical and other care to prisoners . Doubtless , some individuals were unable to accustom themselves to the prison system , and a number of deaths resulted from this , which is to be deplored . Moreover , the individuals whose names appear on the list sent to us are dangerous terrorists responsible for numerous acts of vandalism ; some of them died , weapons in hand , during altercations with the forces of order . Haiti refused to give the commission any further information about the prisoners , or even confirm their names . As for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought " in Haiti , the commission says they " do not exist . " Summarizing the evidence he had heard in a 1980 Federal court case involving Haitian refugees , Judge Lawrence King wrote , " A largely uncontradicted pattern emerged . Uponreturn to Haiti , persons whom the Haitian government views as political opponents will be mistreated . Persons who have fled Haiti and sought asylum elsewhere are seen as opponents of the Duvalier regime . They are taken to Cassernes Dessalines for questioning . Many more are further imprisoned and persecuted . Of those allowed to return home , many more are later imprisoned or persecuted " Despite such findings , and despite the notoriety of human-rights abuses in Haiti , we can be certain that the 1 . N.S. officers on Coast Guard boats cruising the high seas with Baby Doc 's naval officers will discover few , if any , genuine refugees fleeing persecution . President Reagan 's executive order is a shabby device for evading a humanitarian law , and it can only heap more suffering on the backs of the Haitian people . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal obligation not to " return a refugee in any manner to the frontiers of territories where his life or freedom would be threatened . " Some repatriated Haitians might be inclihed to contradict the President , but he need have little concern on that score . Nothing further will ever be heard from them . Misguided Missile p resident Ronald Reagan finally unveiled his proposal for basing the MX missile , and it looks as if the elephant has labored mightily  --  and produced a lethal mouse . Instead of the elaborate , expensive and environmentally destructive shell game in the Nevada-Utah desert , many of the first 100 MXs off the assembly line will be placed in silos now holding Minuteman and soon-tobe-retired Titan missiles . And possible alternative sites for the MX will be investigated , with a final decision expected by 1984 . By the time it is deployed , the MX will have become the most expensive and the most studied weapon system in U.S. history . Three comments can be made on the Reagan decision . First , it is clearly a response to citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anti-MX groups throughout the country . In the face of a massive selling Job by the Pentagon , opponents of the Nevada-Utah basing scheme kept plugging away , their numbers growing , and they finally pushed such conservative stalwarts in the Senate as Paul Laxalt and Jake Garn behind the plan eventually chosen . In addition , the President accepted one of the main arguments of MX critics , namely that since the Soviet Union can build warheads more cheaply than the United States can build new shelters in the desert , a Soviet attack could , in theory , overwhelm any.system this country might build . Second , the decision ignores the problem of the vulnerability of the Minuteman missiles . If Soviet missiles are capable of destroying a hardened Minuteman silo , they can destroy an MX silo . Putting an MX in a Minuteman silo is a tacit admission that the vulnerability problem has been overstated , a view argued with increasing frequency in recent months by experts both within and outside the military establishment . Ironically , at the same time that Reagan canceled the multiple-shelter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B-1 bomber , which will cost upward of $30 billion and be obsolete before it is deployed . The third key feature of the Reagan decision is its em7 " phasis on the MX as part of a strategy of fighting , or at least threatening to fight , a limited nuclear war  --  the more important , though less publicized , rationale for the new missile . The decisions to produce the Trident II missile , to introduce nuclear cruise missiles into the Navy , to expand the air-launched cruise missile force planned for the Air Force and to speed research on antiballistic missiles are all consistent with this policy . Thus , one result of Reagan 's decision will be to force a public debate on the issue of limited nuclear war . There are signs this is already happening . The October 5 issue of Newsweek , which was published before the President 's announcement , featured a long article on the MX and the nuclear arms race that emphasized the limited nuclear war rationale and barely mentioned the vulnerability issue . This places the debate where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation of nuclear missiles will be seen by military planners as more accurate , more flexible  --  and therefore more usable  --  than existing weapons . And nuclear war will be one step closer . DAVID GOLD David Gold is director of military research at the Council on Economic Priorities and co-author , with Christopher Paine and Gail Shields , of Misguided Expenditure : An Analysis of the Proposed MX Missile System ( Council on Economic Priorities ) . Pentagon Puffery T he most newsworthy thing about " Soviet Military Power , " a glossily illustrated manual of Soviet machinations , is not that the Pentagon has published propaganda  --  it has been doing that since the year one . It is that the propaganda is so tacky . I really expected more from the Reagan Revolution than this . " Soviet Military Power " is so unprofessionally done that it would barely convince the faculty at the Army War College . Certainly The New York Times was not taken in ; it unleashed national security correspondent Leslie Gelb to catalogue the report 's faults on the front page . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by K.G.B . disinformation agents cleverly sabotaging the Pentagon 's effort to magnify the Soviet threat by making it look ridiculous or that it believes the methods that sell aspirin can be used to sell war . In this regard , the timing of the Pentagon publication , which came out the same week that the Administration announced its plans for the MX missile and the B-1 bomber , was no accident . The ad men in the White House borrowed a technique routinely used on Madison Avenue to launch a new product  --  the saturation campaign . Blanket the media with the message and hope the sheer din will make the public take notice . Operating on the assumption that the American people are the most gullible on earth , Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger and associates clearly expected " Soviet Military Power " to smooth the way for the Administration 's planned increase in the military budget at the expense of social programs . But every ad man has his Edsel . The Pentagon 's venture into publishing is likely to be as successful as its attempts to design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson Administration , has seriously misunderstood the American public 's attitude toward the military , in part because that attitude is too contradictory to register in public opinion polls . Americans are second to none in their desire to manifest national strength . Belligerence , not violence , is as American as apple pie . Believing that this hawkishness can be translated into support for increased military spending , Presidents often seek high defense budgets , which enable them to buy off the right . But while it is true that Americans want their country to be strong , they are ambivalent about paying the costs . In the Johnson years , the American people turned on the Vietnam War once they realized that it meant the death of their sons . In the age of Reagan , Americans are beginning to question the latest Pentagon spending spree as they find that it means inflation and high interest rates . " Soviet Military Power " represents a surprising arrogance on the part of the Reagan Administration that is out of keeping with its usual nice-guy image . The booklet is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Pentagon seem to be saying , we can get those suckers to believe anything . They are wrong . If this Administration persists in asking the American people to accept drastic cutbacks in social services and high interest rates for the sake of high military spending , it will find its cries of a Red menace fall-. ing on increasingly skeptical ears . The Pentagon brochure is also reportedly intended to influence the controversy in Europe over theater nuclear weapons . Consequently , " Soviet Military Power " devotes considerable attention to Soviet weapons like the SS-20 that supposedly pose a direct threat to the Continent . Unfortunately , the authors understand Europeans even less than they do their own countrymen . It is one thing to bamboozle citizens of a nation that has not fought a war at home in more than a century . It is something else entirely to sell limited war to Europeans who believe , with considerable reason , that such a war would be limited to Europe . The opposition to the U.S. Pershing 2 and cruise missiles is broad based and growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his recent visit to Europe to give them the evidence that would convince their people of the urgency of the Soviet threat . If this booklet is the best that Weinberger could do , more than one European centrist government will be falling over the next few years . In short , " Soviet Military Power " suggests that the Reagan Administration has been blinded by its successes in the budget and tax battles of 1981 , when , because of a lucky concatenation of events that is not likely to happen again , faith triumphed over fact . Convinced that it has discovered a new formula for political miracles , the Administration is trying the same appeal in foreign policy . But this time it is asking the people to accept an increased risk of nuclear destruction . To do that one must make a factual case . This the Administration has not done  --  either because it can not back up its claims or because it does not know how to . " Soviet Military Power " has as much to do with the realities of the East-West arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alan Wolfe is a member of The Nation 's Editorial Board . Unnatural Price any major newspapers like The Los Angeles Times and The New York Times have been uncritically passing on to the public in plain brown editorial wrapper the Reagan Administration 's propaganda in behalf of the decontrol of natural gas . The Administration 's case for decontrol , which completely ignores recent developments in the energy field , comes down to five main arguments : ( 1 ) natural gas prices must be allowed to rise unchecked in order to provide adequate incentives to producers ; ( 2 ) higher prices will stimulate more exploration ( this is what happened when President Ronald Reagan lifted controls on oil prices in January ) ; ( 3 ) higher prices will discourage waste and stimulate conservation of what is a limited resource ; ( 4 ) price decontrol would be accompanied by a windfall-profits tax that would generate additional billions in revenues , and ( 5 ) higher prices would put natural gas on a " parity " with No. 2 fuel oil , which is now twice as costly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drillers will not seek gas . Fact : Drillers have been discovering natural gas wells at a fantastic rate in the last two years see Cook , " Putting a Cap on Our Natural Gas , " The Nation , July 11-18 . Sometimes as many as three discoveries in a single day are reported in The Wall Street Journal , and some of the wells can produce 40 million cubic feet of gas a day  --  enough to supply energy to 123,000 American homes . The second argument assumes that Reagan 's decontrol of oil spurred more drilling . Fact : A record 60,000 new oil and gas wells were drilled in 1980 , and the pace was so frenzied that the industry ran out of rigs . Reagan 's decontrol spurred nothing but prices . The third argument is the familiar one that higher prices encourage conservation . Fact : Even with controls , natural gas prices are so high that demand is slack . Experts in the Department of Energy and in industry admit this . Testimony at Congressional hearings in June established that consumer resistance to high prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others not drilled for lack of customers . With current prices steep enough to hurt , higher prices can only hurt more . There is no pressing reason to hoard the natural gas we have . Based on discoveries made in the last two years and recent seismic assessments , our supplies are sufficient to last for at least fifty years , and probably for 100 . The fourth argument runs , oh , well , if natural gas prices go too high , Congress will pass a windfall-profits tax . Former President Jimmy Carter got such a tax placed on oil , and less than a year later , it was reduced substantially in the new Reagan tax bill . The fifth argument  --  that natural gas prices are so low that there is no parity with No. 2 fuel oil  --  assumes that there should be parity . Fact : George Lawrence , president of the American Gas Association , testified in the June hearings that natural gas decontrol would double heating and other costs for all consumers  --  and make it necessary for the United States to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from foreign sources . The inescapable conclusions , unmentioned in the mass media , are that natural gas decontrol would escalate prices that are already high , hamper the use of a readily available and abundant energy resource , and leave the American economy even more at the mercy of Big Oil and its Arab partners . What the nation needs is a cheaper source of energy , something that could compete with oil in the marketplace . Big Oil shudders at such heresy , and in newspapers and on television it relentlessly touts fuel oil as the best and most reliable source of heat . To make that message stick , it has to get a complaisant Administration and a weary Congress to price out of the market its most dangerous competitor  --  natural gas . FRED J. COOK History Lesson p oliticians are not historians , but the dead past is often resurrected in their public statements . All too frequently on such occasions they either reveal how little they know about this nation 's history or misrepresent historical events and processes . Just last month , the revival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the air controllers ' strike and the 100th anniversary of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America provided an opportunity for two prominent political leaders to show how little they know about American history . As it happens , both men frequently speak of their ties to American labor . One was once a union president and now serves as President of the United States . The other was once an official in the Department of Labor and now serves as New York 's senior Senator . Ronald Reagan failed his history test in his September 3 speech to the Carpenters and Joiners ' centenary convention . After correctly noting that organized labor had always sup -- ported the unionization of public employees , Reagan said , " But from the very first organized labor predicated its help and support on the condition that public employees could never be allowed to strike . " The President was mistaken . In 1935 , to give just one example , George Meany led a strike against the U.S. government protesting its failure to pay prevailing wage rates on Works Projects Administration jobs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Federal legislation recognizing public employees ' right to strike . The President also revealed his misunderstanding of the early history of the carpenters ' union . " The United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners , " Reagan said in his speech , " has shown time and again that it supports our free-market system . " But among that union 's founders and early national leaders were some of the harshest late nineteenth-century critics of the " free-market system " and American capitalism . Peter J. McGuire , a New Yorker born in 1852 of Irish parents , is recognized as the pre-eminent leader of the carpenters ' union before 1900 . He was also a top organizer for the American Federation of Labor in its early days . A socialist his entire adult life , he believed in industrial as well as political democracy . McGuire 's own words show how mistaken the President was about the carpenters ' union and its first leaders . In 1891 , the Irish-American radical had this to say about the goals of the labor movement : To educate our class , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of co-operative industry in place of the wage system , to emancipate the workers from subjugation to the capitalists , these are our ultimate objects . Supply-siders and other conservatives may find McGuire 's arguments unpalatable , but that is no reason to deny him his rightful place in history . Daniel Patrick Moynihan failed his history test on September 7 , after New York City 's Labor Day parade . The American Federation of Labor , New York 's Democratic Senator told CBS News that night , started Labor Day because May Day was too political and too radical . Actually , the American Federation of Labor started May Day in the early 1880s to promote the eight-hour work day . ( The federation had nothing to do with Labor Day . ) The , idea spread to Europe as Samuel Gompers , the federation 's leader , won the support of European socialists , and the Second Socialist International declared May 1 a labor holiday in 1889 . Labor Day was not intended to immunize American workers from " radicalism , " and it was being observed before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Credit for the holiday actually belongs entirely to the Central Labor Union of New York . That organization was formed to support land reform in Ireland , and its leaders were radical trade unionists . The main powers behind the first Labor Day in 1882 were the Irish-American machinist and socialist Matthew Maguire ( later a Paterson , New Jersey , socialist alderman ) and the ubiquitous Peter McGuire . Trade unionists celebrated Labor Day in dozens of cities before Congress made it a national holiday in 1894 . The day was always festive and always  --  as Peter McGuire insisted ? " a demonstration of fraternity and the harbinger of a better age . " At the first New York City Labor Day celebration , the marchers carried placards testifying to some of their beliefs : " To The Workers Should Belong All Wealth " and " No Man Can Make Land , Hence No Man Should Own It . " Nineteenth- and twentieth-century American historical development can not be understood without the McGuires and the Maguires . And the teaching of history is not made any easier by political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GUTMAN Herbert G. Gutman is Distinguished Professor of History at the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York . In recent weeks , the Reagan Administration has discovered that its policy on El Salvador has become unpopular with Congress , the American people and much of the rest of the world . When President Jose Napoleon Duarte of El Salvador traveled to the United States on September 20 in a last-ditch effort to sell his package of Christian Democracy-cum-elections , his reception was lukewarm at best . The Administration is hard pressed to find an alternative to Duarte . More than six months have passed since the furor over the State Department 's white paper and the subsequent acceleration of U.S. military and economic aid to El Salvador . Now , millions of dollars and thousands of lives later , the Administration can only watch as the Salvadoran economy edges closer to bankruptcy and the junta seems farther from military victory than ever . By the end of September there were rumors in Washington that the Administration was leaning toward an endorsement of mediation , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the idea , diplomatic sources say , during meetings with President Jose Lopez Portillo of Mexico in Grand Rapids , Michigan , where both attended the opening of the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum . The same sources indicate that Reagan plans to announce the new policy at the North-South summit in Cancim , Mexico , on October 22 and 23 . Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs Thomas Enders seemed to confirm that possibility when he told the House Subcommittee on Inter-American Affairs last week that there was nothing in the Salvadoran situation that precluded negotiations . But in an interview at the United Nations , Duarte , under the watchful eye of National Guard chief Col. Eugenio Vides Casanova , told Central America Watch that negotiations were out of the question . The greatest obstacle to peace in El Salvador , he said , is the Salvadoran people 's " loss of faith . " Meanwhile , as domestic resistance to direct U.S. arms aid increases , the military has started exploring a variety of " backdoor " options . Last May , Col. Jaime Abdul Gutierrez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vides Casanova traveled to several nations in the Southern Cone to solicit support . There has long been talk in San Salvador of the ' Argentine Option , " in which El Salvador 's military could dispense with the unpopular Christian Democrats altogether , accept the resulting cutoff in U.S. aid and replace it with arms and money from Argentina , Uruguay and Chile . There is little doubt that Argentina has already initiated some forms of military aid to the area , including sending advisers to El Salvador and Guatemala . Retired generals Vernon Walters , Gordon Sumner and Daniel 0 . Graham , who are directly involved in preparing U.S. military contingency plans for Latin America , have sandwiched trips to Brazil and the Andean Pact nations between visits to Central America and the Southern Cone . Brazil has flatly rejected suggestions that it participate in a multilateral " peacekeeping force " in Central America , while the presidents of Colombia and Venezuela , who facetough challengers in upcoming elections , have been playing hard to get . Costa Rica and Peru , among other countries in the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salvador 's opposition front , F.D.R. , as a legitimate political force and the Argentine statement condemning the F.D.R. Instead , they issued statements decrying violence  --  a political necessity , they say , for governments that have serious problems with guerrillas operating within their own borders  --  but coming down firmly on the side of mediation . Thus the debate over mediation versus a military solution goes on , not only in El Salvador but within the Reagan Administration and among the Latin American nations as well . It all adds up to a remarkable prelude to Canclin , where El Salvador is expected to be high on the agenda . ? In a stunning setback for the Reagan Administration 's El Salvador policy , the Senate voted on September 24 to make a $26 million military aid package for that country subject to President Reagan 's certification that certain conditions have been met . These are : that the government of President Duarte is not violating human rights , that it has achieved control over its armed forces " to bring to an end the indiscriminate torture and murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress on economic reforms , that it is committed to holding free elections and that it is willing to negotiate an equitable political solution with all groups in El Salvador that refrain from opposition military activity . Despite fierce lobbying by the Administration and Duarte himself , the Senate rejected a watered-down resolution that would have made the conditions merely the " sense of the Congress " rather than mandatory . On September 23 , by a 54-to-42 vote , the Senate approved some minor changes in the original amendment but left the conditions intact . According to Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman Charles Percy , Duarte himself , accompanied by National Guard chief Vides Casanova , had visited with committee members the previous day . The two Salvadoran leaders asserted that they shared the objectives of the bill . The next day , however , Percy received a note from Duarte calling the conditions " an unacceptable imposition on a government friendly to the United States . " Following the September 23 vote , the White House sought to muster support for the " sense of the Congress " resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his capacity as president pro tem of the Senate ; Haig made last-minute telephone calls to wavering senators ; the Senate majority leader , Howard Baker , who had initially supported the conditions , changed his mind after breakfasting with White House officials . But in the final vote on September 24 , the Administration 's version was rejected and the conditions remained in the bill . " The message of the vote is clear , " said one Senate aid . " We 're saying that it 's the internal conditions in El Salvador we care about , not Moscow and Havana 's conspiracy . "                     