@@432377

 | Hundreds of millions of words have been written about the global epidemic of AIDS ? acquired immune deficiency syndrome . Regrettably , much of what has been written has simply been incorrect . In these pages we will point to many instances of misinformation that the general public has been fed about AIDS . Some of what we have to say will be controversial . Some of our findings and recommendations will be belittled because they challenge the consensus that has been com- fortably developed as one way of dealing with the raging epidemic of AIDS .... First , however , we will introduce the alarming conclusion we have reached , based on our own research and studies conducted by others . Contrary to claims by various government agencies and public-health experts that infection with the AIDS virus is still largely con- fined to the original " high risk " groups ( gay and bisexual men and intravenous drug users ) , the epidemic has clearly broken out into the broader population and is continuing , even now , to make its silent inroads of infection while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they too are at risk . WHY WE CHALLENGE THE OFFICIAL " FACTS " Authorities are greatly underestimating the number of people infected with the AIDS virus in the popula-@#  | tion today . No epidemic of sexually transmitted disease has ever stood still , numerically speaking , without the availability of a preventive vaccine or cure . Yet most medical experts continue to claim that there are only 1.5 million people infected with the AIDS virus today , which is the same estimate that was made in mid-1986 by the U.S. Public Health Service in conjunction with the Centers for Disease Control ( CDC ) . Even if the AIDS virus is far less contagious than other sexually transmitted viruses ( e.g. , herpes , hepatitis B ) , the fact is that most people harboring the AIDS virus ? and unknowingly transmitting it to others ? do n't realize they 're infected . Many , if not most of them , are not taking any precautions in terms of sexual behavior , donating blood , or using IV drugs , so that they continue to infect others over an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is quite likely that there are now 3 million or more " carriers " of the AIDS virus in the United States , most of whom are healthy and unaware of the infected , contagious state . " Experts generally are gravely underestimating the degree to which the AIDS virus has spread into the heterosexual community . " healthy and unaware of their infected , contagious state . Experts generally are gravely underestimating the degree to which the AIDS virus has spread into the heterosexual community . There have been several different mechanisms by which the AIDS virus " crossed over " from the original high-risk groups to the general population . Certainly , bisexual males represented one of the earliest vectors of this crossover . Probably more important from a numerical viewpoint was the pattern involving IV-drug users . Here the fact that many female addicts work as prostitutes in order to support their drug habits was and continues to be of considerable importance . Since prostitutes have frequent sexual contact with numerous partners , and since many do not insist that their customers use condoms , it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AIDSinfected prostitutes could infect large numbers of men . These men , not real-izing that they were infected , could then transmit the AIDS virus to other female sex partners . Since this situation has now been festering over a period of more than five years , it can safely be estimated that the number of non-drug-using heterosexuals who have been infected in this manner by a sexual partner is substantial : probably on the order of 200,000 or more . This is not the end of the story , however . Indications are that the AIDS virus is slowly but surely working its way into the younger population ? the 15- to 24-year-old age group ? which has , at least in the last quarter-century , been the primary wedge driving epidemics of sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) in the United States and elsewhere across the world . Equally alarming is the not unexpected concentration of infection among heterosexuals with what used to be called " highly promiscuous " patterns of sexual behavior but might now be better labeled " sex with multiple partners . " People who elect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era of huge medical campaigns about genital herpes and AIDS tend to be people who do n't think they are personally at risk for these infections . Their denial of risk not only allows them to maintain their pattern of sexual behavior in a relatively worry-free state , but also means they will be unlikely to use standard precautions for so-called safe sex , such as condoms or avoiding anal intercourse . Since these people are having sex with numerous partners , they are in-@# @#  | creasing the likelihood of spreading their infection , and the people they are infecting are in turn likely to expose large numbers of partners . The immense size of the pool of uninfected but potentially at-risk heterosexuals is so much larger than the pool of homosexual and bisexual men , numerically speaking , that , if no way of containing the rate of spread in the general population is found , the epidemic will explode in a manner that will make the numbers from 1981 to 1986 seem tame . Under these circumstances we would expect that by 1993 over onequarter of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intravenous drug users . By the turn of the century , more than half of AIDS cases will be in the heterosexual population . AIDS VIRUS INFECTION IN HETEROSEXUALS : OUR STUDY Because we began to worry in late 1985 that AIDS was breaking out of the original high-risk groups , we tried to devise a strategy for assessing the prevalence of infection with the AIDS virus in the heterosexual population . We set out to examine a geographically and socially diverse group of heterosexual , non-monogamous men and women , along with a comparison group of heterosexual men and women in long-term monogamous relationships . Study participants in both groups were drawn from major metropolitan areas in four different geographic regions : the Northeast , the South , the Midwest , and the West . Two ( New York and Los Angeles ) were considered high-risk areas for AIDS infection and two ( St. Louis and Atlanta ) were not . Subjects aged 21 to 40 were recruited for potential participation in this project in a nonrandom , opportunistic manner . For instance , married subjects were recruited in part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjects were recruited through bulletin-board announcements on more than a dozen university campuses ; single subjects were recruited through fliers distributed at singles bars , singles dances , and campus locations . These 800 adults consisted of the following groups : ? Two hundred men and 200 women who reported a minimum of six sexual partners a year over the preceding five years ( regardless of whether they were married ) . ? Two hundred men and 200 women who reported having been in long-term monogamous relationships ( either marriage or cohabitation ) for at least five years prior to the time of being interviewed . All met three criteria : ? No blood transfusions received from 1977 on . ? No use of illicit drugs by injection . ? No homosexual or bisexual contact from 1977 on . All study subjects completed a selfadministered questionnaire and were interviewed to obtain a detailed sex history covering the preceding five years . . . . A blood sample taken from each subject was tested for antibody to the AIDS virus . Here is what we found : ? The prevalence of infection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women was , not surprisingly , very low : Only 1 out of the 400 ? or 0.25 percent ? had evidence of such an infection . ? In contrast , the prevalence of infection with the AIDS virus among the 400 men and women with numerous sexual partners was strikingly higher : 14 women ( 7 percent ) and 10 men ( 5 percent ) . ? Among the subgroup of nonmonogamous men and women who averaged more than 12 sex partners annually , the prevalence of infection with the AIDS virus was even higher : 14 per-  | cent for women , 12 percent for men . The implications of this research are relatively straightforward . If there is a significant rate of infection with the AIDS virus among heterosexuals who are very active with a number of different partners , it follows that much larger numbers of people are being exposed . In the case of our study , for example , if each of the 24 infected people in the non-monogamous group is having sex with 15 others in the course of a year , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virus through their sexual meanderings . If each of these 360 people has sexual contact with five additional partners , an additional 1,800 people will have been potentially exposed by the original group of 24 . As larger numbers of people are exposed , larger numbers of infections are transmitted . both sexually and otherwise . With time ? perhaps within just a few years ? there will be a " trickle-down effect " in which infection with the AIDS virus will be commonplace , not just in persons who have had many sex partners , but in heterosexuals who have had relatively few sex partners in their lives . THE NUMBERS OF THE EPIDEMIC By late 1987 , 45,000 cases of AIDS had been reported in the United States alone . This number is , we believe , a serious underestimate of the actual number of cases that have occurred . There were several different problems that together resulted in substantial underreporting , which to a large degree has continued until the present . First , physicians in many locales could not diagnose AIDS because they were not personally familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , euphemistic or misleading , in order to protect patients and their families from the ignominy of a diagnosis of AIDS . The other major reason for a significant underestimate of the actual number of AIDS cases was a technical one : Between 1982 and late 1987 the Centers for Disease Control insisted on unduly restrictive criteria for diagnosing cases of AIDS , as many workers in the field pointed out . The bottom line of all these considerations is that there has been such underreporting of the actual incidence of AIDS that the statistics as of late 1987 were off by some 50 percent . This means that in the U.S. there has probably been a cumulative total of at least 67,000 cases of AIDS from the time the epidemic began until the end of 1987 . If the baseline number of cases used by epidemiologists and public-health officials to estimate future trends of this epidemic are off by so much to begin with , then " official " estimates of the toll the world will see in the future are also far too conservative . For example , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1991 there will be a cumulative total of 270,000 cases of AIDS in this country alone , with 179,000 deaths . We believe that by the end of 1991 , the actual number of AIDS cases in America will exceed 500,000 , with more than 300,000 deaths . By the year 2000 , unless astonishing progress is made in the development of a vaccine to prevent this infection , there will be a cumulative total of 5 million cases of AIDS in America alone . SEXUAL CHOICES IN THE AGE OF AIDS Abstinence . Although the choice does not have much appeal to most adults , there is something to be said for a deliberate decision to abstain from sexual activity as a means of completely avoiding the risks of sexual exposure to the AIDS virus . To serve this purpose , though , abstinence ca n't be a part-time proposition : It must become , in effect , a way of life . Safe sex . There is one set of circumstances under which all forms of sexual activity can be considered totally and  | completely safe from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , a relationship where both partners have no prior sexual contacts with anyone else and have not been exposed to the AIDS virus by nonsexual means . One of the pragmatic questions that arises in regard to such relationships ... is how to be certain that your partner is telling the truth about his or her sexual past . Consider , for example , a young man virus . ( The purpose of retesting after six months is to exclude the small but real number of cases in which the initial test occurs too soon after infection for detectable quantities of antibody to be in circulation. ) in his early twenties who has been dating a woman for more than three years and has now become engaged to her . They have not previously had sexual intercourse and they are both , heterosexually speaking , virgins . The man , however , had a brief homosexual relationship in his freshman year of college , involving only a handful of sexual encounters . He is certainly at risk for being infected with the AIDS virus . The typical man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to himself , leaving his fiancee to believe that he is as inexperienced as she is . Substantial numbers of women will ? certainly understandably ? refuse to tell a partner about having been raped or having been the victim of incest . Men will be particularly apt to hide information about past homosexual relationships and sex with prostitutes . While the risk of infection with the AIDS virus is greater among people who have numerous sex partners , anyone with prior sexual experience , however limited , must be regarded as a potential asymptomatic carrier of the AIDS virus . Likewise , anyone who has injected illicit drugs or received a transfusion in the preceding decade must be regarded as a potential carrier of the virus . Since there are now some 3 million Americans infected with the AIDS virus ? most of whom , as we 've said before , do not realize that they are infected and contagious to others ? it should be a matter of utmost concern to anyone entering a new relationship to ascertain that a prospective partner is not infected before physical intimacy passes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusive assessment currently available , each person should first have an antibody screening test ( such as the ELISA test ) , to be followed by a more definitive test ( such as the Western blot ) in the event that the first test is even weakly positive . Then the couple should abstain from sexual activity with each other or with any other partner for a six-month period , at which time they should again be tested for antibodies to the AIDS Most couples will probably not be willing to abstain from sexual activity for the six-month waiting period suggested above . For this reason , we offer an alternative , slightly less reliable but still valid method of double-testing that permits sexual activity to commence promptly after the results of the initial antibody test are received . If both partners ' initial tests are negative , they can engage in sexual activity with the proviso that it involve absolutely consistent use of a condom during any episode of either vaginal intercourse or fellatio , as well as total abstinence from anal sex . While it is true that condom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is emphatically not true that condoms provide a foolproof means of avoiding exposure to the AIDS virus . As most people realize , they provide only a flimsy barrier , and they are subject to manufacturing or packaging defects that may cause them to leak . Besides defects that can occur in the manufacturing or packaging of condoms , the material from which the condom is made can become brittle as it ages or dries out . Actual-use statistics ? compiled not in artificial laboratory studies but in field trials in humans ? rather consistently show that condom , are far from 100 percent effective . This is not to say that using condom . to reduce the risk of exposure to the AIDS virus is pointless . But to think that condom use is perfect , or even near perfect , in eliminating the risk of AIDSvirus transmission is foolishness of the highest order . A SPECIAL WORD ABOUT TEENS Thus far , AIDS has primarily affected adults in the 20- to 40-year-old age bracket , but experts fear that teenager , will be the next major target of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teens use drugs . Both activities put them right in the path of a speeding locomotive . So far at least , school-based education about AIDS has been too little . too timid , and too unrealistic to accurately inform our teenagers or to convince them that AIDS is not just another threat invented by adults to curtail their independence and fun . Many of the curricula supposedly teaching teens about the AIDS epidemic do n't discuss homosexuality or bisexuality at all : others do n't mention condoms ; still others  | give the message that abstinence is the only way to avoid a terrible death . Unless adolescents and young adults can be convinced that the AIDS virus is a reality in their world right now , it is unlikely that there will be enough of a shift in behavior to keep this epidemic from expanding at an alarming rate . HOW SAFE IS THE NATION 'S BLOOD SUPPLY ? Since 1985 the American Red Cross , local blood banks , and various state and federal agencies have consistently issued public assurances that with the advent of routine testing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply is now " virtually safe . " The Centers for Disease Control has said , " The risk of AIDS virus transmission by transfusion . . . has been virtually eliminated by routine screening . " Language of this sort ? the risk has been " virtually eliminated " ; the nation 's blood supply is " virtually safe " ? suggests to most intelligent observers that only a handful of cases of AIDS-virus infection are caused by transfusions each year . Regrettably , this impression and this claim are false . ? It is certainly true that the routine use of ELISA screening for blood donors has made the situation far safer than it would otherwise be . It must be recognized , however , that any biomedical screening test suffers from certain sources of error ? that is to say , it is not accurate 100 percent of the time . The ELISA test is no exception . Although it has a reasonably high degree of specificity as a screening test , it has a false negative rate of about 2 percent . This means that given 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the ELISA test will incorrectly report two as antibody-free . ? With the AIDS virus , whose properties are somewhat different from those of the common infectious viruses with which the medical community is familiar , a measurable antibody response may not occur for two to 14 months after infection . During this " window of infectivity , " donated blood will pass the ELISA test with flying colors , but will transmit the AIDS virus to the recipient of the transfusion . What can an individual do to protect himself or herself from this risk ? The best option at present is to donate blood to be frozen and stored for your personal use , which in many cases will obviate the need for transfusions from another person . It is also helpful to know that you can discuss a somewhat different form of autologous transfusion with your surgeon . During an operation the surgical team can collect as much of the blood you lose through bleeding as possible and retransfuse this blood into your body while surgery is still going on . COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT AIDS : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have been told about the AIDS epidemic by experts in newspapers and on carefully produced television specials is the whole unqualified story , but there is a lingering doubt that this is so . We address some of the most difficult and widespread questions we 've heard about the AIDS epidemic and the AIDS virus . In our answers we 'll indicate just where the scientific uncertainties are and where commonsense responses to certain issues may be dead wrong . Can you get AIDS from mosquitoes ? The final answer on this issue is n't available yet . Experiments have shown that mosquitoes do in fact ingest the AIDS virus and that the virus can live in mosquitoes for at least 48 hours . The uncertainty comes from the lack of evidence that mosquitoes can actually transmit the virus . Here is how an article in Science explained it , " Mechanical transmission of virus could theoretically occur if a mosquito , for example , was interrupted while feeding on an infected host , then flew to another person and injected a tiny portion of tainted blood . " Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the amount of blood " injected " in this manner would be exceeding-  | ly small , but it is not at all certain how much virus a person must be inoculated with in order for infection to result . Is there a possibility that a doctor could inadvertently transmit the AIDS virus from one patient to another by reusing contaminated equipment during an examination ? Although most physicians use disposable instruments for all invasive procedures ? which completely eliminates such a risk ? there are a few exceptions . For example , concern has been raised over the use of flexible sigmoidoscopes ( for examining the rectum and colon ) as an office procedure . Flexible sigmoidoscopes are n't built to tolerate the heat of the gas-sterilization process recommended by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy for instruments used on patients infected with AIDS virus . And according to Dr. Jerome Waye , chief of gastroenterology at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York , many office-based physicians are not employing other acceptable methods to sterilize these instruments . Although the risk of patient-to-patient transmission of the AIDS virus may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is it possible to catch AIDS from an infected kitchen worker or waiter ? As a practical matter , only if you share needles or have sex with that person . However , it is theoretically possible to be exposed in a restaurant under certain circumstances . For instance , if the chef cuts himself while preparing a dish that will be served cold ( e.g. , a salad , a sandwich ) and his blood drips onto the food , infection could occur if whoever eats the food has a cut or ulceration of the lips or mouth that would give the virus a means of entry . Similarly , if you use a drinking glass or eating utensils that were previously used by an infected person and were n't cleaned properly , there is a small , as yet undetermined risk that you could be exposed to live , infectious virus from that person 's saliva . Can you catch AIDS from a toilet seat ? Although it is clear that if such a mode of transmission has ever happened , it must be an exceptionally rare occurrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become infected from skin contact with a contaminated toilet seat ( or any other contaminated surface ) . This alarming conclusion is based on research published in 1986 in the Journal of the American Medical Association in which it was shown that the AIDS virus retains its infectivity for more than three days in dried blood kept at room temperature . Thus , if infected blood ( from a cut , scrape , ulcer , blister , or rash on the buttocks ) or infected semen ( either dripped from the penis or spilled from a condom ) is inadvertently left on a toilet seat and someone who comes in contact with this material also happens to have a break in the skin at the point of contact , the virus may enter the body and infection may occur . WHAT IS NEEDED NOW America is now in a difficult position in regard to the AIDS epidemic . No cohesive national policy has been devised to deal with issues of prevention . No carefully planned priority-ranked research agenda has been mapped out and agreed upon . There has been far too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be associated with the epidemic over the next decade . And there is considerable disagreement over how to protect the civil rights of people with AIDS , people infected with the AIDS virus , and uninfected people in high-risk groups while at the same time fulfilling another legitimate function of government ? protecting public health . We make a number of suggestions for dealing with these challenges . There is little question that an inten- sive , comprehensive educational campaign must be a primary component of any effort to control the spread of AIDS-virus infection . Unfortunately . educational efforts thus far have been . as the Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences put it . " woefully inadequate . " To improve this situation , a number of urgent steps must be taken : 1 . A comprehensive AIDS curriculum must be developed for extensive use in public schools . 2 . Special education programs must be targeted at specific high-risk groups . including IV-drug users , homosexual men , pregnant women , men who have sexual contact with prostitutes , and heterosexuals who have sex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education campaign that models responsible behavior should be undertaken as soon as possible . 4 . All colleges and universities should provide their students extensive educational and counseling services related to AIDS prevention . 5 . Primary-care physicians should assume an active role in educating patients about the risks of AIDS-virus infection and how to avoid exposure . We also believe that mandator AIDS-virus antibody testing , already required in several groups ( blood donors , U.S. military personnel and recruits , prisoners in federal penitentiaries , and immigrants to the U.S. ) , be expanded to include four additional groups : 1 . Pregnant women . Since there is mounting evidence that infection with the AIDS virus has escalated among heterosexuals , since it is clear that in women the infection is most common during their reproductive years , and since 50 percent or more of babies born to infected women will be infected with the AIDS virus , not to perform such testing on a mandatory basis is a matter of medical irresponsibility. 2 . Anyone between the ages of 15 and 60 admitted to a hospital . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tracking broad population trends of AIDS-virus infection , which would have important implications for publichealth planning . Furthermore , it is important to avoid exposing patients infected with the AIDS virus , whose immunity is likely to be depressed , to other patients with contagious illnesses . 3 . Convicted prostitutes . There are already high rates of infection with the AIDS virus in prostitutes in many major American cities . It is difficult to imagine a group in which the risk of sexual transmission is any greater , since most prostitutes have astonishing numbers of customers in the course of a year . In addition , as we mentioned earlier , a sizable number of prostitutes are drug addicts , which means that they are likely to be transmitting the virus by the sharing of contaminated needles and syringes . Not to conduct mandatory testing in this group would be absurd : After all , if a prostitute has been arrested , tried , and convicted ( or pleads guilty to the charges ) , confidentiality regarding the fact that he or she has engaged in prostitution has already evaporated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AIDS-virus infection premari-tally gives prospective spouses the opportunity to decline to marry . Also , if a woman is infected with the AIDS virus , the couple should know that if they plan to have children , there is a high potential of having an infected baby . In addition , the epidemiological data gathered in such a mandatory screening program would provide the scientific and public-health community , as well as legislators , with much more accurate information on trends in the AIDS epidemic among people who are apparently healthy . IS QUARANTINE NECESSARY ? At one level the issue seems very simple . There can be no justification for imposing quarantine on infected persons who do not continue to expose others to their infection . On the other hand , it is clear to everyone working in the field that there are thousands of people infected with the AIDS virus who know their status and continue to have multiple sexual contacts , often without revealing that they are carriers of the virus ( which might , understandably , @# cause their partners to rethink the wisdom of the liaison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug users who continue to share needles and syringes with others ( although it is less certain that an addict will decline the invitation to share , even knowing the risk of infection ) . What should be done to deal with these cases ? What should be done to protect the public against prostitutes , male and female , who are infected with the AIDS virus and continue to ply their trade ? What about someone with AIDS who bites a police officer ? Quarantine is not a reasonable answer to these difficult questions . It seems more appropriate at this juncture to deal with such cases as matters of criminal law . New legislation is required to modernize this entire area of law and give courts the power to imprison persons whose persistent irresponsible behavior exposes others to infection with the AIDS virus . Such laws would no more infringe individual civil rights than laws that prohibit stealing infringe the civil rights of bank robbers . We have already witnessed a distressingly slow response to the AIDS epidemic in America and in the world at large . While we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not dictate government policies , we are also convinced that if implementation of effective prevention strategies is delayed by a mistaken belief that this epidemic is now under control , or by a single-minded preoccupation with individual autonomy , many millions of lives will be needlessly lost .                     