@@432188

That government may be best which governs least , but West Hollywood , Calif. , takes Jeffersonian principle one better : it has no government at all . That promises to change next week , when voters are expected to incorporate the pocket of Los Angeles County land and select a city council . If they do , they will probably make history . West Hollywood has a large and thriving homosexual community , and its new city council may turn out to be the first lawmaking body in the United States in which avowed gays constitute a majority . For gay activists , the local election is a national opportunity : a chance to erase , as National Gay Task Force director Virginia Apuzzo puts it , " the stereotypic image of us that makes this a story . " For locals like Steve Smith , 37 , once appointed to the Democratic National Committee with the support of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy , it is a chance to escape the back corridors and live out a fifth-grade dream of first-person civics . " You do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about it , " says the wellfinanced and heavily endorsed legislative aide , one of 20 gay council candidates in a field of 40 vying for five seats . " But the base is there , the time has come , and West Hollywood may be the place . " However , for some residents of West Hollywood ? opponents of incorporation ? the election represents a danger . Their whispered fear : that gay control of the council will fuel an influx from across the country to the new Gay City on the Hill . Bohemian Air : West Hollywood has long been a gay place , in the older meaning of the word . In the ' 20s and ' 30s , its strategic position just beyond the reach of the Los Angeles Police Department allowed gambling casinos and speakeasies to flourish along its Sunset Strip , soon to be fabled for the carousings of the movie colony . In the Bohemian air , diversity grew . Today , West Hollywood packs more than just 35,000 people into its two square miles : it boasts world-class hotels and restaurants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a bar for leather fetishists . And interspersed with important segments of the music and P " 77 ' r ' interior-design industries are more than 100 gay-owned or gay-oriented businesses , including two banks . That complex sometimes obscures West Hollywood 's real demographics . Gay ( 30 to 40 percent ) is a far less inclusive label than Democrat ( 70 percent ) or renter ( 88 percent ) . That last category ? gay and straight ? may determine how the Nov. 6 election comes out . " Sex is their private business , " says cane-carrying tenant Dorothy Strassberg . " I do n't care what the council people do , as long as they do what they have to do ? vote for rent control . " It was the impending expiration of Los Angeles County 's increasingly weak rent-control ordinance , a prospect that terrified West Hollywood 's low-income elderly , that easily mustered the 5,000 signatures necessary to put incorporation on the ballot . And the issue remains the primary reason why West Hollywood seems destined to become a city next week , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters for incorporation . Most council candidates favor toughened control as the new council 's first order of business when it takes office . In fact , there is no particular gay agenda for the new city . " What , " asked one exasperated cityhood organizer , " is a gay position on zoning ? " Still , the " gay issue " has emerged in the campaign 's closing weeks . Counseling service administrator Valerie Terrigno says business people often tell her , " You 've got my vote because I do n't want a gay takeover . " Then she informs them she 's a lesbian . Disco owner Scott Forbes attended a forum where the moderator announced that candidates from " both groups " were present . " The city 's consisted of these two groups for years , " says an upset Forbes , " and nobody 's ever separated them before . " No Difference : A group called Keep West Hollywood United has organized against cityhood and is reported to be spending $100,000 on 11th-hour mailings . A poll funded by members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought some of its questions were biased against gays . But group spokesmen deny any such sentiment . " I 've told the campaign manager that if there 's anything antigay in the campaign , I 'd rip up the checkbook and break both his legs , " insists cowboy-hatted spokesman Banks Montgomery , a fifth-generation land owner on the Sunset Strip . That promise may be as politically savvy as it is tolerant , as the controversial poll showed . Asked if they 'd be more or less likely to vote for the incorporation of West Hollywood if it meant gay control , a majority of residents answered that it makes no difference . NEWSWEEK/NOVEMBER 5 , 1984                     