@@432013

 | The surprise flight to exile in Egypt by the deposed Shah of Iran raises a fresh set of concerns for U.S. officials . They fear that the repercussions could damage important American interests in the region on three counts : Hostage crisis . Prospects for early release of the 50 Americans held hostage since the U.S. Embassy in Teheran was seized November 4 have been further jeopardized . The position of Iranian politicians trying to defuse the crisis may be weakened . Mideast-peace negotiations . President Carter 's effort to break the deadlock in West Bank autonomy talks between Israel and Egypt may have been dealt yet another setback at a critical juncture . Sadat 's future . Egypt 's President Anwar Sadat , a pivotal figure in America 's Mideast policy , faces new pressures at home as well as deeper isolation in the Arab world . Sadat accepted those risks deliberately when he welcomed former Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlevi to Egypt on March 23 for urgent medical treatment and permanent sanctuary . It was the fear of such repercussions that prompted President Carter to try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urgent surgery there for removal of a cancerous spleen . But personal appeals on Carter 's behalf by two top White House aides , Hamilton Jordan and Lloyd Cutler , were spurned by the deposed monarch . The Shah was unhappy in Panama , distressed by a controversy between his Panamanian and American doctors and apparently worried by the prospect of an extradition proceeding initiated by Iran 's Islamic revolutionary regime . Despite the American pressure , the Shah in the end chose to accept an invitation from Sadat to settle in Egypt ? whatever international tremors his action might create . The impact of the move was most immediate in Teheran . Already fading hopes for the early release of the American hostages plummeted in a renewal of anti-U.S . fervor reminiscent of the first days of the crisis . Tens of thousands of protestors on March 26 staged a demonstration outside the U.S. Embassy , denouncing what they charged was an American conspiracy to save the Shah . More significant , in the view of observers in Teheran , was the potential impact of the latest developments on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shah 's departure from Panama , say these observers , appeared to weaken the influence of the two political leaders committed to early release of the American hostages ? President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr and Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh . The President and the Foreign Minister apparently were forced by Iran 's ruling Revolutionary Council to abandon , at least for the time being , their efforts to take custody of the American prisoners from the militants occupying the U.S. Embassy . A spokesman for the council announced on March 27 : " After the flight of the traitor Shah , the issue is no longer under consideration in this form ? taking delivery of the hostages or taking delivery of the embassy . " Trust " damaged . " Ghotbzadeh himself announced that , in the light of the Shah 's move , Iran 's willingness to trust international law and international bodies to resolve the hostage crisis had been " extremely damaged . " Militant leaders of Iran 's Islamic clergy , who oppose negotiations for release of the hostages , clearly were exploiting  | the situation to augment their power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these religious leaders , Ayatollah Mohammad Beheshti , again threatened spy trials for the Americans if the Shah were not brought back for prosecution as a criminal . Even if this proved to be a bluff ? as it has in the past ? there were growing signs that the hostages might remain in captivity indefinitely . Their fate was supposed to be decided by a new Parliament that was scheduled to meet in late April . Now , because of postponement of the second round of balloting , the Parliament is not expected to convene until June at the earliest . Even then , political observers say , the legislative body is likely to be dominated by a revolutionary Islamic political group that insists the Shah and his wealth must be returned to Iran before the Americans can be freed . Slide in support . This turn of events , in the wake of the Shah 's flight to Egypt , sharpened the acute dilemma confronting President Carter in the Iranian crisis . The administration 's failure to secure release of the hostages was reflected in a shift in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis , which surveys found to be overwhelming several months ago , has slid to 47 percent , according to an Associated Press-NBC poll . Still more disturbing for the administration were signs that the President 's political fortunes were being adversely affected . His defeat in the New York and Connecticut primaries is attributed in part to mounting dissatisfaction with his management of foreign policy in general and the Iranian situation in particular . As a result , pressure was building on Carter to switch from " watchful waiting " to a more forceful policy in the Iranian crisis . With the crisis approaching the sixmonth mark , however , administration officials were hard pressed to develop an alternative strategy that held out the prospect of an early release of the hostages . Impact on Sadat . The repercussions of the Shah 's flight to Egypt on peace negotiations between Cairo and Tel Aviv were not as direct as the impact on the Iranian crisis ? but they still could be significant . For one thing , there were worries that the move could fuel extremist Moslem passions against Sadat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . The Egyptian President appeared to dismiss this danger even after militant Moslem students staged an anti-Shah demonstration at Cairo University . Sadat was determined to show his gratitude to the Shah for the help that the former Iranian monarch extended to Egypt in the face of a boycott by Arab nations following the Camp David peace agreement with Israel . Egypt 's opposition Social Labor Party , through its newspaper , charged that Sadat was protecting the Shah " against the will of his people . " But this group carries little weight . Still to be heard from was the Moslem Brotherhood , an extremist religious movement , which political observers say is potentially more of a danger to Sadat . Whatever the ultimate impact on the Egyptian President 's position at home , the arrival of the Shah in Cairo clearly injected a new complication into Mideast peace negotiations at a delicate point . Some Mideast observers believe that Sadat has further isolated himself from the rest of the Arab world . There is also widespread apprehension over the Islamic fundamentalism that is sweeping across the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ruhollah Khomeini , the leader of Iran 's Islamic revolution . All of this put a new and unwelcome element of uncertainty into Carter 's drive to break down the impasse in the peace talks between Egypt 's Sadat and Israel 's Prime Minister Menachem Begin . Those negotiations were supposed to produce a plan for self-rule for the occupied West Bank and Gaza territories by May 26 . Taking stiff positions . Even before the Shah 's flight to Egypt , the outlook for a breakthrough had been bleak when Carter invited Begin and Sadat to Washington for separate meetings . The Israeli Prime Minister was digging in to resist White House pressure for concessions . He rebuffed an appeal by Sol Linowitz , the President 's peace negotiator , for a freeze on new Israeli settlements in the West Bank . The U.S. regards the continued establishment of these settlements as illegal and an obstacle to peace . Sadat , also , seemed to be digging in for a strong stand in the negotiations ? a posture that Mideast observers expect to be reinforced by the furor over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sadat accorded the former Iranian monarch has increased pressure on the Egyptian President to redouble his demonstration of loyalty to the Arab cause . Thus , while the Shah may finally have found permanent sanctuary , his move to Egypt is generating major new headaches for a beleaguered Carter administration .                     