@@432071

 | A combination of political , legal and strategic problems is rekindling intense debate over America 's most critical military decision in a decade ? the fate of the MX supermissile . There is wide agreement in the Reagan team that the weapon is vital to U.S. defenses . But Pentagon planners , and the President himself , are far from certain about how ? or even where ? the missile should be deployed . Reagan 's predecessor , Jimmy Carter , thought he had settled the matter two years ago when he decided on a plan to hide 200 mobile MX missiles in shelters scattered across Nevada and Utah . But changing circumstances , plus the new Commander in Chief 's own misgivings , are threatening to unravel that scheme . The upshot is a far-reaching reassessment of the entire MX system that the Air Force says can be built at a cost of 33 billion dollars . Other experts predict that the MX program could require 68 billion dollars or more ? making it the single most expensive weapons program in the nation 's history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A panel of outside defense experts , convened by the Pentagon to study the range of MX options , was scheduled to make its recommendation in July . Already completed is a study by the Office of Technology Assessment that casts doubt on all of the proposals Reagan is weighing . " Each of these alternatives has serious risks and drawbacks , " concluded the congressional agency in a June 22 report . The MX would supplement America 's 1,052 land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles , which have gradually become vulnerable to Soviet attack . The Russians , especially in recent years , have added more warheads to their rocket arsenal and sharpened their accuracy . The MX is designed to counter this trend and give the U.S. the ability to retaliate with land-based missiles in the event its Minuteman and Titan ICBM 's are knocked out . Carter 's plan for deploying the MX and protecting it from the Soviets amounts to an enormous " shell game . " He wanted to shuttle 200 of the missiles , each fitted with 10 warheads , among 4,600 shelters in Utah and Nevada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ location of the missiles , since each one Minuteman fields . Shift ICBM 's among silos in existing base areas . Midgetman . Install small , single-warhead ICBM 's in several thousand silos . Roadmobile . Arm transporters with ICBM 's and disperse them over highways . U.S.NEWS &; WORLD REPORT , July 13 , 1981  | might be hidden in any of 23 separate places over a vast area . But the plan has touched off widespread opposition in Utah and Nevada , even among major sources of Reagan 's political support ? wealthy landowners , ranchers and developers . Many residents believe deployment of the system would cause lasting environmental damage , drying up water supplies and killing off wildlife . Of major concern are the 9,000 miles of new highways that would be needed to shuttle rockets between shelters . Residents also worry that the construction would replace a quiet way of life with an unwanted boom-town atmosphere . The project would bring in 85,000 MX workers , plus thousands of others trying to profit from the work . Some opposition is rooted in religion . Utah 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MX as a " mammoth weapons system potentially capable of destroying much of civilization . " That kind of grass-roots feeling ? and possible political fallout ? has led Reagan to consider putting some , and maybe all , of the missiles elsewhere . He could end up situating half of them in Texas and New Mexico . Another plan calls for placing some of them in Minuteman silos in the Great Plains region of the Dakotas . But even if Reagan overcomes the political problems surrounding the MX , potentially serious legal problems remain . Environmental groups have vowed to tie up the project in endless court battles , no matter where it is On water . Load barges with missiles , send them randomly along waterways . Airborne . Base jets with ICBM 's at airfields for quick takeoff in emergency . built . Two Utah state senators already have filed one suit to block construction on environmental grounds . New strategic realities are an even graver problem . Analysts point out that Carter 's MX plan assumed Russia would honor a proposed new treaty limiting nuclear arms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Without limits , Russia would be free to build enough warheads to overwhelm the entire MX force . Confronted by all these factors , Reagan is pressing the search for an alternative to Carter 's approach . All 30 of the competing missile plans rejected by Carter are now getting a second look by the President and his advisers . Some of the candidates Midgetman . Rather than try to deceive the Soviets with mobile ICBM 's , some experts feel the U.S. should deploy thousands of smaller missiles to dilute the effectiveness of a Russian strike . One idea calls for building 4,000 single-warhead missiles in fixed silos across remote U.S. desert areas . But , whatever its merits , this plan would exceed even Carter 's plan in cost . It also shapes up as an arms-control nightmare , since treaties restrict Washington to no more than 2,250 strategic weapons of all kinds . Missile-defense system . Some analysts want to hold down the number of MX 's and protect them with a system of interceptors ? a so-called anti-ballistic-missile system ? capable of shooting down incoming warheads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , but the cost would be high . Also , the U.S. would have to abrogate or renegotiate a 1972 U.S.-Soviet treaty that prohibits any substantial testing of such a system . " Red Ball Express . " Some experts would put MX ? or even existing Minuteman missiles ? aboard huge trucklike launchers , parked on military bases . In event of an alarm , transporters would travel public roads to launch sites . But , as with all other alternatives , there are serious problems with this scheme , which proponents call the " Red Ball Express . " Among them : The possibility of traffic jams and the length of time it would take to reach the launching areas . Surface vessels . In another plan , missiles encased in canisters would be placed aboard barges on inland waterways . Or they could be placed aboard special ships and hydrofoils that would move across the world 's oceans . Major drawbacks : Satellites could track the ships , and command of such a widely scattered force would be a complex , perhaps impossible , job . Jets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that calls for basing the MX aboard wide-bodied jets and other aircraft . Advocates say that this plan would be just as confusing to the Soviets as Carter 's proposal ? but without its political drawbacks . On the negative side is the fact that the cost would far exceed Carter 's shell game and could require construction of hundreds of new air bases . Equally serious problems offer an argument against use of another type of  | exotic launch pad ? dirigibles . Little is known about how such heavily weighted craft would act in bad weather . With so many difficulties facing the deployment of a new land-based ICBM system , some strategic experts are again questioning whether the U.S. should even attempt to base the weapons on American soil . They argue that there is no obvious reason for a land-based system . Richard Garwin of Harvard University , for example , favors basing the MX missiles at sea , lashed to small submarines in shallow waters off American coasts , where they would be hard to detect . Other MX critics say that whatever the theoretical vulnerability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They maintain that even if America 's existing ICBM 's were wiped out , the U.S. could retaliate with its 656 submarine-based missiles and thousands of atomic weapons aboard its 338 long-range bombers . The administration , however , seems strongly committed to keeping an arsenal of land-based ICBM 's . Officials contend that , with all of its missiles at sea , the U.S. would become vulnerable to breakthroughs in antisubmarine warfare . Soviet air-defense advances already imperil aging U.S. B-52 bombers . Moreover , say many experts , only land-based ICBM 's can fill the U.S. need for swift , certain and highly accurate retaliation against Russia . Bombers take hours to reach their destinations , and submarines are plagued by communications and targeting problems . Also at stake in the MX debate is the perception of the U.S. by the rest of the world . Pentagon professionals warn that by putting its newest ICBM 's aboard submarines , America would signal an inability to keep its own territory secure . These analysts contend further that the Soviets would be less likely to attack America itself than U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within his administration , Reagan is inclined to put the MX on American soil . But within that strategic framework . all of the choices are controversial ones that can not satisfy every MX critic . Whatever his decision , the President is under mounting pressure to bite the bullet and act quickly . Says Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger : " We do n't feel that it is the kind of situation in which there should be delay . An extremely important part of the nation 's security is at stake . " The West Reacts to MX : Take It Someplace Else Backers of the MX missile are nearly as scarce in these parts as spring water in the parched Great Basin wastelands of Nevada and Utah . Opposition to putting the weapon here cuts across all social and economic lines . From the cowboy to the minister , the word from the majority is deploy it somewhere else ? if at all . " There would be irreparable harm to our slow-paced way of life , " declares Commissioner Brent Eldridge of White Pine County in east-central Nevada . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unless the Reagan administration comes up with a new plan , 200 missiles would be tucked into shelters across 20,000 square miles of thinly populated , mostly desert land in Nevada and adjacent Utah . Residents are accustomed to a peaceful , rural life . Most do not look forward to seeing their communities become boom towns full of missile workers and others lured by the promise of a fast dollar . One referendum conducted last November in eight Nevada counties found 68 percent opposed to the plan . In a May poll , taken by a television station , nearly 3 out of 4 Utah residents were against deployment of the MX in this area . Groups throughout the region have organized to fight the MX . Protests have taken the form of rallies , town meetings , concerts and a letterwriting campaign aimed at Washington . Four Utah residents even undertook a nationwide tour to speak out against the missile . At least some anti-MX feeling stems from opposition by the Mormon Church , whose members include 60 percent of Utah 's population and 7 percent of Nevada 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Most people were instinctively against the MX all along , " says Utah State Senator Frances Farley . " Now that the Mormon Church has come out against it , there are fewer fence sitters . " Even two Republican U.S. senators who ordinarily are among the Pentagon 's strongest supporters ? Paul Laxalt of Nevada and Jake Garn of Utah ? recommend that the MX be installed in Minuteman silos in the Great Plains rather than in an elaborate " shell game " system in their states . One big worry is the strain that construction may put on scarce water supplies ? the most precious commodity of all in the desert . Other concerns are the increased demands for housing , schools and other public services that are bound to come , along with higher taxes , if the population suddenly increases . Already , a mining boom has caused problems in some towns that would be affected by the missile project . State officials are fretting because Washington , as yet , has not helped them prepare for the MX . No money , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Utah counties that would handle the brunt of the MX traffic ? a 200-million-dollar item . Nevada 's bill for accommodating the MX could top 1 billion dollars . While MX supporters are badly outnumbered , they do exist , mostly among businessmen who would welcome a boost to the local economy . " Maybe we could put in the last four holes of the nine-hole golf course we started in 1971 , " , says Red Wilson , editor of the Beaver County News in tiny Milford , Utah . Far more common , however , is the viewpoint expressed by Steve Bradhurst , director of Nevada 's MX coordination office : " Some fear that the MX will bring us to our knees . Rural Nevada is the worst place in the U.S. for a project like this to be built . "                     