@@432397

 | What do women want ? For one thing , they want more choices of contraceptive methods . The two most effective ones present nettlesome problems : the Pill may cause nausea and other unpleasant side effects , and can increase the risk of blood-clot problems and strokes . The IUD has largely disappeared because a series of multimillion-dollar lawsuits over injuries attributed to the devices prompted manufacturers to stop making them . Last week U.S. women got another choice for birth control : the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved sale of the cervical cap , a contraceptive invented in the 19th century and long available in Europe . The cap is a small , thimble-shaped device made of latex that is placed directly over the cervix . Before insertion , the user places only a small amount of spermicidal cream or jelly within the cap . According to the FDA approval , the cap can be kept in place without the need for additional application of spermicide for at least 48 hours , although many women have worn it in clinical trials for at least three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diaphragm be left in place no longer than 24 hours , and that additional spermicidal jelly or cream be added before another act of intercourse takes place . " We think the cap is particularly appropriate for younger women who can put it in on Friday and their contraception is taken care of until Monday morning , " says Victoria Leonard , executive director of the National Women 's Health Network . The cap and the diaphragm are about equally effective . In a study involving more than 1,000 women , Dr. Gerald Bernstein of the University of Southern California Medical Center found that the pregnancy rate among those using the cap was 17.4 percent compared with 16.7 percent among women using the diaphragm . About 4 percent of women using the cap in clinical trials showed abnormal cells in Pap smears after three months , as compared to 1.7 per cent among diaphragm wearers . These abnormal cells , however , do n't necessarily portend cancer . As a condition of approval , the FDA advises that the cap should only be prescribed to women with normal Pap smear results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months . The device , called the Prentif CavityRim Cervical Cap , is manufactured by Lamberts ( Dalston ) Ltd. of Great Britain . Until now it has been kept off the U.S. market , in part by stricter controls placed on contraceptive devices by Congress in the wake of the scandal involving the Dalkon Shield IUD . Feminists , led by the Women 's Health Network , lobbied for the past seven years to win the FDA 's approval . Now that it 's here , will many women use it ? Dr. Louise Tyrer of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America points out that the diaphragm ranks only fourth among contraceptive methods , behind sterilization , the Pill and condoms . " A method requiring a woman to put something in her vagina is n't popular , " she says . Meanwhile , another contraceptive choice will soon be available to U.S. women . GynoPharma , Inc. , of Somerville , N.J. , has started marketing a new IUD . Called the ParaGard Model T 380A , it is similar to the famous Copper T , which was taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against its manufacturer . GynoPharma hopes to avert potential legal problems by requiring all women who purchase the device to initial each section of a long " consent " form listing the potential risks it entails .                     