@@480389

about the Russians , but he did report from Moscow that year that " Literature , the cinema and the theater have all been mobilized for what is called the education of the masses . What is taken abroad as a long-term policy is often in fact relatively short-term policy dictated by conditions and dangers existing during the present transition period . " EVEN during the endless transition , the Nation was not a one hundred percenter as far as the Soviet Union was concerned . " Undesirable tendencies " were often mentioned and lamented ; even Alexander Werth found the approved literature boring . But the magazine 's own tendency , perhaps in reaction to the increasingly confrontationist language being heard in places like the high-circulation Digest , was to remind readers of Soviet " insecurities , " to call on Washington to understand Moscow 's reactions to a threatening world , and to demand that the West behave in a forthcoming way , like a social worker dealing with a patient who may do odd things now and then but means well . J. Alvarez Del @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maestro of the insecurity theme . He traced U.S.-Soviet difficulties to the death of President Roosevelt , who had had an understanding with Stalin on the need to resist the revival of " reactionary intrigues . " Like Werth , he saw a much brighter future for the East than for the West , if only the warmongers did not prevail : " A socialist state , possessed of the vigor and imagination of a regime only thirty years old , is capable of far greater resiliency than the Western countries , saddled with a decrepit economic system and a tradition of striped-pants diplomacy . " Del Vayo makes peculiar reading at a time when only Western banks stand between Poland and starvation . The Reader 's Digest , meanwhile , was taking an apocalyptic line . " Throughout the entire earth , " cried William Bullitt in 1947 , " Stalin 's forces are on the offensive and the democracies are in retreat . " A steady diet of the Reader 's Digest could cause indigestion . The magazine 's warning drums heightened the beat of the national pulse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a Salvation Army spirit resounded through its little pages . The Reader 's Digest was no more given to making nice distinctions among left-wing movements than the Nation ; whereas the latter welcomed them all , the former wrote them off as Soviet tools . Issue after issue delivered the summons for greater American strength , military and moral , to meet the Soviet menace . Happily , neither our government nor the Russians proved as aggressive as Digest readers must have feared or hoped . The Digest 's up-and-at-'em view of the U.S.S.R. was encapsulated by William Henry Chamberlain in an article reprinted in 1947 from the prematurely anticommunist liberal journal the New Leader . Chamberlain attributed international tensions to the " fatalistic " belief of Russia 's rulers in inevitable conflict between communist and anticommunist countries ; the bad faith of the Kremlin , as demonstrated by broken treaties ; the Soviet Fifth Column , plotting tirelessly to undermine other regimes around the globe ; and the closed Soviet society , which was preventing America from bringing its case to the Russian people . Criticism of Washington was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Left could count on a consoling word . In a passage that resembles recent State Department releases , Chamberlain wrote : " ... the present regimes in Greece and Turkey ( and China ) , whatever their defects , are far more capable of evolutionary progress than the systems which would prevail in a Greek or Turkish Soviet republic . " Whatever the defects of that prophecy , it was no more outlandish than the dreamy prospects for Eastern Europe that rose like mist from the Nation 's pages . Freda Kirchwey exulted as the Greek-Turkish situation warmed up , " Where Moscow 's wish is law today , the overall effect of Russian control has been to wipe out established prewar relationships omy , and a dedication to peace on show week after week in the Nation . In doing so , she was carrying forward a dispute between anticommunists and anti-anticommunists that has divided the Left for most of this century . The character of the Nation during Stalin 's reign did not escape notice on the Left . In his recent book The Truants , William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 1946 editorial , " The Liberal Fifth Column , " in which he charged that the Nation was part of a " powerfully vocal lobby willing to override all concerns of international democracy and decency in the interests of a foreign power . " Barrett explains why he has reprinted the piece : " Younger friends to whom I have shown the editorial have expressed amazement that things seem to be at the same pass now as thirty-five years ago . " Not exactly . There can not have been many people at Town Hall on Sontag night who look to Moscow as the fount of their radicalism , and I have n't heard anyone in New York call Lech Walesa a counterrevolutionary . But the faithful do seem to need a place to which their faith can attach itself . For many years , far longer than mere reason can justify , Moscow was the Mecca of the world 's Marxists . More recently , worshipers have turned their eyes toward China or Cuba or Nicaragua ; some Americans even found hope in the Ayatollah 's Iran , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way that must mortify her today . Is there much doubt about where most of these seekers would have looked in the old days ? Even now , many can not bring themselves to say straight out that the Kirchwey ? Del Vayo ? Werth line was devilishly askew , yet they have the effrontery to claim Solidarity as their own , like collaborators trying to pass as victims after the camp gates have been broken down . The Nation may have been more enlightening than the Reader 's Digest , in general , but when it came to " the realities of communism , " Digest readers were more accurately served .                     