@@480767

Abbie Hoffman , acting as his own attorney , made this closing argument in District Court in Hampshire County , Massachusetts , on April 15 . Hoffman and eleven others were on trial for trespassing . They had been arrested last November after occupying a campus building at the University of Massachusetts to protest a CIA recruitment drive . The jury acquitted Hoffman and his codefendants . Three others , including Amy Carter , were acquitted of disorderly conduct . Hoffman s remarks appeared in the May 2 Nation . ood morning , women and men of the jury . At fifty , I am the oldest of the student defendants . In a short time you will retire to deliberate your decision . In examining the exhibits before you , we would draw your attention to Exhibit No. 3 , page 1 , paragraph 1 , of the letter from the administration to the University of Massachusetts community , dated November 21 , 1986 : The university has consistently been committed to providing , promoting , and protecting an environment which encourages the free exchange of ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversations , and demonstrations . Also , we would like you to consider page 2 , the first paragraph : The university respects the rights of its students to express their views in whatever manner they see fit , including demonstrations , rallies , and educational forums . The defendants have not claimed that the CIA has no right to participate in that free exchange of ideas . To the contrary , the defendants encourage that right of free speech . But recruitment by a company , private or public , is not a right ; it is a privilege that is regulated to ensure that the recruiter is obeying the laws of the University of Massachusetts , the commonwealth , and the United States . You heard Ralph McGehee 's testimony of how he was recruited into the CIA . He was told that he would be gathering intelligence , and we do n't object to that . The country needs intelligence . He was n't told he would be part of an assassination team , that he would have to " arrange and doctor evidence " that would show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to write a white paper to Congress that was a total lie so that Congress could authorize the first bombing of Hanoi . We would draw your attention to Mr. McGehee 's remark that the big joke in the CIA about Congress was , " Treat them like mushrooms ? keep them in the dark and feed them a lot of manure . " Does anyone believe this is what recruiters say ? Do they tell the recruitee that ( as witness Mort Halperin testified ) they might have to break the CIA 's own charter and engage in domestic spying ? That they might have to silence a Daniel Ellsberg ? That they might have to engage in acts of war against a country we are formally at peace with ? . Free speech is not a license to misinform and lie without accepting challenge . The CIA has been invited to send representatives to debate with the defendants and our witnesses on campus and here in court . After all , in the " necessity defense " we have adopted , we have to prove that bigger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refute the evidence we have brought before you ? If you accept our necessity defense , the prosecutor must offer some proof that justification was absent beyond reasonable doubt , just as we must prove it was present . When I was growing up in Worcester , Massachusetts , my father was very proud of democracy . He often took me to town-hall meetings in Clinton , Athol , and Hudson . He would say , See how the people participate , see how they participate in decisions that affect their lives ? that 's democracy . I grew up with the idea that democracy is not something you believe in , or a place you hang your hat , but it 's something you do . You participate . If you stop doing it , democracy crumbles and falls apart . It was very sad to read last month that the New England town-hall meetings are dying off , and , in a large sense , the spirit of this trial is that grass-roots participation in democracy must not die . If matters such as we have been discussing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington , then we would cease to have a government of the people . You travel around this country , and no matter where you go , people say , Do n't waste your time , nothing changes , you ca n't fight the powers that be ? no one can . You hear it a lot from young people . I hear it from my own kids : Daddy , you 're so quaint to believe in hope . Kids today live with awful nightmares : AIDS will wipe us out ; the polar ice cap will melt ; the nuclear bomb will go off at any minute . Even the best tend to believe we are hopeless to affect matters . It 's no wonder teenage suicide is at a record level . Young people are detached from history , the planet , and , most important , the future . I maintain to you that this detachment from the future , the lack of hope , and the high suicide rate among youth are connected . This trial is about many things , from trespassing to questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And here we are in Hampshire District Court . You have seen the defendants act with dignity and decorum . You have seen our lawyers try hard to defend our position . Witnesses , many of whom occupied high positions of power , have come before you and have told you the CIA often breaks the law , often lies . The prosecutor has worked hard but has not challenged their sincerity . The judge is here , the public , the press . I ask you , is it we , the defendants , who are operating outside the system ? Or does what you have heard about CIA activities in Nicaragua and elsewhere mean it is they who have strayed outside the limits of democracy and law ? Thomas Paine , the most outspoken and farsighted of the leaders of the American Revolution , wrote long ago : Every age and generation must be as free to act for itself , in all cases , as the ages and generations which preceded it . Man has no property in man , neither has any generation a property in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about this spring day in this courtroom . A verdict of not guilty will say , When our country is right , keep it right ; but when it is wrong , right those wrongs . A verdict of not guilty will say to the University of Massachusetts that these demonstrators are reaffirming their rights as citizens who acted with justification . A verdict of not guilty will say what Thomas Paine said : Young people , do n't give up hope . If you participate , the future is yours . Thank you .                     