@@333353

The visit was shrouded in deepest secrecy , its details known only to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak , Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres , and a few top , officials . Early last week , Osama el Baz , Mubarak 's closest adviser , boarded a helicopter in Cairo and flew to the Egyptian border . He was driven to Jerusalem , where he went directly to Peres ' house . At the same time , Peres , who had been attending a Labor Party meeting , announced that he was not feeling well and left for his home . There the two men met for nearly five hours before el Baz slipped out of the back door at 1:30 a.m. and returned to Egypt . <P> El Baz 's get-together with Peres , the highest-level contact between the two countries since Israel 's 1982 invasion of Lebanon , was the most promising development in a sudden burst of diplomacy in the Middle East over the past three weeks . In the days following el Baz 's trip , two Israeli envoys visited Cairo while a second Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any time , the very fact that Mubarak and Peres were working together in the search for a Middle East settlement heartened diplomats in the region . In Washington , there was concern about the fragility of the latest initiatives , based most notably on the ability of Syria and militants within the Palestine Liberation Organization to scuttle any proposal , but Reagan Administration officials expressed willingness to play a part . " The U.S. is ready to resume its role as a full partner in the search for peace whenever all the parties are prepared to rejoin , " said Assistant Secretary of State Richard Murphy . <P> The purpose of el Baz 's trip to Jerusalem was to discuss a Mubarak proposal for talks between Israel and a joint delegation of Jordanians and Palestinians . The Egyptian President , who announced his plan last week , suggested that the U.S. first talk with the Jordanians and Palestinians in Washington . If such an encounter proved fruitful , the Arab team would negotiate directly with Israel , possibly in Cairo . An international conference under United Nations auspices then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After conferring with el Baz , Peres announced his support for the Mubarak initiative . Though major stumbling blocks remain , the Egyptians and Israelis reached an accommodation on the sensitive issue of the P.L.O . ' s role . Peres accepted a formula in which Palestinians who are not " declared members " of the P.L.O . could take part in the talks . Peres , moreover , did not insist that the P.L.O . be forbidden to pick those Palestinians , thus giving P.L.O . Leader Yasser Arafat the opportunity to play a behind-the-scenes role . Peres , however , rejected the first stage of Mubarak 's plan  --  talks between the U.S. and a Jordanian-Palestinian delegation  --  on the grounds that Israel should not be excluded from any part of the negotiations .                     