@@325503

Six months ago , the Soviet Union was no more than an irrelevant bystander in the Middle East poker game . But since then , Moscow has anted up with a vengeance by resupplying Syria with large quantities of highly sophisticated weapons . The Soviet aim has been not merely to replace equipment lost when Syria tried to blunt Israel 's invasion of Lebanon last June , but to increase Soviet influence in the region by offering the regime of Syrian President Hafez Assad more and better materiel than he had before . Moscow , moreover , has added a new dimension to its involvement in Syria by installing SA-5 missile bases that have to be manned by Soviet troops and technicians . Says a West European diplomat in Damascus : " For the first time , the Soviets have bases in Syria . This is a categorical and qualitative change in the nature of Soviet involvement . " <P> Located near the towns of Dumeir and Shimshar , the sites consist of two batteries of 12 launchers each . Spare missiles bring the total number of SA-5s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radars , plus the communications systems and defenses made up of less advanced batteries , are all manned and operated by Soviets . Even though the SA-5s are integrated into a Syrian-controlled air-defense network , the Kremlin has a veto over their use . So tight is Soviet control , in fact , that the Syrian Defense Minister has never been allowed to enter the bases . <P> The Soviets have been equally generous in providing more conventional arms to the Syrians . Since the Lebanese conflict began , the Soviets have supplied Syria with about 100 fighter aircraft to replace those lost in dogfights over the Bekaa Valley . The bulk of the new aircraft are advanced MiG-23s . Some 300 to 400 T-62 and T-72 tanks have been added to the Syrian arsenal , well in excess of the number of older and smaller T-54s and T-55s lost in Lebanon . The Soviets have also provided about 200 armored personnel carriers , and between 600 and 800 trucks and other wheeled vehicles , considerably improving the mobility of Syrian forces . <P> The basis for Soviet military assistance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was signed by Assad and former Soviet Leader Leonid Brezhnev in Moscow in 1980 . The pact was drawn up at a time when Syria 's increasing isolation from other Arab countries was causing Assad to rethink a foreign policy that has been described as " acrobatic nonalignment . " But even while courting Moscow 's increased attentions , Assad has never been more than a reluctant Soviet suitor . For two years after the treaty 's signing , Assad mysteriously failed to reappoint a Syrian Ambassador to Moscow . Following Israel 's crushing victories last summer , however , Assad 's room for maneuver shrank . Two months ago , Syrian Ambassador Muhammad Ah ' Halabi presented his credentials in Moscow . Despite the dramatic increase in Soviet military aid to Syria , foreign analysts are leery of attaching too much importance to the relationship . Says a Western diplomat in Damascus : " Right now this is a very happy marriage of convenience . "                     