@@494628

A century of the ' English disease . ' PATIENT BRITAIN BY PETER JENKINS London ' TO THE ANCIENTS it seemed natural that empires would fall and that the cause would be failure of a moral kind . Cic-ero , for example , thought that " death itself is a punishment to states . . . , " and Aris-totle expected them to be " injured by time . " Machiavelli , who lived through the decline of the Italian states , wrote that it was " impossible to constitute a republic that shall last for ever . " He believed that fallible man would always in the end in the first century B.C. , is with us today . In the late 19th century there was " the sick man of Europe " ( the Ottoman Empire ) ; today , the " English disease . " The Englishman can see his country all too clearly , for example , in historian J. H. Elliot 's epitaph on Imperial Spain in a hook published in 1963 at the very moment at which Britain was becoming conscious of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political scientists say today , " ungovernable . " The spectacular decline of 17th-century Spain greatly influenced Gibbon 's view of the decline and tall of the Roman Empire ; moral degeneracy was at the root of economic failure and military defeat . The analogs ' between moral decline and physical disease , perhaps first made by Sallust Peter Jenkins is the political columnist of the Sunday Times of London . Heirs to a society which had over-invested in empire , and surrounded by the increasingly shabby remnants of a dwindling inheritance , they could not bring themselves at the moment of crisis to surrender their memories and alter the antique pattern at their lives . At a time when the face of Europe was altering more rapidly than ever before , the country that had once been its leading power proved to be lacking the essential ingredient for survival ? the willingness to change . Here is the nub of it : there is nothing inevitable about decline . Nations with a capacity to adapt can overcome the fateful blows of war , trade diversion , or technological advance ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits become set , institutions tend to ossify , and interests conspire against change ; old virtues become present vices ? Spanish chivalry or English gentle-manliness . Economists today talk about " mature " economies or , in Mancur Olson 's phrase , " institutional sclerosis , " which is not very different from Aristotle 's view of the matter . THE WORRY about Britain is that we shall have failed to seize the last chance provided by the providential boon of North Sea oil , and for essentially the same sort of cultural failures that brought the demise of previous empires . Prime Minister Thatcher believes otherwise ; she thinks she is on the way to " killing socialism " in Britain . She was the first political leader to openly discuss the " English disease , " and she ran in 1979 on a pledge to arrest and reverse Britain 's decline . Meanwhile , a more liberalized economy has been , since 1981 , one of the fastest growing in Europe . Yet , wondering how Britain will support itself when the North Sea oil runs out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is neither exaggeration , nor irresponsible , to say that the present situation undoubtedly contains the seeds of a major political and economic crisis in the foreseeable future . Yet the nation at large appears to be unaware of the seriousness of its predicament . " This discrepancy reminds one of the Viennese joke in the last days of the Austro-Hungarian empire ? " The situation is hopeless but not serious . " Unemployment , at more than 13 percent of the work force , may show little sign of coming down , but for the 86 percent who do have jobs , living standards are rising nicely . At the same time Britain , for the first time since the industrial revolution , is running a substantial trade deficit in manufactured goods . It is currently more than covered by the surplus on trade in oil , but that will be at its peak this year and by 1990 , in the pessimistic view of the committee , could be all but gone . What then ? The government says that as the oil slowly runs out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other forms of trade will pick up . It notes that manufacturing is in decline in all advanced countries . Everywhere services are contributing more and more to total output . The Lords committee was unconvinced by these arguments . The relative importance of manufacture is in general decline , but nowhere except Britain has it declined in absolute terms . And we are losing ground in the competition to export services . The Lords , however , were chiefly concerned about what I have called the cultural factors . The sharp decline in manufacture after 1979 can not be fully explained either by the international recession or by the monetarist policies of the Thatcher government . Econometric calculations commissioned by the committee suggest that more than half of the slump in manufacturing after 1979 is attributable to long-term inefficiencies in the quality of management , working practices , product design , training and education , and so on . In which case a massive social adjustment and change in attitudes ? something in the nature of a cultural revolution ? is going to be needed to close the gap when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being so pessimistic about arresting and reversing Britain 's relative decline is that it has been going on for so long . Most of the laments and exhortations one hears today are exactly the ones heard in the early 1960s . Indeed , people have been saying the same things since the 1860s . In 1867 , for example , British visitors to the Paris exhibition were noting with alarm how the Germans were establishing a lead in the new electrical and chemical technologies . They attributed this in large part to the superior Prussian education system . In 1868 a commission of inquiry into the schools reported that " our industrial classes have not even that basis of sound general education on which alone technical education can rest . " This year the House of Lords committee reported , " The West German system of vocational education in the last years at school appears to lead to a more able work force . . . . " In 1913 people were complaining that while Germany produced 3,000 graduate engineers per year , in Britain the figure was only 350 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80,000 graduate engineers in Japan , and only 9,000 in Britain . The litany runs through the decades : generational decline in entrepreneurial spirit ; social prejudice against manufacture and trade ; education bias in favor of liberal over technical education ; failure to apply science and technology to commerce ; concentration on traditional and easy but slower-growing markets ; complacent management and obstructive trade unions ; industrial relations poisoned by class discrimination , and resistance to change all around . Britain 's path of relative decline was obscured until the 1939-45 war by empire and by a wealth of overseas assets . For the first few years after the war the economies of European countries were in ruins and so was Japan 's . By 1950 Britain 's share of world markets was falling again , but it was not until the end of the decade that we began to realize how rapidly we were falling behind . By 1960 West Germany , the defeated enemy , had overtaken us in per capita wealth . In the 1960s it was France 's turn for its " economic miracle , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postwar boom was brought abruptly to an end . There has been no British economic miracle . But why should the British care ? As Harold Macmillan told them at the 1959 election , they " had never had it so good . " Under the comforting roof of the welfare state , the ordinary Britisher for the first time acquired a washing machine , then a car , then a home of his own ; soon he began to take his holidays abroad . J. K. Galbraith 's " Affluent Society " was coming to pass . E MUST BE careful in talking about decline when we what we really mean is slow growth . Although Britain was declining relative to others , there was not a year , until after 1974 , when the absolute prosperity of the people failed to increase . After 1974 the providential boon of North Sea oil cushioned Britain against two recessions and continued to mask the underlying deterioration in competitiveness . We also must not equate the concept of " relative decline " with a general decadence . Most ages imagine themselves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more golden age . It is easy to lump everything together ? football violence , city riots , crime on the streets , the drug epidemic , the erosion of the family . There is nothing unique to Britain about these distempers . The United States is the proof that unemployment , poverty , crime , and violence can flourish in the cities of a technologically dominant economy . Nevertheless , our long decline relative to others is not without its specific penalties . Slow growth and high expectations have taken their toll on the physical environment ; much of Britain today has a dilapidated air . We are falling behind in health and educational standards . On average we are now significantly less wealthy than the Frenchman or the German , or even the Italian from the prosperous north of his country . The inequalities in our own society are widening and becoming more divisive . Violence is growing from its social roots . The more meager the hone , the more fiercely the dogs worry about their share of it . There mak ' he something in Mancur Olson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a cause of its relative economic decline . But it does not seem to me that the British are a people uniquely resistant to change . Rather , the cumulative causations of 10 ( 1 years or more have resulted in a condition in which an almost superhuman adaptation would he required to reverse the path of relative decline . The principal recommendation of the I louse of Lords study is that the national attitude toward trade and manufacturing " needs to change -- and change radically . " How many hundreds or thousands of times has this been said ? How does a government go about changing deeply rooted cultural attitudes ? Margaret Thatcher dreams of Britain becoming an " enterprise society " on the American model , but we are not the United States and never can he ; we are a small , homogeneous island society with a long and heavy past . ATTITUDES do change , slowly . The hold of the trade unions on the British economy has weakened , and there are signs that the trade union mentality may be on the wane ; " Thatcherism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaken things up a bit and dealt a few blows to the statist habits of mind that had taken hold in the postwar period . But what has happened is nowhere near a transformation , and transformation , if that is what is required to fill the oil gap , there is not going to he . Does this mean that in the end we shall sink slowly into the sea ? Are we to he the first modern society to go from developed to underdeveloped ? I do n't think so . There is a danger that the cumulative effects of our relative decline will produce a catastrophic absolute decline . that was the fate of Imperial Spain . But , as Robert Browning wrote , " Venice spent what Venice earned " and Venice survived all the same , perhaps more gracious in decline than in the brash heyday of its power , and still today the Palazzo Rezzonico , where the poet lived , survives in crumbling magnificence on the Grand Canal . With luck we shall go on adapting slowly , not enough to keep up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline .                     