@@322205

As spot disorders spread , Jaruzelski struggles to restore order <P> The five blue police cars rolled into Katowice 's bustling Market Square just after midday and surrounded a van . Its occupants : three members of the independent Solidarity trade union who were hawking what authorities later described as " antistate , anti-Soviet " materials . Their wares included gruesome photographs of the exhumed bodies of Polish officers killed in the Katyn forest during World War II in a massacre widely blamed on the Soviets . When the unionists refused to follow the officers to the local police station , agents broke the van 's windshield with a hammer and pulled out the driver . A crowd of angry onlookers , which swelled to about 5,000 , suddenly turned against the police officers , pelting them with stones gathered from a nearby streetcar trackbed and shouting " Gestapo ! " as they sped away with their prisoner . <P> The ugly incident threatened to explode into a full-blown riot when the mob marched on the police station a few blocks away and began smashing windows with rocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and negotiate the release of the arrested man . But by the time things quieted down nine hours later , a police van had been overturned and helmeted riot police had fired tear-gas grenades at the protesters . <P> The clash at Katowice reflected the tensions in the country as General Wojciech Jaruzelski took over the leadership of Poland 's Communist Party . Jaruzelski , 58 , who already held the posts of Premier , Defense Minister and General of the Army , was chosen to replace Party Boss Stanislaw Kania on the third day of a stormy Central Committee meeting . The 200-member ruling body also issued tough resolutions threatening stiffer action against " antisocialist " elements within Solidarity , a suspension of the right to strike and a declaration of martial law if the unrest continued . At week 's end the government announced that it was sending special military units around the country to prevent economic disruptions and " street provocations . " Declared Government Spokesman Jerzy Urban over national television : " Endangering the internal life of the country forces the government to take unpopular decisions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down . On the contrary , the Poles were getting angrier over a worsening economic crisis and pervasive food shortages . In Zyrardow , southwest of Warsaw , 12,000 textile workers , mostly women , entered the second week of a sit-in to demand increased food supplies . In Zielona Gora , 180,000 workers staged a one-hour warning strike over the sacking of a Solidarity farm manager . And in Wroclaw , local Solidarity officials were threatening new protests over the jailing of three activists who had broadcast union information from a sound truck . By week 's end local strikes or strike threats had been reported in more than half of Poland 's 49 provinces .                     