@@494359

had been identified : not right-wing dictators , but prosper ? ous democratic trading partners . This ingenious maneu ? ver ? changing the identity of The Enemy from Soviet communists to Third World thugs to our Asian allies ? allowed Democrats to tap back into American nationalism . John Connally was only ahead of his time when he said in 1979 that if the Japanese did n't shape up they had better be prepared to sit on the docks of Yokahama in their little Datsuns staring at their own little TV sets . The recent Canadian election campaign has shown how emotional and powerful an issue economic nationalism can be . As the Soviet threat declines we can expect the bashing of trading partners to increase as politicians look for new ways to define nationalism and exploit its appeal . This will not advance the project of Western integration . It is likely that , as the cold war draws to an end , the world will evolve into a multipolar system with five cen ? ters of power : Russia , China , Europe , America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coming decades for evolution to a grander system : a unipolar system centered on an integrated West of Western Europe , North America , Japan , and with some of the newly industrialized states perhaps joining as well . Radiating from the center wouldbe what might be called the de-socializing states ( China , Russia , Eastern Europe ) , increasingly finding themselves in a condition of economic and technological dependency on the West . To the extent that they reform ? free up prices , enterprise , human energies , and freedoms ? they become less dependent , but more Western and thus less threaten ? ing . It is even conceivable that part of the communist world , Eastern Europe , for example , could progressively become integrated in the Western system through such mechanisms as the IMF , GATT , and even the EEC . This is all blue-sky thinking , of course , until the cold war ends and we have won . And it would be a historic tragedy to settle for anything less than victory now that it is in sight for the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaches , we should have the confidence to start think ? ing about the new world on the other side . Vietnam buried the notion of Pax Americana . But America 's recovery from Vietnam abolished the brief communist fantasy of a Pax Sovietica . If we intelligently manage Western integration and resist the more mindless forms of nationalism that are trying to substitute for postwar anti-communism , the next century holds out the promise of a Western Peace as global and secure as any that we have known before . BY A QUARTER of an inch , I missed growing up as the son of an Irish cop in New York City . Because my father flunked the height exam , I ended up as the son of an international automobile executive instead . Only in Amer ? ica . I consequently came of age in a faraway country with stylish people and broad boulevards , a Spanish-speaking Paris ; with gauchos , and pampas , and steak every day . A beautiful country where the judiciary was weak , where ha ? beas corpus was usually ignored , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A society as cosmopolitan and sophisticated as our own , in which a few years later thousands of innocent men , wom ? en , and children were kidnapped , tortured , and made to " disappear . " And all as part of a good-faith effort , per ? formed by sincere officers , to re-establish " law and order . " In 1968 Richard Nixon was elected president by talking about crime and the liberals ' supposed " softness " on it , as exemplified by the Warren Court . This year George Bush was elected by talking about crime again . But in 1988 there is an important difference . Having controlled the White House for 16 of the last 20 years , and having appointed every Supreme Court justice for the last 21 , the Republi ? cans ought rightfully to be explaining why their lengthy reign has apparently done so little to assuage Americans ' fear of crime . Yet the Warren Court 's legacy endures . Those rules that let criminals off on " technicalities " ? Miranda , the exclusionary rule , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many cases ? have not been stricken from the law , even in the Burger/Rehnquist era . The reason is simple : despite 20 years of debate and study , no one has come up with any better devices for protecting individual rights in the crimi ? nal justice process . In other respects , America has become much tougher on its criminals since Earl Warren left the Court . Because of stricter sentencing laws ( particularly new " habitual of ? fender " statutes ) , as well as changes in judicial sensibilities , according to David C. Anderson 's Crimes of Justice , since 1968 the inmate population in this country has more than tri ? pled . The United States now incarcerates a greater percent ? age of its population than any industrialized country except the Soviet Union and South Africa . As Elliot Curie pointed out in Confronting Crime , such massive " incapacitation " has indeed kept crime rates lower than they would otherwise have been ? not because of any deterrent effect , but simply by keeping would-be criminals off the streets . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and has not come without substantial costs , both human and financial . At latest count , according to Ander ? son , 36 states were under expensive court orders to relieve prison overcrowding , whose truly hellish human conse ? consequences no reader of Presumed Innocent or The Bonfire of the Vanities can doubt . We require new prison beds at the rate of a thousand every week . This can not go on forever , and communities throughout the country balk at the idea of paying for more prisons , or letting them be built nearby . Budget pressures and community resistance are far more responsible for the nation 's many furlough programs and work-release alternatives than are woolly-headed liberals or weak-kneed judges . But , aside from distorting our discussion of crime control for the last two decades , have there been any socially significant costs to those Warren Court " technicalities " ? The evidence is overwhelming that the Warren Court ? clumsily , and no doubt in part by accident ? in fact man ? aged to enhance protection of individual liberties ( greater insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) without any real dilution of legitimate law enforcement efforts . If anything , the reality is just the opposite of what the public thinks . Sentimental liberalism has not been a major prob ? lem . The problem comes from the other side . Conservative sentimentalism , particularly on our highest court , has in complex ways probably impaired both constitutional rights and effective law enforcement . CONSIDER THE exclusionary rule , the remedy the Warren Court imposed on the states to enforce the Fourth Amendment 's protections against unreasonable search and seizure . The premise of the rule is simple : if evidence is obtained unconstitutionally , it may not be in ? troduced at trial . The reasons for it , originally , were two . First , it was thought to corrupt the system of justice for courts to use the products of illegal searches ? a " judicial integrity " rationale . Second , it was hoped that police would conduct fewer illegal searches if they knew the result would not help gain convictions ? a " deterrence " rationale . Because the Burger Court discarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism of the exclusionary rule has fo ? cused on its deterrent purpose . Does it make sense , as Benjamin Cardozo once put it , to " let the criminal go free because the constable has blundered " ? Taking the analysis at this level , the answer is easy : in the case of a well-intentioned officer , doing his or her level best to observe constitutional proprieties , it certainly does not make sense . If the officer was already trying to do what was right , what deterrent purpose could possibly be served by suppressing the evidence obtained ? But if we do n't intend for the Constitution to become a dead letter , then some kind of enforcement mechanism isessential . And constructing a workable constitutional rem ? edy means taking a systemic view of the criminal justice process , not one that focuses sentimentally on the " inno ? cent , " well-meaning cop . The Burger/Rehnquist Court consistently gave into just such sentimentalism . A prime culprit is the so-called " good faith " exception to the exclu ? sionary rule . This sensible-sounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer who ob ? tained it did not know that what he did was wrong . The Burger Court created this exception to " protect " the officer who relied upon what later turned out to be a defective search warrant , issued by a magistrate based on insuffi ? cient evidence . Many conservatives have urged the Court to create a " good faith " exception for mistakes committed by the officer himself , an exception deleted from the latest drug bill only at the very last minute . But if such an exception becomes available , what smart officer , at a pretrial suppression hearing , will not say that he " meant well " ? and believe it ? Of course he " means well " ; fighting crime is hard , boring , and highly dangerous work . People do n't do it so that they can become millionaires . Moreover , even if the question is narrower ? whether the police officer sincerely thought his actions were permitted by the Constitution ? does society want the officer 's opin ? ion to be the only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith " evidence may seem stu ? pid , the only real alternative is to delegate the entire matter to the individual cop . With all the considerable respect that 's due our law enforcement officers , trusting solely in the individual officer 's " good faith " would create a com ? pletely lawless system . The effective result of a broad " good faith " exception of the sort now widely proposed would be to eliminate entirely the opportunity for mean ? ingful judicial review . IN ITS OBSESSION with the predicament of the forgiv- ably mistaken officer ? its uncontrollable frustration at seeing undeniably guilty individuals go free ? the Burger Court abdicated its prime institutional responsibility with ? in the criminal justice system : to establish comprehensible and enforceable ground rules . The Fourth Amendment 's " warrant clause " could easily be read to establish an ironclad rule that searches and arrests may be conducted only with a formal written war ? rant , issued by a magistrate on the basis of sworn testimo ? ny establishing " probable cause . " Even the Warren Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myriad unanticipated situations of modern life . Conse ? quently , that Court , and the ones before it , allowed a few " jealously and carefully drawn " exceptions , for example allowing police to search suspects for weapons while mak ? ing an arrest , and to inspect automobiles without detaining the driver while a warrant is obtained or allowing him to drive away . The Burger Court consistently failed to recognize that exceptions of this sort can only be kept from swallowing the rule if they are kept narrowly ? and clearly ? limited . Out of a misplaced zeal to punish individual malefactors , it began behaving like a neighborhood police court , clut ? tering its docket with insignificant cases simply because it could not bear the sight of particular individuals going free . In the process , the Republican-dominated Court converted Fourth Amendment jurisprudence into the im ? possibly confused quagmire it is today ? piling exception upon exception , creating exceptions to exceptions , until not even the legal treatise writers can figure out exactly what the law is , or conscientious officers figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conservative Burger Court , not the liberal Warren Court , that made search and seizure law a labyrinth of muddled " technicalities . " And then opponents of the exclusionary rule seized upon the mess conservatives had themselves created as an excuse for abolishing the rule completely . Because releasing clearly guilty suspects to vindicate the Constitution is indeed unattractive , it is frequently pro ? posed to replace the exclusionary rule with some kind of civil damage suit by the person whose rights are violated . In fact , such tort remedies already exist , and everyone knows from long experience that juries will hardly ever award any substantial damages against a cop , even to an innocent citi ? zen . " Everyone " includes the police themselves , which means lawsuits will never have any serious deterrent value . Civil lawsuits also put the burden of enforcing the Consti ? tution on the shoulders of private citizens who may not , individually , have the time , resources , or inclination to pur ? sue every violation . For all its faults , the exclusionary rule is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around to address these questions , no one has real ? ly shown how to get around the basic problem that a civil action simply has no credible bite . Criminal prosecution of errant police ? another oft-suggested alternative to the exclusionary rule ? would n't work either . According to Professor Stephen A. Saltzburg of the University of Virginia ( now deputy head of the Justice Department 's Criminal Division ) , both the federal government and his home state have long had perfectly fine criminal statutes on their books prohibiting illegal searches . No officer , however , has ever been convicted under the federal statute , and the Virginia one , in all its history , has never once been used . And vigorously prose ? cuting cops would just make it impossible for the district attorneys and the officers to work together anyway . WHAT ABOUT the supposed costs of enforcing the exclusionary rule with rigor ? Of course there are individual horror cases : the man who raped your wife ? or you ? but goes free because a well-intentioned officer acci ? dentally goofed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , any policy-maker or justice who worries obsessively about criminals going free because of " soft " criminal procedures faces a statistical uphill battle in a society where half the crimes go unreported , two-thirds of those reported go unsolved , and four out of every five crimes committed therefore never get to court at all . Even among cases that get to court , the " cost " of the exclusionary rule is very small . Critics often cite a 1982report by the National Institute of Justice reviewing the experience of California , which allegedly concluded that 4.8 percent of state court prosecutions fail because evi ? dence has been thrown out on exclusionary rule grounds . In fact , 4.8 percent is the proportion of rejected cases in which the prosecution fails for search and seizure reasons . In other words , only one out of every 20 that are dismissed can be blamed on the exclusionary rule . The percentage of all criminal cases that founder on search and seizure issues is 0.8 percent , hardly a major public policy concern . A comprehensive 1979 General Accounting Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found similar results . According to the GAO , in only 1.3 percent of the federal cases was any evidence excluded on Fourth Amendment grounds . And in more than half of those cases ? a factor that is usually overlooked ? the de ? fendant was convicted anyway . In other words , the effec ? tive cost of the exclusionary rule to federal prosecutors , before the Burger Court created the " good faith " standard , was ? at worst ? a negligible 0.65 percent . And since the vast majority of these cases involve drug possession , rather than violent offenses against person or property , the threat to public order represented by the rule diminishes to the vanishing point . A 1979 study of Washington , Salt Lake City , Los Angeles , and New Orleans found in all those cities exactly one homicide case that was aborted because of the exclusionary rule , and no rape arrests at all . Although politicians still clamor for exclusionary rule reform , in light of these realities it is no surprise that growing numbers of law enforcement experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirma ? tion hearings in 1987 , " As a former judge , ... I know that the protections that are afforded by the exclusionary rule are extremely important to . . . fair play , and the proper carrying out of the law enforcement responsibility . . . . By and large , I am happy with it the way it is . " NOW LET 'S TAKE Miranda . This notorious decision re ? quired officers to warn those they arrest of their rights to be silent and to consult a lawyer . It also required the po ? lice to refrain from interrogation if a suspect refused to waive those rights . Liberals wo n't admit it , but as an exam ? ple of judicial craftsmanship Miranda v. Arizona is a terrible piece of work , and a highly inflammatory one . Long , ram ? bling , drawing on dubious authority , and full of smarmy ' 60s rhetoric , it undeniably represents a highly overt form of judicial activism . It is not surprising that it was greeted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But what the Court actually did should not have been so controversial . Earl Warren did n't invent the Miranda warn ? ings . J. Edgar Hoover did . Miranda merely extended to the states the FBI 's internal regulations on interrogating sus ? pects , which the agency had adopted at its own initiative more than 20 years before . Civil liberties advocates had urged the Court to go further than it did in Miranda : to require not only that suspects be informed of their rights , but that they be precluded from waiving them . They would have required not just notice of a " right " to a lawyer before a suspect could be questioned , as Miranda does , but the presence of an actual lawyer . And an actual lawyer would indeed have prevented all but the most demonstrably in ? nocent suspects from talking . This year , however , the big story about Miranda is that it is n't a big story . In large part , this is because of an emerging consensus among scholars and police officials that Miranda " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies has shown , is that the Miranda procedure , precisely because it is so intru ? sive , specific , and detailed ? in short , so resolutely " activ ? ist " ? is easily enforceable , and easy to train officers to obey . Whatever its jurisprudential deficiencies , it is at least not very hard to follow . Moreover , Miranda also streamlines the criminal justice process . Even before Miranda , suspects ' confessions were not just automatically admitted . Defendants frequently made motions to suppress them under the vague " volun ? tariness " standard that previously applied . Consequently , courts and police officers were required to conduct time-consuming , fact-intensive hearings concerning the details of a particular incident , to determine whether a suspect 's statements had been improperly coerced . Since Miranda , courts need only inquire whether the more mechanical requirements of Miranda were observed : whether the pre ? scribed warnings were delivered at the appropriate times . If they were , the confession almost always gets admitted . Like the Fourth Amendment exclusionary rule , Miranda turns out to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convict guilty suspects . At the time that the decision was issued , leading experts estimated that it would cut the conviction rate by something like four percent . However , despite an initial drop , after about a year conviction rates were higher than they 'd been before it . Two factors were responsible . First , despite the warnings , an amazing number of sus ? pects continued to waive their rights , having more faith than was justified in their ability to " talk their way out of it , " being so guilt-stricken ( or such tough guys ) that they could n't keep their mouths shut , or ? as with so many other consumer warnings ? simply disregarding them . Sec ? ond , it turned out that the necessity of getting confessions in order to secure convictions had been overestimated . Juries turned out to be just as willing to convict on solid evidence of other kinds , and this knowledge quickly fil ? tered into plea bargaining calculations . The " worst case " study , performed in Pittsburgh shortly after Miranda came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 per ? cent , but no reduction in the conviction rate . After Ernest Miranda 's own confession was thrown out , he was retried . And reconvicted . UNLIKE THE exclusionary rule , Miranda really was about protecting the innocent . Former prosecutors Earl Warren and Hugo Black both knew that the " third degree " was n't something out of Hollywood , and that innocent people were regularly being subjected to it . Their concern was not just that formal proprieties were beingviolated , or that undue pressure was being applied . But if large numbers of innocent people were previously being convicted , why did n't Miranda reduce the conviction rate ? Either the Warren Court overestimated the innocence problem or it may be that Miranda 's protections have been so watered-down by Burger Court interpretations that they are n't effective . Because Miranda only applied to ( 1 ) " interrogation " of suspects who were ( 2 ) " in custody " and who ( 3 ) refused to " waive " their rights ? not one of which terms was seriously defined ? there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost total lack of evidence that the Miranda rules were broken , the Burger Court did an awful lot of fixing . IN 1980 the Burger Court upheld a conviction obtained because officers in the front seat of their squad car carried on a conversation , ostensibly between themselves , in the presence of a murder suspect in the back who had asserted his right to silence , about how tragic it would be if the missing murder weapon were accidentally discovered by a handicapped child at a nearby school . The remorseful suspect , " overhearing " their conversation , took them to the weapon and thereby slipped the noose around his neck . The Court held this was n't an " interrogation . " According to Columbia Law Professor Richard Uviller 's new book , Tempered Zeal , which recounts a year 's experience working in a New York precinct house , since 1980 an astonishing number of officers now suddenly seem to get worried about many different things whenever they 're driving sus ? pects to the station house . Some people will think it 's good to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their basic rights , even after they 've asserted them . Others will think the practice makes a mockery of Miranda 's clear intent . But either way it certainly helps explain why nobody is still complaining about Miranda . Although conservatives still undermine police morale by complaining about the " handcuffs " Miranda placed on them , no one is even really trying anymore to get it over ? turned . Even former Attorney General Edwin Meese , de ? spite continually expressing outrage on the subject , never even attempted to use a considerable weapon at his dispos ? al : Title II of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 , in which Congress tried to outlaw Miranda 's application in federal courts . Neither Meese , nor any of his predecessors , has directed federal agencies to observe this statute , or even shape a single test case in which to try the statute 's constitutionality . Perhaps in the end Meese was forced to agree with the nation 's best-known crime fighter , U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani of New York , that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are known by everyone . As a matter of reality and practicality , Miranda does n't prevent anyone from confessing who wants to confess . " And perhaps this is why the 1988 Re ? publican Party platform , which complains about every ? thing else in the criminal justice system , is conspicuously silent about Miranda . A third conservative complaint about " liberal " techni calities , created by the Warren Court , that let criminals off the hook concerns the right to federal habeas corpus , which the Warren Court expanded . Habeas is one of the most basic principles of Anglo-American jurisprudence , going back to the Magna Charta , which guarantees that someone held in custody can have a court determine if that custody is legal . As the barons at Runnymede knew , a strong right to habeas review represents the ultimate pro ? tection against governmental tyranny , and the ultimate guarantee that a free society will stay that way . In our federal system , federal habeas review of state convictions ensures that our constitutional liberties are enforced in a nationally uniform way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rhode Island and a different one in Geor ? gia . And the mere threat of such review helps keep the state courts constitutionally honest . Although the public 's basic gripe with federal habeas concerns the delay it imposes on obtaining a final disposi ? tion of criminal cases , the politicians have chosen to articu ? late this concern in terms of the supposed clogging of the federal courts . Supporters of restricting habeas , led by Democratic Senator Bob Graham of Florida , point at the surge in federal habeas filings in recent years ; since 1980 habeas petitions have risen more than 225 percent . But what else should you expect in a country where incarcera ? tion has more than tripled ? Moreover , as figures recently compiled by the ACLU have shown , the 9,500 petitions attacking state convictions filed in 1987 represent just 3.9 percent of the more than 238,000 cases filed that year in federal district courts . 0 BE SURE , there is something illogical about a system that permits endless , repeated federal re-evaluations years after the original conviction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to like . Out of respect for state autonomy ( to give them first crack at catching their own mistakes ) , and to control that worrisome federal docket , the law requires that a prisoner exhaust all oppor ? tunities for state review before a federal habeas suit can even be commenced . Here in Buffalo it can take four years just to get to the first level of state appeal . Yet Congress might still struggle to draft a docket-clearing statute , designed to eliminate repetitive attacks on state convictions , provided just one thing : that prisoners be guaranteed a court-provided lawyer who knows the ins and outs of federal habeas procedure . Much of today 's profusion of wasteful and repetitious habeas cases is due to the fact that 95 percent of all habeas cases are filed by the uneducated prisoners themselves ( which also no doubt accounts for the remarkable fact that 98.8 percent of them never get to trial ) . Giving prisoners lawyers would not only help assure fairness , but would make the cases clearer , allowing them to be more efficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the law could give the ordinary pris ? oner just one more shot , to guarantee the abstract value of presenting all the claims the prisoner thinks important . Fur ? ther petitions in non-capital cases could be limited to a few specified circumstances ? like the discovery of constitu ? tionally significant new evidence , or changes in the law . Where capital punishment is at ' stake ? that statistically insignificant number of cases where no mistakes are tolera ? ble ? the limits would not apply . A THOUGH NO ONE now remembers it , each of the Warren Court 's big cases was preceded by others , in which the Court gave fair warning to criminal justice policy-makers that it saw deficiencies that needed to be corrected . In each instance , the Court invited the other players to act first , and waited a decent interval before cre ? ating remedies of its own . The Warren Court 's " judicial ac ? tivism " was quite real , and the politicians who complained about it were the ones who made it happen . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , the Su ? preme Court of Earl Warren has been a political godsend . Someone other than themselves could be blamed for crime . But as drugs and their disorder spread , even the political ? cians are being forced to recognize that the crime problem in America is caused by something larger than constitu ? tional procedures . Frustrated businessmen on New York 's " restaurant row " do n't call in the Guardian Angels because they dislike Miranda . Frightened residents of D.C. housing projects do n't turn to the Nation of Islam because of the exclusionary rule . The reason is n't that there are " hand ? cuffs on the police . " The reason is not enough police with handcuffs . Effective law enforcement means more than merely making the criminal justice process more efficient . It means making it stronger . But more police ? if that 's part of what an effective war on crime requires ? means stron ? ger controls on their behavior too . Efficiency is not the only goal . Justice is another one , and so is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trials is efficient either . It would be a lot easier just to let " law and order " forces shoot a suspect when they catch him . That 's what they used to do in Argentina . So far , fortunately , no one is proposing that we do it here . In the recent successful effort to achieve meaningful reform of welfare , it was the left that had to swallow hard and make some painful counterideological admis ? sions ? that dependence had indeed been fostered by well-intended programs . When it comes to crime , the situation is reversed . If our approach to crime is ever to get serious , it is the other side 's turn to be the first to blink . At the level of constitutional enforcement , clearer rules , even overbroad ones ? the kind that will inevitably gener ? ate a distressing amount of pain to individuals ? nonethe ? less have a more positive net effect on the criminal justice process than superficially tougher ones , overly fine-tuned , that subsequently break down in practice . There are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could go , but they 're mostly at the state court level . As a man President Reagan has called a " national hero " once told reporters with characteristic melodrama through the window of his jeep , thousands of good Americans have " died face down in the mud " to protect a defendant 's rights in the criminal justice process . Supreme Court jus ? tices should protect them too . q                     