@@432419

 | Whether you 're counting the days until you get your sheepskin or your pension , you 're about to feel the earth move . The first mild tremor should come from a recession ; then hang on for a real upheaval ? one that will go on for many years . The landscape of the job market is changing under economic and demographic pressures nearly as inexorable as the geological forces that shape the face of the earth . Advancing technology , increasing demand for services and an aging population are just some of the forces burying some occupations and creating high ground for others . As the economy goes , so goes the job market . Today 's mostly sunny economic weather , which has resisted being blown away by the winds of the stock-market crash , is deceptive . Most economists see a recession coming in 1989 . And 1 in 5 economists surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators , a Sedona , Ariz. , newsletter , believes it will happen this year . Recession parches the economy by drying up demand . Construction workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , since buyers of houses and washing machines could quickly postpone their purchases if they sensed  | danger . No matter what the industry , fatter , less competitive companies will find themselves poorly equipped to survive an economic downturn and will lay off workers . But this short-haul potential economic gloom does n't have to spell career doom . Even if the economy stumbles , changing technology and demographics will bring new opportunities . Says Ronald Kutscher , an associate commissioner in the Office of Economic Growth and Employment Projections , a part of the Bureau of Labor Statistics : " Motivation and interest are always important , but the next step is to examine those professions that offer prospects of growing faster than average . " Examples abound . The American population is aging , and so job opportunities in health care are looking up . By the end of the century , the number of people age 85 and older will have grown at an annual rate of 4 percent as opposed to just 1 percent for the population in general . Many new retirees will head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as housing , recreation and a host of services . Florida , with its coastal retirement communities , will be the single most recessionproof area of the country , say Marvin Cetron and Owen ACCOUNTING JOBS IN DECLINE Shrinking occupations ( 1986-2000 ) ENGINEERING " " Davies , authors of The Great Job Shakeout , a guide to career planning in tough economic times , to be published by Simon &; Schuster this fall . As the end of the century nears , 12 of the fastest-growing occupations will be in the health-services field . The insatiable demand for all services will generate 20 million new jobs by the year 2000 , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics . The hotel , restaurant and other industries in the business of selling convenience to a population on the go will flourish . The boom , in fact , already is under way . The Marriott Corporation , a major hotel-and-restaurant chain , has grown at an annual rate of about 20 percent in each of the past five years , and the company sees no letup , says Kathleen Alexander , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grows , the ripples will spread to second-tier companies that service the service industry . Contract cleaning of buildings , management consulting and agencies that supply temporary workers , for example , all will share in the boom . New products , new businesses The expanding service sector offers risk takers another dimension of opportunity ? entrepreneurship . In his book Job Creation in America ( Free Press , New York , 1987 ) , David Birch , president of marketing consultants Cognetics , Inc. , in Cambridge , Mass. , notes that most jobs created in the next few years will be in the realm of small businesses . Many of those jobs will be centered around universities and research centers ? places such as Austin , Tex. ; Raleigh ? Durham , N.C. ; Washington , D.C. , and Boston . Research in these brain-trust sites often spawns new products and spins off fledgling businesses to market them . College towns also tend to supply talented , creative employes . Competition among employers for the bright minds will get tougher . Workers ages 16 to 24 made up 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will account for a mere 16 percent . As the millennium approaches , the labor force will be shaped more decisively by women and minorities . While the share of white male workers falls , women will make up 47 percent of the labor force by the year 2000 ? up from 44 percent in 1986 . The percentage of minorities will climb to 26 percent , up from 21 percent . Professional and management slots should grow to 23.1 percent of the total work force from today 's 21.6 percent . Result : The white , Old Boy network will have to be more receptive to the advancement of women and minorities . Progressive employers already are offering on-site child care and other perks to attract and keep women . While demographic and technological changes should open some doors , others will close . Despite the rust-belt revival sparked by a weak dollar and growing exports , the manufacturing sector is expected to lose 834,000 jobs by the year 2000 . Robots are now doing the painting in car factories . Companies need highly skilled workers to install and repair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The more education and technical skills you have , the better your chances of employment . Of the 3,000 new college graduates hired by IBM last year , for example , about 55 percent were placed in technical areas . Cities that are home to technology-related businesses will do well ; Los Angeles , Anaheim and Minneapolis are all expected to prosper in the coming years , for instance . Sometimes even education ca n't combat economic forces . While mushrooming technology has made employers eager for electrical and mechanical engineers , dribbling oil prices have cooled enthusiasm for petroleum engineers . They 're not the only casualties . In the wake of the  | stock-market plunge , many new M.B.A . ' s with finance majors are walking Wall Street , not working on it . Marketing M.B.A . ' s , however , are getting offers from old standbys like auto makers and the food industry . Because of changing economics and technology , count on acquiring new skills and training throughout your career if you want to succeed . " Not that long ago you could get out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Esther Schaeffer , vice president of policy for the National Alliance of Business , a nonprofit group focused on human-resource issues , " but now learning is a lifelong situation . " Whether you have to change jobs or simply choose to , you wo n't be alone . The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that the average worker will have six employers in the course of a lifetime . Today 's college graduates are even taught to expect to face these changes . Victor Lindquist , director of placement for Northwestern University , coaches his students : " It 's wonderful to start as a chemical engineer ? but do you really think you 'll retire as one ? " Between changing technology and shifting demographics , do n't bet on it .                     