@@487033

Surely some of her enthusiasm for public forums was born of her insatiable need to be near other people . " I never had enough companionship , " she explained about her youth . She craved contact and loved being involved in people 's lives , but she did n't let anyone come too close ; she was always eager to move on . When friends asked why she never stopped to relax , she answered , " I ca n't stop . " Yet despite her ever-increasing circle of friends ( her Christmas card list included well over 500 names ) , there was another side . One of her friends described her as being " pervaded by deep loneliness , and although she never admitted it , she was very vulnerable too . She . . . gave generously but she rarely sought support . " Her unremitting need to work , to produce and to be in the center of things prompted Barbara Walters to describe her as " the most independent woman in the world " ( just moments after the two women confided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lives ) . Not everyone loved and admired Margaret Mead , and she certainly had her share of disappointments . She did not win a Nobel Peace Prize ; she was not elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences until very near the end of her life ; she was not offered a full professorship at Columbia until 1958 ( she declined it ) ; many of her colleagues thought her fraudulent , criti cued her for being a popularizer , for moving too easily from the particular to the universal and for having little or no data on the array of contemporary issues she readily discussed . They criticized her for being outrageous , which she . frequently was . Moreover , she was difficult . People who worked with her were known to break down in tears . A patron to many , she encouraged professionalism and self-esteem , but she could also be overbearing , cantankerous , egotistical , argumentative and explosive . And when she was threatened , according to Asen Balikci , the distinguished filmmaker and ethnographer of the Eskimo , " She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disliked them and disagreed with them , she could devour them on sight  --  she did n't want any other big animals coming close . " Howard describes Mead 's having been so angry at a graduate student that she " told him that if he did not retract his reply to what she had written , she would ' knock your block off and ruin your career . ' " Even as an anthropologist , she was atypical . Few before or since have encompassed so many cultures in their studies and have been so uninterested in collecting art and artifacts from the field . Few have so staunchly upheld the hierarchical relationship between the native community and the anthropologist . In the field , she once advised a student , " You must . . . keep up white prestige . " Another student reported that she trained the natives " to leave when the tablecloths and dishes came out . " She did n't invite the people she studied into her house , nor did they make such gestures to her . And for the world 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the one hand , connections forged with women  --  as friends , colleagues , assistants and , occasionally , lovers  --  characterized her life and ultimately proved more stable than her alliances with men . Some of these women took care of her household , her schedule , her office ; others devoted themselves to mothering her daughter while she worked and traveled . On the other hand , she held some very traditional views about women . She denied being a feminist , belittled the implications of the war between the sexes , made fun of attempts to change sexism in language and never fully endorsed the women 's movement . " I do n't believe all these women fifty 