@@494941

HUNGARY HEARTS By Tamas Aczel Bt ; DAPEST " How is it , " a friend asked , with a wink of gleeful sarcasm , " that whenever you happen to be in town , the Party dissolves itself and turns into another one ? " In the mild October sunshine , we were sitting on the terrace of a famous pfitissme in the middle of Belvaros , the Inner City , now only a shadow of its old elegant hauteur , yet bearing its historical catastrophes and private misfortunes with dignity . It was true . I had not " happened to be in town " ( my native city ) for 33 years . The last time I 'd seen those streets and houses around us , the ruling Communist Party had dissolved itself and become a new " socialist " Party , funded by Prime Minister Imre Nagy and some of his reform-minded friends . They were joined by JAnos Kadar , who within a couple of days walked over to the advancing Russians and offered himself as their satrap in Hungary for as long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . When I left the country in November 1956 , it was at a historical turning point . Now I came back , for the first time , at another one . Clio had been good to me , I told my friend , jokingly . He seemed to agree . Later that week , as I watched the nationally televised Congress of the Old Party turning itself again into a New Party ? the agonies of death and rebirth under the indifferent glare of arc lamps ? I realized how serious my joke must have sounded . On the podium , before an astonished nation , speaker after speaker denounced the mistakes and horrors of the past and rhapsodized about the miracles of democracy . It was a time of confessing guilt , accepting responsibility , pledging purification . In an explosion of remorse , the leaders of the past were asking the people of the future for the remission of their sins . It was a spectacular performance . something historically unique . unparalleled ? even during the past few tumultuous weeks in East-Central Europe . One by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , East Germany . and Czechbsloyakia had given up Party rule . But they were carefill to preserve the Party itself : they kept its organizational network intact , its financial sources hidden , its gunpowder dry , even if they were forced , as in Poland and East Germany , to dismantle their private armies , the militias . In Hungary the Communist Party collapsed under the weight of popular pressure . and all that remained was a grumbling group of apparatchiki threatening to establish a Communist Party . They were welcome to do so . according to the press , though it did n't appear to be a promising venture . W hen my plane banked and glided smoothly out of the soft gray cumuli , suddenly I saw the old familiar postcard-panorama of the city : the Danube , the bridges , the Gothic turrets of the Parliament , the walls of the Citadel , the graceful contours of the Royal Palace . I knew that beneath the old landscape I was going to find an array of new landscapes , new panoramas . But first I could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nostalgia . Having been an Orwellian " un-person " for so many years , I found it natural simply to venture into the city and seek out the places where I was born and grew up . The river was the same , lazy and gray ; the Royal Palace had been rebuilt ; my old alma mater was sootier. the house where I was born more desolate , but the Sunday morning High Mass in one of the most beautiful baroque churches of the city was elevating and moving , as if the old medieval hymn to the Virgin ? " Do not forget us , poor , poor Magyars ! " ? had been suddenly endowed with a new meaning . It did n't take long to realize that the country too was on a nostalgia hinge , floating in an inflated memory-boat on the sweet seas of yesteryear . From the TV and the radio , from taverns and music halls , the sentimental melodies of my childhood and youth assailed me relentlessly . The audience loved it . If for inc it was slightly intrusive and insistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past four decades it was an opportunity of forgetting and remembering simultaneously . There was , of course , a much more important form of remembering , though not forgetting . Wherever I went in the city I saw ? on street corners , in the underground passages of the Metro , on public squares ? hook vendors setting up their primitive bazaars for selling the memories of the past 40 years in astonishing numbers . Anthologies reprinting the speeches or writings of the executed Imre Nagy and his friends and associates , memoirs ( even of former Party functionaries ) , analyses of the Stalinist and post-Stalinist eras , sold by the hundreds of thousands . One anthology was said to have sold 100,000 copies within a week . These books , hastily printed and brought to that insatiable market as soon as it was technically possible , filled the gap between the once-unmentionable past and the free present , and created a bridge to understanding the future . According to the latest statistics , I was told , by mid-October 400 independent publishers had been operating countrywide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this is a country about lour times the size of Massachusetts , with 12 million inhabitants . Partly , of course , all this was clever business by clever businessmen who smelled profit in the sudden possibilities of freedom , an early manifestation of competitive capitalism . But mainly it was the reflection of a burst of desire to know , an insatiable hunger for what was once forbidden fruit but now became , as a kilo of apples , accessibleon street corners . Reliable information on cheap paper at a reasonable price : no wonder the books sold like candy . This was all part of the glorious euphoria that had swept over the country , at first gradually , but later with increasing rapidity , ever since the beginning of 1989 . It had reached its peak on June 16 , at the public burial of Nagy , his friends , and other victims of the terror that fbllowed the suppression of the 1956 revolt . In the presence of hundreds of thousands , the symbolic signal icance of the burial became more than obvious ; it became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a new tradition : Hungarian democracy . Much to my surprise , at the opening of the radio 's running commentary on the funeral , a famous actor had read a poem of mine , one I had published in a Paris-based Hungarian-language magazine 20 years ago . I knew I was now on my way back to being a " person " in my native land . L ' iterature , of course , had for 400 years played an immensely important part in Magyar society . About the time Sir Francis Drake set out to sail around i he world , the great poet Balint Balassi set out from I lungary to Krakow . Sir Francis was lured by the glitter of the unknown , its famed treasures and treasured fame ; Balassi , perhaps , by some beauties in certain houses of ill-repute on Drodzka Street , or , conceivably , by the masterly Renaissance chapel of Bartolomeo Berecci . Behind Drake 's flapping sails were a strong queen and a vigorous country ; behind Balassi 's tired steed , a lovelorn mistress and a Hungary about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's armies . " Farewell , " Balassi opened his famous valedictory poem , " farewell my sweet homeland , good Hungary , shield of Christianity . " But he could n't stay away for long ; he knew what his moral and soldierly commitments demanded of him . He returned to take up the sword , and died , five years later , shielding Christianity and his country on the walls of Esztergom . Since his death , poets in Hungary saw their patriotic duty as a moral commitment to their nation , and the people looked upon them as their prophets and visionaries . In every major turning point in the country 's history , poets and intellectuals were in the forefront of the battle . They were there , in impressive numbers and courage , in the years of oppression before and after 1956 , and led the charge against the system to a triumphant end . When , one evening , around nine o'clock . I turned on the TV , I was n't surprised to find one of the country 's finest writers sitting in front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems from a lone interviewer . And instantly his transfOrmation began . This famous author of many hooks and movie scripts , whether intentionally or not , was assuming the traditional mantle of the seer . He offered his vision of the nation 's fate in a conversation , one on one , with history , but his rhetoric sounded hollow , his wisdom marred by banalities . I wondered if there was a channel in the West that would give 90 minutes of prime time for such a performance . It was , no doubt , a classic Magyar phenomenon , which on one hand reflected an enormous respect for the nation 's intellectuals , but on the other showed the problems of a tradition that . under increasingly different circumstances . was turning into an empty shell . I mentioned this to some of the leading young intellectuals , and they seemed to agree . It was clear to them that if a new road was to be carved from the rocky hillside of history ( as one of them put it ) , the nation must face new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law over the rule of man , a reinterpretation of tradition was clearly on the agenda . Now that an effective political and economic democracy was emerging , the opposition was becoming an active and institutionalized power . and the conflict between the government and the opposition was a battleground of ideas and not a field for executions . The tires of 200 years of romantic populism were slowly turning into an ash heap . H ere , I felt , I was approaching the wellspring of the new Hungarian democracy . For with the euphoria of this year of triumph fading into the grayness of every day , the problems of politics and economics must now be dealt with on a practical level with practical solutions . And those problems were enormous and unique : nobody had ever attempted the transfOrmation of ' state economies into the private . market-oriented economies of the West . Elections were fine , but soon the question would be how the ideas can be translated into practice . Who owns the state-owned factories ? What is the mechanism of finance and commerce ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me that for Hungary the days of passion were now over , and the days of reason were beginning . Alter the fight ! Or a unifying purpose reached its climax and triumphed in the Nagy funeral and the abdication from power of the Communist Party , one could already detect fragmentations within the new democratic parties and organizations . Other signs of conflict and contradictions were also becoming visible : the realization of democracy under ordinary circumstances . It is a very healthy development ? no more emotional demonstrations against a hostile power , no more rhapsodies or flowerY . speeches , no more bitter lamentation over the cruelty of Magyar Fate . When the plane banked and rose , and the familiar Postcard panorama suddenly disappeared under the soft , gray cumuli , I knew that I was leaving a country that , perhaps fin. the first time in its thousand-Year history , held the promise of letting its people determine their own fate . Hard work based on hard Ideas was now the order of the day . For a fledgling democracy . 