@@432424

 | As an exercise in what espionage fans call " termination with extreme prejudice " it was a classic : Daring infiltrators , complex electronics , elaborate disguises and a hail of bullets that snuffed out PLO terrorist mastermind Abu Jihad ? a brilliant and ruthless planner who had been one of Israel 's most dangerous foes for nearly three decades . As a short-term fix , the mid-April assassination of the Palestine Liberation Organization 's No. 2 leader in his Tunis villa was also a success , as Israel saw it , though some close foreign friends ? including Reagan administration officials ? were dismayed by an action that threatened to create more problems than it solved . The State Department condemned it without publicly blaming Israel . The mission provided an unmistakable psychological lift on the eve of the 40th anniversary of Israel 's independence . " The Arabs were beginning to think we were n't as good as we used to be , that we 'd grown a little weak and , worse yet , a little stupid , " says one Israeli military source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Mossad at its best and most efficient . " Israeli leaders have neither confirmed nor denied that their security forces assassinated Abu Jihad , but analysts argue that his death will prove to be the most serious blow the PLO has suffered since the Israeli Army drove its leader , Yassir Arafat , and thousands of Palestinian fighters out of Lebanon in 1982-83 . The raid 's most important effect may be to blunt , at least temporarily , a terrorist drive against Israel and its backers planned by Abu Jihad with newly arranged help from Libya , Iran and Eastern Europe . Just how long Israel 's glow will last is as uncertain as anything else in the turbulent Middle East . Israel has been fighting its " twilight war " against the PLO for two decades , and like other major turning points , the assassination of Khalil al-Wazir ? Abu Jihad 's real name ? will have consequences . At the very least , it will strengthen radical factions in the PLO and bring its warring factions closer together . It could also thrust up new PLO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | The martyrdom of Abu Jihad ? whose PLO name means Father of Holy War ? is likely to heap new fuel on an already dangerous conflagration in the occupied territories . News of his death immediately touched off the bloodiest violence in four months of upheavals and set a oneday death record of at least a dozen Palestinians killed by Israeli troops . Almost inevitably , say intelligence specialists , retaliation will breed more retaliation and a new round of vicious battles in the long-running war between the PLO and Mossad . Jerusalem sources told U S. News that the decision to assassinate Abu Jihad ? despite known risks ? was based on more than his apparent involvement in a recent bus hijacking by the PLO that resulted in three Israeli deaths . According to Israeli intelligence reports , Abu Jihad was said to have struck deals with Libya 's Muammar Qadhafi and various East European intelligence agencies to restore the sophisticated PLO terrorist and combat capability that Israel had destroyed in the invasion of Lebanon . The PLO would then launch a major new series of terrorist attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries , including the United States . Some foreign security specialists are doubtful about key aspects of this Israeli scenario and Jerusalem 's reasons for revealing it . " It has self-serving aspects , involves a strange bunch of bedfellows and does n't make sense for the PLO at this time , " notes one Western official . Skepticism also focuses on Abu Jihad 's alleged presence at meetings with leaders he has fought with for years , and whether even the highly regarded Mossad , Israel 's counterpart of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency , could pin down precise details of plans for joint actions by Arab groups that have battled one another as fiercely as they have fought the Jewish state . But Israeli sources insist that the reasons for hitting Abu Jihad ? and striking now ? were compelling . When it all began According to military sources in Israel , Arab plotting began with a trip by Abu Jihad to East Germany last December , just a few weeks after Arafat met Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Moscow . It is n't clear whether there were any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions in Berlin , but he got the kind of support he most avidly sought . East Germany , which has provided extensive help to Qadhafi , agreed to funnel enough new weapons and other material to the PLO to rebuild a military structure that would be strong enough to pose a serious threat to Israel 's civilian population and to use terrorism to shape Mideast political events . This alone put Abu Jihad 's assassination on the agenda of Israel 's key decision-making body , the 10-member " inner cabinet . " The initial assassination plan was shelved in December , but it was revived earlier this month when Israeli intelligence reported that Abu Jihad had attended a secret five-day terrorist summit hosted by Qadhafi in the desert town of Sabha . The purpose of the meeting was even more disturbing to Israeli authorities than the large number of terrorist leaders who met in Qadhafi 's conference tent . The session 's highly ambitious ? and to some , wildly improbable ? goal : Orchestrate a reconciliation between Arafat 's mainstream PLO and leaders of Syria and  | Iran . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major international terrorist offensive by giving renewed strength to an Iran-Syria-Libya axis formed in 1985 . In Sabha , Abu Jihad is said to have met with Syrian-backed Palestinians who are bitter foes of Arafat and agreed to work with them . Qadhafi offered sweeteners in the form of funds to help the PLO in the occupied territories , where it has been trying to catch up with an uprising it did n't launch and still does n't control . Later , Iran endorsed the Sabha plan , and Libya began to make good on its promise of money , training bases and logistical facilities for a new terrorist army . By Israeli count , at least 220 Arab and Iranian recruits ? a sizable addition to the terrorist pool ? already have begun training in the new camps . Israeli officials increasingly saw Abu Jihad as a dangerous bridge for an unlikely but potentially deadly alliance between Arafat 's forces , pro-Syrian Palestinians , Sunni Islamic fundamentalists , pro-Iranian Shiite Moslems and secular radicals . That convinced a majority of members attending an inner-cabinet meeting to approve the assassination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been the only dissenter . It was a momentous decision , for it broke a longstanding tacit agreement between Israel and the PLO to spare one another 's top officials , thus putting Israel 's leaders at potential risk in the event of PLO retaliation . Freed : A potential hostage An hour before the Tunis operation began , security forces in the Gaza Strip picked up Abu Jihad 's first cousin , Fayez Abu Rahme , a prominent lawyer whom both Secretary of State George Shultz and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres had tapped as a possible member of a Jordanian-Palestinian delegation if an international Mideast peace conference ever is held . Rahme was freed only after everyone in the strike force was safe . Military sources told U. S. News that he would have been used as a barter hostage if any Israelis had been captured in Tunis . Israeli sources are convinced that Abu Jihad 's death will hurt the PLO badly . He had held Arafat 's complete trust since the 1950s , when they were schoolmates in Egypt . Because of this personal relationship and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was put in command of the PLO 's military and intelligence operations ? including an 11,000-strong fighting force ? and entrusted with control of a PLO financial empire valued at more than a billion dollars . He may have been the only person with complete knowledge of the PLO 's stock and bond portfolios and businesses that include newspapers , shipping lines , plantations and money-laundering operations . The Israelis probably have a better fix on those operations now . After pouring dozens of bullets into Abu Jihad , the Israeli hit team scooped up arm loads of documents from his office ? enough , says one source in Jerusalem , to give " a lot of lawyers and heads of companies around the world sleepless nights . " Who will pick up the financial mess ? One likely successor as PLO financial overlord is Arafat 's cousin , Musa Arafat , though he is tainted by links with corruption scandals and may have to share authority with a committee of Persian Gulf-based Palestinian businessmen . Israelis are convinced that the PLO also faces military disarray . The man consid- ered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abu el-Hul , was Abu Jihad 's chief deputy , but many Palestinians consider him too weak for the top job . There is even greater uncertainty about a new chief of global terrorist operations , which is the PLO branch of greatest concern to countries outside the Mideast . It is a major responsibility . Though Abu Jihad was considered a moderate in PLO ranks , he also managed to maintain close working relationships with radical groups all across the Middle East and with numerous non-Arab militant groups . Next , a tougher foe ? Western analysts expect the PLO to recover , as it did after its expulsion from Lebanon . Helena Cobban , an expert on Palestinians at the Brookings Institution in Washington , notes that for 20 years Abu Jihad had been building a sophisticated staff in Cyprus , Europe and the Gulf . This staff , with its complex international communications network , can carry on under Arafat 's immediate direction until someone else rises to take the slain leader 's place . If , as some analysts predict , this successor is Abed al-Aziz Shaheen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel may face an even tougher foe . While Abu Jihad had been out of Israel for 40 years , al-Aziz was deported only in 1985 , speaks Hebrew and is thoroughly familiar with Israel . He also is a hard-bitten product of 15 years in Israeli jails and house arrest in Gaza . His on-the-ground experience in the occupied territories could give the PLO much greater influence over the uprising than it has had so far . The PLO 's recovery process seems likely to involve reconciliation between Fatah ? the mainstream PLO faction ? and Syrian President Hafez Assad , who has quarreled bitterly with Arafat for the past six years . The PLO chief did not fly to Damascus for Abu Jihad 's highly emotional funeral last week ? he went instead to Libya to meet Qadhafi for the first time in several years ? but one of his key aides who did make the trip said that Syria and the PLO have agreed to normalize relations . Within a few months , perhaps even a few weeks , Israel and the PLO seem certain to be waging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are indications that some PLO leaders want to use Abu Jihad 's assassination as an opportunity to break the so-called Cairo treaty that was negotiated by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in an effort to limit anti-Israel terrorism to attacks inside the country itself and in the occupied territories . Even as the joint military and intelligence hit team was heading for Tunis , Mossad 's undercover agents were at work trying to pre-empt PLO success when ( hardly anybody says " if " ) the twilight war is renewed in dramatic fashion . Though Mossad , like the CIA in the U.S. , is not Israel 's only intelligence agency , it is the cutting edge of such activities and , again like the CIA , often is popularly associated with things it does n't actually do . Mossad 's roots go back to 1937 , when a predecessor organization was founded in England to handle large-scale and ultimately illegal migration of Jews from Europe to Palestine , then under British control . It still spirits Jews out of countries like Syria , Iran and Ethiopia and tracks down Nazi war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's clandestine activities was spawned by the special-operations section of the Haganah , the major Jewish underground organization that fought against the British before independence in 1948 . Today , the Mossad ( in full Hebrew translation , the Institute for Intelligence and Special Tasks ) is even more secretive than the CIA . It has some 1,500 to 2,000 employes , who do research as well as conduct cloak-and-dagger operations . But Mossad depends much more heavily than the CIA on human intelligence agents and ? being responsible directly to the Prime Minister ? has no worries about having to tell legislative committees what it is up to . Unlike the CIA , whose mode of action sometimes changes in significant ways from one President to another , Mossad has remained basically the same under different political administrations . One close follower of intelligence activities describes its agents as " cowboys compared with the intellectuals of the CIA ? Mossad people are expected to be the toughest and the smartest of all in a culture that greatly admires both those qualities . " In Israel , it is an honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration on an Israeli campus is simply unthinkable . Israeli editors never rant against a law that forbids publication of the name or picture of the agency 's director , who is known only as " No. 1 . " Over the years , Mossad has scored many successes that are the envy of other intelligence agencies . One of the best known was intelligence collection that made possible the dramatic rescue of 50 hostages at Entebbe airport in Uganda in 1976 . Since 1952 , it has assassinated a long list of PLO and other terrorist leaders ? many of them , like Abu Jihad , in their own well-protected offices . Mossad predicted the fall of the Shah of Iran months before the event and warned Washington ? which paid no attention ? about the growing strength of the Khomeini revolution . The agency is credited with saving the life of Jordan 's King Hussein at least 15 times and thwarting murders of leaders of Egypt and Saudi Arabia , partly to prevent more-radical officials from taking power . There also have been some embarrassing setbacks , most notably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yom Kippur War in 1973 , and a mistaken assessment that Christian allies could be counted on in Lebanon after the 1982 invasion . A botched operation in Norway ? part of the retaliation for the massacre of Israeli athletes at the Olympics in Munich in 1972 ? resulted in the killing of an innocent Arab waiter and the arrest of several hit teams that operated in Western Europe in the mid-1970s . But now , after the operation in Tunis , Mossad is riding high . In one sense , the Abu Jihad hit may help to shift the focus from the uprising to PLO terrorism ? from a struggle Israel is having trouble dealing with to one it knows how to fight . Any backlash from the assassination can be dealt with later by Mossad in its own fashion as part of the unending war that Israel can not afford to lose .                     