@@432244

 | Even with the freeing of the Beirut hostages , the episode refuses to release its grip on Washington . The celebration that greeted 39 returning Americans on July 2 was muted . Tempering the joy : Awareness that others remain captive and that one of the passengers aboard the hijacked jetliner now lies buried in Arlington National Cemetery ? killed in the first harrowing hours of the 17-day ordeal . President Reagan 's comments at a welcoming ceremony were more somber than jubilant . " There will be no forgetting , " he said of slain Navy man Robert Stethem . " His murderers must be brought to justice . Nor will we forget the seven Americans taken captive before , and captive still . " Reagan spoke one day after more terrorism struck at U.S. and other targets . Explosions at American , British and Jordanian airline offices in Madrid on July 1 killed one person and hurt 28 . An Arabic-speaking caller said the attacks were a response to Reagan 's threat to strike at the hijackers . The ordeal and its aftermath continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lessons from what happened and weighing dwindling options for a response . America 's latest hostage crisis suggests Military power . American military might is next to useless in countering random terrorism . Unlike heads of state , hostage-seizing fanatics are not impressed by threats . Experts agree that moving the carrier Nimitz and other warships close to the Lebanese coast had little to do with resolving the crisis ; some say it may even have hurt efforts . A military rescue mission was deemed impractical because of the risk it posed for the hostages ' safety . In any event , a rescue was impossible once the hostages were taken off the plane and hidden in the chaotic Lebanese capital . The latest crisis , say some analysts , also drove home this message : The Unit- ed States is preoccupied with fighting the big war against the Soviets and needs to concentrate harder on the more commonplace threat of terrorism . " Beirut shows our security planning is not providing for our security , " said Barry Blechman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relevant day-to-day threat of terrorism . " Prevention . Apart from beefing up airline security , little can be done to prevent a replay . But if it does happen , Washington is intent on being better prepared to try a rescue . Some officials are pressing the Pentagon to permanently deploy counterterrorist units , such as the Delta Force commandos , in Europe and Asia and make them available for immediate use in the initial stages of a crisis . The Delta Force , along with its helicopters and tons of equipment , now must be airlifted from the United States . That makes it unavailable early in a crisis , such as when the Trans World Airlines jetliner was on the ground in Algiers ? the only time a rescue was practical . Saber rattling . In dealing with terrorists , negotiators find that threats and gunboat diplomacy are not nearly as effective as measured words and quiet diplomacy . Negotiations were at full boil when Reagan in a speech suddenly denounced the captors as " thugs , murderers and barbarians " who would be held accountable for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of U.S. warships off the Lebanese coast , may have caused the Shiites to change signals . They delayed a release until Washington issued a vague statement that could be interpreted as a pledge that Lebanon would be secure against retaliation . Diplomacy . No diplomatic option can be ruled out , regardless of how farfetched it seems . Not soon to be forgotten by Washington is the key role played by Syrian President Hafez Assad , a longtime U.S. adversary . The Syrian responded to a request for help and , in the end , was the one who delivered what the terrorists most wanted ? an assurance that Israel would release Shiite prisoners . In helping Washington , Assad served his own ends . He wants to rein in maverick Shiites , who threaten his dominance in Lebanon . A key role also was played by Iran , U.S. adversary in Jimmy Carter 's hostage crisis . At Assad 's behest , the speaker of Iran 's parliament helped persuade radical Moslems holding four of the Americans to give them up . Television . In a crisis such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick solution . The problem is that saturation coverage tends to add emotional urgency to developments ? and this in turn could have eventually undermined Reagan 's resolve to stick to a hard line . Yet TV also cut the other way , providing an effective forum for his messages . What the President might eventually do to retaliate for the terrorism ? if anything ? remained an open question . His first move was largely symbolic . On July 2 , he ordered legal and diplomatic actions in an effort to shut down Beirut International Airport , which Secretary of State George Shultz has called a haven for terrorists . Reagan decreed a halt in service to New York by Lebanonbased Middle East Airways and encouraged other governments to take similar steps . Lawmakers and even some U.S. diplomats branded it an empty gesture , since the facility already was all but closed . Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk pointed out that the action would not have deterred the TWA hijackers and called the move " a fleabite . " Shultz indicated that the U.S. will seek to prosecute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known . But for that to happen , they would first have to be found in the anarchy of Lebanon , then extradited by a barely functioning government . " Legal steps may or may not work , " conceded Shultz . " But we 'll take them nonetheless . " One other idea being discussed : Offering a 5-million-dollar reward for information leading to the capture of the hijackers . A covert operation aimed at assassinating the hijackers appears unlikely . American officials say such a mission would face many difficulties , among them legal restraints against such killings . Equally improbable is the bigger option ? military retaliation against Lebanon or other Mideast states believed to support terrorists . The principal concern is that this would injure or kill many innocent civilians . There is also worry that reprisals would doom seven Americans taken hostage in Beirut over the past 16 months and who remain captives . Their kidnappers have threatened " a black fate " for them in that event . National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane said on July 1 that the U.S. would not resort to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " root sources of terrorism ? where people are trained , where they are housed , fed , sustained over time . " Though McFarlane did not name the potential targets , Pentagon officials pointed to two or three Shiite training camps in the Bekaa Valley in eastern Lebanon that are used to train Iraniansupported Hezbollah militia ? camps within range of U.S. naval firepower . Despite McFarlane 's comments , what seemed uppermost in the minds  | as Americans register disappointment at his refusal to exact violent retribution . The President himself was described as expecting this . " We are going to take gas until the design of our grand strategy becomes apparent , " says one aide . An ABC News-Washington Post poll taken in the first hours after the hostages ' release showed that an overwhelming majority approved of Reagan 's handling of the crisis . Still , about 40 percent felt frustrated that the hijacking ended more successfully for the terrorists than for America . Discontented view . Reagan 's most fervent conservative backers are especially disgruntled . The Washington Times accused him of failing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said the newspaper , " has no earthly idea what to think about terrorism , let alone how to respond .... " Reagan himself showed frustration , referring at one point to the movie heroics of Sylvester Stallone : " Boy . I saw Rambo ' last night . I know what to do the next time this happens . " Aides said the remark was a joke , made into a microphone the President thought was switched off . Even so , the White House is banking on Reagan 's emerging largely unscathed . Unlike Jimmy Carter , he entered the ordeal at the peak of his popularity and with the economy healthy . Aides hope the public will be most impressed with Reagan 's having resolved his crisis in 17 days , instead of the 444 days that President Carter needed to spring U.S. hostages from Iran . No one at the White House expects the Beirut outcome to smooth the hard road still faced by the administration 's tax and budget packages . But the spectacle of Americans held hostage overseas ? along with revelations of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ El Salvador ? is certain to intensify feelings on Capitol Hill that defense and foreign policy should be strengthened . " The whole debate is influenced .. . by what has happened internationally in the last two weeks , " said Representative Leon Panetta ( D-Calif . ) . One clear signal of a shift in opinion : A House vote June 19 to build new stockpiles of lethal nerve gas ? a Reagan proposal previously given virtually no chance of passage . The Seven Who Did n't Come Home A month ago , they were the Forgotten Seven . No longer . When the last hostages from TWA Flight 847 were set free , seven Americans seized earlier by Moslem extremists in Lebanon were still being held . Yet the airline episode enabled the seven to penetrate America 's consciousness as never before in the 16 months since the first of them was whisked off a Beirut street . Welcoming the returning TWA passengers and crew July 2 , President Reagan said : " The homecoming wo n't be complete until all come home . " The relatives of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorously for their release . Some family members sought a meeting with the President . The White House did not oblige . Peggy Say , sister of Terry Anderson , 37 , an Associated Press correspondent seized on March 16 , said of Reagan : " I 've given up . I do n't think he 's going to see me . " Reagan talked by phone with Syria 's Hafez Assad , but it was not clear whether Assad would help . The Syrian leader was instrumental in the release of the TWA hostages held by Shiite militants , including four held by Hezbollah , an Iranian-inspired faction . This group , which demands the freeing of terrorists imprisoned in Kuwait for bombing the U.S. Embassy there , is thought to be holding the remaining American hostages somewhere in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley . Said Samuel Lewis , former U.S. ambassador to Israel : " If Assad expends enough political pressure on Hezbollah , he 'll get them . " Cable News Network reporter Jeremy Levin escaped from the kidnappers in February . Those still held : Anderson ; diplomat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 61 ; Peter Kilburn , 60 , librarian at the American University of Beirut ( AUB ) ; David Jacobsen , 54 , administrator of the AUB Hospital ; Thomas Sutherland , 54 , dean of the AUB School of Agriculture , and the Rev. Martin Jenco , 50 , head of Catholic Relief Services in Beirut .                     