@@487717

A traveler driving north through the red clay hills of Alabama who crosses the Tennessee River on Route 231 enters an oasis of affluence in one of the poorest states in the nation . Ahead is Huntsville , where employment has grown 23 percent during the past four years and the local Chamber of Commerce prints up business cards proclaiming " the sky is not the limit " in red ink . The roads across Huntsville 's 3,600-acre Cummings Research Park have names like Technology Drive , Explorer Boulevard , Enterprise Way and Corporate Drive . Along them are the trademarks of the computer-age industrial park , spotless new structures of steel and glass with riddles for names : Dynetics , Sparta , SRS Technologies , Teledyne , Delta Research . At first glance , the city looks like a hotbed of high-tech research and innovation  --  just what is needed , according to politicians ranging from Jack Kemp to Michael Dukakis , to help cure America 's economic woes . In reality , most of the enigmatic facades of Cummings Research Park shield research that is of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At worst , it is part of the problem . The dollars that have ignited Huntsville 's growth come from the coffers of the Strategic Defense Initiative , various Army missile programs and a civilian space program that increasingly serves military needs . The Federal government has brought prosperity to Huntsville , but the work it funds is dedicated to the other-worldly technical challenges of Star Wars and space travel . It provides good salaries to thousands of engineers , who in turn bring prosperity to local shopping malls and car dealerships , but little of Huntsville 's high-tech research will help build better , cheaper and safer products or insure a productive role for the United States in the world economy . According to data compiled by the Federation of American Scientists in Washington , D.C. , Huntsville 's high-tech firms have signed S.D.I. contracts worth $862 million during the past four years , placing Alabama right behind California , New Mexico and Massachusetts among Star Wars beneficiaries . In addition , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration pumped nearly $600 million into Huntsville this year , $412 million of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For space and rocket enthusiasts , Huntsville is hallowed Daniel Charles is a freelance journalist and consultant for Spacewatch , a Washington-based research organization on S.D.I. and U.S space policy . ground , the birthplace of the American rocket industry . The U.S. Army settled hundreds of German scientists and engineers there in 1950 , after smuggling them out of Europe following World War II . This team built America 's first nuclear missiles as well as the Redstone rockets that carried the first U.S. astronauts into space . The rocket , in turn , created Huntsville , turning it from a sleepy cotton mill town of about 16,000 in 1950 into a sprawling city with nearly 160,000 inhabitants today . The Army 's rocket team , under Wernher von Braun , began by building short-range missiles for the Army . The Army Missile Command , or MICOM , located in Redstone Arsenal , now spends $6 billion every year on short-range , antiaircraft and other missiles of every imaginable type Only $250 million out of these contracts goes to Huntsville firms . In 1960 , von Braun 's team left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NASA , on its feet . Inside Redstone Arsenal , Building 4488 became the Marshall Space Flight Center , where NASA 's engineers mapped out the race to the moon . Marshall 's successes are Huntsville 's greatest pride , memorialized by the city 's massive Von Braun Civic Center , a towering Saturn rocket in its Space Museum and Huntsville 's self-proclaimed nickname ? Rocket City . But the hottest R &D; program in Huntsville today is one that the Germans left behind at the Army when they moved to NASA ? missile defense . For Huntsville , antimissile weapons and strategic defenses are thirty-year-old projects , and veteran engineers bristle at suggestions that S.D.I. is something new . " I do n't see any difference now from the way we operated before , " said William Davies , deputy for programs at the Army Strategic Defense Command in Huntsville . Even during the late 1970s , when the Carter Administration cut back research on missile defense , " it was a very exciting place technologically , " said Davies . " We did n't want the technology to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army Strategic Defense Command is more than technologically interesting . It is the fastest-growing profit-making opportunity to hit Huntsville since the Apollo program . The Strategic Defense Command handles the largest single share  --  just more than $1 billion in 1987 ? of the entire S.D.I. program . More than 20 percent of that money stays in Huntsville , passed on to one or another of the local companies that specialize in S.D.I. work . Few Huntsville firms build hardware . Instead , they produce " analysis , " using their computers to study the problems of missile defense and producing mounds of paper on how to solve them . In a sense , the brains of the S.D.I. industry are in Huntsville . " Analysis shows you what you need , " said Joseph Moquin , chair of Teledyne Brown Engineering , the largest local S.D.I. contractor . Teledyne Brown plays a key role in decisions about the future of the entire S.D.I. program . Since 1971 it has had a contract with the Army Strategic Defense Command to evaluate and monitor work done by other contractors on strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strategic Defense Command 's primary source of technical expertise . When evaluating S.D.I. work , " we may find that we do n't have the right technical approach , " said Moquin . " You swallow hard and tell them what you think . " But critical analysis of the program 's overall goal is not part of his firm 's contract . " We 've always had a deep-seated conviction that this nation needs a capability of defending itself against attack , " said Moquin . Star Wars has turned Huntsville into a major hub on the military contractor circuit , as corporate executives fly in for conferences on upcoming bidding opportunities . The number of hotel rooms in Huntsville has skyrocketed , from 2,300 in 1982 to more than 5,000 today , according to the Madison County tourism board . At 7 A.M. on a weekday morning , restaurants along the major hotel strip are filled with middle-aged men in business suits , and a smattering of Army officers . Star Wars is not the sole cause of Huntsville 's current prosperity . Contractors for NASA and Army programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing local firms ( founded by engineers who once worked for NASA and the Army ) produce computer equipment for the commercial market . But the impact of S.D.I. is unique , flooding about a dozen Huntsville firms that work on ballistic missile defense with almost limitless possibilities for growth . Nichols Research Corporation , as an example , has seen its revenues shoot practically off the graph , rising from $5.3 million in 1982 to $38.5 million in 1987 . " There 's an ungodly amount of money in this town , " said Dave Harris , a public affairs officer with the Army Missile Command who moved there in the late 1950s . Awash in loose cash , the city was ripe for financial scandal , and Huntsville has just suffered through a particularly embarrassing one . A fraudulent investment manager named Steven Streit , who acquired a reputation for financial acumen with the help of phony earnings statements , rapidly collected $18 million from Huntsville 's trusting nouveaux riches . He now faces twenty years in jail . The new Huntsville elite is relentlessly looking forward , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trumpets the city 's allures for companies seeking a new home : low corporate taxes , special tax breaks , free help in grading and draining construction sites , and " union membership that comprises only 15 percent of the labor force . " Since 1941 , when Redstone Arsenal first opened , the city has taken a roller-coaster ride on the back of federally funded military and space projects . As a result the Old South died early in Rocket City . The city that has emerged has closer ties to Washington than to Montgomery . In the early 1960s Huntsville 's leading citizens quickly sided with the Federal government when the Kennedy Administration challenged the State of Alabama over segregation . Local housing managers at first refused to comply with an order to end segregated military housing , said Dave Harris , but the Army enlisted the aid of a prominent banker who had loans outstanding on about 85 percent of the properties involved . " We went door to door together , " Harris recalled . " You 'd be amazed at how fast people signed those papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least race-conscious in Alabama . What counts , they say , is achievement . " There is a meritocracy going on here , " said Bob Ward , managing editor of the Huntsville Times and past president of the Chamber of Commerce . " Individuals can graduate instantly to the ' A ' list through achievement and commitment to the community . " " It 's the Wild West , in a sense , " said John Caulfield , the effervescent director of the Center for Applied Optics at the University of Alabama , Huntsville ( U.A.H. ) . " These people are dynamic , they want to see this town move forward . " Caulfield 's research center was established by U.A.H. at the suggestion of the Army and NASA , both of which regard optics as crucial to S.D.I. and other military programs . Caulfield , for his part , sees helping Huntsville 's industry with its R &D; projects  --  both commercial and military  --  as a major part of his mission . The Huntsville " meritocracy , " however , has losers as well as winners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just fine , cashing in on Huntsville 's growth by selling off real estate at escalating prices . But many holdovers from the old Huntsville who lacked the wealth to buy shares in the city 's growth , including much of the black community , have found themselves almost irrelevant in Huntsville 's high-tech dreams . Alabama Agricultural &; Mechanical University , a historically black school started by a former slave in 1875 , is now overshadowed by U.A.H. , its crosstown rival . ( U.A.H. , which began in the late 1950s as a series of technical graduate courses held inside Redstone Arsenal , is best known for its programs in engineering and applied science . ) Huntsville 's black community makes up 23 percent of the city , but there is not a single black face in the Chamber of Commerce 's illustrated , full-color fifty-page brochure that describes the city . Although the unemployment rate in Huntsville remained relatively low throughout the 1980s , hovering around 6 percent , for thousands of citizens the only concern is how to get along on a Social Security or unemployment check @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local observers , the poor are largely ignored . " You have this high-tech boom that makes the marginal people even more marginal , " said Gene Hodges , professor of sociology at U.A.H. With its sprawling development and huge parking lots , the city seems to have been built on the assumption that everyone who matters has an automobile . It lacks any public transportation system , so " without a car , you 're out of the labor market , " said Hodges . A few months ago , the city 's housing authority decided simply to tear down 200 units of low-rent apartments , without making any plans to build or buy additional units . Public protests have so far proved ineffectual , partly because the housing authority is a quasi-private operation over which elected officials have no direct administrative control . These are not pressing concerns , however , for Huntsville 's rocket engineers and Star Wars analysts . By most accounts , they are worthy successors to the young German scientists and engineers who founded Rocket City : devoted to the pursuit of technical knowledge and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . " There 's a great residue of the von Braun legacy , " said Ward . Upon arriving in Huntsville , according to Ward , the Germans went to the public library to apply for cards even before arranging water and electrical hookups for their houses . And one of their first community initiatives was to establish a symphony orchestra . Today 's scientists and engineers " want to go to the show or the ballet , " said Ward . " But they do n't have a great interest in political involvement or activism . " That lack of interest extends even to debates over the wisdom of Star Wars . Huntsville is solidly in the pro-S.D.I. camp , but the engineers at Teledyne Brown support S.D.I. more for reasons of job security than because of ideological conviction , said various Huntsville observers . Ideologically , Huntsville contains a mixture of old and new conservatism . Pat Robertson would get a strong vote there , said one local journalist ; many of the city 's businessmen and technicians are " rednecks in ties . " But most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Moral Majority . Their support for increasing military budgets and minimal government services for the poor is rooted in a secular , individualistic strain of conservatism based on economic self-interest . Georg von Tiesenhausen , an engineer with the original German rocket team , still lives in Huntsville . " In my opinion , " he said , " S.D.I. is money thrown out the window . " He said many engineers who work on it , however , " are overwhelmed with the technical challenge " ? he paused ? " as we were during the V-2 buzz-bomb era . " " When is it the responsibility of the scientist to say no to the government ? " Carl Sagan asked a crowd of 3,200 in Huntsville last summer . No one responded , but there was scattered applause when Sagan mentioned Huntsville 's prominent place among S.D.I. contractor cities . " People say that S.D.I. provides jobs . Well , the situations are n't comparable , but building ovens in Germany provided jobs , too , " said Sagan . One recent engineering graduate from U.A.H. found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather work in the civilian space industry , he said , " but it does n't look like that will be possible , " at least if he stays in Huntsville . At the time , he had just come from a job interview with Science Applications International , an S.D.I. contractor . " It 's so easy to get caught up in the details , " said one Huntsville engineer who has become an S.D.I. critic in private . " You do n't think about the wider implications . You just hope that somebody else is doing that . If you 're lucky , you wake up someday and realize that nobody 's in charge . " But most of his colleagues were uninterested in the ultimate purpose of the Strategic Defense Initiative . " You ca n't even get 5 to 10 percent of them even to discuss it , " he said . The engineer recalled a secret briefing on scenarios of Soviet nuclear attack at the Army Strategic Defense Command in 1984 , early in the S.D.I. program . The speaker introduced one scenario by saying , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paused and added , " Actually , all of this is crazy . " That seems a fitting epitaph for Huntsville , a city built on a vision that reaches into space but remains unendingly narrow . After the V-2 project and World War II , said Georg von Tiesenhausen , " I developed an aversion to all things military . " How could he then return to building weapons of war in the 1950s , this time for the U.S. Army ? " We did n't anticipate war , " he answered . " Our horizon was much smaller . We had to fight the Air home " Or as satirist Tom Lehrer wrote in the 1960s : " Once the rockets are up , who cares where they come down ? That 's not my department , " says Wernher von Braun Li                     