@@487711

The October stock market crash was a symptom of the global economic changes unleashed by the free-market fantasies of Ronald Reagan , Margaret Thatcher and Helmut Kohl . The world 's economic environment has been transformed by a powerful wave of globalization , privatization and deregulation of , capital . Now , as the roaring eighties come to a close , we must come to terms with the fact that we live in an integrated private global economy , knitted together by unregulated financial and commercial establishments using the new information and communications technologies . While government and public policy remain confined to national boundaries , the new supranational economic order recognizes no geographic borders for its financial and commercial activities . Money is moved with the press of a button on a computer console and bounced off communications satellites , leapfrogging na  --  tional borders . As a result , there is a tension between the bounded public policies of nation-states and the unbounded economic imperatives of supranational enterprises . Presidents Jimmy Carter and Francois Mitterrand can testify to the difficulties of implementing liberal Keynes  --  ianism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national economic order . Both came to power at a time when stagnation in the productive core of the economy had begun to foster increasing financial speculation . Stagnation was reflected in rising unemployment rates , which averaged less than 2 percent in France in the 1950s , reached 4 percent in 1975 and were 6 percent by the end of the decade . When Carter took office the unemployment rate had similarly risen , to more than 8 percent , in the United States . Financial speculation  --  the flip side of the coin  --  took off after 1973 , when the industrial democracies deregulated international money . Wealth-holders looking for speculative financial outlets in a stagnant manufacturing economy seized on the availability of new sources of international money and tech  --  niques of moving it . Starting in 1975 , the movement of money replaced the production of commodities at the commanding heights of the American economy , creating a new breed of money mandarins operating in a financial rather than production culture . Today an estimated 50 percent of the chief executive officers of large American corporations have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1950 . Only can University and author of The Money Mandarins : The Making of a Supranational Economic Order ( Pantheon ) . 3 percent of the 1981 graduating class of the Harvard Business School took jobs in production . Epitomizing the new breed was James Roderick , who , upon ascending to the chair of United States Steel in 1979 , said , " The duty of management is to make money . Our primary objective is not to make steel . " True to his words , in 1986 Roderick abandoned the proud turn-of-the-century name for his com  --  pany and changed it to USX , the company 's identification on Wall Street 's stock ticker . Conservative governments , smitten by the ideology of the free market , translated nineteenth-century ideas into late twentieth-century public policies of privatization and deregulation . The Thatcher and Reagan governments en  --  couraged the financial speculation that was eroding the manufacturing core by deregulating financial markets , and in the United States tax rates on short-term capital gains were lowered . Debts piled upon debts and leveraged buy-outs pyramided into thin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate debt from a so-called junk bond . It was only a matter of time before this structure imploded . If there was anyone who doubted that the new global economy had arrived , he or she should have been disabused of doubts by the October stock market plunge . A glob  --  al financial Olympics was played against a twenty-four-hour game clock . Every time zone on earth had its moment on the money movers ' computer screens , as transactions followed the sun around the globe . For the first time in history , events in Lower Manhattan had immediate conse  --  consequences in Tokyo , Sidney , Hong Kong , London and Frankfurt . . . The origins of this new global economy can be traced back to 1973 , when the major industrial governments , led by the United States , abandoned the postwar Bretton Woods system . Created in July 1944 , the Bretton Woods system had placed governments squarely in the center of regulating international money , principally through the mechanism of stabilizing currency exchange rates within very narrow and publicized ranges  --  a fluctuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official rate . A fall in a country 's currency exchange rate , for example , can occur as a result of the following sequence of events : If the sum total of all moneys leaving a country exceeds the sums coming in , a balance-of-payments problem arises . This can trigger a drop in the value of that country 's money in the international economy , because the demand for the country 's money in the world does not keep pace with its supply . When this happened under Bretton Woods and the market exchange rate diverged from the official rates specified in the agreement , several steps could be taken to correct it : Central bank intervention could increase demand for the currency in trouble ; or devaluation of the currency could change the official rate of exchange to bring it into line with the market rate . If the country whose currency was too abundant in the world could not correct its imbalances by these means , then it would be forced to buy back some of its currency by transferring gold in exchange . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold supply after the war ( around $23 billion ) , underwrote this arrangement , and the dollar became the pre-eminent currency in the world economy  --  literally as good as gold . For a quarter-century , the Bretton Woods system contributed to robust economic growth in the in  --  dustrial democracies in large part because of the predict  --  ability associated with the fixed exchange rate system . The foundations of the system began to weaken in the 1960s . The problem began with massive capital flows out of the United States to the war-devastated economies of Western Europe as a result of Marshall Plan aid and foreign invest  --  ment by new multinationally oriented American corpora  --  tions . This led to the re-emergence of the Europeans as trading rivals , which resulted in an increase in imports from the Continent . As a result , more dollars were leaving the United States than were coming in . Washington could not indefinitely provide the gold backing needed to support the dollar and the system . When Richard Nixon was elected President in 1968 , U.S. gold stocks were about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the important psy  --  chological barrier of $10 billion . That barrier was breached in August 1971 , and Nixon unilaterally took the United States off the gold standard and opened a new chapter in in  --  ternational finance . In 1973 the governments of the industrial world com  --  menced their first experiment with deregulated currency markets . Henceforth , currencies around the world were free to find their own rates of exchange on a day to day , hour to hour basis . Because there were no longer any official ex  --  change rate targets , gold no longer played an official role in world monetary arrangements . With governments removed from direct international financial management , the money center banks  --  such as Citibank , Chase Manhattan and about two dozen other large banks around the world  --  with their institutional infrastructure already in place , accelerated the development of their own nascent private monetary system . This system was organized around Eurodollars , a name that originally meant dollar deposits in bank branches in Europe but now simply refers to dollars that circulate outside the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come under the regulatory authority of the American government . American banks are required to set aside 20 cents as a reserve for every dollar deposited with them inside the United States . Eurodollar accounts , however , are not sub  --  ject to such reserve set-asides . The full dollar can be lent out , raising the theoretical possibility of unlimited dollar creation . The total value of Eurodollars in circulation has grown at a rate of about 25 percent a year since the mid-1970s , compared with a growth of real trade of only 4 per  --  cent annually . By comparison , the total number of U.S. dol  --  lars has grown only 10 percent a year . Starting from a base of about $50 billion in 1973 , the " stateless " Eurodollar system today is approaching $2 trillion , almost as large as the domestic monetary system of the United States , which comes under Federal Reserve and Treasury regulatory au  --  thority . It is as if we have been transported back to an earlier century , when private bank money operated around and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of enor  --  mous dollar surpluses earned on oil sales by Opec countries between 1974 and ' 1981 : about $375 billion more than they spent in the rest of the world . The money was placed in large-denomination certificates of deposit in the money center banks , which held the deposits in offshore banking sanctuaries such as the Cayman Islands in order to provide protection for the Opec depositors against seizure , avoid U.S. government regulation and escape American taxation . But this was only a bookkeeping fiction . In reality , the funds became part of the vast expansion of the Eurodollar system . Having received these deposits , the money center banks then sought borrowers who could be charged enough interest to enable the banks to earn a profit . The banks first moved Eurodollars into Third World countries , saddling them with a $1 trillion debt burden by the end of 1986 , compared to less than $100 billion in 1973 . Instead of supporting new productive investment , however , a large portion of this debt went into luxury consumption . Over $200 billion disappeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in  --  dustrial countries . When lending to Third World countries turned sour , in 1982 , after Mexico and other large Latin American borrowers effectively defaulted on loan servicing , afrodollars were shifted into funding the U.S. budget deficit , into mergers and acquisitions , and finally into the U.S. stock market . Very little of this huge flow of funds  --  more than $2 trillion  --  went into investments that expanded production . This contributed to the twin problems of global economic stagnation and excessive financial speculation . By the end of the 1970s , privatized money that was operating in a deregulated international environment through money center banks began to take advantage of the enhanced sophistication of computer and information technologies to globalize the world 's financial system . The convergence of these three trends  --  deregulation , privatiza  --  tion and globalization  --  with the ideology of free markets advocated by Milton Friedman underwrote the neoconser  --  vative counterreformation of Thatcher , Reagan and Kohl . This stateless reserve of capital exerts a transnational ef  --  fect on national economic policies , seeking the lowest com  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search of the best rate of return . In the new supranational economic order , public policy is traded across borders , aug  --  menting traditional competition in services and commodi  --  ties . The globalized financial system allows the money center banks to make end runs around governments and then leverage their influence to promote the same de  --  regulated and privatized environment within nation-states that they have been able to create for themselves supra-nationally . Since October 1981 , for example , in response to pressure from Citicorp , Chase Manhattan and other money center banks , the Federal Reserve has permitted banking " enterprise zones " in the United States , moving offshore banking onshore and reproducing the unregulated and un  --  taxed financial sanctuary of the Cayman Islands in cities like New York and Washington . Within twenty-one months of their inauguration , these International Banking Facilities had nearly $200 billion in Eurodollar deposits . It is not coincidental that the first financial futures market began in foreign exchange in 1972 , ' transforming futures markets from specialization in real commodities , like corn and pork bellies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury Bill futures was added by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , with the approval of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission , and in the early 1980s stock-index futures were introduced . Today the trading volume in stock index futures is almost equal to the trading volume of the stocks themselves . In the glitz and glitter of New York 's stock exchanges and Chicago 's futures markets , red  --  suspendered yuppies have lost sight of the original purposes of these institutions : to facilitate the ability of corporations to raise capital for productive purposes ( stock markets ) and to hedge risks for tangible commodities ( futures markets ) . They are not supposed to be venues for high-stakes gambling . Trading in foreign currencies has also become increasing  --  ly unstable as supranational capital has grown . National and international financial markets took on the coloration of gambling casinos a decade ago as a result of the large plays in foreign exchange rates accompanying the deregulation of international money . Speculation is no fun when there are no wild swings in prices . Although public economic man  --  agement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing in the fiscal and monetary policies of the United States and other governments can justify gyrations in exchange rates of 40 percent or more . Fixated on achieving short-term financial returns , curren  --  cy traders in the money center banks , armed with footloose Eurodollars , engage in destabilizing foreign exchange speculation by attacking the weak currencies and supporting the strong ones . " It is n't un-American " to sell dollars and profit from the currency 's decline , said James Young , Manufacturers Hanover 's top sterling trader , in the midst of the recent stock market chaos . His 27-year-old counterpart dealing in deutsche marks , Fred Scala , described currency traders as " soldiers of fortune " with no " alliances , " only a commitment to " work for the bank " ? even if their dealings are incompatible with U.S. economic interests in the world economy , one could add . Having feasted on exchange rates , speculators then moved into the stock market with about $600 billion that underwrote the 20,000-odd mergers and ac7 quisitions since 1979 , accounting for more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years . While the globalization genie can not be put back into the bottle , every item on the wish list of supranational centers need not be underwritten by pliant governments held hos  --  tage by their own free-market ideologies . Ultimately , new transnational economic institutions will be needed to sta  --  bilize exchange rates , rethink economic relations between the North and the South , restructure Third World debt and mobilize investment for productive purposes . Bor  --  ders must mean something once again , permitting govern  --  ments to inject effective public policies into their econo  --  mies , and new transnational public institutions must be December 26 , 1987/January-2 , 1988 created to regulate the global economy . But the immediate problem is the unregulated Eurodollar markets . It is time to bring them under the same regulatory umbrella that exists for dollars inside the United States . In particular , money center banks should be required to ob  --  serve the reserve set-asides that constrain U.S. banking . This will make it possible for governments to coordinate such economic parameters as interest and exchange rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the absence of such regulation , the October stock market melt  --  down will be- only the prelude to a larger financial drama . Speculative money will continue to hit and run , moving from Treasury Bills to foreign exchange to mergers and ac  --  quisitions . Continuing instability will breed worse economic imbalances until another financial crisis occurs requiring an even larger bailout from the Federal Reserve than the one engineered to save the market in October . While the proximate cause of the October crisis in world  --  wide financial markets was the anticipation of sharply higher interest rates in response to the U.S. government 's re  --  port about a continuing enormous trade deficit , the problem was magnified by the environment of deregulation and the globalization of financial markets . Since 1981 the Securities and Exchange Commission has been performing more like a cheerleader than ' a regulator , standing on the sidelines shak  --  ing pinstriped pom-poms and rooting on the stock market . As the volume of transactions on the stock market grew geometrically and the complexity of new financial in  --  struments transformed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually declined in number . The com  --  mission 's computers are from the horse-and-buggy age com- pared with ' the state-of-the-art computer capabilities of the securities firms the S.E.C. is supposed to regulate . In order to bring the financial markets under some degree of regulation , the first step needed is to appoint an S.E.C. chair who knows securities markets and is committed to en  --  forcing existing regulations , beefed up by additional staff and a modern computer capability that can compete with Wall ' Street 's . Next , Congress must take a look at regula  --  tions to deal with the new character of securities markets  --  including-computerized trading , which destabilizes markets , ' and the confounding of stock transactions with futures and options trading on the futures markets . The 1930 regulatory aim of separating different types of financial institutions in order to contain problems endemic to each and prevent them from spreading  --  financial fire  --  breaks  --  must be reasserted . This means retaining and strengthening the Glass-Steagall act , a law prohibiting corn , mercial banks from engaging in securities underwriting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with those seeking repeal of Glass-Steagall : the money center banks ; ' Alan Greenspan , chair of the Fed ; Robert L. Clarke , Comptroller of the Currency ; and L. William Seidman , head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation . ' ( Ten days after Black Monday , Seidman had the audacity to assert that the 1930s banking crisis- was " supervisory " and not " structural " in nature , and there  --  fore Glass-Steagall , which was put in place to prevent a spill , over from the stock market into the banking system , is not needed . ) The principle of firebreaks should be extended to include new legislation prohibiting securities firms from trading in futures markets . It is also time to reconsider the very ex  --  istence of financial futures , in view of the fact that these are fictions far removed from the basic purpose of a futures market . At a minimum , financial futures must be brought under the same regulatory formulas as stock transactions . Margin requirements  --  the proportion of hard cash that any buyer must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only about 7 percent on the less-regulated Chicago futures markets , compared with 50 percent on Wall Street securities markets , allowing the same kind of undercapital  --  ized speculation that fed the late 1920s bubble . The S.E.C. should be out front in proposing uniform securities regula  --  tions and in pressing for them in other countries ' markets . This would eliminate the " technological " profits from hair-trigger computerized trading , which permits the computer to stay a mini second ahead of the markets in different coun  --  tries as they adjust to a common price for the same stock . The postwar vision of the world economy was predicated on a degree of predictability and stability in exchange rates , which would contribute to the growth in international trade by mitigating risk and uncertainty in financial transactions . For the past fifteen years the ideology of free markets and deregulation has replaced that vision with one " that cele  --  brates the cunning of unfettered entrepreneurialism. - Ar  --  bitragers , options traders and all manner of financial specu  --  lators have been on a feeding frenzy for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the financial near-implosion of the past several weeks , it will have to be a better understanding of how the process of deregulated globalism has strengthened the symbiotic relationship betw- een stagna  --  tion and speculation , and of what governmentS need to do to begin to restore investment for productive purposes . q White Hope ( Continued From Front Cover ) in the Persian Gulf when the issue was raised during the NBC televised " debate " with all presidential candidates ; ( 3 ) uhhh . . . make that two . Those items , plus the shunning of D.S.A. , led Oreskes to conclude that Jackson was now joining the mainstream ( the gist of his Times magazine piece ) . Explicit in the article was the assumption that even the first initial of ' socialism is enough to sink a politician in that water . " The S word is definitely not something most politicians want to have any  --  thing to do with , " D.S.A. organizational director Patrick La- cefield told Oreskes . Now , The New York Times is not normally in touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also enough to disqualify a source from its pages ) , so Oreskes could not have foreseen that his story would become an instant cause c  --  l ? bre in the admittedly small but vocal community of East Coast lefties , white left-liberals and those whom Alexander Cockburn has dubbed " pwogwessives . " The telephone messages between members of that crowd that morning had the urgency of a major historical event , like the fall of a government or the assassination of a pope . Surely it ' was not that D.S.A. 's massed membership , estimated to be about 5,000 , would mean much to the Jackson drive in the long run . But D.S.A. 's seal of approval ( or its veto ) has an effect , far greater than the size of its mailing list . Guilty liberals , closet labor radicals and various unaffiliated political activists see the organization as a legitimizer of " acceptable " leftist behavior , the kind that produces a high benefit-to-risk ratio . More than that , the possibility that Jackson was excluding an organized left-leaning group from his coalition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called into question the nature of Jackson 's politics and the integrity of his project . In fact , the Oreskes story was not true , or not really true . Jackson says ( and D.S.A. leaders agree ) he first heard of his purported decision to " shun " D.S.A. when he read The Times that morning . He immediately called D.S.A. co-chair Michael Harrington and repudiated the Oreskes imputa  --  tions . He said he 'd be grateful for an endorsement by the organization . What was apparent between the lines of the article was confirmed as fact  --  that newcomer Gerry Austin , a Democratic insider without much feel for movement poli  --  tics who had previously run campaigns for Ohio Governor Richard Celeste , had passed off his unexamined anxieties as Jackson 's position . Harrington . graciously accepted Jack  --  son 's explanations , and D.S.A. enthusiastically endorsed the Rainbow Coalition candidate this time . A second-day story in The Times , without a byline or so much as a hint of its provenance , claimed that Jackson had " reversed " his position . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson 's relations with whites on the left is unresolved and will become increasingly important as this polarized campaign intensifies . Despite what the media may think , Or some Jackson supporters will claim , Jackson has never been the automatic candidate of the pro  --  gressive community . In 1984 most of the institutions that inhabit that shrunken sector of American political life declared for Walter Mondale early in the campaign . Labor leapt on that train as it was leaving the station on its lonesome journey . The National Organization for Women supported Mondale almost a year before the ' election . D.S.A. itself remained officially neutral in the campaign , not wanting to alienate its friends in labor and feminist circles who may not have been ready for a black presidential candidate . ( Nobody on The Times ever called the S-people opportunists for that decision against Jackson . ) Some individual white radical intellectuals and labor and community organizers saw Jackson as a great white hope and joined his campaign . Imagine their chagrin when they discovered that he was a hope of a different color . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speechwriter in 1984 who failed to interest the campaign in many of the items on her left agenda , suffered an inevitable burnout and turned this year to the opposition , charging ( in a Nation review/ 