@@432476

 | A neighborly woman who often visited the sick in her hometown of Dunedin , Fla. , Estelle Browning had seen too many people with no hope of recovery live out their days hooked to feeding tubes and respirators . So in 1985 , at age 85 , she drew up a living will . It stipulated that , should she ever become terminally ill , procedures that would only prolong her dying should be withheld or withdrawn . " I do not desire that nutrition and hydration be provided by gastric tube or intravenously , " she wrote . It was to no avail . Today , 2 ? years after a stroke that left her almost totally paralyzed , Browning is unable to communicate or swallow and gets her only nourishment through a feeding tube . A growing number of Americans , like Browning , are putting their faith in living wills to assure them a dignified death when all hope of recovery has evaporated . Motivated by stories of patients like Karen Ann Quinlan , the comatose young woman in New Jersey who was kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1985 , these people set down in black and white exactly which heroic measures they will and will not stand for should they ever be near death and unable to speak their minds . The wills ' provisions , however , are turning out to be far from authoritative , even though living wills have been endorsed by government and by medical and public-interest groups and even though nearly all states have laws on their books that give the documents legitimacy . Kentucky , Massachusetts , Michigan , Nebraska , New Jersey , New York , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island and South Dakota have yet to pass such laws , but courts in these states have upheld living wills . A dilemma of definitions . The problem is language . The vernacular of living wills ? such phrases as " terminally ill , " " no reasonable expectation of recovery , " " heroic measures " and " life-prolonging procedures " ? is so fuzzy and open to interpretation that doctors frequently are left with no clear idea of which measures the patient wants started , stopped or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alive simply because they fear that state law will not back their interpretation . States , in turn , define these terms differently or not at all . In Montana , for instance , artificial feeding is in some cases recognized as a " lifesustaining procedure " and thus can be withdrawn when a living will forbids such measures . In Georgia , where the use of feeding tubes is not defined as lifeprolonging , feeding could not be stopped . In Browning 's case , a dispute has arisen over the meaning of the phrase " death is imminent . " Browning 's living will states that life-sustaining efforts should be halted once death is imminent , a point her guardian argues has been reached , since Browning will die within days without her feeding tube . But doctors and nurses at her nursing home , obeying a state requirement that nursing homes feed all patients , are refusing to detach her tube . One court reasoned that Browning 's death is not imminent , since the tube allows her to live indefinitely ; an appellate court then ruled she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be heard this fall by the Florida Supreme Court . Medical and consumer groups want living wills to have more force . At the moment , wills typically are nonspecific , standardized forms needing only a signature : " Should I be in an incurable or irreversible mental or physical condition with no reasonable expectation of recovery , I direct my physician to withhold or withdraw treatment that merely prolongs my dying . I further direct that my treatment be limited to measures to keep me comfortable and to relieve pain . " Two Boston doctors , Linda Emanuel and Ezekiel Emanuel , recently proposed a form that , if accepted by the medical and legal communities , could give living wills the clout their proponents want . The essence of the Emanuels ' form is a detailed section in which a person  | chooses or rejects 12 specific treatments that might be offered should he ever end up in any of four possible medical states : Untreatable coma with no chance of recovery , coma with slight chance of recovery , irreversible brain damage accompanied by a terminal illness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You can indicate either that you desire the treatment , do not want it , are undecided , or want to try the treatment and discontinue it if there is no improvement . The Emanuels are now trying their form out on more than 200 patients to get an idea of how easy it is to use and how readily it will be accepted . When the unexpected happens . Even when the language of a living will is frank and clear , doubts about how to apply it can crop up . That frequently happens when a patient ends up in unanticipated circumstances . Suppose you add a rider to your living will stating that you would not want to be fed artificially if there was no hope of recovery , but you fail to say whether , under the same circumstances , you would want antibiotics administered to fight pneumonia . Or your will may collide head-on with state law . Many states ' laws , for example , uphold a will 's provisions only when death is imminent , and not when the person is awake but unaware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at its annual meeting last month recommended that states pass " second generation " living-will laws that let you appoint someone to make health-care decisions for you . A dozen states already allow for " healthcare proxies , " though a proxy can not make decisions that conflict with the state 's living-will law . If the law says a patient gets treatment until death is imminent , the proxy gets no say until that point . A more flexible mechanism , now in effect in 10 states , is " durable power of attorney for health care , " which explicitly allows you to delegate to someone else your right to accept or refuse care . It also frees a doctor to rely on your appointee even when your desires were not clearly expressed . While the field of living-will law remains in flux , you can take measures to better the odds that your living will holds firm once you no longer can make decisions . Besides signing the standard form , you can attach a statement of your feelings about specific treatments , such as cardiac resuscitation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Society for the Right to Die and Concern for Dying , recommend these steps : Have a heart-to-heart talk with your doctor and be sure he or she understands and supports your wishes . If the doctor is dubious or opposed , you may want to switch physicians . Have the will placed in your medical file . Be as specific and detailed as possible when describing treatments you may or may not want and at what point you no longer want them . Designate a person to make healthcare decisions for you . This person should be familiar with your personal philosophy and feelings about terminal care , support them and be likely to make the same decisions for you that you yourself would make . A friend may be more persuasive with a judge than a relative who is also your heir . You should take this step even if you live in a state that does not yet provide for proxies or durable power of attorney for health care . It will make your doctor feel more comfortable and , in all likelihood , will be supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witnesses and a notary . It must be notarized if you choose to execute the durable power of attorney . Give copies to your next of kin , your clergyman , lawyer and anyone else who might eventually act in a decision-making capacity for you . Store your living will where your family can easily get at it . Best to keep it out of a safe-deposit box , since you might be the only one who could put your hands on the key . Sign and date the document again every two or three years ; do the same before a notary and witnesses every five years . The more recent the date , the more likely your doctor or a court will honor the living will . A carefully crafted document is no guarantee that you will end your life in peace , but it should help to fend off tubes and lawyers .                     