@@432119

 | In the battle shaping up over the Reagan defense budget , a prime target is the President 's plan for an unparalleled peacetime buildup of the U.S. Navy . A substantial increase in the Navy 's funding is proposed in the budget just unveiled . Of the 258-billion-dollar spending authority that the Pentagon seeks , 88 billion is earmarked for the Navy ? more than 34 percent of the total , compared with only 23.5 percent for the Army . Money for shipbuilding would more than double . The aim is to expand by 1990 the existing 475-ship fleet into an armada of 600 or more vessels that can regain supremacy at sea and carry a future naval war into the dangerous waters near the Soviet coast . While few disagree on the need for a bigger , stronger Navy , critics are getting ready to attack the Reagan blueprint . What is drawing fire is not only his goal of a 600-ship Navy , but the character and mission of the projected fleet . These critics maintain that the administration 's plan will burden the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the process , they say , the nation 's defense posture will be seriously distorted as other critical military projects are starved of funds . Some opponents contend that the administration will be forced to curtail plans to strengthen American forces in Europe and develop the Rapid Deployment Force to defend Persian Gulf oil . The specific target of most critics is the Navy 's plan to build the fleet around 15 massive aircraft-carrier battle groups . Many would be centered on Nimitz-class nuclear supercarriers and would include nuclear-powered cruisers plus a train of other vessels . To reach the goal , Reagan has proposed Nuclear-powered supercarriers are at heart of controversy over Navy buildup. building two more of the giant Nimitzclass ships . The total cost per battle group : An estimated 17 billion dollars . The critics argue that supercarriers are too expensive and too vulnerable in an era of nuclear weapons and guided missiles with pinpoint accuracy . They assert that a Navy with smaller and cheaper ? but more numerous ? ships would have a better chance of surviving and doing the job of protecting the sea-lanes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some opponents fear that the naval strategy embraced by the Reagan administration will cause a lopsided reliance on sea power . Naval " nonsense . " Former Under Secretary of Defense Robert Komer. the Pentagon 's No. 3 official in the Carter administration , argues this way : " How do you defeat a great land power like Russia ? Not by nibbling at its edges with carrier strikes . The contention that we can defeat Russia by being supreme at sea , even if the Soviets are supreme in Eurasia , is simply nonsense . If the Soviets take over Eurasia and we have only the seas , we 've had it . " Navy Secretary John Lehman counters with the argument that the best way to defend vital North Atlantic supply lanes would be to seize the offensive and sink Soviet vessels before they could put allied shipping at risk . Furthermore , he claims that the Navy he envisions would be able to help offset superior Russian conventional forces in Europe by striking Soviet military and industrial targets far from the scene of battle with carrier air power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan is seen as vulnerable on other counts . The ability of an ailing defense industry to crank out ships fast enough and the Pentagon 's capacity to recruit the sailors needed are questioned . Even if the administration gets all the money it is asking , which is considered problematic in view of a soaring federal deficit , some analysts maintain that the amount still may be short of what is needed to achieve Reagan 's goal . One congressional study estimates that building the fleet planned by the administration could cost as much as 25 billion dollars a year for new construction and could not be done much  | before the end of the century . The President is working on the assumption that with smaller sums ? about 19 billion dollars in shipbuilding funds during the next fiscal year ? his target can be achieved much earlier . Actually , the admirals already have been forced to slow their building program because of an earlier budget squeeze . Of 33 ships that they wanted to start acquiring this year , seven were delayed or canceled for lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worry among some Navy officials and supporters in Congress is that budget cutters on Capitol Hill will find tempting targets in the naval shipbuilding program . Noting that each Nimitzclass carrier costs 3.5 billion dollars , one Navy advocate says : " If a crunch comes , a multibillion-dollar ship may not look necessary , even though it is. , , Another obstacle to the administration 's pursuit of its naval goal is the state of the U.S. maritime industry . Its capacity to build ships has steadily dwindled since the Vietnam War . Manpower needs . A shortage of engineers , technicians and skilled bluecollar workers is the most worrisome part of the problem . Edwin Hood , president of the Shipbuilders Council of America , has estimated that some 30,000 workers will drift away after current naval construction bottoms out this year . Then , when it begins to turn up again in 1984 , the industry will have to find the workers or train replacements for them at great expense . Some defense experts also are concerned about the shortage of shipyards capable of building combat vessels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company , is presently tooled up for such big nuclear surface ships as aircraft carriers . Newport News , in Virginia , and Electric Boat Company in Groton , Conn. , are the only ones now building Los Angeles-class nuclear-attack submarines . Electric Boat alone can construct the massive Trident submarine . " If the U.S. were to decide immediately to produce four new nuclearpowered attack aircraft carriers , " says former senior Pentagon aide William Kaufmann , " it would probably take eight years to deliver the first two carriers and another six years to deliver the next two . " Indeed , the Navy does not expect the second of its new Nimitz-class carriers until the early 1990s . Given the extent of the problems , few insiders would be surprised to see major cost overruns develop . Shipbuilders already are having serious problems keeping costs within targets . One example : By the time the first Trident finally entered service last November , more than two years behind schedule , its cost had ballooned from 900 million to 1.2 billion dollars . In fact , the Pentagon on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 25 percent on eight of its 23 major naval projects in 1981 . Navy officials , however , explain that many of the increases are because of inflation and more-realistic cost estimates . To overcome its problems , the Navy plans a slow but steady expansion of its shipbuilding ? backed by a tough new Pentagon contract procedure . But before the Reagan program can become a reality , the Pentagon must spend millions on refurbishing the nation 's creaky defense industry . Finding the estimated 89,000 extra sailors needed for the new ships is one more hurdle for Reagan . The Navy barely has enough sailors to sail the ships it has afloat today . The shortages are most worrisome in skilled positions . The Navy lacks about 18,000 petty officers , the seasoned sailors who generally keep ships operating at sea . Compounding the problem is the flight to civilian jobs of nuclear submariners and other highly trained technicians . Yet Navy leaders are confident that the problems can be managed . One reason for their optimism is that the service has met 100 percent of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even more significant is the turnaround in re-enlistments . Last year , nearly 73 percent of eligible careerists ? those who had several tours of duty ? signed up for another hitch , compared with only 67 percent in 1980 . In addition , more new sailors are re-enlisting for second terms . If present trends continue , says Navy Secretary Lehman , the service will have no problem manning the 600-ship fleet . Others claim that the Navy 's manpower situation could again decline in years ahead . They attribute the Navy 's recent success largely to a sagging economy , and warn that difficulties will return once a civilian-employment crunch begins to ease . Another problem : The pool of males of recruitment age is shrinking . Over all , the consensus of defense analysts is that the Navy has a fighting chance of overcoming the potential difficulties in manning the fleet if Uncle Sam is willing to foot the bill . Increased pay and benefits , they say , will be needed to attract and retain the kind of sailors qualified to operate today 's highly sophisticated ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its drive to build in this decade a 600-ship Navy to re-establish American supremacy on the world 's oceans .                     