@@296542

They have got through the past 5 months as best they could , trying to keep their minds off what was happening in the U.S. embassy in Tehran by performing the day 's normal routines or taking on extra projects around the house , such as making draperies for the family room . They have waited anxiously for letters-most have received a few-and , half in fear and half in hope , they have tuned in several times a day to news broadcasts . In this atmosphere of suspended animation , the families of the hostages last week welcomed President Carter 's action against Iran . " I 'm 100% for it , " said Pat Lee of Falls Church , Va. , wife of Hostage Gary Lee , a general services officer . " I do n't think it will make that much difference , but it 's the principle . " Added Mary Lopez of Globe , Ariz. , mother of Marine Sergeant James Lopez : " I 'm not too happy , but I have to have faith in my government . What else can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past months most families have had no alternative but to stand behind the Carter Administration , or at least maintain a silence about their worries . But the strain of waiting was clearly taking its toll on the families . Their relatives were still alive , yet the threat of death remained . " It 's almost like a grieving situation with parts of it unresolved , " said Dorothy Limbert , psychotherapist and mother of State Department Officer John Limbert . Last month , 47 of the hostage families endorsed a letter sent to Carter threatening to protest if he allowed the Shah back into the U.S. for medical care . Some families feel that the President 's moves against Iran should have begun earlier . Said Virgil Sickmann , whose son Rodney was a Marine guard at the embassy : " I wish the President had taken these actions two months sooner . If he had done it then , I think that by this time Iran would have become a little weakened . " Added Mary Needham , whose son Paul , 29 , was a military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done a long time ago-a very long time ago . " <P> Many hostage families have formed an organization named FLAG ( Family Liaison Action Group ) . " It 's for psychological reasons as much as for anything else , " says Louisa Kennedy , FLAG spokeswoman and wife of State Department Officer Moorhead C. Kennedy . Members of the group confer occasionally with White House aides , and were briefed on Monday just before Carter announced the steps he was taking . FLAG plans to help the families deal with the complicated financial and legal problems stemming from the takeover of the embassy , including the possibility of bringing suits to get damages from the frozen Iranian assets in the U.S.                     