@@329375

For the most part , I stopped smoking marijuana in the mid-1970s because I grew bored with ending too many social evenings lying on somebody 's living- room rug , staring at the ceiling and saying , " Oh , wow ! " This renunciation was not a wrenching moral decision , but rather an aesthetic rite of passage as my palate began to savor California Chardonnay with the avidity I once reserved for Acapulco Gold . Yet as an aging baby boomer , my attitudes remain emblematic of that high-times generation that once freely used soft drugs and still feels more nostalgic than repentant about the experience . <P> This permissive mind-set colors my instinctive response to current drug problems . The initial breathless media reports of the crack epidemic aroused all my journalistic skepticism , and I groused that the antidrug frenzy seemed like Reefer Madness revisited . On those infrequent occasions when friends and acquaintances still pass around a bootleg joint , my reaction remains benign tolerance . Just a few weeks ago , when marijuana made a furtive appearance at my wife 's 20th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this throwback gesture as a quaint affectation , almost as if the class of ' 69 had all shown up in tie-dye T shirts instead of business suits and cocktail dresses . <P> Many may scorn these confessions as evidence of immaturity , unreliability and even moral laxity . But we are all the product of our life experiences , and I , like so many of my peers , can not entirely abandon this Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds heritage . Normally I only share these slightly outre sentiments with close friends . But such views have become a public issue with drug czar William Bennett 's attacks on my generation 's self-indulgence , coupled with George Bush 's prime-time address to the nation on drugs . For in identifying those responsible for the cocaine crisis , the President pointedly included " everyone who looks the other way . " Am I really a fellow traveler in this epidemic of addiction ? Do my affectionate , albeit distant , ties to 1960s-style permissiveness render me as culpable as Bennett claims ? Or is my comfortable , middle-class life so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cartel that any allegation of causal nexus represents little more than politically motivated hyperbole ? <P> The honest answer , which both surprises me and makes me squirm , is that to some degree Bennett and Co. are right . My generation , with its all too facile distinctions between soft drugs ( marijuana , mild hallucinogens ) and hard drugs ( heroin and now crack ) , does share responsibility for creating an environment that legitimized and even , until recently , lionized the cocaine culture . This wink-and-a-nod acceptance , this implicit endorsement of illicit thrills , has been a continuing motif in movies , late-night television and rock music . My personal life may rarely intersect with impoverished drug addicts , but the entertainment media created in the image of people like me easily transcend these barriers of class , race and geography .                     