@@480710

The Report of the Task Force on Teaching as a Profession , released last May by the Carnegie Forum , is only the most recent of a cascade of reports and monographs on the failures of American education . Most of them are eloquent on what has gone wrong , but vague or contradictory about why ? and even more so about what can be done about it . The Carnegie report is unusual in that it does n't blame the educational system , which has only been going about the mission we appointed it : training an old-fashioned mass-production work force . But the solutions it suggests ? throwing money at the problem , granting more advanced degrees in education ? show the same exhaustion of ideas as its predecessors . Clearly something is missing in the way we are educating our children . And despite our penchant for administrative and financial solutions , I believe we must look to the content of education ? its conception of the shape of the world , and therefore its manner of introducing students to it ? for both a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Most fundamentally , perhaps , it is a sense of cognitive unity , a unity which imparts meaning to the world and from which our values unfold . We can not go backward to look for this unity ; but perhaps it lies before us if only we can cleanse the gates of our perception . The one great obstacle to our perception is the academic curriculum , the way it is currently shaped . The last 400 years of scientific and intellectual progress contain a gigantic paradox . Every great advance , every profound insight in the sciences and other intellectual disciplines , has torn down the barriers and distinctions between those disciplines ; and yet the institutional result of each of these achievements has been the further fragmentation and specialization of the academy . Let us consider the following list of disciplines : mathematics , physics , chemistry , biology , anthropology , the arts and humanities , theology . This Frederick Turner is Founders Professor of Arts and Humanities at the University of Texas at Dallas . His most recent book is Natural Classicism , a collection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physics , is often credited with the invention of the first specialized academic discipline . But Newton 's greatest achievement was to unify mechanics , astronomy , algebra , geometry , and optics in such a way as to bridge the border between mathematics and physics , so that from his time forth there could be no physics which was not based on mathematics . Interestingly enough , this connection goes only one way ; that is , it would not be accurate to say that there can be no mathematics which is not based on physics . The mathematics of physics , though the only mathematics which is actualized in space and time , is a small sample of the total set of possible mathematical concepts and operations . Let us consider another great scientific achievement : the reduction of chemistry to physical principles by such nineteenth-century scientists as John Dalton , whose New System of Chemical Philosophy may be as important as Newton 's Principia . Chemistry could be no more than a series of isolated observations until the principles of atomic weight , specific heat , and chemical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until the periodic table of the elements had been drawn . But all these discoveries were in essence a demonstration that chemistry is really a subset , or branch , of physics ? that a chemist clinches any argument about his or her conclusions by demonstrating its derivation from known physical principles . Now , much of physics deals with a world in which chemistry need never have come into being . Indeed , there is no chemistry over 3,000 degrees , and since the universe is believed to have begun at a very much higher temperature than that , the laws of physics were sufficient to describe its operations until it cooled sufficiently to permit stable molecules to form . So both the logic and the history of chemistry describe it as a special case of physics , whereas there is no sense in which physics is a special case of chemistry . But we need not stop here . One of the most decisive discoveries in biology was that of the double helix structure of the DNA molecule . From this point on , no biologist could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated to be plausibly consistent with the biochemistry of life . In other words , biology is a huge branch of chemistry ? biology is what chemistry does when given a volatile cesspool like the planet Earth and some billions of years to play around with . Again the relationship between the disciplines is asymmetrical : chemistry is not a branch of biology , and one could fairly say that the microstructure of biology is chemistry . Consider , now , anthropology ? in its broadest sense , as including sociology , psychology , political science , economics , all the other human sciences . Just as the liveliest controversy once surrounded the reduction of biology to the interaction of dead matter ( that is to say , chemistry ) , so now the most vigorous argument involves the extent to which the study of huaudience ; the Scopes trial is still being argued out , and the irony is that many of the opponents of the idea that the study of human beings is fundamentally the study of animals consider themselves enlightened defenders of liberty . We do not like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and animals are not . But there is no reason to believe that our biological descent makes us automatons . On the contrary ; what other rational account of the appearance of novel entities in the world is there than evolution ? And what is freedom but the ability to generate novel entities ? As biological evolution produced that radical novelty known as humankind ? as it had earlier produced the radical novelties of eucaryotes , vertebrates , and primates ? so that enormously accelerated version of evolution which we call the human imagination is capable of the leap into a new world known as freedom . But we can not stop even here . The same ferment that is seething at the border of biology and anthropology is going on at the border of anthropology and the arts , in such fields as cultural anthropology and folklore . And the result of this ferment will be the final recognition of the arts and humanities as a branch , or subset , of anthropology . So art history , literary criticism , and the rest will have to validate themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ validates itself mathematically ? by reference to sound anthropological knowledge . Finally the time will come when the boundary between theology ? the study of the divine ? and the arts and humanities will be breached in the same way , and we shall evaluate and temper our religion on the basis of what our arts and humanities tell us about ourselves . We may come to see Dante , Shakespeare , Goethe , and Nietzsche ? and perhaps Michelangelo , Mozart , or even our own Emerson , Thoreau , Melville , and William James ? as prophets of such a unity . When this time comes , Francis Bacon 's and Rene Descartes 's great split between the divine and the natural will have been healed , and we will be back on the main road of human cultural evolution . In one sense , then , all academic disciplines are sub-branches of mathbillion years ago , and the evolution of humankind in the last five million . At each point in this development the universe leaped to new magnitudes of complexity and integrated organization . It would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to describe the current universe than to describe the universe of four billion years ago , and that universe would in turn take many more bits than the incandescent universe of the Big Bang . The further back we go , the fewer physical laws there were , and the simpler the universe . In a sense , the Big Bang universe is still with us as a kind of living fossil , exemplified in the probabilistic and indeterminate interactions of the smallest known physical particles . But at one time that was all there was , and there would have been no need for the laws of chemistry , biology , and so on . The general structure of the hierarchy of the universe is now fairly clear , and the great epoch of academic specialization and value-free experiment that revealed it might well be expected to be coming to an end . But some ? thing very peculiar happened to the academy . Even as the essential unity of the world was being revealed , the academy increasingly divided itself into smaller and smaller microfields and microdisciplines . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has demanded an essentially democratic and antiauthoritarian context , and thus the hierarchical form of the organization of the universe has had to be denied lest the cognitive dissonance with the spirit of inquiry paralyze the research effort . Our political philosophy has not been sophisticated enough to reconcile a hierarchical universe with a democratic society . Another reason for academic specialization is human limitations ; nobody is capable of absorbing the whole content of human thought . But the error of the academy has been to deny , by means of its metaphors of demarcation between fields , the intimate connections , the continuous and omnipresent relevance of other fields at every stage of investigation . After all , the metaphorical implication of the phrase " another field " ? " not my area , " as academics say ? is that the other field is over there , not right under one 's feet . It would have been wiser ? but there was no way of acquiring this wisdom but by going through the mistake ? to describe the work of other scientists and scholars as being inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above or below it . We would thus acknowledge the commonality of the world we study , and the uncomfortable fact that , for instance , the arts and humanities are a more advanced , but less basic , area of study than physics . To put this in an even more radical way : the arts and humanities are higher physics . The present model of the academy , implicit in the metaphor of the academic field or area , is of a vast flat plain stretching in all directions and divided by departmental fences into disciplines , each with its own rules , language , and canons of proof . lf , on the other hand , the universe itself is much more like a pyramid , then the academy is running the grave risk of falsifying the universe by its model . After all , the most insidious kind of misinformation is the kind which is not explicit but which is conveyed by the very form of the inquiry . So it is essential that we change our basic metaphor . uch a change of metaphor is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new academy is in terms of one 's own body . We do not need to know in detail how the minute chemical servomechanisms of the muscles operate in order to move our arms , or how the visual cortex performs its staggering miracle of constructing a coherent visual world out of the buzzing , booming confusion that hits the retina . But we do need to learn , as babies , how to operate the general controls that make it all work . Likewise , a detailed knowledge of the fields that underlie one 's own discipline is not necessary , as long as we are able to understand their major principles and laws , their most powerful theoretical generalizations , and as long as we know where to look and what to use in order to retrieve more precise information as that becomes necessary . So we need to teach our students in a " top-to-bottom " fashion how the grand principles work ; and perhaps we should be prepared to abandon , sometimes , the minute processes of research by which we discovered those principles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough for him or her to ask intelligent questions . If the big principles really are as good as we believe , they will imply the minutiae of experimental and mathematical procedure , much as a motor command implies its implementation by the nervous system and muscles . If a student has a sound understanding of the principles of evolution , the beauty of the idea will encourage enough observation of nature to suggest how it was originally proved . At this point an important distinction must be made . I am not advocating courses in research methods as such ? " teaching students how to learn , " as it is often termed . The brain is hungry not for method but for content , especially content which contains generalizations that are powerful , precise , and explicit . Our memories are addressed and referenced not by an abstract methodological grid but by significant fragments of their own content . Thus our core courses should deal first with the why of the world , not the how of research , because the how of research is generated by the why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but beware . What I am suggesting is that we reverse our ordinary procedure of teaching ? that is , method first and conclusions afterward . Instead we must teach the conclusions first . When Bacon inaugurated the scientific project , it was indeed necessary to discard all of the classical conclusions about why the world worked the way it did , for they were not true in practice . Thus it was necessary to start off with method , and make that method as sure as possible in its exclusion of error . But we have been at this work for 400 years , and many of our conclusions have been proven to be sound and to work in practice ? as when we design an automobile , a telephone , a new strain of wheat . And the principles we have discovered are more or less consistent with one another , and together can often act as a check on or confirmation of speculation based on one of them alone . Only when paradoxes arise do we need to go back to the old skeptical method . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , a body of data about turbulence and laminar flow we will simply he prompted to go out and collect it . ( I choose this example because I believe that in this case , that is exactly what happened . ) The point is that if the pyramid of information did not exist , but rather information was just spread out as far as it would go , as in the ' ' academic field " model , there would be nothing to tell us when information was missing . The recent explosion of work in folklore and the oral tradition has a similar origin , I believe ; because anthropology had been brought close enough to the humanities to be seen in some way to underpin them , we suddenly noticed how little information we had to make the connection , and set out to obtain it . And we found to our surprise that very rich sources lay right under our noses . For those at home in the pyramid , nothing human is alien ; indeed , nothing is alien . To say this is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that Brahmin prejudice which once wrote off other cultures as savage , and which now writes off our technological shopping-mall culture as barbarian or worse . The true pyramid dweller does not deplore pop culture . He or she sees it as the raw material of great art . Technology is one of the performing arts by which new realities come into being . And it needs scriptwriters , composers , choreographers . The pyramid of knowledge is not a static or fixed one . It is continuously growing . And its growth is at all levels , the low as well as the high , the high as well as the low . This picture of things is not reductionist . Though by evolution the low can give rise to the high , the simple to the complex , the determined to the free , nevertheless the high , the complex , and the free , once they exist , can take control of those levels of existence that preceded them . This is a model in which we do not evaluate a descendant or an effect by reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause or parent by its fruits and progeny . By their fruits ye shall know them ; and it is not that which goeth into a man that defileth him , but that which cometh out of him . If my body is healthy , I can use it without thinking about individual muscles ; only if I am building a new skill ? a new control system ? or rebuilding a damaged one should I think about the details of bodily motion . Indeed , an athlete must learn to forget the details of his or her training to achieve the instinctive sense of flow that characterizes a champion . Knowledge of scientific principle is like the possession of a motor skill . Since we have those beautiful , powerful , hard-won principles , or control algorithms ? the inverse square law of gravitation ; E = rric2 ; the interplay of selection , mutation , and recombination in evolution ; the laws of chemical combination ? let us teach them all at once , not as composite lumps of evidence but as the natural modes of human action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the atom , the inertia of the thrown stone , the stream eroding the valley , the field of flowers genetically drifting with a little assist from herbivores and climatic change , the sense of social attunement and insight brought about by ritual chant or dramatic peformance . They should see the earth 's spin toward sunlight , not the sun rising . Science teachers ought to be poets ; it goes without saying that poets have to he scientists . am not suggesting that we can give up the painstaking process of careful experiment in scientific research . The obsessed and dedicated experimentalist will always be necessary . The point I am making is that there is now not only a process and method of science but also an achieved and powerful content ? a content which must be grasped in principle by all citizens if we are to survive , and to survive as a democratic society . What Prospero meant by Art ? the unity of science , art , technology , moral choice , magic , craft , and delightful stage illusion ? is increasingly possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ability to think by proxy , thus enormously extending the power and capacity of the human brain . Using the computer in conjunction with the information-storage capacity of print , the information-transmission capacity of radio and video , and the extended life span given to us by modern hygiene and medicine , an ordinary human being may now be capable of learning and handling the theoretical underpinnings of a large range of academic disciplines . These disciplines would be unified by a metaphor such as the pyramid , which I have already suggested . A person educated in this way would be in a position to recover that sacramental sense of unity and meaning of the world that was lost when we took the great detour into academic specialization , and that utopians have since sought to impose , unsuccessfully and often bloodily , by political or economic force . Such a person would not be overwhelmed or paralyzed by the complexity of modern life , any more than we are overwhelmed by the complexity of our own nervous , motor , and sensory systems . We are plugged into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the top of a long chain of delegated responsibility . We are at the console of the ultimate user-friendly computer , insulated from the literalism of the machine language by a hierarchy of richer and more powerful special languages designed for easy use and referenced by the most simple mental " mouse " ? the transfer of attention . Notice that in this speculative meditation on the educational sysbecome instrumental and dynamic , pointing not only to other information but to action suggested by the value system implicit in its hierarchical organization . Performance , including technological invention and artistic creation , will become central to education at all levels . Our educational system has had a dangerous predilection for reductionism ? an addiction to the primary , the elementary . If , in love with the exactness and simplicity of those entities which can exist at a primitive level , we dismiss as unreal anything which requires a more sophisticated temporal environment ? values , for instance , or individuality , or freedom ? we are seeking to turn back the evolution of the universe . We democratize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to easy comprehensibility , avoiding the whole exhausting business of making value judgments by denying their validity . The hierarchical pyramid model , on the other hand , automatically provides the universe with distinctions of value . The evolutionarily later always subsumes and includes the evolutionarily earlier ; and therefore , given any measure of value , the more advanced is going to possess more of it than the more primitive . And it is precisely values that our educational system lacks . The work of the new academy will be to get those sweet and potent brain chemicals flowing , those endorphins which are apparently associated with our enjoyment of the higher intellectual , moral , and aesthetic values . Only in an academy that makes clear the relative importance of things can such a priming of the pump of self-reward be coherently undertaken . And it is not just the higher values which will benefit from such teaching . The lower values have their rightful and honored place in such a hierarchy . In the value-flat model , there are no values at all , because there are no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the fundamental paradigms of study , and in the nature and function of the academy itself ? a change as great , perhaps , as that which marked the end of medieval scholasticism and the beginning of the Renaissance humanist university . We have in our own time a project that requires a full mutual engagement of all fields of study , physics as well as poetry , and the hint of a warrant for its success . And if not now , when ? If not here , where ?                     