@@487686

On September 17 , 1982 , President Ronald Reagan made a campaign appearance in Flemington , New Jersey , on behalf of Republican Congresswoman Millicent Fenwick , who was locked in a close race for a U.S. Senate seat . Appearing at the San Gennaro festival in Flemington , Reagan interrupted his prepared remarks to tell the crowd he had " an announcement that will surprise all of you . In spite of all our cutting back , the Department of Housing and Urban Development has agreed to supply public funds for 125 units of elderly housing at Park Place in Ewing , New Jersey ! " Then , turning toward Fenwick , Reagan joked , " If you do n't elect her as Senator we 'll take it away . " Six days later , Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Anne Burford and New Jersey Republican Governor Thomas Kean jointly announced that the E.P.A . had awarded six grants to clean up hazardous waste sites in New Jersey . The timing of these announcements was not a coincidence , of course ; nor did they have anything to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather , of how the Reagan Administration used E.P.A . and HUD grants as a political slush fund . Despite the recent housing scandal and an earlier one involving the E.P.A. , this manipulation of public money for political ends remains a largely untold story . In 1983 Rita Lavelle , an the agency 's S1.6 billion Superfund program , was the E.P.A . in charge of c ? ? ' White House ( Continued From Front Cover ) indicted on conflict of interest and perjury charges relating in part to her role in using Superfund grants to help elect Republican Congressional candidates . She was subsequently convicted and served four months . At her trial Federal prosecutors portrayed her as an overzealous Republican loyalist working without authorization or approval from the White House . This story was accepted by Congress and the press and remains essentially unchallenged . And to date , the Congressional probes of HUD have focused on the billions lost through fraud and mismanagement and the millions pocketed by such prominent Republicans and HUD consultants as James Watt , Paul Manafort , Carla Hills and the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still-secret grand jury testimony and material uncovered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in connection with the Lavelle trial , show the existence of a massive and potentially illegal program by the Reagan Administration to manipulate tens of millions of dollars in E.P.A . and HUD funds to boost Republican candidates in Congressional and Senate elections . The program , as described by a former high-level White House official and corroborated by other evidence , was run by the White House through the Office of Cabinet Affairs , headed by Craig Fuller . In 1985 Fuller was promoted to chief of staff to Vice President George Bush , and he later was one of Bush 's top campaign advisers . A number of other prominent White House aides , including Michael Deaver and Edwin Meese 3d , also played key roles in this program . It is not known how much Reagan knew about it , but the President surely knew how to play the game : He personally ordered the transfer of HUD funds to finance the New Jersey project for the elderly after Fenwick asked him to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One on the way to their joint campaign appearance . The HUD and E.P.A . grants to New Jersey provide a case study of how the two agencies were used during the 1982 election . On the morning of September 17 , a high-level Housing Department official sent the following memorandum to Secretary Samuel Pierce : " I have just taken an urgent phone call from a White House official . . . advising the Department that the President , who is en route to New Jersey , has agreed to fund , with Section 8 new construction funds , a 125-unit project in Ewing , New Jersey . He intends to state Murray Waas is a reporter and longtime contributor to The Nation . upon his disembarking from the plane , that he is pleased to announce that HUD has advised it has agreed to provide 125 units . . . for an elderly project to be located at Park Place . " Pierce simply initialed the memo after he read it , and scrawled " Noted , " indicating that it was routine for the White House , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HUD projects to fund . In a last-minute order , senior officials at the agency transferred funds to New Jersey originally earmarked for a low-income housing project in North Carolina . Four days earlier , on September 13 , Rita Lavelle sent a memo to White House deputy chief of staff Michael Deaver recommending that Reagan take advantage of " an opportunity " provided by the awarding of $5.2 million in E.P.A . grants to clean up six toxic waste sites in New Jersey . Lavelle even suggested a time and place for the announcement to assure the " maximum media coverage " so as to " support the candidacies of New Jersey candidates including Millicent Fenwick . " On September 20 , Lavelle and E.P.A . Administrator Burford met at the White House with presidential counselor Meese , according to the two women 's calendars , which were obtained by Federal investigators . Meese , Lavelle and Burford would later insist that they could not recall what they discussed at that meeting , but a September 19 notebook entry by an assistant to E.P.A . general counsel Robert Perry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " President Reagan wants to visit " the sites of hazardous waste dumps to announce that the White House was providing grants to clean them up . The memo made clear that the timing of the announcement was to assist the races of Republican Senatorial candidates . On September 23 , just as Rita Lavelle had recommended to Michael Deaver ten days earlier , Burford and Governor Kean jointly announced the E.P.A . grants to New Jersey . Far from being overly zealous individuals who went astray , Rita Lavelle and Deborah Gore Dean , executive assistant to Secretary Pierce , were central actors in the White House campaign effort . The similarities between the two women are striking . Both appeared to be unqualified for the high posts they held . Lavelle 's most recent experience had been as a public relations assistant for a chemical company . Dean had managed a bar in Georgetown and occasionally edited a society magazine . But Lavelle and Dean were not lacking in political connections . Lavelle had worked in low-level jobs for Reagan when he was Governor of California . Dean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the stepdaughter of Richard Nixon 's Attorney General John Mitchell . As the 1982 Congressional elections approached , the two departments dispensed their largesse with precision and efficiency . Although the White House had backed cuts of $9.4 billion from HUD 's Section 8 low-income housing program , some of the remaining money was reprogrammed and spent to boost Republican Congressional candidates . Five HUD projects were announced by Representative Margaret Heckler , who was in a tight race against fellow incumbent Barney Frank because of redistricting . In Illinois , HUD scraped together funding for a fifty-unit project that assisted the re-election campaigns of Robert Michel , the House minority leader , and Peoria Mayor Richard Carver . Michel , as the leading Republican in the House , and Carver , as a member of the President 's Commission on Housing , played a key role in cutting billions from the Section 8 program , causing tens of thousands to go homeless . But they and the White House had no compunction about exploiting what little money remained to insure their re-election . At the E.P.A. , Lavelle awarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only days before the election Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana announced an E.P.A . cleanup of a waste site near the town of Seymour . An aide to Lavelle would later tell a Federal grand jury that she and Lavelle watched the election returns on television together , and " Ms. Lavelle told me . . . that she felt that she had helped put Lugar over the top . " By contrast , Superfund grants that would have benefited Democratic candidates were withheld . Burford abruptly delayed funding for the cleanup of the acid pits in Stringfellow , California , a twenty-two-acre site with 39 million tons of toxic and carcinogenic substances , after learning that the cleanup had been pushed by Governor Jerry Brown , who was running for the Senate . According to a high-level Reagan Administration official who was interviewed by the F.B.I. , Burford told him , " I 'll be damned if I am going to let Brown take credit for that . " Some might dismiss the Reagan Administration 's political manipulation of public funds to help elect Republicans as politics as usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one of the counts on the bill of impeachment drawn up by the House Judiciary Committee . And Congress subsequently enacted legislation making it a felony to manipulate Federal grant money to influence elections . The Nixon plan , known as the Responsiveness Program , was once described in a memo by deputy director of the Committee to Re-Elect the President Fred Malek , who devised it : " The President 's unique asset in the forthcoming campaign is his control over the Executive Branch . The White House must ensure that the President is able to capitalize fully upon this asset . . . we have already initiated programs to derive greater political benefit , from grants , communications and personnel . " One Federal agency Malek wished to exploit was HUD . A HUD official testified to the Senate Watergate Committee that an assistant to Malek at CREEP " asked that HUD set aside funds for . . . the Responsiveness Program . Under the proposal , an individual whom the White House would designate , but who would not be an employee of HUD .. . would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be committed . . . . I said that in my judgment such a program . . . sounded illegal and certainly improper . " Finding the HUD bureaucracy uncooperative , the Administration gave up . Ronald Reagan did not encounter similar resistance a decade later . aterial in F.B.I . files and testimony before the Federal grand jury that indicted Lavelle disclose that her chief contact was Craig Fuller . In addition , two Federal law enforcement officials say that the Reagan Justice Department stopped them from looking into Lavelle 's White House ties . A senior Justice Department official , Larry Simms , who was a deputy assistant attorney general at the time , charged in a memo that in his opinion " the EPA investigation .. . has been totally inadequate . . . and that inadequacy was a result of either incompetence or lack of integrity . " Fuller claims that he had almost no contacts with Lavelle . He told a reporter from U.P.I. during a March 10 , 1983 , interview , " I honestly do n't recall having telephone conversations with Lavelle . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we talked once or twice . " On another occasion , Fuller averred that it was possible she " placed calls to me , but I do n't recall ever returning one . " But at least eight officials of the E.P.A . and the Reagan Administration have given sworn statements and testimony to the F.B.I. , a Federal grand jury , and in executive session to a House Energy and Environment subcommittee that Lavelle and Fuller had at least 150 telephone conversations during the time Lavelle was in charge of the Superfund . Emily Morris , a receptionist for Lavelle , recalled Lavelle placing " around twenty-five " calls to Fuller and that Fuller made " approximately the same amount " of calls to Lavelle . Henrietta Janiszewski , Lavelle 's confidential assistant , told the subcommittee that she placed " eight to ten phone calls to Fuller " for Lavelle and that on occasion Fuller called Lavelle . Asked if most of the calls occurred " close to election time , " Janiszewski said that this was the case and that " around that time . . . she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Finally , additional information linking Fuller to Lavelle comes from a highly unlikely source : Edwin Meese . During his Senate confirmation hearings to be Attorney General in 1984 , Meese was queried about allegations that he had been involved in manipulation of the Superfund with Lavelle . Senator Max Baucus asked Meese , " Do you recall how many times you talked to her about a particular waste site ? " " I do not recall talking with her about any particular toxic waste site , " Meese answered . " I suspect she may be confusing me with Craig Fuller in that testimony . " Meese was not asked to elaborate . In her first extensive interview with a reporter since her conviction and jail sentence , Lavelle confirmed to me that Fuller was her chief contact in the White House : " Everything I did I checked very closely with Craig Fuller to see if it was all right to do . I did nothing of importance without informing him about it ahead of time . " Lavelle said such phone conversations were " informational " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him what I was up to ; he never gave me orders . But when I did tell him , he never objected . " Fuller did keep abreast of grants for specific toxic waste sites that were manipulated for political purposes . According to Federal law enforcement agents , a senior E.P.A . official , Frank Biros , testified to the grand jury that Lavelle and two of her aides asked him to prepare status reports for Fuller . Both of the reports sent to Fuller concerned grants to clean up hazardous waste sites that were politically manipulated ? the Seymour , Indiana , and Stringfellow , California , grants already described . Although Fuller denies having received such correspondence from Lavelle , a second grand jury witness independently corroborated Biros 's account . Janiszewski told the grand jury that Lavelle often gave her an envelope marked " Eyes Only " that was to be sent immediately to Craig Fuller at the White House . A t HUD , Deborah Dean maintained a similarly close connection with the White House . She testified to a Federal grand jury in Biloxi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " regular basis " on behalf of grant applicants : " It was not unusual to have at least one-fourth of the projects on the list that are funded to have gotten a phone call from the White House regarding them . " Asked why the White House would contact her , Dean explained , " I was the executive assistant to the Secretary , the chief of staff , and the White House liaison . " Dean had been called before the grand jury to discuss a HUD grant for a Biloxi hotel project . She testified that she had approved the grant solely because of the intervention of White House officials , and she did not even know that Biloxi is located on the Gulf of Mexico . Associate director of Cabinet affairs Richard Davis , who was Fuller 's deputy , was Dean 's chief contact with the White House . " ft was routine in my job . . . to take anything that came into the White House dealing with HUD and any other agencies and send it to that agency for disposition , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Davis claimed that he never exerted any pressure on Dean to make specific awards . Dean has refused to testify before Congress , citing her Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination . But in pondering her next steps , she might want to consider the case of her counterpart at the E.P.A. , Rita Lavelle . The two women were high-level government officials who played a key role in the Reagan Administration 's " responsiveness program . " Apparently , they were hired because they would be willing to take orders from superiors at the White House . And both women have taken the fall for higher-ups at the White House . Lavelle kept her silence and went to prison . Dean 's fate has yet to be decided , while she contemplates whether to implicate her superiors . Dean 's attorney , Joseph diGenova , a former U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia , says that if a reasonable that may be can not be predicted with certainty , but di-Genova claims that it will " establish beyond doubt that Miss Dean was not an independent operator but rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    