@@480896

Tradition means giving votes to the most obscure of all classes ? our ancestors . It is the democracy of the dead . Tradition refuses to submit to the small and arrogant oligarchy of those who merely happen to be walking around . ? Chesterton Last month in this space I suggested that it was unfair to blame the nation 's schools for the failures of American education . Schools serve the wishes and expectations of the society to which they belong , and if society cares more about the labels in its shoes than it does about the words in its head , then our schools will train legions of rich but illiterate bond salesmen . They will continue to do so no matter how much money anybody donates to the new library or how many speeches the chorus of worthy elders addresses to the newspapers and the worried alumni . The point seemed to me obvious , but a surprising number of readers took surprisingly vehement offense . They wrote to say that I was cynical or feckless or impious or un-American ? and demanded that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they said , to carp and criticize , but what , as a public-spirited citizen , did I propose to do ? I 've never been very adept in the arts of practical advice , and I 'm not even sure that the reform of the nation 's schools can be safely construed as a good thing . What would be the political consequences in a society that so comfortably settles for the lowest plausible denominators ? The triumph of the American dream presupposes the eager and uncritical consumption of junk in all its commercial declensions . Income does n't express individual merit or value added to the society ; if it did , the ranks of the unpaid would be terrible to beThe old school By Lewis H. Lapham hold . Think of the domino effect shuffling through the whole line of second-rate American goods and services ? clothes that do n't fit and household appliances that do n't work , company presidents receiving salaries of $500,000 a year for achieving the miracle of bankruptcy , doctors who charge princely fees for misdiagnoses and bungled operations , university professors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routinely makes laws as notable for their shoddy workmanship as a Florida condominium or an evening of prime-time television . But let us suppose ? at least for the moment and the sake of argument ? that the American people chose to rearrange their system of value and order of priority . Assume that they brought their interest in thought in balance with their passion for money . Given such favorable circumstances , I expect the correction of the schools could be carried forward with a minimum of trouble and expense . If I were assigned the task of revision ( which in a well-ordered universe I would n't be ) , I would begin by citing the authority of Thomas Jefferson and Albert Jay Nock , both of whom argued that the business of education entails a ruthless winnowing of the available chaff . When Jefferson revised the Virginia Statutes in 1797 , he drew up a comprehensive plan for public education that Nock , writing in 1937 , summarized , approvingly , as follows : Each ward should have a primary school for the three R 's , open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school should be sent to the grade school , of which there were to be twenty , conveniently situated in various parts of the state . They should be kept there one year or two years , according to results shown , and then all dismissed but one , who should be continued six years . " By this means , " said the good old man , " twenty of the best geniuses will be raked from the rubbish annually " ? a most unfortunate expression for a Democrat to use ! At the end of six years , the best ten of the twenty were to be sent to college , and the rest turned adrift . Jefferson articulated a principle that today would be reviled as " elitist . " Were he alive and well and living at Monticello , I can imagine him being dragged in judgment to the tribunal on Nightline . In the order of American insults the epithets " elite , " " elitist , " and " elitism " stand well above the lesser and preliminary invectives expressed in the terms " fascist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " To denounce a fellow citizen as an elitist is to give the cut direct , to declare the final excommunication from the community of the ideologically pure in spirit . But without a frank acknowledgment of the differences between people , I do n't see how the schools can be rescued from their difficulties . Although extremely satisfying to the soul , the doctrines of egalitarianism make a mockery of the facts . Who could imagine a football coach recruiting his team to conform with a theory of social policy , or a baseball manager troubling himself with the niceties of affirmative action ? College deans and high-school principals do n't enjoy the same freedom of choice , and their obligatory disavowal of what they know to be true condemns the schools to amiable mediocrity . Adapted to a modern circumstance , I can imagine Jefferson 's purpose translated into a hierarchy of superior state schools ( few in number and necessarily small in size ) that would train ( beyond the eighth grade ) only those students who passed rigorous examinations in two or three languages . None @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or psychiatric counseling . The curricula would be directed toward two fairly modest tasks : the teaching of languages , history , and mathematics ; and the instilling of intellectual confidence . If the schools fail at either of these objectives , then all the rest ? whether source readings from the syllabus of Western civilization or lectures on contemporary affairs from ci-devant secretaries of state ? amounts to little more than a series of exhibitions preserved , like bank notes or trust funds , in the vaults of an intellectual museum . The study of languages and mathematics provides the student with tools to work at the trade of learning . If he studies Latin , he will read Horace or Cicero or Juvenal ; if French , Montaigne or Voltaire or Flaubert . It does n't matter whether the student comes to appreciate the much-advertised " greatness " of these authors , or whether he can place them accurately within the chronologies of literary criticism . He reads the classical texts because they induce the habit of thought . If the student hopes to put the keenest possible edge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single chapter of Gibbon serves his purpose more effectively than the collected works of Henry Kissinger . A thorough knowledge of a few writers instills in the student the confidence that he can not derive from selected passages printed , usually in bad translation , in an anthology chosen by a committee of pedants . If by the age of seventeen the student acquires fluency in three or four languages , this further bolsters his pride of intellect . He learns to distinguish between the hard coin of his own accomplishment and the inflated currency of fashionable opinion . So also with the study of mathematics . The world rests on an architecture of numbers , and yet most of the students graduated from the nation 's leading universities think of mathematics as a magical sequence of runes known only to the druids at IBM , NASA , and the IRS . The mere sight of an algebraic fraction moves them to a feeling of holy dread . A thorough knowledge of high-school geometry would make them less anxious in a world that makes such common use of computer printouts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music appreciation , sociology , and political science , most of them contribute little or nothing to an understanding of their nominal subjects . Their deletion from the curricula would compare with the deletion of adjectives from a sophomore 's impression of the moon rising over Sorrento . A summer spent working in a brokerage house or a brothel presents a clearer understanding of economics than does a textual analysis of all the memoranda published by the Harvard Business School ; a casual but habitual reading of the Paris newspapers offers more insight into the nature of French politics than a seminar conducted by a government functionary under the rubric " Mitterrand , d'Estaing , and the Invisible Left . " Together with its system of superior schools , the state also could provide a parallel ( but less exacting ) course of education ( grammar and secondary schools as well as colleges ) in which all students ? no matter what their intellectual or financial capacities ? could learn the rudiments of writing , reading , history , and ' arithmetic . The instruction would be as systematic as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a suite of arcane or exotic studies but as a set of common tools that people learn to use in the way they use forks or compasses or chisels . The students would learn by doing ? by ceaseless reading ( primarily works of literature as opposed to textbooks ) , by ceaseless writing ( letters , explanations , advertisements , narratives , campaign speeches ) , by the working of ceaseless calculation ( of restaurant and department-store bills as well as interest rates and trade balances ) , and by the ceaseless study of historical chronologies . Because the schools would teach so few subjects , they could provide their students with the time and space in which to practice ( during school hours ) the habit of reading and writing . Jefferson assumed that roughly 90 percent of the population was ineducable , but he did n't mean to imply that the majority of his fellow citizens were not otherwise fine people ? decent , intelligent , and possibly favored by fortune . He simply meant that most people were not suited to the atmospheres of the higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gaining experience of life ( or escaping their parents or acquiring a trade or discovering the wonders of Los Angeles ) . Certainly everybody has a right to go somewhere , but not necessarily to academia . If the Ivy League colleges and universities could be understood as clubs , the state universities as athletic camps , and the professional schools ( law , medicine , journalism , etc. ) as medieval guilds , then everybody might feel less embarrassed by the need to feign an interest in Plato . Colleges like Harvard , Princeton , and Yale could continue as they do now , but relieved of the burden to offer anything other than a pleasant four years under some very old trees in the company of some very fine buildings . The colleges would n't award marks or confer degrees . The students who wished to do so could read whatever books captured their fancies . They might also attend lecture courses and write as many papers as their tutors asked them to write . Otherwise they would remain free to learn how to tie their ties , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the most profitable careers . Corporations such as IBM , Honda , or Citibank might accept apprentices as early as the age of thirteen . Too often it is thought that an education can be acquired in the way that one acquires a suntan or an Armani suit , as if it were an object instead of a turn of mind . An education begins with two or three teachers and six or seven texts ( maybe books , maybe equations or fossils or trees ) that introduce the student to the uniqueness of his or her own mind . After that it 's a matter of educating oneself . The best American minds , or at least the most generous and imaginative of American minds ( I think of Lincoln and Melville and Edison ) , tended to be self-taught . Expressing a sentiment that Jefferson probably would have seconded , St. Augustine observed that it is possible to learn only what one already knows .                     