@@492502

THE CRUSADE AGAINST ILLITERACY Barbara Bush , a woman with a mission , uses all the influence she can muster in leading the way to what has now become a national literacy movement . by John Ensor Harr J. T. Pace , the 63-yearold son of a former sharecropper from Mauldin , South Carolina , will never forget the day he met the wife of the Vice President of the United States . He had traveled to St. Louis last year to appear at the climactic moment of a three-hour live entertainment special on ABC-TV , a program celebrating the Fourth of July and the Bicentennial of the Constitution and promoting the cause of literacy . Barbara Bush had come to St. Louis as well . Because of her concern about the growing problem of illiteracy in America and her compassion for those afflicted by the problem , she had become the national leader in the literacy movement . That evening she was to walk out on a giant stage under the Gateway Arch to speak before a live audience of 800,000 people  --  and many millions more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . She would then introduce J. T. Pace , who would step to the microphone and read the Preamble to the Constitution of the United States . Until a year earlier , J. T. had been illiterate . He had lived a life of " deception , " as he put it , of shame and frustration , his energies constantly directed toward trying to hide his inability to read or write . J. T. , a deeply religious man , now had one driving goal in life  --  to be able to read the Bible . Listening to tape recordings and memorizing them were no longer enough ; he wanted to read the Word himself . And so at the age of 62 , he finally took the courageous step to enter literacy training . For J. T. the experience was like being reborn . In a choking voice , he speaks of finally being free , comparing illiteracy to the life of slavery his forebears lived . Television producer Vince Maynard thought it an inspired idea to have a former illiterate  --  a " new learner " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TV special dedicated to literacy and the Constitution . How better to communicate these related themes of the program ? And who better to introduce this than Barbara Bush , the No. 1 literacy advocate in the country ? 3 . T. Pace was selected from among the participants in the ABC " Learner of the Month " series of public-service announcements . There was just one problem . J. T. Pace was a troubled man . The problem was not so much fear at appear-ing before the 800,000 people who annually gather beneath the Gateway Arch for the St. Louis Fourth of July celebration . Rather , during his trip to St. Louis he had encountered difficult words as he tried to read and reread the Preamble . In particular , the word " tranquility " bothered him . He did n't know what it meant and he could n't pronounce it . ( In a sense , J. T. was illustrating the broader problem . Experts say that it takes an 11th-grade education to read and comprehend the Constitution . Nearly 60 million adult Americans can not read or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say about the future of a democratic system ? ) What was J. T. going to do ? What would Mrs. Bush think of him ? J. T. was scheduled to meet with her at 10 a.m. in ABC 's local production headquarters . The two would get to know each other and prepare for their joint appearance . Minutes before the meeting , J. T. told Maynard he could n't go on that night . Maynard 's initial panic abated when J. T. explained his problem . Simple , Maynard said . J. T. was a new learner . Why not sit down later in the day and learn the word " tranquility " and any others that bothered him ? J. T. shook his head . As nervous staffers hovered nearby , J. T. tried to explain the deeper issue . Having spent his life in deception , he now knew freedom from that . No longer would he memorize words and utter them as if he knew and understood and could read them . He simply could n't do that and be honest with himself  --  even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else down . The stunned Maynard turned and sent two aides scurrying to see if they could find a replacement  --  a hopeless task at that point . Maynard groaned at the thought of losing the emotional climax to his show . Then he saw J. T. sitting disconsolate , his shoulders hunched . A decent man , a former Jesuit brother , Maynard understood J. T. 's religious conviction and his honesty . He put his arm around J. T. and said : " Look , it 's O.K. Why do n't you come in and meet Barbara Bush anyway ? She 's anxious to meet you . " When the two men entered the room , Barbara Bush rose and greeted J. T. with a big smile . Warm and unpretentious , she is skilled at putting people at ease , not in a calculating way , but because it is natural for her . She is moved by people and their hopes and fears and joys and problems . Most of all , she is moved by new learners , by their courage and determination . She and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was visibly relaxing . Maynard finally leaned over and gently began talking about the problem . J. T. finished the explanation . A dozen aides stood around wondering what was going to happen . In about ten seconds Barbara Bush understood not just the immediate problem , but exactly how J. T. felt . She told him she sometimes has difficulty with big words , too , that it is a problem for every reader . But she agreed he must do only what was comfortable for him . Then she took his hands in hers and asked gravely , " What if you and I read the Preamble together ? " There was silence in the room . Slowly a smile spread on J. T. 's face . " I 'd like that , " he said . That evening they stood together on the podium and slowly began to read the Preamble . J. T. mumbled some of the difficult words . Gradually Barbara Bush 's voice subsided as J. T. gained confidence and finished the reading in a strong voice , his eyes glistening with tears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Order to form a more perfect Union , establish Justice , insure domestic Tranquility , provide for the common defence , promote the general Welfare , and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity , do ordain and establish this Constiiiiiion for the United States of America . Mrs. Bush and J. T. embraced as the audience of 800,000 people rose in a standing ovation . Barbara Bush 's warmth and compassion and depth of understanding had helped J. T. Paceconvert his sense of failure into a triumph . ? ? ? The dedication of Barbara Bush to lite , acy has a missionary fervor about it . She is a woman with a mission  --  to do everything she can , to use all the influence she can muster  --  to help those in need . For eight years she has responded to every opportunity possible throughout the country : speaking ; visiting learning centers ; meeting new learners and volunteer tutors ; constantly encouraging , supporting , and leading the way in what has row become a national literacy moNernent . This odyssey began for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that her husband would seek high office after a distinguished career as a congressman , U.S. liaison to China , director of the CIA , and ambassador to the United Nations . The wife of a president or a vice president , by custom , lends her prestige to an important and worthwhile cause . For Joan Mondale , it was support of the arts . For Rosalynn Carter , the tragedy of mental illness . Nancy Reagan is well-known for her " Just Say No to Drugs " campaign . This development is natural , for the volunteer service of wives and mothers is a social phenomenon of life in America . The spouses of those in public life can be especially effective in this regard . Barbara Bush was no exception . From the early days , when George Bush was in the oil business in Midland , Texas , and as the Bush family grew , Barbara devoted her spare time to volunteer work for church , community , hospitals , schools , libraries , and of course , the Republican party . As Barbara Bush says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their skills and connections , some literally give their life 's blood . . . but everyone has something to give . " Now she faced a challenge : what would she devote herself to  --  if the political fates gave her a rare opportunity and responsibility ? She pondered all the problems that worried her : teen pregnancy , unemployment , crime , health issues , transportation , world peace  --  fitting subjects for her total devotion , but too much for one person . Which one , then ? The more she thought , the more she realized that one pervasive problem in America  --  illiteracy  --  relates fundamentally to many other social ills . Illiteracy is not only a tragedy for those afflicted , but it is also clearly a contributor to poverty ; unemployment ; welfare dependency ; substandard work performance ; inability to vote or engage in community affairs ; such public-health problems as substance abuse and teen pregnancy ; crime ; and economic troubles in general . Fighting illiteracy would help alleviate these other problems as well . At the time , illiteracy was still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its way into the public consciousness : illiterate people are the very opposite of a vocal constituency . They suffer in silence and try to hide their problem in shame . And the United States had been so rich and powerful that society could tolerate the illiteracy problem . Volunteer agencies , such as Laubach Literacy International , Literacy Volunteers of America , Lutheran Church Women , and others , had long been offering tutoring services to illiterates .. The federal government had recently initiated a small program of adult basic-education grants from the Department of Education to the states . But these efforts largely escaped public notice . There was no widespread understanding of the scaleand effects of the illiteracy problem . Barbara Bush learned from the best available research that some 23 million adult Americans are functionally illiterate , unable to read or write beyond the fourth-grade level , and that another 30 to 35 million lack basic skills beyond the eighth-grade level . Many sources confirmed her belief that illiteracy contributes to other social ills . When George Bush was elected Vice President of the United States in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mission . That devotion , widespread and varied , resists any easy categorizing . At a moment 's notice , Barbara Bush will advance the cause of literacy : speaking ; appearing on radio and television ; visiting schools , clinics , hospitals , churches , learning centers , prisons , factories , and anywhere she can meet and encourage people . Often her influence is exerted privately . One evening she found that her banquet seatmate was Harold W. McGraw , Jr. , the chief executive officer of the publishing firm of McGraw-Hill . McGraw , nearing retirement age , confided that he was looking for a nonprofit cause to devote himself to . He was talking to the right person . After listening to Barbara Bush , he returned to New York and proceeded to become a highly effective adherent of the cause . First , he put his time and financial resources into the creation of the Business Council for Effective Literacy , now an important force in the business community 's involvement in the literacy movement . Second , McGraw underwrote the first major-media public-service campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Library Association . This in turn led to the creation of the National Literacy Coalition , a forum for the cooperation of nonprofit and government agencies concerned with literacy . And this , in turn , led to the creation of the national literacy hotline , a referral service for those seeking to become involved as learners or tutors . A major breakthrough occurred in December 1985 , when Capital Cities/ ABC and the Public Broadcasting Service announced that they were going to jointly undertake an 18-month public-service campaign on illiteracy . It was to be called " Project Literacy U.S. " ? PLUS . Barbara Bush gave the PLUS campaign her strong endorsement and support . The PLUS campaign emphasizes both community outreach and on-air awareness-raising programs . Every ABC and PBS station worked locally to help convene a community literacy coalition  --  a PLUS Task Force . The initial goal was to achieve 150 task forces . Today there are 383 . Only after this effort was well underway did the programing on illiteracy begin  --  major documentaries on both networks ; coverage by every element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serials and prime-time series ; a movie called Bluffing It ; coverage on the ABC Radio Network and National Public Radio ; local tie-in programing by ABC and PBS affiliates ; and continuing public-service announcements to link the major programing events . PLUS has been so effective that ABC and PBS have extended it . The program is in its third year , heading for its fourth . ? ? ? Like a true leader , Barbara Bush is quick to praise others . She attributes the emergence of a national literacy movement in the past few years mainly to the PLUS program . James E. Duffy turns that around . Duffy , the president of communications for Capital Cities/ABC and the leader of the PLUS movement for his company , comments : " When we and PBS were planning PLUS , one of the first people we wanted to see was Barbara Bush . Her warmth and encouragement and guidance were crucial in the design of PLUS and our commitment . Many times we have asked her to appear at PLUS events and for help in other ways . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my mind that PLUS is what it is and has lasted so long because Barbara Bush paved the way and has helped us so much . " In a sense , Duffy could be speaking for everyone in the literacy field . Barbara Bush is universally regarded as the most important national resource the literacy movement has . Although being the wife of the Republican Vice President is instrumental , her involvement is essentially nonpolitical . Leading Democratic political figures , such as Gov . Bill Clinton of Arkansas , do not hesitate to praise her contributions . Such effectiveness is the result of Barbara Bush the person  --  the totality of her commitment ; her warmth and depth of understanding ; her skill ; and above all , her sensitivity to the human dimension . One of Mrs. Bush 's many visits was to a Maryland state prison where inmates have been trained to tutor illiterate fellow inmates  --  up to 85 percent of many prison populations . She talks about that experience : " All the men in the class 1 visited  --  tutors and students both  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and how much it meant to them . I got a little tearful when a young black man  --  a student  --  got up in front of all of us and read a letter he had written to me , about how ashamed and angry he had been when he could n't read or write . . . and how limited his options were for living well . . . and how inevitable it seemed that he would land in jail . And then he said how much freer he felt now , as a literate person , than he had ever felt before , and how different his life would be from now on . " A prison visit is a good way to understand what it is like to be illiterate : many new learners compare being illiterate to being in prison . J. T. Pace compares it to slavery . Others say it is like being blind . All talk about feeling free for the first time in their lives . When Mrs. Bush visited classes sponsored by the Literacy Coalition in Nashville , Tennessee , she met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemned him to " common laboring jobs , " he told her , adding that the example of Helen Keller  --  overcoming both blindness and deafness by learning to read ? had inspired him to overcome his own " blindness . " So moved was Mrs. Bush that she telephoned Jim Duffy to tell him the story . Linwood Johnson became the PLUS " Learner of the Month " for May 1988 on ABC-TV . Barbara Bush 's five children , their spouses , and her ten grandchildren are reminders that family values promote literacy . " The problem very often begins at home , " she points out . " Parents with literacy problems are more likely to raise children who will have problems themselves . " For this reason , helping young children experience the joy of reading is as important to her as aiding adults . Since 1981 , Mrs. Bush has been an active board member of Reading Is Fundamental ( RIF ) , a 22-year-old nonprofit organization that has distributed more than 86 million books to children . With her twin granddaughters , Mrs. Bush visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hatching of the " Readasaurus " egg ; " Readasaurus " is an imaginary breed of dinosaur that has survived because it learned to read . Out of the egg popped twin puppets  --  Rex and Rita Readasaurus . Live on television , they invited children to send them adult-signed postcards listing three books read during the summer . By summer 's end , more than one million children had sent postcards to the twins at the National Zoo  --  more than 3 million books read ! Everything tends to come full circle . Barbara Bush had helped both PLUS and the National Literacy Coalition . Now these organizations joined together to plan a gala event , the " National Literacy Honors , " in Washington on November 15 , with every sector in the literacy movement invited to participate in honoring Barbara Bush as " the outstanding national leader in the literacy movement " and to pay tribute to 17 PLUS " Learners of the Month , " representing the people Mrs. Bush cares about the most  --  the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have courageously overcome their illiteracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as anyone that illiteracy is a long-term problem , not subject to quick fixes . But she also knows that literacy is good news , with tremendous positive potential for individuals , communities , and the nation alike . We may be sure of one thing : no matter what course her life may take , her commitment to literacy will continue . She sums it up well : " I honestly do n't know of a more important gift that anyone can give than the gift of literacy . " 