@@487906

Commerce Department documents recently obtained under the Freedom of Information Act reveal that more than 1,000 of America 's leading companies , including General Electric , Texas Instruments , Westinghouse and Du Pont , took part in the Arab boycott of Israel . . And when questioned in a random survey about compliance with the boycott , several companies lied about their participation . The American Can Corporation , Bendix International , , General Mills and the Scott Paper Company , among others , directly contradicted statements they had made in confidential " Exporter 's Reports " they were required by law to file with the Commerce Department see box on page 378 . The newly disclosed documents also reveal that from 1965 to 1977 , when official U.S. policy prohibited American companies from complying with the boycott , the government ignored its own policy , encouraged firms interested in doing business with Arab nations to observe the boycott and , in at least one instance , took part in the boycott itself . More than 1,400 U.S. companies complied with Arab boycott requests during the twelve years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact was the culmina-tion of three and a half years of legal effort . The project began in March 1977 , when one of the authors and the Public Citizen Litigation Group filed a Freedom of Information Act suit against the Commerce Department to obtain Exporter 's Reports filed by American firms that had been asked by Arab nations to cooperate in their tional legitimacy of segregation . Loftier criteria than whose ox is being gored should govern our reactions to the questions judicial nominees are asked and to their responses ( or evasions ) . One also wonders how the questioning will be conducted in future confirmation hearings if O'Connor 's no-comment policy is allowed to stand . For example , Robert Bork is reported to be a likely nominee to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia , and his former colleague at Yale , Ralph Winter , is a leading candidate for a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit . Both men have written on many issues of law and have bitterly criticized specific Supreme Court decisions as usurpations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including many " liberals , " Bork has criticized the Roe decision . During testimony before a Senate committee in opposition to a bill declaring fetuses to be persons and stripping Federal courts of most of their jurisdiction to hear abortion-related cases , he made it clear that he found Roe indefensible . Bork has also published a controversial ( and frightening ) article on the limits of the First Amendment , which included assessments of cases already decided . Similar problems are presented by Supreme Court nominees who are serving as judges on the lower Federal courts , where they routinely consider the meaning and implications of Supreme Court decisions . It is not unheard of for Federal judges to say in their opinions that they will defer to the Supreme Court 's decision in an earlier case even though they disagree with it . Judge Thomas Gee of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit , for example , denounced the Supreme Court 's ruling in Kaiser v. Weber , which upheld affirmative-action plans in private industry , but went on to say that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than enforce it . If he is nominated to the Supreme Court , which is not inconceivable , can one doubt his likely vote in future affirmative-action cases ? Of course it might be said that senators are politicians , not constitutional scholars . No doubt Senator John East was more interested in O'Connor 's views on abortion than on constitutional theory . If so , we must demand that senators take their constitutional duties more seriously and not give judicial nominees a blank check to believe whatever they like about the Constitution . If the Constitution is to continue to serve as the foundation of our political system , then it must be taken seriously by all actors in that system , from citizens to Supreme Court Justices . To leave constitutional interpretation to the Supreme Court is not only to engage in the most vulgar " realism " ? i.e. , the Constitution is ( only ) what the Court says it is  --  it is ultimately to give up the belief in a meaningful Constitution altogether . However distasteful Senator East 's political views , he was performing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not live up to her responsibilities as a potential member of our highest court . It is vital that her stonewalling not become binding precedent in future confirmation hearings . ? U.S. and Business ( Continued From Front Cover ) boycott of Israel . On October 20 , 1980 , then Commerce Secretary Philip Klutznick agreed to turn over ninety boxes - of documents covering eleven years of boycott requests ,  - -  from 1965 to 1976 . These documents revealed that more than 80 percent of the U.S. companies that had filed reports  --  more than 1,400 out of 1,600 ? had acquiesced to Arab demands by supplying information requested by the Central Office of the Boycott of Israel in Damascus , Syria . Sometimes this information consisted only of statements that the company did not engage in trade with Israel . But sometimes it included promises by American firms not to allow their Jewish employees to work on business deals involving Arab nations . It is , of course , important to note that there is nothing necessarily objectionable in economic boycotts of one country or community by another . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , support the idea of boycotting South African products and even of boycotting companies who trade with South Africa . In the case of the Arab boycott of Israel , however , American companies violated U.S. policy and secretly complied with Arab requests . They kept it secret because American firms knew it was wrong , which is very different from the public and moral posture of blacks boycotting segregated buses in 1957 , or feminists refusing to hold conferences in states that have rejected the Equal Rights Amendment . Finally , the Arab embargo of Israel can be distinguished from other boycotts by the way it discriminated not only against a country but against an entire religious group . Thus American Jews were sometimes penalized by their employers simply because they were Jews . The story begins in 1965 when the House Committee on Banking and Currency 's Subcommittee on International Trade held four days of hearings on the Arab boycott , which had begun in 1948 , three days after the creation of Israel . Originally it was limited to Arab countries , but it had expanded to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel . The hearings had been prompted by a pending amendment to the Export Control Act , but after listening to testimony from the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee and other Jewish groups , the subcommittee launched an inquiry into Arab influence on American business . The Johnson Administration , however , downplayed the Mark Green is the president of the Democracy Project , anew nonprofit " action institute , " and author of the forthcoming Winning Back America : Alternatives to Reaganism ( Bantam ) . Steven Solow is the project 's administrative assistant and a writer-researcher . Funding for this piece was provided by the Fund for Investigative Journalism . The authors wish to thank Jon Glascoe of The Nation Institute for his assistance . problem . Acting Secretary of State George Ball warned the committee that any move against the Arab boycott might undercut the U.S. embargo of Cuba . Robert E. Giles , general counsel for the Commerce Department , reported that there was no " strong business demand " for legislation limiting American corporate participation in the boycott . Because of possible " undesirable side effects " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation . Confronted by this opposition from the Administration , Congress ended the hearings with a classic waffle . The Arabs , the Israelis and the business community were informed that it was U.S. policy to " oppose restrictive trade practices or boycotts . . . against . . . countries friendly to the United States . " However , the committee added , companies would not be prohibited froin complying with the boycott  --  only " encouraged and requested " not to do so . According to Frank Weil , an assistant secretary in the Commerce Department during the Carter Administration , " From 1965 to 1977 , the issue of the U.S. antiboycott policy was handled by Commerce in an unequivocal fashion . There was a clear distinction between rhetoric and action that was deliberate . Thus the policy against the boycott had no effect . " For example , the Commerce Department required all American companies that received boycott requests to fill out Exporter 's Reports . These were supposedly designed to collect information on the extent of Arab boycott requests to American companies and the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was mandatory , answering all of the questions was not . The final question on each form asked the company what its response would be to a boycott request ; answering this was described as " helpful to the U.S. Government but . . . not mandatory . " . Thus , Congress had an antiboycott policy it would not enforce , and Commerce had an information form on which an answer to the crucial question was optional . Given this governmental confusion , the boycott flourished . In 1974 , The Wall Street Journal wrote , " Businessmen establish their own boycott rules which are much tighter than the official boycott . To be on the safe side , they lean far over to be friendly to the Arabs even if it means being overtly unfriendly to Israel . " According to The Journal , such unfriendliness often made it difficult for Israeli businesses to obtain foreign supplies and technology . When the Ambin Plastic Building Company in Tel Aviv sought to purchase carbon black from the Ashland Chemical Company in 1974 , they were informed in a letter from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either directly or indirectly represents too serious a risk to even consider and Ashland is opposed to . . . having any contact whatsoever with any Israeli Company . " Compliance with the boycott usually required only a statement by a U.S. company trading with an Arab country that none of the goods being sold had been produced in Israel . More than half of the Arab requests sought such a " negative statement of origin . " But some Arab nations imposed severer restrictions . Companies were asked if theyused ships that called at Israeli ports , for example , or if any of their employees were Jewish or had personal ties to Israel see box on page 379 . Compliance with these various requests for information , as revealed in the Commerce Department documents , was usually in the spirit of the Caterpillar Tractor Company , which said : " If somebody wanted to do business with us and wanted us to confirm a fact . . . we did it . " Caterpillar has a " Code of World Wide Business Conduct , " which reads , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above the minimum required by law . " Reflecting on this code and their conduct , a company spokesman said to us , " Well , there is always the argument that one ought to do something that is somehow morally demanded . " The general counsel to a large pharmaceutical company that had complied with the boycott told us , " My thinking in the 1960s , and probably that of a lot of businessmen , was that we were prepared to say anything to the Arabs to secure business . . . if they wanted something , you gave it to them . " And why not , since the Commerce Department apparently did n't mind ? Congress had entrusted Commerce with the job of keeping tabs on how widespread the boycott was , and documenting who did and did not observe it . As it turned out , Commerce encouraged cooperation . Until the end of 1975 , the department made available to U.S. companies information on Arab " trade opportunities , " which were conditional on conformance to the boycott . In March 1976 , ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a conference set up to provide American companies with suggestions of ways to evade the reporting requirements in the Export Administration Act . According to a 1976 House report , " Representatives of the Department of Commerce were present and provided at least tacit approval of some of the avoidance techniques discussed . " The subcommittee later reprinted a memorandum prepared by the Business International Corporation ( the sponsor of the conference ) which asserted that members of both the Commerce and State departments gave companies pointers on how they could avoid the reporting requirements of the Export Administration Act . Beyond complicity in the very practice it was assigned to monitor , the department 's " data reported quarterly and in special reports to Congress was generally meaningless and almost always inaccurate , " according to the subcommittee . The Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress analyzed the Exporter 's Report form in 1976 and concluded : " The design of the form used .. appears to reflect Department decisions to avoid all tabulations of data not strictly required under law . . . . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ check to see if exporters were filing reports as required , let alone performing accurate tabulations of the results " Nor did the reporting forms measure the full magnitude of the Arab states ' boycott of Israel until 1976 . From 1965 to 1976 , only exporters were required to file boycott reports ; banks , insurance companies and freight forwarders were exempted , although the language of the Export Administration Act explicitly called for all domestic concerns to submit reports . Numbers tell the story : from 1965 to 1975 , some 15,000 reports were filed by U.S. companies . But once Congress ordered the Commerce Department to require all firms to answer the questionnaires , more than 22,000 were filed in Just the first nine months of 1976 . Why was the Exporter 's Report form so ineffectual and its distribution so limited prior to 1976 ? One answer might be that the Commerce Department , often criticized as being the mouthpiece of big business , circulated the draft form of the report for comment only to the Machine and Allied Products Institute and the World Trade Department Automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office of Management and Budget that no nongovernmental group , other than these privileged two , had played any role in designing or reviewing the reporting form , or suggesting to whom it should be sent . Beyond Commerce 's pattern of acquiescence to business interests , one Federal agency actually took part in the boycott . Du Pont was somewhat startled when , in 1969 , the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Saudi Arabia included boycott stipulations in an order for film . Du Pont wrote in its Exporter 's Report : " We are surprised that the U.S. Government would participate in a restrictive trade practice . " Jack Mahon , a counsel for the Corps , told us , " The practice during our early stages of contracting , before the 1977 antiboycott law , was that if a requirement was requested by an Arab country we complied at that time . . . . It certainly was a dichotomy , though , between the stated U.S. policy on one side and what the Corps did on the other . . . . I am certainly not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose chairman , Irving Shapiro , spearheaded the successful drive for antiboycott legislation in 1977 , itself complied with a boycott request involving the sale of centrifuge equipment to Kuwait , according to a form the company filed in April 1976 . Such widespread compliance stemmed from the Commerce Department 's earlier fear of " undesirable side effects " from a strong antiboycott law . Yet that fear has . - proved to be unfounded , both here and abroad . Sweden , West Germany and the Netherlands have experienced solid growth of Arab trade despite the strong antiboycott positions taken by their governments . While U.S. News &; World Report warned in a 1976 article of trade losses that would result from a tough antiboycott measure , trade with Arab states has actually increased . " I do n't think that the law hurt American companies , " said Representative Benjamin Rosenthal , Democrat of New York , a major supporter of the act . " We had the president of Mobil come down to Congress and say the world would come to an end if the antiboycott laws passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've learned in life is that everyone has a price ? even the Saudis . " Yet for twelve years the U.S. government was bought cheap . The Commerce Department caved in to threats by Arab states and encouraged U.S. firms to comply with the boycott . According to Frank Weil , " If Commerce , even without the force of law , had pursued the policy , we may not have even needed the 1977 law . " ?                     