@@337053

A tube led from the exhaust pipe to the front seat of the silver Toyota where an Oxford neighbor last week discovered the body of a distinguished English clergyman , Canon Gareth Bennett . The suicide of the university don and historian ordinarily might have been a sad but briefly noted counterpoint to the Christmas season . Instead , the tragedy was catapulted into prominence by the fact that only four days earlier Bennett had become embroiled in a stupendous furor in the Church of England . The uproar , it seems clear , drove him to his death . <P> The unlikely cause of all the consternation was the new edition of the venerable Crockford 's Clerical Directory , a biennial reference book of statistics and short clergy biographies . But the reason the volume is avidly awaited is its authoritative essay on the state of the church . By tradition , the writer is anonymous , allowing him to cast aside habitual ecclesiastic politesse and speak with complete candor . <P> The latest author did just that , launching an unprecedented attack on the Archbishop of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All England and spiritual leader of the world 's 65 million-member Anglican Communion ( including U.S. Episcopalians ) . The Archbishop , a decorated tank commander in World War II who earned the name " Killer Runcie , " was characterized in Crockford 's as a spineless churchman who evinces no " clear basis for his policies other than taking the line of least resistance on each issue . " <P> For good measure , the essay branded Runcie an " elitist liberal " who uses his influence to pack the hierarchy and bureaucracy with cronies and woolly- minded leftists . Increasingly , charged Crockford 's , the Church of England is run by theologically vapid leaders who follow " what they think is the wish of the majority of the moment " and whose " moderately Catholic style . . . is not taken to the point of having firm principles . " Meanwhile , declared the 16-page piece , few appointments go to biblical conservatives in the Evangelical faction or to liturgical and doctrinal traditionalists in the Anglo-Catholic wing , even though the two groups constitute a substantial portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press trumpeted the Crockford 's affair , Runcie offered no response to the attack . Senior ecclesiastics instantly rushed to the primate 's defense , observing that he had been anything but weak in criticizing Margaret Thatcher 's treatment of the poor . The essay was excoriated as an exercise of " anonymous , gutless malice " by one furious bishop . " Scurrilous , " snapped the realm 's No. 2 churchman , Archbishop of York John Habgood . York had his own reason to complain : he and Runcie were yoked in condemnation by Crockford 's . In fact , the essay was seen as a bid to derail the liberal Habgood , 60 , as a successor to Runcie , 66 , who many expect will vacate the see of Canterbury after presiding over a meeting of the world 's Anglican bishops next summer . The essay was viewed as a conservative vote of no confidence to press Runcie into stepping down .                     