@@432405

 | Raymond Bullard was four months old when he went to live with John and Marilyn McLaughlin in 1983 . Though they are white , the Philadelphia couple seemed able foster parents for the black infant . They lived in an integrated neighborhood , attended a black Baptist church and had raised five children of their own . Over the next two years , the McLaughlins came to love Raymond deeply , and he called them " Mommy " and " Daddy . " But in 1985 Raymond was abruptly taken away and transferred to a black foster home . The McLaughlins have fought ever since to win him back , and last month a federal judge granted their wish , ruling that race could not be the sole criterion for determining foster placements . The ruling was a victory not only for the McLaughlins but for other white families who have sought to open their homes to children in need , only to be frustrated by the nation 's labyrinthine system of foster and adoptive placements . Some white couples say they have tried to adopt minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others have had to relinquish minority foster children because minority homes were found . No comprehensive statistics are kept on such placements by race . But policies discouraging interracial placements are now commonplace ? and critics charge that they are depriving minority kids of available care . " It 's ludicrous . Black kids wait twice as long as white kids to be placed , " says Jeffrey Rosenberg of the National Committee for Adoption . Gordon Evans of the National Foster Parent Association agrees : " It 's the bureaucracy that keeps waiting families apart from waiting children . " Twenty years ago , placement agencies actively encouraged white families to seek minority children . But in 1972 the National Association of Black Social Workers denounced such practices as cultural genocide , arguing that white parents could not properly equip black children to live in a racist world . Placement agencies nationwide have since adopted that stance ; formally or informally , many government agencies now direct them to search for racially matched homes . Helping a child develop a racial identity " is not something that can be listed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toni Oliver . " You ca n't pass on what you do n't have . " Recruitment efforts : No one disputes that racial and ethnic matches are desirable in placing children . But critics say there simply are n't enough minority families to meet the demand . Vigorous private campaigns in recent years have recruited thousands more adoptive minority families . But blacks still make up only 12 percent of the population , while some 40 percent of the 50,000 to 100,000 children seeking adoption are black . The result , critics say , is that many adoptable children are not being placed , and are left to languish longer in the already overburdened foster system . Pam and Jim Meacham have seen such policies from both sides . The white Houston couple has cared for 45 foster children of various races . " We kept one black child for a year while they hunted for a black family , " Pam says . When the Meachams tried to adopt a severely handicapped black infant , the local agency would n't even take their application for more than a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 's clear . But we wo n't wait forever , " says Judy Hay of the Harris County ( Texas ) Children 's Protective Services , which eventually did give the Meachams custody of the boy . Some advocacy groups insist that there are enough black homes for black kids , but that prospective minority parents encounter even greater biases in the placement system . All too often , says Robert Woodson of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise , caseworkers still set minimum income levels , insist on extra bedrooms or dismiss single black professionals out of hand . " How is it that Mia Farrow can adopt five children when she has had a child out of wedlock ? " he asks . " A black woman would have been laughed out of the agency . " Rosenberg counters that placement agencies have " almost gone over the deep end " to liberalize standards for minorities . One 1986 study found , for example , that half of minority adoptive parents have incomes below $20,000 a year , compared with only 14 percent of white adoptive parents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judges have almost always ruled that race can not be the sole deciding factor . " The states can get away with this only if no one calls them on it , " says Carol Coccia of the National Coalition to End Racism in America 's Child Care System . But even then , the day-to-day placement decisions are carried out by individual caseworkers , many of whom adhere fiercely to the same-race philosophies . Some caseworkers say that in reality , few white couples want the kind of troubled black teens who are most often available for adoption , and that those teens generally do n't want white parents either . Many agencies are willing to place minority children in white foster homes for designated short stints . And all foster parents are warned not to become too attached to their temporary wards . But temporary stays are often extended , and psychological bonds are inevitably formed . That was the case in Philadelphia . Marilyn McLaughlin reported that when she first told Raymond he would be moving , he said , " No , Mommy , no ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered a severe depression , three psychiatrists found . Experts debated whether that was worse than not growing up within his own racial environment , and Judge John Hannum concluded that it was . Still , Raymond 's ordeal is not over . His black foster family plans to appeal , on the ground that Raymond , now five , will suffer still more harm if he is moved again .                     