@@486994

The Freudians of the first and second generation were primarily cosmopolitan intellectuals , not narrow medical therapists . Compared with recent American analysts , they represent another species . To Freud and Sandor Ferenczi and Ernest Jones , clinical practice did not exhaust psychoanalysis . Actively engaged with cultural and social issues , they spun audacious theories . The soundness of these theories  --  from Freud 's Totem and Taboo to Ferenczi 's Thalassa  --  is not the point ; the theories testified to the reach and vitality of psychoanalysis in its classical period . The early analysts envisioned their science not only as a trade but as a cultural and , sometimes , political force . Today it is easy to forget how many early psychoanalysts identified themselves as socialists and Marxists : Paul Federn , Helene Deutsch , Siegfried Bernfeld , Herman Nunberg , Annie and Wilhelm Reich , Edith Jacobson , Willi Hoffer , Martin Grotjahn , Karl Landauer , Bruno Bettelheim , Ernst Simmel , Otto Fenichel . Before the onset of fascism , these analysts  --  and these do not include non-analysts involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not isolated individuals . In Vienna and Berlin in the politically charged atmosphere of the late 1920s and early 1930s , their lives and projects frequently overlapped . The number of these political Freudians was sizable and their individual . , ontributions important . Most significant , however , was their collective devotion to social theorizing that kept alive the breadth of classical psychoRussell Jacoby , currently living in Vancouver , is the author of Social Amnesia : A Critique of Conformist Psychology from Adler to Laing ( Beacon ) and Dialectic of Defeat : Contours of Western Marxism ( Cambridge University Press ) . This essay is taken , with permission , from his book The Repression of Psychoanalysis : Otto Fenichel and the Political Freudians , which will be published by Basic Books in November . analysis ; they were an index of the health of psychoanalysis . The political Freudians dissipated as classical psychoanalysis declined . When American psychoanalysis embraced a neutral clinical theorizing , it simultaneously became inhospitable to cultural and political psychoanalysis . The political Freudians , once common , became an extinct breed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freudians and the repression of psychoanalysis itself is the same story . To recount this double tale of repression runs against the grain of contemporary psychoanalysis and , at the least , risks falling on deaf ears . The victory of the psychoanalytic establishment over its own dissenters  --  and ultimately over itself  --  harbors a self-perpetuating dynamic that is difficult to slow down or redirect . The political Freudians unsuccessfully resisted the intellectual division of labor that slices into modern cultural life . Psychoanalysis became what these analysts fought against : a medical specialty that relegated society to the sociologists , economics to the economists and philosophy to the philosophers . Today few are less receptive to the political and cultural contours of psychoanalysis than professional analysts . This undermines in advance any attempts to reset the historical record . Even the appropriate vocabulary ? " left-wing Freudians , " " Marxist psychoanalysts , " " political psychoanalysts , " " humanism " itself  --  sticks in the throat of contemporary psychoanalysis . These words today seem odd and foreign . Foreign is the opposite of familiar . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychoanalysis . Freud wrote a sparkling essay on the power of the uncanny , in which he said that the " uncanny is in reality nothing new or foreign , but something familiar and old-established in the mind that has been estranged only by the process of repression . " Together with another statement by Freud , a clue to the fate of the political analytic tradition may be in reach : " The doctrine of repression is the foundation-stone on which the whole structure of psychoanalysis rests . " Freud did not intend a ( Freudian ) double-entendre , but it isarguable that the structure of psychoanalysis is founded on repression  --  the repression of its own past . The history of the political Freudians has been blocked ; occasionally it troubles the sleep of psychoanalysis . Psychoanalysts guard the past of their discipline . Far beyond the boundaries of ethics and decency , they have closed archives for decades , even centuries . Some material in the Sigmund Freud Collection of the Library of Congress , which includes the papers of many analysts , is closed until the twenty-second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical chronicle , biography or obituary , the socialist past of an analyst is not mentioned . Fenichel 's more political writings were carefully omitted from his Collected Papers , assembled after his death . Just as an individual may pay for an obsession with a loss of vitality , for psychoanalysis as a whole , the obsessive flight from its past drains its theoretical life . While the plans , the hopes and sometimes the writings of the political Freudians have been washed away , it must not be supposed that they passively suffered history : the repression of psychoanalysis is also its self-repression . The political Freudians often facilitated and intensified the repression ; this is why it is so difficult to reassemble , or even find , the pieces of the story . The best sources  --  the political Freudians themselves  --  turned silent . The catastrophe of fascism and exile compelled or at least encouraged them to bury their own histories . In the United States , a hostility to Marxism intimidated the immigrants ; it forced radicals , especially radical refugees , to clean out their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession , translated into a dry scientific idiom , practiced by conventional and pragmatic doctors , psychoanalysis developed very differently in Chicago and Topeka in the 1940s and 1950s from the way it had in Vienna and Berlin in the 1920s . " I had moved from the psychoanalytic coffeehouses of Europe , " wrote Martin Grotjahn , as he reflected on his trek from Berlin to Topeka , " to the big American institutes of psychoanalysis . . . . This difference caused fateful confusions . " Inside these institutes , psychoanalysis fattened into a quiet trade ; the intellectual fervor , reforming zeal and theoretical boldness of classical psychoanalysis were history . The forces that guided the Americanization of psychoanalysis can be roughly identified : professionalization and medicalization ; the insecurity of refugee analysts ; the gap between American and European culture ; and  --  as cause and effect  --  the emergence of the neo-Freudians . Together these forces defined a phenomenon as critical to psychoanalysis as to any body of thought  --  its transmission across generations . A cultural tradition that earns or retains a public vitality requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in libraries or private book collections ; texts can come alive for single/individuals . However , to cross the line from scholarly or marginal discourse to a public and cultural presence , teachers and students must breathe life into texts . The pivotal teaching situation extends further than formal courses , classes and institutions ; it relies on ineffable human moments  --  the contact of the enthusiasms , desires and fears of teachers with the emotions of students Since the transmission of culture is a fragile affair , a thousand realities can nurture or injure it Basic scientific knowledge can not be lost ; and even if temporarily blocked , it can eventually be recovered from texts . Other elements of culture  --  art , philosophy and so forth  --  depend more heavily on emotional coloring and human contact If a certain urgency is not communicated by teachers or does not resonate in students , these cultural impulses dissipate . Although these impulses are captured in texts and paintings , these records become mere documents of past eras if they are not replenished by new generations of followers . Americanization reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to generation ; precisely because the zone of transmission is so delicate , a few small changes can radically alter its shape . For instance , European intellectuals and American doctors might teach , as well as perceive , the identical texts of Freud in very different fashions Within a single generation some features of psychoanalytic culture may slip away , while others receive endless attention . The vigor of psychoanalysis thus ultimately depends on how it is taught and understood . The professionalization of psychoanalysis can not be detached from thegeneral professionalization of American life over the last century . In the 1870s and 1880s some 200 professional associations  --  from the American Forestry Association to the American Mathematical Society  --  were founded . The formation of professional groups did not signify simply an increase in specialized knowledge ; it also represented the controlling , segmenting and monopolizing of skills . As Burton J. Bledstein states in his Culture of Pro-fessionalism : By professionalizing a sphere of American life such as poverty , criminality or disease , Mid-victorians planned both to isolate and control the phenomenon . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mid-victorian professional to set apart , regulate and contain . New professional groups regularly demanded the sole accrediting rights for their specialty : dental associations wanted the exclusive right to accredit dentists ; legal associations wanted to accredit lawyers ; and so on . They justified this demand by its public and private benefits . They aimed to protect the community from incompetent practitioners ; they also wanted to secure and expand their trade by regulating the market . This entailed establishing rites and rituals to limit the flow into the profession as well as to fend off internal threats . As these organizations prospered , they dampened and channeled internal dissent . The economic incentives for professionalization , especially in recent decades , must be acknowledged . Very simply , the independent producer lacks the capital and resources to survive in a mass economy . For the same reason that mom and pop grocery and hard - ware stores succumb to national chains , independent intellectuals and specialists are rendered obsolete by major institutions ; they either affiliate with universities or national organizations or they find themselves out of business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confers identity and legitimacy . Psychoanalysis in America has generally conformed to the pattern of professionalization . A sudden increase in interest , students and analysts in the 1930s and 1940s led to the founding of new institutes , a reorganization of the national association and efforts to gain sole accrediting rights . As Fenichel noted , the conviviality of the early years and the direct emotional ties to Freud were for . eign to the new generation of New York and Chicago analysts . A single form dominated the professionalization of psychoanalysis : medicalization , or the exclusion of nonmedical ( lay ) analysts . Almost from its beginnings in the United States , Americans sought to confine psychoanalvris to medical doctors . Few issues provoked Freud more passionately than lay analysis : he relentlessly defended it . His reasoning was simple and prescient : monopolization by medical doctors would degrade psychoanalysis into a specialty . Freud wanted psychoanalysis to contribute to general knowledge and culture ; he objected to medical doctors restricting it to therapy . For Freud , this was not a tangential concern ; the future of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Against the widespread sentiment of analysts , Freud insisted that its medical use was only a traction of psychoanalysis : The use of analysis for the treatment of neuroses is only one of its applications ; the future will perhaps show that it is not the most important one . . . . it would be wrong to sacrifice all the other applications to this single one , Just because it touches on the circle of medical interests . Freud never doubted the danger from doctors . Almost his first words to the American analyst Clarence P. Oberndorf after seven years of not seeing him were , " And tell me , what do you really have against lay analysis ? " The , history of psychoanalysis is often interpreted as the history of subservience to Freud . Yet on the issue of lay analysis , especially in the United States , the medical doctors defeated Freud . Frequently , the more orthodox the analysts , the more they fought against Freud . Freud did not mince words ; the elimination of lay analysis , he said , would jeopardize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American resolutions against lay analysis " an attempt at repression . " The doctors of repression repressed their science Several motives induced American analysts to exclude nonmedical practitioners . They believed psychoanalysts required medical expertise in order to distinguish between somatic and psychological disorders . The lack of prestige besetting psychoanalysis in its earlier years grieved them . By limiting analysis to medical doctors they insured its respectability . Nor can more cynical motives be discounted : excluding lay practitioners guaranteed doctors a larger and more lucrative trade . Walter C. Langer , a lay analyst trained in Vienna , reflected bitterly on the American hostility to lay analysts : When 1 think of lay analysts like Anrfa Freud , Ernst Kris , Robert Waelder , 1 Erik Erikson , to name only a few , I wonder what more they can expect . Confidentially , I sort of had the feeling that the early medical analysts who were instrumental in formulating the policies of our American institutes considered it a most effective way of closing the door to competition . . I can not help but think back on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society made when I approached him for affidavits for refugee analysts fleeing Vienna for the United States . " What in the ' world would we do with all these additional analysts ? " The exclusion of lay analysts not only confined analytic practice to medical doctors ; it also delivered psychoanalysis to the medical establishment . Taught by doctors to interns , psychoanalysis became part of the medical curriculum . Moreover , American medical students , unlike their European counterparts , generally receive a feeble humanist education ; even before they are medical students , they often enroll in narrow premedical programs geared to winning a slot in medical school . Medical education does not correct but intensifies this imbalance . By the time doctors specialize in psychiatry , only the medical surface of psychoanalysis has any relevance or meaning to them . A more serious problem than the medical content of psychoanalytic education is the fact that medicalization acts as a human filter ; it preselects the pool of potential psychoanalysts . Insofar as the competition to enter medical schools is keen and the financial awards often large , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Few individuals with humanist or political designs enter the profession , and obviously few are available to train to be analysts . When the first and second generation of Europeans studied psychoanalysis , they were not guaranteed a secure trade ; rather they chose a risky new field because of their devotion to its cultural , social or personal implications . Many refugee analysts were embarassed by the large fees they could , and were expected to , command in the United States . This screening of psychoanalytic candidates may be the gravest consequence of medicalization , since the individuals who enter a discipline predetermine its evolution . If these individuals are largely pragmatic and conservative doctors , they will impart those values to their profession , effectively insulating psychoanalysis from wider cultural currents . Moreover , the process tends to be self-perpetuating . Conventional doctors cast the science in their own image ; this image becomes the reality that attracts new recruits who are in tune with a technical and prosperous trade . American psychoanalyst Joel Kovel describes his analytic training , recalling the younger analysts fawning on the illuminati @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code words : " intrasystemic , " " aggressivized energy , " " deneutralization " . . . . The main issues were complexity and a sterile field . Analysts should do nothing else but analysis , and analysis was nothing but a fantastically subtle and complex technical pursuit that related to nothing else in the world and was incomprehensible to the uninitiated , i e the whole population except for a thousand or so properly certified professionals . Thus was the outside kept out and the inside in . The medical filter not only sifted out mavericks , dissenters , intellectuals , humanists and other " irregular " individuals ; it also proved extremely effective in eliminating women . Historically , medicine in the United States has been almost exclusively a male preserve . Until recently , the proportion of female physicians to male physicians in the United States was one of the lowest in the world  --  about 7 percent in the 1960s , a figure far below the average in Europe ( except in Spain ) . Obviously very few women doctors were even available to enter psychoanalytic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychoanalysis . It is almost possible to speak of the " de-feminization " of analysis . Not only were women a sizable presence in European analysis , from Lou AndreasSalom6 to Sabina Spielrein , Melanie Klein , Edith Jacobson and Helene Deutsch , but the women it attracted were exceptional . As a new field dealing with sexuality , psychoanalysis drew women who were bucking the tide . It does not seem fortuitous that Fenichel 's circle of political analysts consisted  --  with a single exception  --  of women . A more reliable index may be Fenichel 's so-called Children 's Seminar , his Berlin discussion group , which was frequented by the more independent psychoanalytic candidates . According to his roster , of the forty-six analysts who participated , almost half were women . Next to the quiet , if effective , process of medicalization , the impact of immigration was noisy and catastrophae : The European analysts born around 1900 fled their homelands in the middle of their lives and careers . The power of psychoanalytic organizations to regulate dissent  --  and filter out dissenters  --  paled in comparison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry . Nor did doors swing open to central European , predominantly Jewish , exiles . Professing unpopular political opinions did not help matters . It was news to no ' one that the United States did not look kindly upon socialists and Marxists . The refugees knew the risks . One relative of Fenichel 's , arrested by the Gestapo , admitted to membership in the Communist Party and was killed . Fenichel learned the lesson of valuing life over honesty . In one way or another , all the exiles came to this conclusion . As they filled out their applications for entry permits and visas , their politics evaporated ; and what they left off the forms , they dumped in the Atlantic as they crossed it . When they arrived in the New World , their past belonged to the past . The history of the psychoanalytic exiles is a short course in American immigration . " The intellectual immigrants of the thirties . . . became Americanized at a much faster pace than any previous group of immigrants , " wrote Laura Fermi . Highly educated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their precarious legal status by publicly , or even privately , recalling their European political commitments . Within a very few years , their children , students , friends and new wives and husbands often had only the vaguest inklings of their European experiences . The fears of the immigrants were not ill founded . Fenichel himself earned an F.B.I . file . One good citizen reported to the F.B.I . that " due to the fact that each and every German is now apparently under suspicion , I feel that I should give you the information . . . " He volunteered the damning information that Fenichel seemed very anxious about receiving his mail ; even worse , the mail was in German . A more professional account was submitted by an F.B.I . " special agent " in Los Angeles ,                     