@@330155

Critics scoffed when computers were first enlisted to help restore Michelangelo 's magnificent frescoes in the Sistine Chapel . What could an electronic filing system in some Vatican basement contribute to the painstaking , labor-intensive task of liberating one of the world 's largest and most famous paintings from nearly 500 years of accumulated grime and murky glue ? But the computer  --  an Apollo workstation programmed to map every curve and crack down to the last millimeter  --  proved so indispensable that it was installed 20 meters ( 65 ft. ) above the ground , on the main scaffold , where it put a wealth of data about the frescoes at the master restorer 's fingertips . Today man and machine labor side by side , only an arm 's length from Michelangelo 's original brushstrokes . <P> The Sistine Chapel project was a breakthrough that made believers of the skeptics . Even the Vatican 's chief restorer , Gianluigi Colalucci , concedes that future computers will recall in an instant visual information that used to require years of research , including , he adds with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But more important , the restoration marked the beginning of the Italian art establishment 's love affair with technology . Nowadays , computers linked up to gamma-ray detectors , infrared cameras and thermographic sensors are turning up in art-restoration projects all across Italy , from the vast ruins of Pompeii to the crowded workshops of Venice . In tasks ranging from simple cataloging to advanced image processing , the new technology not only is making restoration more manageable but also is helping solve some of the oldest mysteries of art history . <P> In the past , technological advances in art have moved from the new world to the old , as when computer techniques developed by NASA to enhance satellite photos were adapted for use on the works of the old masters . That flow has , to some extent , been reversed . With a major portion of the world 's ancient art treasures located inside its borders , Italy has become the capital of high- tech restoration . Experts from such citadels of art as the Louvre , the Getty Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done in Rome , not to mention Venice , Milan and Florence . <P> The technology that most fascinates visitors is a method for peering below the surface of a finished artwork and analyzing the various layers of paint it contains . The technique , computerized infrared reflectoscopy , is based on the fact that some pigments that reflect light in the visible range ( like cadmium red ) are more or less transparent to infrared light . By looking through these layers , art historians can catch glimpses of the artist 's original handiwork : rough sketches , repaintings and the occasional erasure . Other techniques , notably X-ray analysis , had been used in the past . The major advantage of using a computer with a video display screen is that the artwork can be superimposed over the infrared image , making the slightest differences easily visible .                     