@@432481

 | For the past 50 years , neurologists have looked almost everywhere for the source of the severe pain that afflicts headache sufferers . Everywhere , that is , except for the most obvious place of all : The brain . Now , as a result of sensitive new tools for detecting electrical activity in the brain and advances in analyzing its chemistry , medical science has come full circle . " The primary process of headache , the real illness , resides in disturbances of brain cells , " says Dr. Joel Saper , a neurologist and director of the Michigan Head Pain and Neurological Institute in Ann Arbor . In redefining their traditional diagnoses of this sometimes debilitating ailment , neurologists have come to suspect that most headaches share some underlying mechanisms . Eventually , an understanding of those mechanisms will allow researchers to develop new and more effective treatments for all types of headache , from the agonizing migraine to the pesky tension headache that appears at the end of a trying day . If there is any doubt that headaches cause suffering , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other over-the-counter painkillers . About 45 million Americans experience chronic headaches . Sufferers make more than 50 million visits a year to doctors , children miss more than a million days of school and businesses lose 150 million workdays a year , all because of headache . A " real " disease . In spite of its obvious costs , headache has long been ignored both by neurologists and by the nation 's medical-research budget . " Headache gets treated as a psychiatric disorder , and it gets maligned along with all psychiatric disease , " says Dr. Richard Lipton , a neurologist and co-director of the headache unit at the Montefiore Medical Center in New York City . Only in about 1 to 2 percent of cases does a severe headache indicate a life-threatening disease , such as a brain tumor or stroke , which is part of the reason the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke will spend an estimated $1.4 million on headache research this year , compared , for example , with $250 million that will be spent on research into diabetes , a disease that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of research funds , understanding headache has been hampered by the impossibility of measuring one objectively . Until recently , even the most sophisticated imaging devices , like CAT scans , showed nothing to indicate an organic cause for the disorder , and anatomically , nothing distinguishes a headache sufferer 's skull or brain . But the biggest hurdle , according to Lipton , " is the lack of a laboratory model . " Animals ca n't be used to study the disorder because there is no way to know if they get headaches . Without objective measures to probe the underlying cause , neurologists have tried to understand headache by analyzing its symptoms . This approach led them to believe that there were at least three very distinct types of headaches , each presumably with a different cause . Cluster headaches , the rarest and least understood of the three , are the most devastating . They affect men for the most part , striking with such excruciating severity they can drive the sufferer to violent acts , smashing walls and furniture , or even to suicide . Migraines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more women than men . In " classical " migraine , which affects about 15 percent of migraine sufferers , or migraineurs , the headache is heralded by an aura , a distortion of vision that can be hallucinatory in nature . In both classical and common migraine , the throbbing pain generally attacks only one side of the head ; victims often feel nauseated and vomit , and they may be exquisitely sensitive t light and sound . The least dreadful of the three , tension headache , is in some ways the most problematic . " Tension headache has always been a wastebasket , " says Saper . " If it was n't migraine and it was n't cluster headache , it must be tension . " The pain of this headache is usually more dull than sharp , and it often encircles the head like a cruel hatband . Tense muscles in the scalp and neck are generally blamed for the pain , and most of us get a tension headache at least once in a while . But not all headaches , neurologists are discovering , fit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , 30 percent of patients with socalled tension headaches suffer from the nausea ordinarily associated with migraines , and 35 percent recoil from light . " This whole thing called tension headache has been migraine in disguise , " says Saper . Some migraineurs experience nausea and a visual aura without any  | pain in their heads ; other people endure constant tension headaches punctuated by periodic migraines . This reclassification is more than just semantics . There are reasons to believe headaches have a " generic mechanism , " says Dr. Neil Raskin , a neurologist at the University of California at San Francisco . Many drugs that are effective in chronic tension headache can also relieve migraine , and ' vice versa , leading Raskin and other experts to suspect that the overlap in both symptoms and treatment reflects a common process underlying what were previously labeled different types of disease . Conventional wisdom . Stress has long been considered the principal cause of all headache . In migraine , according to conventional wisdom , stress acts on the arteries that envelop the brain , just inside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oxygen reaching the brain and producing the aura of classical migraine . Then , for unknown reasons , the blood vessels suddenly expand , and it is this expansion that irritates nerves surrounding the arteries and causes the headache . ( The brain itself does n't feel pain . ) Stress can indeed trigger a headache , but ballooning blood vessels can not possibly account for the welter of symptoms . " If it were true , " Raskin says , " we would get a headache after running around the block , " an activity that also makes blood vessels expand . Most neurologists think that blood vessels are victims of a headache , not the perpetrators , and that the pain originates deep within the brain . Migraine probably begins with a neurological event , a wave of electrical activity that spreads over the surface of the brain . Researchers first observed this event , called a spreading depression , in experimental animals . When they irritated the animal 's brain with a chemical or a probe , surges of electrical impulses , followed by zones of depressed electrical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like ripples on a pond . As it happens , the rate at which a spreading depression moves , about 3 millimeters per minute , matches the spread of the visual aura before a migraineur 's eyes . It is this coincidence that has drawn neurologists to search repeatedly for spreading depressions in people . The first convincing evidence that it exists came last year , from the laboratory of Dr. K. M. A. Welch , a neurologist at  | Detroit 's Henry Ford Hospital . In the past , conventional measures of electrical activity in the human brain have not been sensitive enough to pick up the minute changes produced by spreading depression . But Welch uses an array of seven devices called Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices , or SQUIDS , arranged over a portion of the skull of a migraineur . Also used in particle-physics research , SQUIDS are acutely sensitive to tiny changes in a magnetic field , which are an indirect measure of electrical impulses . Welch found that migraineurs display electrical activity remarkably like that of spreading depression , both during and between their headaches . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get from this spreading depression to the pain . " One possible link is a complex nerve known as the trigeminal . This nerve , which has been mapped and studied by researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston , sends tendrils both to the face and to the blood vessels surrounding the brain . The nerve 's location may explain the connection between swollen blood vessels and the pain that occurs in the temple or behind the eye during migraine and cluster headaches . Chemical bonds . Brain chemicals may also help explain how brain activity is connected to pain . Many of these chemicals ? norepinephrine , serotonin , bradykinin and endorphins , for example ? sharpen or deaden pain , and they are all likely to be involved in headache to some degree . Serotonin appears to be the prime mover , though . A neurotransmitter , serotonin acts as a chemical messenger between neurons , the nerve cells that make up the brain . The particular neurons that are affected by this chemical originate in the brain stem , which is near the center of the brain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a broad range of bodily functions , including sleep cycles , smell , vision , pain , emotions , appetite and thinking . Together with norepinephrine , another chemical implicated in headache , serotonin also regulates the constriction and dilation of blood vessels . Outside the central nervous system , neurons that are sensitive to serotonin are found only in the walls of the stomach and gut . Research has shown that regions of the brain where serotonin is active are also the regions that play a role in headache . For example , many migraineurs report mood swings , feelings of euphoria or depression beforehand . Women migraineurs often have their headaches at the same time as menstruation , when hormones are fluctuating . Cluster headaches , too , appear in cycles , at a particular time of day , or in groups at a particular time of year , and they are probably regulated by the hypothalamus , another region of the brain sensitive to serotonin . Headache triggers include many foods and particularly alcohol ; too little sleep , or too much ; bright lights , strong smells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A study at Montefiore has recently produced good evidence that the artificial sweetener aspartame can trigger a headache . Even taking painkillers more than two or three days a week can induce " rebound " headache by interfering with the brain 's ability to regulate pain . Stress is supposedly the most common trigger of all , though oddly enough , the pain often appears after the pressure is gone . " People are conditioned to believe stress causes headaches , when in fact they do n't know what provokes them , " says Saper . More than anything else , he says , internal biological rhythms determine when a person gets a headache . " All of these things are part of the same package , " says Raskin . " If you want to understand headache , you have to account for its relationship to sleep , to the fact that in women it 's linked to menses , why nausea and vomiting are so prominent . But if you ask exactly how the circuits sensitive to serotonin do that , no one knows . " Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , originally used for their ability to act upon blood vessels or muscles , also happen to interfere with serotonin . What does all this mean to the headache sufferer ? Welch explains that in principle there are two ways to prevent headaches : Avoid the things that trigger them or decrease the body 's sensitivity to those triggers , whatever they may be . " Everybody is sensitive to triggers , " he says . " The trouble is , the threshold may vary from day to day , or month to month , so triggers are n't consistent . " That means that avoiding entirely the things that set off a headache may be difficult , given the range of possibilities . Neurologists hope that by experimenting with serotonin and other brain chemicals , eventually , they will make it more difficult to set the cycle of pain in motion . Researchers are far less sanguine about finding a permanent cure for headache ? just as they have not found a cure , as opposed to a treatment , for diabetes . " One of my greatest disappointments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very often , " says Lipton . But most headache sufferers can certainly look forward to relief from symptoms . Even without an all-encompassing theory , specialists can already help 90 percent of patients to some degree . Yet sadly , a new study indicates that 65 percent of people with severe headache never seek out a specialist .                     