@@432463

 | The Berlin wall is still there , and so is the fortified border running right down the middle of Germany . But suddenly they seem just relics of a distant past . People dance and prance on top of the wall ; and tens of thousands of East Germans , filing past the minefields and man traps , stream into West German border towns . They come for a stroll along West Berlin 's Kurfiirstendamm , shop in bewilderingly well-stocked department stores or try their first-ever Big Mac . Then they return home ? most of them , at any rate . We Germans have all hoped and prayed for something like this to happen , yet nobody expected it to happen so soon and so suddenly . In August 1961 Erich Honecker built the wall in order to prevent the colapse of his state ; only by sealing the borders could he stop the westward stampede of his citizens . Now , four weeks after Honecker 's downfall , his successor Egon Krenz pierces the wall in order to avert the breakdown of the GDR , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the borders can he hope to stop the outrush that has been bleeding East Germany white . Free elections : It is a desperate gamble , but it might just work . Provided , of course , that the new leadership opts for far-reaching reforms : political pluralism , a market-oriented economy and the rule of law . There is presumably still considerable hesitation in the Krenz team about the ultimate wisdom of such radical reforms ; the old guard would prefer to cling to the monopoly of power claimed by the communists as their natural birthright . Yet people will no longer put up with it . Pressure for free elections is building up even within the ruling party . Krenz has gone too far already to back down again . So the wall is tumbling , and the GermanGerman frontier is losing its terror . Does that mean that the reunification of divided Germany is just around the corner ? Frankly , I do n't think so . And what 's more important : not many people in either Germany think so . The reunification issue , as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On all the hundreds of banners and posters paraded by millions of demonstrating East Germans in the past few weeks , reunification did not figure once . Nor has the theme been taken up in the scores of opposition manifestoes . Some of them expressly write off the whole idea ? outlining instead a humane , viable socialism in a separate East Germany not alien to West Germany but different from it . In fact , there is room for speculation whether a purified socialism , undogmatic and democratic , might not at long last confer to the East German state two things it never had under Communist rule : legitimacy and identity . Nor was there any nationalistic outburst in West Germany . A groundswell of emotion , of joy , of deep satisfaction ? yes . But no eruption of chauvinism , no call for Anschluss , no impatient demands to move the German Question to the front burner of world politics . Dutiful , almost embarrassed references in the Bundestag to the constitutional goal of national unity , that was all . And almost every speaker hastened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from West Germany 's friends and allies and that unity could be attained only under a European roof . The Germans have become realists . They know that reunification , if it ever comes , will come at the end of a long process which has only just started . They recognize that unity might take many different shapes and forms , and that a loose confederation is a far more likely outcome than Bismarck 's empire . And they do not delude themselves that the GDR is likely to vanish from the face of the earth in the near future . At this juncture , the objective can not be the disappearance of the German Democratic Republic . It is the reform of East Germany 's paleo-Stalinism that must now be accorded priority . Bonn is prepared to spur or reward meaningful reforms by a generous aid plan . Nobody need be afraid that this might put the Federal Republic on the skids , that it would turn its back on the other East European countries trying to struggle out of oppression , or that it could undermine our loyalties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortcuts to a solution of the German Problem that would be tolerable to Germans and their neighbors alike . A new German-German relationship in a context of reduced EastWest tension must evolve in the larger framework of ending the cold war and making Europe whole and free again . Three historical processes will determine the future order : the progressive integration of Western Europe before and after 1992 ; the progressive emancipation of Eastern Europe from both Soviet domination and the shackles of Marxism-Leninism , and the progressive re-establishment of their former closeness between the two halves of Europe . The future shape of Europe must be clear before the future shape of Germany can be even divined . Under a common European roof , both will become thinkable : the German nation united in one free state or divided into two free states . The new order is barely visible yet , let alone Germany 's place in it . The physical division of Germany is now history , its territorial division is not . What ended last week is the separation of the people , not the partition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead is the reassociation of the German nation rather than the reunification of the two German states . The quicker freedom is fully established in East Germany , the easier that task can be mastered . The rest can be safely left to history .                     