@@432253

 | With time running out and the nation 's economy hanging in the balance , the White House and Congress strained in mid-July to reach a compromise on trimming the bloated federal deficit . President Reagan 's last big task before entering a hospital for the routine procedure that led to his major surgery was to join key lawmakers in shaping a solution they hoped would be enacted before Congress starts a month-long recess set for August 3 . Senate and House members ? as well as the President ? were under mounting pressure to get the job done quickly On Wall Street , there was growing concern that Congress 's inability to agree soon on a plan to stem rising deficits will send interest rates soaring , worsen the nation 's trade deficit and disrupt the economic recovery . Lawmakers up for re-election in 1986 were getting fresh signals from home that failure to apply restraints would not sit well with voters , who view the deficit as a serious personal threat . Budget Director David Stockman 's sudden resignation , effective August 1 , created new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details . Until the budget tangle is resolved , Reagan 's legislative agenda ? including tax reform ? will take a back seat on Capitol Hill . With his tax-reform drive already behind schedule , Reagan 's hope for getting a reform bill this year rests on rapidly reaching a pact on deficit cuts . Despite initial optimism that acceptance of the framework ? involving tough issues of defense , taxes and Social Security benefits ? would crack the weeks-old logjam , House and Senate budget conferees remained miles apart on proposed cuts in domestic spending . Deep doubts . " There is serious skepticism that this agreement will yield the kind of deficit reduction that the Senate will support , " said Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici ( R-N.M . ) . Without a budget plan , there were nagging doubts that Congress would be able to achieve the 56-billion-dollar deficit reduction both the House and Senate originally called for in separately passed budget proposals . A collapse of budget negotiations would open the floodgates for Congress to begin adopting spending measures piecemeal for the fiscal year that begins October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veto confrontations with the President . Whatever the odds for a budget  | breakthrough , they were heightened the week of July 8 when Reagan ? the Beirut hijack crisis finally behind himcalled in key congressional leaders in hopes of getting the stalled House and Senate negotiations off dead center . No new taxes ? While the vague outline that emerged from the sessions left many issues unsettled , it removed two major obstacles : A Senate plan to freeze the level of Social Security benefits for one year and a House proposal to slap a one-year freeze on military funding . It also apparently laid to rest any notion of fighting the deficit with new taxes this year . Reagan agreed to abandon the Social Security freeze ? a plan that haunted the President and Senate Republicans from the beginning . It would have saved 5.8 billion dollars in 1986 and 22 billion over the next three years . In exchange , House members decided to move toward the Senate 's higher defense-budget figure of 302.5 billion dollars in 1986 and look at deeper cuts in domestic spending other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that the whole deal could unravel if House Democrats balk at major additional cuts in domestic programs . Domenici estimated it would take nearly 28 billion dollars more in domestic cuts over three years to plug the gap . " That 's going to be hard as hell , " he said . So far , there are few signs of Democratic willingness to ante up . House Budget Committee Chairman William Gray ( D-Pa. ) indicated that Democrats are considering a plan to pare up to 6 billion from such programs as Urban Development Action Grants , the Economic Development Administration and federal revenue sharing . Election issue . Warned Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas : " If the Democrats drag their feet , it 's going to be a big issue in the 1986 elections . " Meanwhile , Senate Republicans found little to cheer about in the framework agreement . Some were angry with Reagan and House Republicans for abandoning the Social Security freeze ? a provision that cleared the Senate by a one-vote margin with the backing of 16 of the 22 GOP senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fanny to put something together and win by one vote , and then it 's torn asunder ? that 's disappointing , " said House Minority Leader Robert Michel ( R-I11 . ) . Dole indicated the Senate still may try to find savings in Social Security . He suggested that Congress could add new state and local-government workers to the system ? a move that would net additional revenue in coming years . Also on the table is a bipartisan plan by Senate budget conferees that would split the difference on defense spending , retain the Senate 's one-year Social Security freeze and raise taxes by 59 billion dollars over three years . Although Reagan has dismissed the plan , sponsored by Senators Lawton Chiles ( D-Fla. ) and Slade Gorton ( RWash. ) , congressional budget experts say features of the plan still may be adopted ? including the tax hike , if all else fails . Prodding Congress and the President toward a budget solution was the escalating uneasiness among bankers , economists and business leaders , many of whom are convinced it will take a deficit-reduction package @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down and maintain a growing economy . Unless Congress acts soon to turn the tide of red ink , some economists predict , the Federal Reserve Board will begin tightening the money supply and build pressure for higher interest rates . Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker has repeatedly warned that he will find it difficult to ease up on the money supply in the face of expanding deficits . Roger Brinner , an economist at Data Resources , Inc. , of Lexington , Mass. , predicts short-term interest rates will climb 2 percentage points by mid-1986 if Congress gets only half the 56-billion-dollar cut sought by both the House and Senate . That , say Brinner and others , would attract new foreign investors , strengthen the U.S. dollar and boost the nation 's trade deficit ? already climbing toward a record 140 billion dollars this year . " If Congress fails in its deficit-reduction efforts , the interest and trade-sensitive sectors of the economy will pay the price of recession , " says Brinner . Already , some 220,000 jobs have been lost so far this year in manufacturing industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the most critical economic problem facing our nation , " says Robert Beck , chief executive officer of the Prudential Insurance Company of America . " An impasse would be very disappointing . " Just as strong was the intensifying grass-roots pressure on lawmakers from voters concerned about the impact unfettered deficits would have on their own pocketbooks and the economic vitality of local communities . " It 's the most important issue , " said House Minority Leader Michel . " It 's what people are asking about back home . They know it has a bearing on interest rates , unemployment and everything else . " Poll results . A recent nationwide survey by Civic Service , Inc. , a Washington , D.C. , polling firm , found that more than 82 percent of Americans believe deficits threaten their " personal financial security . " Few members of Congress relish the thought of facing voters next year after having failed to get federal spending under control . For the administration , there were other incentives for settling the budget fight quickly . The fate of Reagan 's taxreform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle . For months , Reagan has been fending off attempts in Congress to make tax reform a vehicle to raise revenues and help lower the deficit . He wants to keep the two issues separate and has vowed to veto any bill that raises taxes . Already , waning fervor on Capitol Hill has made it unlikely that Congress will enact a tax-reform bill by year 's end . Additional delays in resolving the budget dispute would slow action on tax reform even further . Stockman 's resignation added new urgency to the administration 's hopes of fast action on a budget resolution . When he departs on August 1 to take a post with Salomon Brothers , a New York investment-banking firm , say congressional budget experts , the administration will lose a forceful , effective voice on economic issues . But if Congress and the President still have not ended the budget stalemate by then , according to some legislators , it may not matter . Says Senate Budget Chairman Domenici : " If we do n't have a budget by the August recess , it would n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   