@@480552

On the night before the Turks sacked Constantinople in 1453 , the Byzantine Emperor Constantine Palaeologus , accompanied by priests and a choir of the faithful , made a solemn embassy to the church of St. Theodosia to pray to the martyr whose relics were believed to contain the powers that subsequent generations have learned to attribute to the hydrogen bomb . Having assigned the defense of his kingdom to the bones of a saint , the emperor died the next morning with those few of his followers who took the trouble to meet the Turks on the city walls . Most of the emperor 's subjects chose to remain in one of the city 's churches , trusting to the miracles of religion rather than to the force of their own courage and arms . When the Turks broke through the doors of St. Sophia they found 10,000 people earnestly praying in a sanctuary sweet with the smell of incense and fear . Something of this same credulous spirit informs the current attitude toward anything and everything that partakes of the aura of " high tech . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief in the sovereign powers of various new technologies has taken so firm a hold of the public imagination that it has become the stuff of primitive religion . Let the school administrator announce that he has ordered computers for 800 illiterate sophomores , and lo , they have become educated . Let the stock salesman pronounce the holy words that rhyme with " onics " or " ethnics , " and lo , the investor has entered into paradise . The superstition shows up in the cultural as well as the commercial sectors of experience , endowing otherwise secular objects with sacred meanBy Lewis H. Lapham ings once attributed to nymphs and stars and trees . In the fullness of time the new technologies undoubtedly will advance the hope of reason and support the nobler aspirations of mankind . For the time being , however , the worship of the higher technology serves the cause of barbarism . The placing of the deity in the machine makes it that much easier to discount the value of the merely human . Maybe I have been keeping questionable company or reading the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid encounters with prophets of the new revelation . Last summer I had occasion to read Alvin Toffler 's most recent tract , Previews and Premises , and I remember being surprised by the inertness of its prose . Not having read Toffler 's best-selling spiels in Future Shock ( 1970 ) and The Third Wave ( 1980 ) , I had assumed that he had something to say . His text , like those of his several imitators , runs somewhat as follows : q Things change and time flies . q The velocity of change is great and the old order ( meaning big-time capitalism harnessed to the wheels of mass production ) soon will give way to the mystical entity known as the " de-massified economy , " in which infinitely diverse " cross-cultural communicators " will deal with one another through the medium of the computer . q Unless people appreciate the unutterable significance of this event , Western civilization will come to a bad end . Savage mobs , predominantly black but also representative of " the poor and unemployed , " will roam through well-lighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infrastructure . q Doom can be averted . Beyond the peril of anarchy lies the garden of technological Eden . Toffler conjures up the vision of kindly elves at work in far-off , modern California . Happy among avocados , the elves spin the golden threads of fiber optics and mine the jewels of microchips . Their fortunate assistants , no longer chained to the gundecks of industrial routine , do a different kind of work work that is fun and healthy and clean and creative and safe . Under the jurisdiction of a writer concerned with thought instead of incantation , the few and threadbare ideas promulgated in Previews and Premises could be set forth in ten pages generously illustrated with drawings of fairy tale beasts and castles . But Toffler is n't interested in thought . He wishes to present his customers with a mantra . To this end he constructs an unintelligible prose in which the words , almost all of them abstract , become magical objects . If the words could be understood , they would lose their value as moleskin . What passes for the logic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those South Sea islanders who improvised religions ( the so-called cargo cults ) with the fragments of industrial society ( motors , copper wire , aerosol cans , etc. ) they had seen in the hands of Europeans . Toffler does something like this with the scientific and pseudoscientific words that he discovers in the popular press . He knows that out there in the ocean of incomprehensible events something very important is going on , that somewhere beyond the horizon a more evolved race of men ( physicists , microbiologists , cybernetic ians ) sail to and fro in vessels of supernatural power and speed . Seeking to borrow their magic , Toffler assembles newspaper and magazine clippings , and from this collection of random sound he composes the chant that sells as a specific against despair . Reduced to its purest essence , Toffler 's book becomes a high-speed , aluminum Om , the words running together into a single syllable pronounced , very quickly but with a murmuring intonation , " m icroc hip unidi mensionalmodul aradhocraticde c is ionalenv i **33;3902;TOOLONG space-shut tleflextim ecogni tariatrobotics **29;3937;TOOLONG , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as little intrinsic interest as the teeth and bones found in the bottom of a shaman 's leather bag . But that , unhappily , is not the end of it . Toffler enjoys the patronage of governments , astonishes the ranks of managers gathered at business conventions , sells millions of books to the paperback trade . His success demonstrates the truth of Newton 's third law , which posits for every action an equal and opposite reaction . In an age of anxiety , the forces bearing forward into the unknown future sponsor countervailing forces beating backward into the familiar past . The more complex and civilized the advance , the more simple-minded and barbarous the retreat . No businessman these days dares to embark upon the journey of incorporation without first acquiring a computer so huge and so omniscient as to strike terror into the software of its enemies . The pornographers in Times Square set up massage parlors behind neon signs that promise " C.ompusex " or " Erotics Ltd . " The magazines glitter with advertisements for copying machines that seem better looking and a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrificial gifts of paper . On Broadway the successful musicals depend on brightly polished dance numbers remarkable for their inanity and for what Arlene Croce called their " pitiless energy . " The interest centers on the complexity of the lights and the speed of the set changes . The same can be said of the popular movies ( cf. Flashciance or The Right Stuff ) , as well as of the television serials in which the protagonist turns out to be an automobile , a robot , or a special effect . Hardly anybody knows how to develop human character or construct a plausible narrative . The human actors invariably make a mess of things , and were it not for the goodness of a machine . the poor saps never would win safely through to the IBM commercial . Probably it is in the hospitals and the building of weapons that the veneration of high tech results in the most obvious forms of dehumanization . Too often the medical technicians offer the first claim on their sympathies to the whims of their equipment . They bring patients to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought maiden girls to the sacrificial altars . The nuclear strategists concede that their weapons no longer have a practical military use . The doctrine of mutual assured destruction , which has governed American missile theory for twenty years , assumes that the weapons have become so frightful that nobody would send them against a strategic or tactical objective . Like the bones of St. Theodosia , the arsenal of deterrence stands as both symbol and ernbodiment of absolute power . What was human becomes divine . The Pentagon spends a great deal of its money buying high-tech weapons so delicate and fundamentally useless as to acquire the beauty of religious sculpture . So pervasive is the superstition that the failures of the new technologies excite little criticism among the faithful . Explaining the death of 241 Americans in Beirut last October , a writer on terrorism at the Rand Cora/ potation said that the military command had made the mistake of sending " just an off-the-shelf unit " to do the work properly left to a more specialized force component . As quoted in the newspapers , the gentleman might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sex shop or an electronics store . Only the impious make blasphemous remarks about the systems that do n't work , the computer systems utterly devoid of meaning . It is the technique that counts ? the seventy-four modes and the speed of transmission , the camera angle and the high gloss on the metal . The obsession with technique arouses the dream of power . Sensitive to the desperate wish for demigods among the consumers of ready-made myths , the producers of The Right Stuff supply an ode to power in its romantic and Promethean form ? as a pillar of fire on which it just might be possible to climb out of the well of death . It is a very noisy movie . Accompanied by loud explosions in stereophonic sound , rockets of various caliber rise ceremoniously from the earth in circles of flame . By the end of the movie the producers have managed to forge the persona of the American hero in - to an aluminum object impervious to re-entry speeds and the heat of the sun . Toffler achieves an analogous purpose with intimations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that soon they will belong to " the cognitariat , " that they will have tiny but important parts to play in the retooling of the world 's economic machinery , that they will discover " job enrichment " and he admitted , as shiny as new push buttons , into the sacred grove of " the decisional environment . " He does n't describe this new order very clearly ; if he made the mistake of writing in English , the great , good place somewhere south of San Jose might be confused with a communist work camp in the Siberian snow . Somehow the new order resembles the hierarchical society of the late Middle Ages . On the highest tiers of power the brain people ? the priests of the new technology ? will make all the necessary decisions . This they will do selflessly , of course , not because they covet the trivial privileges of office but because , by virtue of their education and intelligence , they belong to the company of the elect . Elsewhere in the society , arranged in descending levels of knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about their innocent and creative ways ? tossing salad , playing volleyball , singing folk songs ; they too will be happy , because they will have learned to leave the troubling exercise of power to the bones of a saint .                     