@@487001

" I won everything . They 've gotten a message from Congress , " bragged Senator Jesse Helms after House-Senate conferees tabled his amendment to bar financing of " obscene " or " indecent " art . Even discounting Jesse 's rhetoric by the usual 90 percent , there 's truth in his words . In place of Helms 's amendment the conferees adopted one forbidding the National Endowment for the Arts to fund " obscene " art . It is left to the chair of the N.E.A. to determine what 's obscene , applying the tests enunciated by the Supreme Court in Miller v. California . News reports portrayed this as a victory for reason  --  after all , the Court 's decision is the law of the land . Actually , it obtrudes an irrelevant , politically charged criterion into the N.E.A. grant-making process . Previously , the panels were required only to recognize " artistic and cultural significance " and " professional excellence . " Now , the head of the N.E A must add to these artfully vague criteria the cop 's word " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pornography in Miller is , Does the work have artistic value ? That 's what the N.E.A. panels have been determining all along . Obviously , a panel thought Robert Mapplethorpe 's photographs , which started all the fuss , had such merit . No doubt the N.E.A. panels have at times succumbed to hypocrisy and politics . But for all their flaws , they are better judges of art than politicians are . The new amendment still allows the Helmsites to say , " That ai n't art ! That 's obscene ! " We question whether obscenity is a matter for D.A.s and courts to determine , but it certainly is n't one for the N.E.A. and politicians . The House-Senate conferees should have issued a ringing call for the political independence of the endowment . Instead , they have issued ol ' Jesse a hunting license . STATE A.G.S MOVE IN FILLING THE DEREGULATORY VACUUM MARK GREEN In previous decades progressive activists and state prosecutors were often politically at odds . At best , attorneys general were politicians trying to do popular things ; at worst , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No longer . State attorneys general are more likely than not to be working with consumer and environmental activists against corporate polluters , white-collar criminals and lax Federal agencies . Not since Watergate have prosecutors been so far in the lead in advancing progressive causes . In part that 's because A.G.s are younger and share the values of the 1960s and 1970s ? the values of consumerism , environmentalism and empowerment . But the new wave of activist litigation is largely a consequence of the Reagan Revolution . A funny thing happened on the way to deregulation : While the Federal government tried to arrest the regulatory cops , state legislatures and public interest groups began demanding and winning stricter standards . Once the laws were in place , ambitious attorneys general began to use their considerable prosecutorial power for the public good . ( One cynic joked that the National Association of Attorneys General  --  called NAAG ? should be renamed the National Association of Aspiring Governors . ) " There is a void in Washington , " says California Attorney General and gubernatorial candidate John Van de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " co And Bush with Administration the advent of , gp the A coward dies a thousand deaths , the brave die only once . That adage applies to the Democratic Party , which suffered another little death when sixty-four of its very own in the House of Representatives joined with the Republican minority to pass a deep cut in the capital gains tax . To its partial credit , the Democratic leadership tried to wage the good fight , even resorting to mild , last-minute populist rhetoric . Butwhatever the Senate does , the party 's defeat in the more popularly attuned House on such a basic question is one more indication that the Democrats , so often at war internally , can not fashion themselves into a cohesive opposition . The issue of fair taxation drives Democrats nuts . They ca n't figure out how to argue against tax breaks for the rich because they are afraid they will be seen as either tax-raisers or rabble-rousers . Witness the remarks of Les AuCoin , an otherwise sensible liberal : " The American people do not buy in , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument . The American people . . . are looking for leadership that argues for economic growth strategies . " Those lines could have come from the mouth of a Jack Kemp or any other supply-sider . ( AuCoin , an Oregonian , stuck with his leaders , though he clearly preferred to back the tax cut , much desired by the timber industry in his state . ) The party 's leadership did try to point out that the capital gains tax is a sop to the rich . After all , the Congressional Budget Office estimated that four-fifths of the benefits would go to taxpayers with incomes above $100,000 , about 3.3 percent of the population . But leave it to the Democrats to botch an easy task . " We did not have long enough a time to argue " the issue , was the excuse offered by Thomas Foley , who as House Speaker should be able to control matters of timing and strategy . And the Democrats had no mobilized progressive constituency . Labor and public interest groups , short on time and lacking an overarching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by those who have the most capital to gain . Even though they failed to summon average taxpayers to the barricades , Democrats still found themselves assaulted by Republicans and even some in their own party for preaching the politics of economic confrontation  --  a charge that in genteel Washington is tantamount to treason . Now G.O.P. leaders are gleefully portraying their opposition as soft on tax cuts . So the Democrats suffer the consequences of taking a tough stand without any of tfee benefits  --  and without really taking it . Sure , not all Democrats are eager to be the party that takes on the organized power of wealth . They need capital too  --  especially at election time  --  and they hate to bite the wealthy hands that feed them . The sorry outcome in the House underscores the need for campaign finance reform . One Congressional aide , long skeptical of the necessity for publicly financed campaigns , had his mind changed by the capital gains tax debate . " I 've never seen it so brazen , " he said . " Members were coming in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of one or two of their key contributors . " One Democrat told the leadership that he had promised two big real estate developers in his district that he would vote for a lower capital gains rate , and try as he might he just could n't figure out a way to escape the commitment . What the Democrats need to " figure out " is to whom and what they are committed . Sacks of mail and a flood of calls from elderly Americans forced Congress to turn on a dime regarding catastrophic health care . The same type of effort could have been staged on capital gains , particularly if the leadership had joined forces with the natural Democratic constituency . The lesson is , if you 're going to whip up class resentment , do n't do it halfheartedly at the eleventh hour . Up in Smoke T he news from Washington this week brought excited reports of " imlestones " and " stricter standards " reached in deliberations over one aspect of the Clean Air Act , automotive emissions . But it was just another case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victory for anti-smog forces over the auto industry , if passed the strongest measures would not go into effect for thirteen years , and then the E.P.A . could decide if they were even necessary . Such " milestones " prompt questions about the efficacy of regulation as the chief approach to environmental degradation . In the weeks ahead those questions should become more insistent as Congress takes up the pricklier matter of incineration . Already the basic impulse in regulating incinerators is to assure the public that danger can be avoided with proper scrutiny . In this issue of The Nation , Carol Strickland tells the shameful story of Marine Shale Processors , which , unregulated , became the nation 's largest disposer of hazardous wastes . But how much better is an incinerator ostensibly restrained by the regulator 's hand ? Consider the case of Rollins Environmental Services , notorious as a polluter in Louisiana and other states and , ironically , one of Marine Shale 's loudest critics . At a Rollins plant in Bridgeport , New Jersey , an explosion in 1977 killed two people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residents complain of vomiting , eye irritations , respiratory ailments . Carcinogens contaminate nearby groundwater Last year Rollins was fined $1.9 million for its involvement in illegal shipments of hazardous ash ; this year , after running eighteen years on various temporary permits , it received a final operating license . In the incineration business , the experience of Rollins fairly reflects the state of regulation . Four years ago the E.P.A ' s Science Advisory Board stated that the agency had no idea of the magnitude of pollutants being emitted by operating incinerators and urged an upgrading of regulations . This advice has been taken seriously by two E.P.A . administrators ; both proposed an upgrade to the White House Office of Management and Budget , and both were denied on the ground that any change would be too onerous for the industry . There is , for example , no proscription against the burning of heavy metals , even though such lethal substances as lead , chromium , arsenic and mercury are not destroyed in the process but merely oxidized or left as unburned waste . According to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy metals fired in a kiln go up the smokestack . Yet it is doubtful that prohibitions on such burning would have much effect , since there is little oversight of incinerator operation . Metal drums are regularly burned along with the wastes they hold . The chemistry of incineration  --  in which molecules break down and recombine in new , often more dangerous , ways  --  is not monitored . Although hazardous waste suppliers are supposed to identify the substances they send for burning and disposers are supposed to fit the toxin to the technology , this is largely left to trust . And because there is more money to be made by accepting vast quantities of waste , the incinerator operator is unlikely to discriminate . That is a rational business choice . For Congress , already the servant of business and now anticipating a boom of more than 350 new incinerators , the rational political choice is to regulate the industry enough to maintain the appearance of responsibility but not so much as to squelch what investment bankers are pushing as a major economic growth area . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously to discommode capital , has government been an aggressive watchdog In fact , over the past fifteen years , despite a plethora of regulations , the average levels of toxic pollutants measured in the environment have not declined appreciably except where direct preventive action has been taken  --  as in the removal of lead from gasoline . Given that background there is little reason to expect that the revised Clean Air Act will be anything more than a slightly stricter right-to-pollute law . Lobbing One Into The Kremlin W hile the Baker-Shevardnadze talks in Jackson Hole , Wyoming , made the headlines , the cold warriors in the Pentagon and in the White House were not napping . They were checking the last details of a new secret war plan , which went into force on October 1 . The plan , known by government officials and national security experts as SIOP-6F , for Single Integrated Operation Plan , contains a list of some 50,000 targets for nuclear attack in the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact countries . Different versions of SIOP have existed since 1960 , but this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at the Australian National University in Canberra , " represents the most radical change in both the structure and substance of the U.S. strategic nuclear war plan since the preparation of SIOP-63 in 1961-62 . " According to Professor Ball , who spoke at a recent international meeting in Castiglioncello , Italy , organized by the Union of Scientists for Disarmament , the most significant change in SIOP-6F is its emphasis on a " prompt attack on the Soviet command and control system at the outset of a strategic nuclear exchange . " In other words , the new U.S. plan is to wipe out the Politburo and principal Soviet commanders within hours of the beginning of a war , forcing a Soviet surrender . Targeting the Soviet leadership is hardly new in U.S. nuclear doctrine ; that option has been retained since SIOP-63 . For almost thirty years , however , it was regarded as only a last resort , a desperate strike after a long series of nuclear exchanges . The reason is quite obvious : To strike the Soviet command authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refer to as a " controlled " nuclear war evolving in a " rational " manner through " escalation " and " de-escalation " phases . Wishful thinking or not , this hope of controlled and limited nuclear war has been the official policy of every President and Secretary of Defense since John Kennedy and Robert McNamara . In its NATO version , it is included in the " flexible response " strategy and is supposedly the very pillar of the alliance , which re-endorsed it with great fanfare in Brussels this past May . In the name of flexible response the Bush Administration fought to prevent the so-called third zero option of eliminating battlefield nuclear weapons from Central Europe . It would be interesting to know how the European allies regard this somersault in U.S. strategic thinking . The idea of " decapitating " the Soviet leadership at the outset of a nuclear exchange was first heard in 1979 . Colin Gray , a British-born nuclear deterrence theorist who made his career in the United States , criticized U.S. nuclear doctrine as " passive " and made the case for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , the only " politically meaningful war aim . " Amazingly , Gray 's ideas  --  never officially accepted by the superhawks of the first Reagan Administration  --  are now vindicated by an Administration that toasts Gorbachev 's reforms at least once a month . A strategy which is " extremely provocative , " in Ball 's words , has entered into force at the very moment when arms contra 's moving full steam ahead and d  --  tente should become , in the words of James Baker , " real cooperation . " In fact , there is a wide gap between the rhetoric of officials in Washington and the day-to-day planning conducted by the Joint Strategic Target Planning Staff in Omaha . " Now the situation has improved , " says Professor Ball , " but for decades the targeting community in Omaha simply ignored what the people responsible for nuclear policy in Washington thought or wanted . " The result was that SIOP evolved slowly and not always according to the political or military guidelines set up in the office of the Secretary of Defense . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1980 , the weapons systems needed to implement such a policy did not exist . Now the U S. arsenal contains the MX " Peacekeeper " and the submarine-launched Trident 2 , designed to destroy hardened targets , including underground leadership bunkers and command sites , as is the Strangelovian nine-megaton B-53 warhead-600 times more powerful than the bomb that annihilated Hiroshima . A year ago , Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci authorized the development of earth-penetrator warheads that could be deployed on either ballistic or cruise missiles . New sensor systems , to be deployed on aircraft or satellites , would locate Soviet leadership and command and communication facilities during a nuclear war . There is no secret about the purpose of the sophisticated , and hyperexpensive , systems built during the Reagan years : " Our strategy places at risk those political entities the Soviet leadership values most , " President Reagan said in January 1987 , " the mechanisms for insuring survival of the Communist Party and its leadership cadres , and for retention of the party 's control over the Soviet and Soviet bloc peoples . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration to inherit , but there are no signs that anyone in the White House or the Pentagon plans to change or reverse the follies of their predecessors . Quite the contrary : The summa theologica of the Bush Administration 's nuclear doctrine is a secret document called " U.S. National Strategy , " signed by the President in June , which announces the guidelines for SIOP-6F . The only element in which Bush 's approach differs from that of his mentor is in its presentation . A couple of years ago , generals called the new plan " SIOP-7 . " But it was rebaptized SIOP-6F ? to downplay the change and stress continuity and , perhaps , to avoid alarming the public . FABRIZIO TONELLO Fabnzio Tonello is the author of La Guerre des Etoiles ( Paris , 1986 ) and covers East-West relations and nuclear weapons negotiations for a number of French and Italian publications . Enabling Act T he Americans with Disabilities Act , which passed the Senate 76 to 8 last month , seems assured of acceptance by the House . In its present form the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person a job solely because of a disability and will require them to make a " reasonable accommodation " to that person 's incapacity , unless doing so would cause the company " unreasonable hardship . " Businesses will have to take " readily achievable " steps to open facilities to disabled people , and new buildings will have to be made accessible to them , as will bus and rail lines . Telephone companies must provide relay service for hearing- and speech-impaired people Although trade groups like the National Federation of Independent Businesses and the American Bus Association are complaining loudly because the bill says nothing about costs , no one thinks their opposition will derail it . Indeed , everyone from George Bush to Ralph Neas of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights is hailing the bill as a landmark in civil rights legislation . And so it is . But lost in the celebration over the A.D.A . is the fact that an initial goal of disability rights groups was to amend Title VII of the Civil Rights Act , not fashion a separate law . For years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disabled is different from other kinds of discrimination . Protection under a separate law , even though it is modeled after Title VII , does not help to dispel that notion . It will be years before A.D.A . will have any real effect on the lives of the 43 million Americans who are disabled . The Senate 's version gives some employers up to four years to think about hiring disabled workers . Telephone companies are given three years and private bus companiesup to seven years to comply with sections of the law affecting them . Some subway stations will not have to conform to the new regulations for two decades . Although the A.D.A . carries decent enforcement provisions ? its Title I , prohibiting employment discrimination , incorporates by reference the remedies and procedures of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act , for example  --  even the strongest law can not end discrimination if no complaints are filed . So it is unfortunate that a provision allowing victims of discrimination to sue for punitive damages was dropped at the White House 's insistence . Regrettably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of enforcement that would make the A.D.A . more than a public-spirited gesture , and the Bush Administration knows it . That 's why it can afford to back the measure : It 's a low-risk commitment to a relatively unorganized group that on the whole has raised little fuss in the past . And some people who were involved in negotiations over the bill say that the Administration saw it as a relatively painless way for the Republican Party to woo a new constituency . Nevertheless , even a low-risk A.D.A . leaves some members of the Administration uneasy , particularly Secretary of Transportation Samuel Skinner . Guided by the 1973 Rehabilitation Act , a precursor to the A.D.A. , the Carter Administration issued rules requiring lifts on buses , but the transit industry has tenaciously argued against these rules in court . As chief of the Chicago Transit Authority from 1984 until last February , Skinner fought lifts on buses , and in his present post he has resisted a 1988 Court of Appeals ruling requiring these lifts on new vehicles . In July the court ordered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still has n't done so . Skinner also refuses to issue rules implementing the 1986 Air Carrier Access Act , which forbids discrimination by airlines . ( Ironically , Equal Employment Opportunity Commissioner Evan Kemp , a wheelchair user and a leading spokesman for disability rights in the Administration , says he misses half his speaking engagements because of discriminatory arrangements by airlines ) For these actions , Skinner attracted an angry group of demonstrators from the American Disabled for Accessible Public Transportation ( Adapt ) when he spoke before the American Public Transit Association last month in Atlanta . Skinner was reportedly opposed to the Administration 's endorsement of the A.D.A . until the last minute . If his laggardly implementation of the Air Carrier Access Act and of the court order on bus access are any indication , it 's no wonder the White House has lost little sleep over its decision to support the act . One of the best ways to kill a civil rights concept is to pass a law and not enforce it . With no money appropriated for enforcement of the A.D.A. , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no hurry to stand up for another set of oppressed people . Even so , discrimination against people with disabilities has now been officially acknowledged . We 've got a foot  --  or a wheel or a cane  --  in the door . MARY JOHNSON Mary Johnson is editor of The Disability Rag .                     