@@494466

WHY DEMOCRACY MAKES ECONOMIC SENSE The Rise and Decline of Nations by Mancur Olson THE way people work together to produce goods and services is intimately tied to the way they set and pursue public goals . Indeed , the notion that the economic and political spheres of our life can be separated is relatively new . The very word " economics " was not firmly established until 1890 , when Alfred Marshall wrote his Principles of Economics . Before then the term was " political economy " ? with the adjective serving as a reminder of the " economy 's " origins and effects . The entire field branched off in the late eighteenth century from moral philosophy , the study of citizens ' rights , duties , and obligations . In earlier eras it seemed impossible to consider economic relationships in isolation from their specific political and social contexts . Mancur Olson has sought to weave these intellectual threads back together . In a work published in 1965 , The Logic of Collective Action , Olson undertook to explain group behavior as a predictable product of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economist 's standard model of human nature : individuals know their interests and act rationally to serve them . Olson observed that groups , however , fail to fit the model ; collective goals are seldom rationally pursued . Why is this ? He hypothesized that a group of people who join together to act in their common interest often can not ensure that every member will do his part . This problem is most acute when group effort benefits all members , and there is no way to exclude those who decline to contribute to the common cause . The rational strategy for each individual is to let others do the work and thereby get a " free ride . " Unless the group Robert B. Reich , a TNR contributing editor , teaches business and public policy at Harvard University 's John F. Kennedy School of Government . He is the author most recently of The Next American Frontier ( Times Books ) . BY ROBERT B. REICH somehow can allocate the benefits of its efforts according to each member 's contribution , or else coerce its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sabotaged by the rationally self-interested decisions of its members . Thus picket lines make all workers participate in a strike , dues are withheld from union members ' paychecks , and citizens are obligated to pay for public services through taxes . Now , in The Rise and Decline of Nations , Olson extends this " logic of collective action " to explain the fates of national economies . The task here is a larger version of the previous one ? to account for national economic performance in terms of group behavior . He begins by asserting several political implications of his basic logic . Since broad and dispersed interests find it hard to organize for political action , there is little hope that comprehensive bargaining among a nation 's politically active groups will yield results that make everyone better off . The likelihood , rather , is that small , narrow interest groups will engineer a redistribution of benefits toward themselves and away from dispersed interests . Moreover , since people discover the benefits of group action and organize themselves to obtain them only gradually , a stable society will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And even after a long period of stability , small groups will continue to have disproportionate political influence . Olson 's logic has implications for the nation 's economy . The means by which special-interest groups redistribute national wealth to themselves may reduce the society 's overall efficiency . If the special-interest group succeeds in raising some price or wage , or in taxing some type of income at lower rates than other income , the extra resources that are diverted into the favored area add less to society 's output than they otherwise would . On the other hand , the special-interest group may seek to establish a cartel in order to reduce output and thereby enjoy a higher price , and in so doing it imposes additional inefficiencies on society as a whole . Of course , to the extent that politically active groups are very large ? encompassing many diverse interests ? a large part of the costs of these sorts of inefficiencies will be borne by members of the group . Thus " encompassing " organizations , as Olson calls them , will have some concern for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally , the collusive activities of special-interest groups will slow a society 's growth by reducing the rate at which resources are reallocated from one activity or industry to another in response to new technologies and conditions . Indeed , the special-interest groups may simply block technological change . Given their often crowded agendas and complex bargaining procedures , they often are slow to embrace even those innovations that promise to enrich their members . Furthermore , by intensifying distributional struggles , increasing regulatory complexity , and encouraging the primacy of political competition , special-interest groups siphon a society 's talents and energies away from the production of goods and focus them instead on winning the distributional game . Olson employs these ideas to explain the postwar " economic miracles " in the nations that were defeated or occupied in World War II , particularly Japan and West Germany . In Germany , Hitler had done away with independent unions as well as other dissenting groups ; the Allies eviscerated cartels and organizations with right-wing origins . Japan 's militaristic regime had suppressed left-wing organizations ; the Allies cracked down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elite . In other words , in both nations , violence and repression had wiped the slate clean of special-interest groups by the end of the 1940s , and thereby opened the way to rapid growth . On the other hand , the United States and Great Britain ? countries with comparatively long and undisturbed histories of democratic freedom have experienced slower growth in the postwar era . Both nations are rife with special-interest groups . Olson brings the same analysis to a comparison among the states , discerning a strong and systematically negative relationship between the length of time a state has been settled and its rate of growth . In the formerly Confederate states , the development of many kinds of special-interest groups ( like labor unions and oligopolies ) has been severely limited by defeat in the Civil War , Reconstruction , and racial turmoil and discrimination . Accordingly , these states have been growing more rapidly than the northeastern and midwestern states in recent years . The more newly settled western states are also enjoying rapid growth , again , Olson argues , due to their comparative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Britain in the sixteenth century , Holland in the seventeenth , France in the eighteenth , Japan 's Meiji restoration ; then to various patterns of social organization ? the Indian caste system , the British class structure , South African apartheid ; then to the contemporary paradox of stagflation . Everywhere Olson looks he finds confirmation of his theory that long-term stability breeds special-interest groups that seek to preserve their benefits at the cost of general economic stagnation . Prices become less flexible , resources become stuck , innovation declines . Periodic revolution to eliminate special-interest groups , or steady repression to block their emergence , unleashes economic growth . W HAT IS one to make of all this ? It is perhaps too easy to take issue with much of the evidence Olson invokes to bolster his thesis . For example , the eradication of special-interest groups is neither adequate nor indeed necessary to explain much of the postwar economic dynamism of Germany or Japan . The devastation of physical capital ( combined in Japan 's case with relative industrial retardation before the war ) left these nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both countries therefore could show enormous proportional strides as they caught up with other , less ravagednations . Such advances were fueled by the shift of labor from agriculture to industry ? a shift well under way in many other industrialized nations ? and by the simple expedient of adopting technologies developed elsewhere . The recent rapid growth of southern and western states can be similarly explained . Starting from a much lower level of productivity than northeastern states , the Sun Belt has played catch up to older industrial regions ; this process of economic homogenization has been accelerated by generous defense spending and public works projects during the postwar era . One can also conjure similar explanations , having little or nothing to do with the prevalence of interest-group politics , for many of the other historical phenomena Olson discusses . Still , Olson 's is an ambitious theoretical undertaking . He has sought to forge a link between microeconomics ( explaining prices , wages , and resource allocation ) and macroeconomics ( explaining aggregates of income , employment , and overall output ) . He has done so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a national economy . For Olson , robust competition is not simply a means of ensuring efficiency of allocation among alternative endeavors ; it is also a spur to innovation . When groups collude to redistribute benefits toward themselves in the near term , they block change and narrow options , imposing large costs on society in the future . When such combinations dominate markets throughout the economy , no macroeconomic policy can put things right . Such an economics is grounded in social organization how people organize themselves for work and politics . As such , it assumes that variations in the economic performance of different nations , or of the same nation at different times , can best be understood not by reference to universal principles governing supply , demand , the supply of money , taxing , and public spending , but through attention to the patterns of group association which change over time . Simply put , Olson has sought to move economics away from the apolitical and ahistorical abstractions which now dominate the field , back toward the study of specific political and social institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also has sought to give economics a solid and verifiable theoretical foundalion , based on what he views as a fundamental conflict between the interests of the individual and the collective interests of any group . His work is more important for the new social lenses through which he views economic phenomena than it is for the specific hypotheses he develops . Ironically , it is precisely this strength of Olson 's work ? its relentless drive to explain , through the economic logic of group behavior , the social essence of a nation ? which is ultimately its undoing . For by extending his theory to its outermost limits , Olson exposes the poverty of his underlying premises about human nature , and about the purpose and meaning of politics . And in so doing , he reveals a great deal about what is wrong with the modern study of both politics and economics . F OR OLSON , political activities , like market transactions , are means through which people satisfy strictly personal wants . Interest-group politics is the result of people acting rationally , according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand . The moral dimension of such behavior has no place in Olson 's theory . The problem , as he sees it , is that while in the marketplace demands are mediated through competition for scarce resources , in politics the demands of special-interest groups are not mediated , but are forwarded , often covertly , through exclusive channels to legislative committees , agencies , and bureaus . Politics becomes a pipeline to the public trough . The notion of politics as a pipeline is not new . In some respects it owes its intellectual origins to the economist Joseph Schumpeter , who sought to dispense with the " classical doctrine " of democracy , and its presumption that people are capable of acting with the common good in mind . Instead , Schumpeter saw democracy as " an institutional arrangement for arriving at political decisions in which individuals acquire the power to decide by means of a competitive struggle for people 's votes . " As the American welfare state has burgeoned , furthermore , the economic theory of politics has gained adherents . It seems to offer an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eradicate poverty , and for the poor economic performance of the United States in recent years . According to this view , as developed most succinctly by Michael Crozier , Samuel Huntington , and Joji Watanuki in 1975 in The Crisis of Democracy , popular expectations and group demands on government reached extraordinary levels during the " democratic surge " of the 1960s , resulting in a vast expansion of government responsibilities ; not all of these commitments could be fulfilled . The only way out of this morass , according to some of these theorists , is to reduce government responsiveness to these demands ? to amend the Constitution to limit public spending and taxes , revert to the gold standard to discipline monetary policy , and devise new governmental arrangements like public corporations and independent authorities , which are less vulnerable to democratic politics . These theorists of " democratic overload " assume that democracy must be saved from its own excesses , by dramatically reducing access to state benefits , or ? which amounts to the same thing ? by reducing the discretion of public officials to respond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent with this tradition of thought . But rather than reduce political access generally , Olson merely would have us reduce the influence of special-interest groups on the political process . Violence and repression are a means of eliminating special-interest groups , at least for a time ; but Olson is not so pessimistic as to conclude that economic growth requires a blood bath . He seeks instead a cultural and ideological transformation . He expresses the hope that the schools and the mass media will create a widespread public antipathy to special-interest groups . The remedy would follow quite naturally from this change in attitudes . A society with the consensus that has just been described might choose the most obvious and far-reaching remedy : it might simply repeal all special-interest legislation or regulation and at the same time apply rigorous antitrust laws to every type of cartel or collusion that used its power to obtain prices and wages above corn petitive levels . Then , presumably , the society would go on to alter irrevocably its political arrangements so that special interests would be prevented ever again from holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of special-interest politics . It is a state whose economy once again can be naturally adaptable and innovative . He does not discuss it in detail , but one can infer its key features . No organization stands between the individual and the government except perhaps large encompassing organizations which effectively neutralize partisan appeals . The only small groups are households and firms , which relate to one another almost exclusively through the market . Social relations are virtually coextensive with market relations . Workers no longer arc organized in industry-wide unions ; wage-bargaining occurs instead at the level of the firm . A household 's income depends on the market value of its members ' labor . The government 's chief responsibility , apart from providing for national defense and certain public goods like highways , is to police the market in order to guard against the possibility that any group of individuals , households , or firms might seek to distort it through collusion . Some , no doubt , find this sort of society attractive . But one might challenge seriously both its economic neutrality and its capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divorce the state from the economy ? Can there be an apolitical economics ? After all , there exists an infinite array of alternative market outcomes , each equally efficient , depending upon the initial distribution of resources in the society . And that initial distribution is maintained and enforced not primarily by specific regulations blocking market entry into certain profit-making activities , or by discrete price-fixing arrangements and restrictive practices within the private sector ; it is maintained by determinations about the nature and form of rights in property , the allocation of public services , and the rules of liability and contract governing society as a whole . These deeper judgments , framed by courts and legislatures , are neutral on their face . No. special interests are explicitly deemed their beneficiaries . But their consequences are profoundly distributive . Different groups of people , facing different circumstances , are affected by them in different ways . One 's access to clean air , police protection , and safe working conditions , for example , is apt to vary substantially , depending upon one 's geographic community , income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership " in a geographic community , racial group , or income class is not the sort of " membership " Olson has in mind , these less voluntary associations nevertheless shape the deeper pattern of rights and social privileges in modern societies , As people experiencing similar disadvantages come to understand their common interests and exert their collective political power , these more fundamental rules , and the distributions to which they correspond , may be amended over time . To dismantle the system of interest-group politics , therefore , is to freeze the particular distribution prevailing at the time that the dismantling occurs . The mechanics of democracy , moreover , are at stake . By positing a society in which nothing mediates between state and individual but encompassing organizations , Olson would effectively cripple democratic institutions . Interest groups are conduits for democratic participation . They are , as Robert A. Dahl has shown , seedbeds for democratic opposition . Because they create centers of power , influence , and mutual support that are independent of the state , interest groups help to check state power . Totalitarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent unions , trade associations , professional associations , and civic groups ; the Soviets can not tolerate an independent trade union movement in Eastern Europe . I S ECONOMIC growth inconsistent with robust interest-group politics ? It may indeed be , if politics is understood primarily as an instrument for appropriating shares of national income . The economic theory of politics , which attends only to the outcomes of self-interested actors ' political behavior , ignores the effects of political action upon the actors themselves . Yet it is precisely through broadly political activities ? within local trade unions , civic groups , grass-roots political movements , town meetings , professional associations , parent-teacher associations , chambers of commerce , shop-floor organizations , charitable organizations , and election campaigns ? that individuals discover the subtler dimensions of their own needs and learn about the needs of others . They begin to understand the relationship between self and society ; the encounter itself shapes their social values . If political organization is understood as a source of social values as well as a conduit for political demands , there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally decline to specify how preferences are formed . It is enough , for most analytical purposes , to assume that people simply have wants and display them through the choices they make . But what of those wants that people can not or prefer not to express in market terms ? patriotism , social justice , the well-being of family and friends , or certain aspects of the natural environment ? Schumpeter and his intellectual descendants assume that such preferences , while perhaps difficult to identify and to measure , exist prior to and outside of any social interaction . Social institutions neither create nor alter them . The group interest is simply the sum of its individual members ' preferences . Individuals engage in political activity precisely in order to maximize their pre-existing self-interests . A CONTRARY view is that political preferences embody values which are conditioned by social experience . Within political organizations people reconsider and revise perspectives and opinions . Common interests are discovered . Disagreements and inconsistencies force individuals to balance and rank their wants . What previously had been assumed to be solely personal concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often empowers participants to act upon them . Thus individual values are transformed into social values which extend beyond the confines of the group . Collective purposes are forged . Political movements are born . But even more important , through the group experience a social morality is defined and refined . Groups create citizens . The economic theory of politics , which casts groups as mere aggregations of atomized individuals , posits no effective public restraint upon selfish conspiracies of group members against the rest of us . The greater the number of special-interest groups , the more collusion against the common good . But the social theory of politics , which sees in these groups the vehicles by which citizens come to understand common interests , suggests that the most effective restraint upon selfish demands against the state may be the understanding and sophistication that derive from political experiences within such groups . The wider and more active is the public 's participation in politics , therefore , the sounder and deeper is the potential political commitment to the common good , including economic growth . " Economic man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Political man " has goals formed in part from his social experience . " Economic man , " if not restrained , inevitably exploits his fellows and stifles the economy ; he can not be trusted with real democracy . " Political man " can at least potentially embrace general prosperity as a common cause , and lend his energies to achieving it . Mancur Olson offers abundant evidence for the first view . But it is possible that many of the phenomena he describes can be explained more fully by the second . In particular , the poor economic performance of the United States and Great Britain during the past fifteen years as compared to Japan and West Germany ? above and apart from any relative deceleration attributable to the high levels of productivity with which the United States and Britain began the period ? may be understood to reflect the fact that their economic systems are neither sufficiently democratic nor sufficiently authoritarian to foster quick growth . Both the United States and Britain stand awkwardly poised between two political alternatives , both of which promise faster growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic authoritarianism on the other . A political theory of economics would predict that the process of economic change ? which necessarily imposes losses on some people and confers gains on others ? generates essentially three categories of political response . First , those who stand to lose most will seek to block change , particularly in periods of economic contraction when new jobs and industries are not readily available to replace the old . They will seek legislation to stop runaway plants , regulations to prohibit the introduction of new technologies , government-financed bailouts , limitations on foreign investment by domestic firms , tariffs and quotas or informal " understandings " by which foreign firms hold back their wares , legislation to ensure that goods sold domestically contain a minimum percentage of parts manufactured domestically . These efforts at blocking change often will be successful in capitalist democracies . Declining industries typically have far greater political power than emerging ones . By virtue of the declining industries ' size and age , whole cities or entire regions ? suppliers , distributors , independent contractors , and service businesses , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often have grown dependent on them . These dependents represent a powerful constituency with well-established political connections . By contrast , emerging industries , almost by definition , are small and new . They are apt to have very little political clout . Moreover , many measures to prop up the status quo ? like trade barriers and special tax benefits ? do not entail active and visible government intervention . No bureaucrats intrude on corporate discretion . Legislators vote no budgets . Those costs do not appear on any national accounts , and those who bear them are seldom aware of the source or extent of the burdens . THESE blocking policies often seem 1 preferable to massive unemployment and the destruction of communities . But these same policies retard future economic growth by constricting the flow of resources into more productive uses . As Olson shows , they discourage new investment , stifle new businesses , abort new jobs . They increase the costs of supplies . They dampen innovation . They fuel inflation . Thus they even accelerate the economic decline . In recent years the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experienced slower economic growth . Calls for industrial preservation are growing louder everywhere , and the calls have been extremely loud in the United States . Since 1969 the American steel industry has been more or less shielded against competition . So too with American textiles , apparel , footwear , and televisions . For the last three years Japanese automobile manufacturers have " voluntarily " restricted their exports to the United States , and that restriction in all likelihood will be continued and tightened in the years ahead . A score of protectionist bills have been introduced in Congress in recent months . American manufacturers , meanwhile , are furiously filing complaints with the government , alleging foreign " dumping " of products in the America market at prices below their cost of production . This rearguard action has made it even more difficult for the American economy to adjust to the new realities of international competition . H OW CAN nations overcome aeir bias against economic change ? One way is simply to reduce or eliminate political organization and political access , particularly for those who bear the brunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Taiwan as a " prototypical " example of fast growth and low inflation , due , he says , to " Taiwan 's nearly complete absence of special-interest organization . " He also singles out South Korea and Singapore for special mention . It is no accident that these nations lack special-interest organizations . The South Korean government periodically declares all political opposition to be illegal . Those outside the ruling coalition are effectively disenfranchised . Demonstrations expressing dissatisfaction , such as those at Kwangju in the spring of 1980 , result in thousands being jailed or killed . The government of Singapore continues to bar most political opposition . Taiwan has no free press , and only a facade of multiparty representation ; it periodically jails dissidents . Nor , in many respects , is modern-day Japan a model of robust national politics . The burden of industrial change there falls disproportionately on subcontractors , women , and retired people , whose economic futures are highly uncertain . Many of these people leave the work force for consid rable periods , especially when Japanese industry makes a major shift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor-heavy retail operations . The costs of industrial change also are borne by marginal industries , like commercial fishing , which have been jeopardized by environmental hazards . The political coalition in favor of industrial change is sufficiently well-entrenched to withstand the special pleadings of any industry but agriculture . The powerful economic ministries , in turn , are run by permanent administrative vice ministers . These leading bureaucrats , and the business leaders with whom they attended Tokyo University years before , form an almost impenetrable " old boy " network that in effect governs Japan . And this network is reinforced by the various offices of the Ministry of Inter-national Trade and Industry that are paired with officially sanctioned trade associations for each industry . Groups outside this system occasionally shout their disaffection . The violent demonstrations against the new Tokyo Airport and the government 's nuclear ship project , and the campaign against industrial pollution , are cases in point . But these are sporadic outbursts . They may result in some concessions , as when the city of Tokyo abruptly decided in favor of cleaner air , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics and economic administration in Japan . Japan , for example , was slow to recognize the environmental hazards of rapid industrialization . The government took no action to reduce mercury contamination until years after scientific evidence established a link to Minamata disease . Rapid industrial change , in other words , is relatively easy to achieve when the leaders who plan it have no serious worries about politics , when economic planning is made by stable elites who simply need not take account of how the burdens of economic change are borne by the less advantaged . rr HE THIRD political response to economic change is to forestall political coalitions intent on blocking economic change , while at the same time preserving democratic institutions , is to ensure that the burdens and the benefits of economic change are allocated in ways that most people deem to be fair . And to achieve this sort of consensus , a nation would have to democratize its system of economic planning . Economic democracy might take the form of devices like shop-floor participation in decisions governing plant and working conditions , labor-management committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boards to determine local development objectives , and national bargaining over wages and prices . The point is not to politicize every economic issue , but to recognize that every important economic choice is by nature political , and therefore to open up political channels in which the substance of economic change can be debated explicitly . No capitalist democracy has extended the concept of economic democracy very far , but several of the more successful trading partners of the United States have , over the past several decades , experimented with a wide variety of approaches . For example , the vast majority of workers in the United States have no financial stake in their companies , nor any formal means of participating in company decisions . But in West Germany employees are represented on workers ' councils and on supervisory boards . Austrian labor unions participate directly in management decisions . Even in Japan , whose formal politics is relatively insular , employees participate in companies through elaborate systems of consultation at all levels of the firm . Indeed , in many respects , Japan 's system of bottom-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ironically giving Japan a double advantage . Of course this advantage is enjoyed primarily by those safely within the large- and medium-sized firms ; Japan works , then , but hardly as an ideal for the United States . This is not to suggest that companies in continental Europe and Japan are models of labor-management harmony ; they are not . The difference is that workers in these nations understand that their fates are tied to the profitability and competitiveness of their firms . Therefore they bargain for change ? retraining programs , relocation assistance , new investment in plant and equipment . Their counterparts in the United States and Great Britain , meanwhile , seek to maintain the status quo because change threatens their economic security . Similarly , while in Great Britain and the United States , macroeconomic policies designed to restrain inflation impose unemployment on the segments of the population least able to cope with it , wage and price increases in many other industrial nations follow guidelines established in national negotiations . Smaller-scale groups ? local unions and industry associations ? participate indirectly through their representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ framework " agreements are formally negotiated between employer and labor federations . In Austria , Belgium , the Netherlands , and Japan representatives of the major business and labor confederations conduct ongoing negotiations . These national bargaining arenas , and the more localized ones on which they are built , provide all segments of the population with highly visible opportunities to clarify goals , articulate demands , and negotiate trade-offs among inflation , unemployment , and structural adjustment . One indication of the comparative effectiveness of these various participatory mechanisms is found in the distribution of national income and wealth . By 1976 ( the latest year for which such data are available ) the poorest 20 percent of the population in the fast-growing nations fared better than in the slow-growing ones . In Japan , the poorest fifth received 7.9 percent of after-tax national income . In West Germany the comparable figure was 6,5 percent . In Great Britain , the poorest fifth received 6.3 percent of national income , and in the United States the share was only 4.5 percent . Indeed , of twelve industrialized nations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourteen industrial nations , the United States ranks fourteenth in the extent of social insurance coverage . Other data also tend to stand Olson on his head . For example , by comparison with other , more vigorous economies , a very small proportion of the working population in the United States is unionized . In 1980 , only 21 percent of the American wage and salary earners belonged to a union . The figure was 33 percent in Japan and 42 percent in West Germany . In certain respects , moreover , Americans appear to be less politically active than their counterparts in other industrial nations . Comparatively few Americans actually take to the polls during national elections . In 1980 , Ronald Reagan won the Presidency with the votes of only 28 percent of the potential electorate . By the same token , the United States and Great Britain both claim some of the largest encompassing organizations within any modern society ? if we take the term " encompassing " to mean large organizations that integrate a great deal of economic ( and political ) activity . By 1972 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . The five other European Economic Community nations , together comprising three times Britain 's population , shared among themselves about this same number of giant enterprises . The centralization of economic power in the United States is equally dramatic . By 1982 , the top two hundred nonfinancial firms in the United States accounted for just under 40 percent of all nonfinancial business assets . These modern-day economic leviathans participate actively in politics . Of course , these data are only suggestive . Yet together they frame a picture of two societies , both of which have experienced comparatively poor economic performance over the last fifteen years , and both of which possess relatively few democratic mechanisms for ensuring that the burdens and benefits of economic change are allocated in a politically acceptable way . Both nations draw a relatively rigid delineation between economic decision-makingwhether within the government or within large corporations ? and demo-cratic institutions . Mancur Olson , to be sure , correctly observes that both nations possess a wide array of legal impediments to economic change : licensing restrictions , professional associations , regulatory barriers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct , these various restrictions have grown up , not in consequence of long-standing democratic institutions in these nations , but because of the inadequacy of these democratic institutions to deal effectively with the social dimension of economic change .                     