@@492507

Did you ever wonder what enables ground squirrels to hibernate all winter ... to sleep for snowy weeks , or months at a time , and then wake up in the spring ? According to a study done at the University of California , magnesium might be the answer . Nuts eaten by squirrels in the fall are especially high in magnesium , so when the squirrels first go into hibernation , their magnesium levels are very high . Over the course of the winter , however , the scientists found that the magnesium is slowly used up , and they theorized that when it gets low enough , the squirrels wake up . What can we learn from these furry little critters ? First of all , the calming effects of magnesium just might be a natural way for humans to get a good night 's rest . But in addition to helping you get to sleep , medical researchers are rapidly discovering other amazing qualities of this once-overlooked mineral , and they now suspect that it may play a role in helping to relieve stress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , restlessness , irritability , depression , apathy , tremors , migraine headaches in pregnant women , adolescent asthma , severe tetanus , and heart disease . About 20 years ago , a South African pharmacist named Allister Warren underwent a sudden personality change . He became tired and depressed  --  up one moment , down the next  --  and suffered from severe migraine headaches . " I started putting on weight , " he says . " I became forgetful and irritable . I was a real pain in the neck to be around . " Warren visited doctor after doctor and eventually found a physician who believed his problem was caused by a magnesium deficiency . He began drinking a foul-tasting magnesium mixture the physician prescribed . " Immediately , I began to feel a difference , " he says . " I could sleep normally again . My memory improved , as did my temperament . It 's so exciting to me that such a simple little mineral could make the difference . " The magnesium therapy was helping , but it was also just slightly more Allowance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , called " Slow-Mag , " has been on the market in South Africa for eight years and has recently become available in the United States . Calcium/Magnesium : Reciprocal Relationship Strangely enough , calcium and magnesium enjoy a reciprocal relationship in the muscles . Calcium stimulates the muscles to contract . Magnesium allows the muscles to loosen up and relax . When our bodies are low in calcium , we can borrow from the vast reserves in our bones . However , when the body gets low on magnesium , we must obtain it from our muscles . As magnesium disappears from the muscles , calcium rushes in . The resulting tendency is for the muscles to tighten up and become tense . Many researchers now believe that this lack of magnesium may cause vein and artery walls to contract , causing high blood pressure , heart attacks , and strokes . Broad Population Studies In the 1960s researchers began finding interesting general trends among huge populations ( known as an epidemiological study ) . Researchers in Finland found that the rate of coronary heart disease was significantly higher in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in western Finland , where soil magnesium levels are higher . Other researchers found that gastric cancer was more prevalent in areas where the drinking water was low in magnesium . Others found a definite relationship between heart-disease death rates and the " hardness " of drinking water . The more " hard " water a population drank , the lower the risk of developing heart disease . The " softer " the water , the higher the risk . " Hard , " untreated spring water contains high levels of minerals , including magnesium . Water " softeners " remove these minerals and deprive humans of an importart source of magnesium . Natural Sleep Aid Getting enough magnesium may be particularly important to the estimated 40 million Americans who have chronic insomnia . In a clinical trial in 1976 at the University of Pretoria , South Africa , researchers found they could induce sleep by administering Allister Warren 's newly formulated magnesium-chloride tablets to adult patients . Of 200 patients , sleep was induced rapidly in all but one patient . After increasing the dose , this patient also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day 96 percent of the patients reported increased alertness during the day . When an additional small dosage of magnesium was administered to the patients the morning after , anxiety and tension were replaced by a feeling of well-being . In addition , by taking magnesium supplements throughout the day , all those patients taking sleeping tablets before the study were eventually able to go without them , even in patients who had been dependent on them for as long as two years . And the best news was that there were no side effects found with the long-term use of magnesium chloride . Interestingly enough , although the amount of sleep the test patients needed decreased , their ability to awaken at an unusual sound was not impaired , as it usually is when sleep is drug induced . In addition , once awakened , patients had no trouble getting back to sleep . Magnesium Chloride for Heart Attacks According to Dr.Warren Wacker , M.D. , director of University Health Services at Harvard University , people who have had a heart attack or acute coronary insufficiencies have been found to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart muscles of deceased cardiac victims have lower levels of magnesium than other muscles in their bodies . But does this mean that magnesium know : A paper in the February 1 , 1986 , issue of the British journal Lancet told of a double-blind study at the University of Copenhagen , Denmark , in which suspected heart-attack victims were given injections of magnesium chloride or a placebo . Patients with suspected heart attacks were randomized , to receive either magnesium intravenously or a placebo immediately on admission to the hospital . Of the 130 patients with proven heart attacks , 56 received magnesium and 74 received placebos . During the first four weeks after treatment the death rate was 7 percent in the group receiving the magnesium-chloride injections and 19 percent in the placebo group . In the magnesium group , 21 percent of the patients had arrhythmias that needed treatment , compared with 47 percent in the placebo group . No adverse effects of intravenous magnesium were observed , said the Lancet report . The Danish authors said , " Our findings suggest that patients with suspected acute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of magnesium immediately after admission to the hospital , to counteract postinfarctional hypomagnesemia low magnesium in the blood . The treatment is cheap and easy to administer , and appears to be without serious side effects . " Dr. Sherman Bloom , of George Washington University in Washington , D.C. , found that dogs on a low-magnesium diet suffered twice as much heart-muscle damage from a simulated heart attack as dogs with adequate magnesium in their diets . " We kept dogs on a magnesium-deficient diet for three months , and even then , they were scarcely deficient , because dogs are very resistant to magnesium deficiency . They looked quite normal to the average person , but their circulatory systems were abnormal , " Dr. Bloom told the Post . " The magnesium-deficient dogs had higher heart rates than control animals . When we caused both the deficient group and a control group of animals to have heart attacks , we found that the animals that were magnesium deficient had twice as much damage to their heart muscle than did the controls . " Dr. Bloom told of another study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate is very high . About four years ago , the Finnish government began a nationwide study , in which the country was divided into zones . In some zones , regular table salt was used by patients ; in the other zones , magnesium chloride and potassium chloride were mixed in with the regular salt . The goal of the study was to see if heart-attack death rates were lowered significantly by the addition of the two minerals to regular salt . Dr. Bloom said : " The study has not been completed , and I 'm not sure it will be completed , because after four years of the five-year study , they took a preliminary took at their data and found some striking initial results . Two things happened : The average blood pressure went down , and the heart-attack death rate decreased by 25 percent  --  and that is an enormous decrease . I spoke to one of the researchers last summer at a conference , and at that time he felt that they might just cancel the study and put magnesium and potassium in all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arrhythmiss A 13-year-old diabetic girl was being treated in a hospital for a condition known as severe diabetic ketoacidosis , as reported in 1977 in the British Medical Journal . The patient was apparently stable , but suddenly her heart stopped beating . Luckily , nearby doctors were quickly able to restart the child 's heart . Soon thereafter her heart went into tachycardia , or very fast beating , and then it stopped beating again . The doctors were again able to restart the girl 's heart and immediately began an intravenous infusion of magnesium that lasted for the next six hours . Gradually , her heart began alternating between tachycardia and normalbeating ; after four hours of the magnesium , treatment returned to normal . " This girl 's heart returned to normal in a matter of hours when treated only with magnesium , " Dr. Wacker told the Post . Dr. Bloom 's work with dogs also showed a higher level of irregular heartbeats , or arrhythmias , in the magnesium-deficient animals . " We found that the magnesium-deficient dogs not only had more heart-attack damage , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . " In the early stages of a heart attack , death is frequently due to arrhythmia , - Dr. Bloom said . " Therefore , the implication of our work is that maybe if we gave magnesium to people at the time of a heart attack , we might help protect them against arrhythmias and consequently save some lives . That 's making a big step in logic , but a new study from Israel seems to confirm this theory . " He said , " The Israeli researchers found that in a significant number of patients , the only way they could stop one particular serious form of arrhythmia was with injected or oral magnesium . " Blood Pressure Researchers have found that diuretics , the widely prescribed cornerstone of medications for high blood pressure may cause the loss of just as much magnesium from the body as potassium . Potassium supplements have been prescribed for years to replace what diuretics caused to be lost , but only recently have researchers considered magnesium loss to be a problem . " Patients with low serum magnesium , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of antihypertensive drugs for the same degree of control of their blood pressure than patients with normal magnesium levels , " proclaimed a 1982 study . Another study concluded that a magnesium deficiency has " emerged as perhaps the principal undesirable effect of these drugs because it is associated with an increased incidence of cardiac arrhythmias , sudden death , and myocardial infarction . " Other researchers have found that the addition of magnesium to the regimen of hypertensives reduced both the systolic and the diastolic blood pressures in patients by an additional 12 mm and 8 mm , respectively , in patients who were already taking diuretics . Dr. Burton Altura , of the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center , in Brooklyn , thinks he knows why magnesium seems to lower blood pressure . He believes that when magnesium levels are low , calcium gets the upper hand in the calcium-magnesium balance , constricts the blood vessels , and causes the pressure to rise . To prove his theory , he fed rats a magnesium-deficient diet for 12 weeks . He found that the less magnesium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine branches of their veins and arteries was , and the higher their blood pressure was . Stress French researchers have found that low levels of magnesium may aggravate emotional stress , which tends to further lower magnesium levels . The study revealed that the most " stressed-out " people  --  the ones who needed magnesium the most to help keep them calm  --  were losing it fastest . The loss resulted in a vicious magnesium-stress cycle . The more stress there is , the more magnesium excreted by the body . The less magnesium in the body , the more the body reacts to stress . Angina and Coronary Spasms Low magnesium levels can also cause blood vessels in the heart and the brain to spasm , which reduces or cuts off the flow of vital blood . What does this mean for angina sufferers ? It means that magnesium supplements might help . Many researchers now believe these coronary spasms cause many , if not most , incidences of angina ; now there is convincing evidence that a magnesium deficiency may at least be one of the causes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from dogs . The vessels were first exposed to magnesium solutions of varying concentrations . He found that the higher the concentration of magnesium in the solution , the less tension there was in the arteries . When the magnesium was rapidly withdrawn from the solution , " rapid , increased tension developed in all coronary vessels tested , " he said . " These data support the hypothesis that magnesium deficiency produces coronary arterial spasm , and is associated with sudden-death ischemic heart disease . " A 1984 Israeli study took it one step further . In actual clinical trials on human patients , researchers found that injections of magnesium totally stopped angina in all cases tested , within 30 seconds to 2 minutes following the injection . Usually these patients ' attacks had lasted from 5 to 15 minutes . Atherosclerosis Adequate levels of magnesium may do more than just prevent blood-vessel spasms . A French study has found that magnesium deficiency results in calcium deposits in the blood vessels . " Magnesium deficiency could therefore contribute to accumulation of vascular lipids atherosclerosis , " they theorized . Strokes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just be an inexpensive insurance policy against strokes . They have found that an acute deficiency of magnesium can cause the cerebral blood vessels to spasm , and the lower the magnesium levels , the greater the magnitude of cerebral artery contraction . Conversely , magnesium-sulfate infusions seem to alleviate these spasms , and it has been suggested that eating fruits and vegetables ? which are high in potassium and magnesium , and low in sodium ? lessens the risk of strokes . Magnesium in Pregnancy Researchers have found magnesium to be very useful in a variety of ways during pregnancy . The injection of magnesium sulfate has long been an important treatment of the deadly late-pregnancy conditions eclampsia and pre-eclampsia . Eclampsia can strike as a mother nears the end of pregnancy , or just after delivery . She can go into convulsions and fall into a coma frequently fatal to both mother and child . Magnesium sulfate has been used as an anticonvulsant since the early 1900s . The administration of large doses of magnesium sulfate can virtually eliminate the danger of mother and infant mortality , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a less serious condition characterized by high blood pressure and other symptoms that , if checked , will not progress to the more serious eclampsia . In 1984 , one group of researchers found that daily magnesium aspartate supplements eliminated pre-eclampsia . In addition , high doses of magnesium sulfate have also been used successfully in arresting labor if there is a risk of premature birth . Magnesium supplements can also , in many cases , put an end to the nocturnal calf cramps of pregnant women . In fact , the German researchers H.G. Classen and J. Helbig said that in animal experiments " all reproductive processes were negatively influenced by a magnesium deficiency , while the rate of abortions in early and late pregnancy , as well as the incidence of premature births , decreased in pregnant women after administration of magnesium . " Migraines A registered nurse in Tennessee had suffered painful migraine attacks daily for the past five years . She had tried all forms of medication , yet none were effective . Then she heard about an experimental research program at East Tennessee State University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After the first day of low-dose magnesium therapy , her headaches stopped ; in the next six months of continuing therapy , she had only two migraine attacks . This new research program is being carried on by Kenneth Weaver , M.D. , an associate professor of obstetrics/gynecology at East Tennessee State ; " Commonly available magnesium supplements can be dramatically effective in helping to reduce and even prevent migraine headaches , especially in women , " Dr. Weaver told the Post . Dr. Weaver made his discovery accidentally when he found that many of his pregnant patients had low magnesium levels . He started giving them 100 mg of magnesium once a day and found that 70 percent soon stopped having migraine attacks . ( In a subsequent study , Dr. Weaver 's doubling the dose brought only an additional 10 percent improvement . ) " These patients got relief very quickly . . . in as little as ten minutes to as long as in a few days , " he said . " Pregnant women have a tremendous demand for magnesium from the developing fetus in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page 102 continued from page 67 estimated that in the United States , pregnant women get only 50 to 60 percent of the RDA of magnesium in their diets . This can lead to a building deficiency , and this apparently triggers the migraines , " Dr. Weaver told the Post . Dr. Weaver 's findings are not limited to pregnant women , however . Magnesium seems to eliminate headaches for children and men , as well . Premenstrual Syndrome Taking extra magnesium appears to help alleviate such premenstrual symptoms as anxiety , nervousness , and irritability . Dr. Guy Abraham , of Los Angeles , believes that premenstrual symptoms and magnesium deficiency are involved in a " vicious-cycle relationship . " In a study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , he reported that women experiencing PMS had lower levels of magnesium in their red blood cells and concluded that many premenstrual symptoms are caused by a magnesium deficiency . He pointed out that an initial magnesium deficiency may trigger some PMS , which tends to cause stress , which then tends to further deplete magnesium levels and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exercise-induced magnesium deficiencies are well-known to long-distance runners who train every day . When magnesium levels get low , calf muscles may start cramping . Occasionally , runners die shortly after exercising . Some researchers now think that the problem may be due to cardiac arrhythmias , caused by the sudden drop in magnesium and other mineral levels through perspiration loss . Harvard 's Dr. Wacker believes that magnesium supplementation before an athletic performance may improve the results . He and Gustawa StendigLindberg , M.D. , of Tel Aviv University , have found that even among superbly conditioned Israeli athletes , serum-magnesium levels fall significantly after strenuous exercise . Dr. Wacker told the Post that magnesium supplementation is " probably necessary to help prevent muscle-cell breakdown and therefore could lead to an improvement in physical performance . " Kidney Stones One study showed that taking 300 mg of magnesium-oxide supplements a day reduced formation of calcium-oxalate kidney stones from an average of 1.3 stones a year per patient before treatment to 0.1 stones during treatment  --  a drop of more than 90 percent . " The regimen is convenient and well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urology . A Swedish study has found remarkably similar results . Seizures The Post interviewed Dr. Joel Zons. zein , chief of endocrinology at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center in New York . He reported : " Magnesium can stop some diabetic seizures in humans . Three women studied were having focal seizures lasting from 30 seconds to three minutes , every five to ten minutes . Doctors could n't stop the seizures until they finally tried injecting the patients with magnesium . Their seizures stopped . " Other researchers have found that magnesium can sometimes be effective at stopping a variety of muscular complaints , from muscle twitches and tics to tremors of the eyes , the arms , the legs , or the tongue . Rickets Medical authorities in India suggest that serum-magnesium levels should be determined in all cases of rickets . Magnesium supplements are recommended especially for the patients resistant to vitamin-D therapy . Lead Poisoning Dr. Leonard Vitale , a New Jersey pediatrician , believes that magnesium deficiencies may promote lead accumulation in children . Writing in the Archives of Environmental Health , he notes that in experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals to excrete lead through their urine at an accelerated rate and caused significantly lower lead levels in their bodies . Why Are We Deficient ? Every step in the chain of modern chemical farming and food processing depletes our foods of magnesium . Chemical farming rapidly depletes the soil of magnesium because chemical fertilizers do not replace magnesium . The more a food is processed , the less magnesium remains . For example , whole-wheat bread , a less-processed variety , has 21/2 times as much continued on page 112 continued from page 103 livestock producers to use supplemental magnesium . He has observed that magnesium-supplemented animal feeds appear to have a calming effect on animals , especially when they are in confinement . The more a food is processed , the less magnesium remains . For example , whole-wheat bread , a less-processed variety , has 21/2 times as much magnesium as enriched white bread , and brown rice has 21/2 times as much magnesium as white rice . Nearly 40 percent of the magnesium content of foods leaches out during the cooking process . For example , green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 42 percent when canned . Magnesium deficiency is common among alcoholics , and magnesium supplements are used not only to help break the addiction , but also to help end the tremors sometimes associated with it . Even if you are getting enough magnesium , your body might not be able to absorb it properly . Such high-fat foods as meat , ice cream , and butter and the use of diuretics can cause a phenomenom known to scientists as " the magnesium trap . " These foods and medications are low in magnesium themselves , and they actually impair absorption of magnesium into the gut as well . How can a deficiency in magnesium be responsible for so many ailments ? " It 's because physicians do n't usually test for it , and deficiencies are probably widespread , especially for those eating an ' American diet , ' " Dr. Wacker says . " All cells require magnesium to produce or use energy . Why most of us physicians continue to ignore magnesium , which is the second most abundant mineral in these cells , is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range from irritability , nervousness , muscle weakness , and cramping to high blood pressure , convulsions , tremors , and irregular heartbeat . If you ( or your doctor ) suspect that you may be low in magnesium , he or she should check the levels of it in your blood , along with the levels of other minerals , such as calcium , potassium , and sodium . " The first step is to check the serum concentrations of all the minerals , " Dr. Herman Hellerstein of Cleveland told the Post . Checking blood levels of magnesium is not always reliable , because a deficiency can exist without its showing up in the blood , but Dr. Wacker says such a check is the necessary first step . " Although cellular depletion of magnesium can occur without a concomitant decrease in the serum level , " he said , " the simplest way to detect a marked abnormality in magnesium status , and the one that should always be tried initially , is to measure the concentration of serum magnesium . This approach has been quite successful in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplements . " However , when the serum Levels are normal , and yet the clinical situation is still suggestive of a magnesium deficiency , then the concentration of magnesium in red blood cells and the amount of magnesium excreted over 24 hours may be determined . If these two tests come up normal , then a magnesium deficiency is most unlikely . " Dr. Wacker says , " The minimum daily magnesium requirement for hu-1 mans is no less than 2.7 mg a day of magnesium per every pound of body weight , or about 472 mg for an average 175-pound man . " But he also says this level may be as high as 4.5 mg a day per pound . Yet estimates are that the typical American is getting only about 200 to 250 mg of magnesium per day . The leading magnesium authority , Mildred Seelig , M.D. , M.P.H. , FACN ( Fellow of American College of Nutritionists ) argues that most people are deficient in magnesium when their daily intake drops below 420 mg per day . She told the Post , " Below 420 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " However , because few people are willing to add up their daily magnesium intake from food sources , supplemental tablets are becoming a way of life . " I would go with the various salts of magnesium , " Dr. Seelig said . " The slow-acting magnesium chloride seems to be quite useful . " Dr. Seelig has written a book for health-care professionals entitled Magnesium Deficiency in the Pathogenesis of Disease . Her efforts have been outstanding and tireless in holding international symposiums and lecturing to alert the medical profession to the importance and prevalence of magnesium deficiencies . Her name is legendary with the growing numbers of magnesium researchers in the world.                     