@@492299

y f evangelist Billy Graham had / it to do over again , would he go to the Soviet Union ? The answer : a resounding " Yes ! " Before setting out on his journey , Graham acknowledged the risks involved . From the White House down , there were fears the Soviets would twist his visit to suit their propaganda purposes . But , he countered , " I will have my own ' propaganda ' ? the Gospel  --  and it 's more powerful . " As it turned out , Graham 's greatest risk lay not with the Soviets but with the Western press , both inside and outside of Moscow . Strangely , American reporters surpassed any Soviet attempts to twist his words and , in so doing , inflicted severe damage on his credibility among millions in the West . The majority of the reporters distorted what he said , and many even attributed to him statements he never made . Moreover , they left totally unreported some highly important aspects of his 51/2-day visit . There was no conspiracy in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him , the reporters were friendly . The mistreatment of him in print came partly from their unfamiliarity with the church scene and with the jargon religious leaders use . Partly , it was the competitive pressures that face them every day : tight deadlines and shortages of help , the hope of something exclusive , the temptation to sensationalize . And partly , it was their own bitter anti-Soviet bias , the product of the unimaginable obstacles and hos tility they face in their everyday work . These strong anti-Soviet feelings surfaced frequently in news conferences with Graham . Many questions fired at him were , in reality , challenges to him to say something anti-Soviet while on Soviet soil . And when he did n't do it , the reporters kept reminding him about it in print . Officially , Graham went to Moscow as a guest of Patriarch Pimen , primate of the Russian Orthodox Church ( representing a constituency of between 30 and 50 million ) . Pimen had invited him to deliver a major address at an international religious leadership conference on the perils of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Baptists , who had been working for years to arrange a preaching visit by Graham , would have a strong share in his itinerary . One of the roles the Soviet government has assigned churches in the U.S.S.R. is the propagation of Soviet views of peace . It is part of the price they must pay to keep their doors open . It is also the reason why some of Graham 's friends felt he should not go . His mere presence would have propaganda value for the Soviets , they reasoned . ( This forecast proved untrue , at least in the West . The same press accounts that smeared Graham gave a black eye to the Soviets . Not in recent years had the Soviet religious situation received so much press attention in the West . ) On hand to greet Graham at the Moscow international airport on that overcast Friday afternoon in early May were church officials and swarms of newspaper , wire-service and television reporters . Over the next five days , he would have more news conferences and press interviews ( with both Western and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his entire life . He told the reporters and church leaders why he had come : to preach the Gospel , to inject Biblical perspectives into the nuclear-arms debate and to learn more about the lives of Christians in Soviet society . Several TV reporters handed him envelopes on camera minutes after he stepped off the plane . " What are these ? " asked the evangelist . " Letters from the Siberian Pentecostals , " replied a newsman , referring to the two families who pushed past guards and took refuge four years ago in the American embassy after they failed to gain emigration visas . The seven , reduced to six this year after one returned home following a hunger strike , complained that they were being persecuted for their faith and had decided to move where there was freedom . The newsman , who had solicited the letters from the Siberians a day earlier , began reciting their contents . They included a number of demands of Graham and of the Soviet authorities . Fresh on Soviet soil and not yet knowing the lay of the land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he would have no comment . As viewed on the television screen , the scene was less than flattering to Graham . It was a classic case of TV newspeople trying to create their own news , ambushing their quarry and violating journalistic ethics in the process . Into Graham 's short stay were packed numerous meetings with church and government groups , private sessions with political leaders , tours of Red Square and the Kremlin , a 100-mile round-trip journey to Russian Orthodoxy 's theological center at historic Zagorsk , receptions , a concert of sacred music , a pastoral-type visit with the Siberian Pentecostals , the speech at the nuclear-arms peace conference and much more , with press interviews filling the cracks from morning until night . On Saturday night , Graham visited at random three Orthodox churches , where crowded prayer services were in progress . Impressed , he later told reporters about them , noting with a chuckle that one would not find such crowds praying in churches on Saturday nights in his hometown of Charlotte , North Carolina . The Christian Science Monitor reported that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in his hometown , Charlotte . " Other newspapers quoted Graham as saying churches in Charlotte do not have such crowds on Sundays , prompting howls of protest back home . Early Sunday , a glorious spring day , the evangelist preached at the Moscow Baptist Church , the only Baptist church in a city of eight million . The Baptists in the U.S.S.R. are an amalgam that includes not only Baptists but also Pentecostals , Evangelical Christians , Mennonites and others . A Continued on peg 102 Graham continued from page 69 split exists between the officially recognized group , which operates under a measure of government supervision , and those who want the government to keep its hands off the churches . Frequently harassed , the latter must often meet in homes or in secluded locations outdoors . ) For crowd-control reasons and to lessen the chances of disruptions by dissidents , jittery authorities , without public announcement , had shifted the Baptist service from its original 6 p.m. slot to 8 a.m. , when there are relatively few buses on Moscow 's streets and when the Baptists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to the one immediately following it at the Orthodox Cathedral of the Epiphany , where Graham delivered a shorter message to more than 1,000 people , was restricted to those who held passes . At the Baptist church , about one-third of the nearly 1,000 passes were earmarked for church members , including the choir , one-third for visitors and the press and one-third for security personnel and other outsiders selected by the authorities . Informed later by reporters of this arrangement , Graham  --  who had been well briefed in advance on such possible controls  --  said simply that he was thankful he could preach Christ to so many who needed Him most . Graham was introduced to the congregation by Alexei Bychkov , general secretary of the Baptist organization and one of the pastors of the church . When Bychkov asked how many had read the evangelist 's book Peace with God , hands shot up enthusiastically from about half of the audience . No reporter noted the significance of this remarkable response , witnessed by numerous security agents . ( The books are brought in from other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were already late for the service at the cathedral  --  whisked him away . News accounts published in America , however , said : " He made no effort to get his escorts to take him to the waiting believers , " and " He ignored several hundred believers who sang hymns outside , barred from entry . " In his sermon , Graham had listed differences that becoming a Christian can make . At one point , he said that Jesus can give one " the power to be a better worker , a loyal citizen " because a Christian obeys those over him  --  an allusion to a verse in Romans 13 . A wire-service reporter elevated that lone phrase to the lead paragraph of his story , suggesting that Graham had made a major point of reminding his listeners to obey the government . Other reporters and commentators , not knowing the context , twisted the story and reported that Graham had preached on Romans 13 ( rather than John 5 ) , urging his Baptist listeners to submit to the authorities . The reaction among readers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Graham had poured salt into the wounds of already repressed believers . As Graham concluded his sermon , a young woman in the side balcony unfurled a two-foot by four-foot banner announcing : " We have more than 150 prisoners for the work of the-Gospel . " Another young person in the pews on the main floor briefly raised a banner containing a Biblical quote : " Deliver those who are gone away to death . " Following the evangelist 's departure , a man led the woman in the balcony to a nearby room . Apparently , few people saw the banners , and Graham , preaching at a distance from them with his reading glasses on , did not see what they said . At a press conference later , reporters informed him that the female demonstrator had been arrested , and they asked him to comment about the matter . He refrained , insisting he would need more information before commenting , but they pushed harder . Exasperated , he reminded them that even in the U.S. demonstrators are sometimes arrested for disturbing religious meetings . Subsequently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ... when he concluded his sermon , two people in the congregation held up signs protesting against religious persecution . The evangelist was asked what he thought of that incident . At first he refused to answer but finally responded : ' We detain people in the U.S. if we catch people doing things that are wrong . ' " Columnists reacted fiercely , blasting Graham for his " callousness " toward the demonstrators . After reading several dispatches based on Graham 's remark to reporters . Ernest Furgurson , a former Moscow correspondent now in Washington , wrote : " He found no fault with the arrest of a woman who raised a banner during the service condemning Soviet religious persecution . " Understandably , quite a few American readers angrily concluded that Graham might just as well stay in Moscow instead of coming home to the United States . It was learned later , however , that the youthful demonstrators had been reprimanded and released after being detained only a few minutes . On the Tuesday of his visit , Graham addressed more than 500 religious leaders from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had gathered for the peace conference . Underscoring man 's alienation from God as the root cause of war , he portrayed Christ as the key to peace  --  a point that Soviet newspapers , radio and television surprisingly included in their coverage . The war that is now being waged against the Christian church in some lands apparently was on Graham 's mind as well . He declared : " We should urge all governments to respect the rights of religious believers as outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights . " Those who followed Graham closely could readily agree with John Burns of the New York Times , who provided some of the best coverage of Graham 's visit : " Although he did not mention the Soviet Union in this context of a call for religious freedom , it seemed clear that he had the host government primarily in mind . . .. " Graham also denounced the use of chemical and biological weapons , and again it was clear who he had in mind as the prime offender . What happened at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons can not be told here . In summary , what began as an exercise in anti-American , pro-Soviet politicking ended in a stunning propaganda defeat for the Soviets , thanks to the courageous efforts of several American church leaders . The Soviet press . which had covered the conference from the outset , failed to report the much more balanced outcome than the one originally scripted in Moscow . Graham himself warned Soviet leaders after sitting through the opening session that , if it continued on its Kremlin-predetermined course , no one would take the conference seriously . Continuedon following page                     