@@491652

The Rare Larry Bird by Bob Ryan THAT hat am I doing here ? " Aloft in the first-class section of a DC-I0 heading home to Boston after another Celtics triumph , Larry Bird pondered the question . " Luck , " he decided . " You 've got to be lucky . You take all the practice and work you put into it , and then you think of how easily you could tear up your knee or break your leg . It 's nothing but luck . Being here at all is nothing but luck . " There is , of course , more to the success story of this 23-year-old athletic phenomenon than mere good fortune . Basic good health is a prerequisite to the well-being of any prospective athlete . The difference between Larry Bird and the average athlete is vast , however , and it has a lot to do with skill and instinct , and only parenthetically something to do with luck . The fact is that Larry Bird was given a set of tools and he has developed them fully . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of American professional sports is no accident . Everything came together last season for Larry Bird , a 6-foot 9-inch kid from French Lick , Indiana , via Terre Haute and Indiana State University . He had turned down a chance to turn professional following his junior year at the school , preferring instead to relax and enjoy his senior year of college . Others had been similarly tempted in the preceding decade and had been unable to resist the lure of instant wealth . Some people told Bird that he was foolish , that were he to injure himself , a multimillion-dollar career would be last . Bird won his gamble . He had a sensational year , being named College Player of the Year by every reputable agency . His Indiana State team won its first 33 games before losing in the national finals to Michigan State University and its own charismatic star , Earvin " Magic " Johnson . Despite , or perhaps because of , his refusal to grant interviews of any nature , Bird became the most publicized college player since Bill Walton . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Celtics , who had drafted him as a so-called " junior eligible " in 1978 , to pay him something in the neighborhood of $650,000 a year for the next six years . All this attention had been showered on a classic product of small-town America , a shy , introverted kid who was self-conscious about his " ai n't " - laden vocabulary , a kid who was additionally burdened with personal problems . A teenage marriage had failed . His father had committed suicide . He had given serious thought four years before to not attending college at all . And then , in the late spring of 1979 , Larry Bird was to find himself a national celebrity . Many who knew him doubted that the individual named Larry Bird could stand up to the inevitable scrutiny that the player named Larry Bird would generate . But by early December of 1979 Larry Bird would be talking about " looking forward to getting back to Boston more and more after each road trip . " He would have kind words for the local press , which he thought was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agent , Bob Woolf ( whose backyard abuts Bird 's in suburban Newton , Massachusetts ) , and partly due to astute handling by Celtics ' president Red Auerbach , who kept management requests to a minimum , Bird was being eased into the world of celebrity . He was being allowed to find out exactly what being Larry Bird would mean to his daily life  --  at his own pace . He had acquired the understanding that can come only with experience , and he was beginning to like the city of Boston , which is a long way from French Lick , geographically and socially . It would not be completely correct to say that there had never been any doubts about his ability . Some observers felt that he was too slow , too landlocked  --  in effect , " too white " ? to succeed in what they felt was essentially a black man 's league . Nobody had gone so far as to suggest that he could not compete in the National Basketball Association , but some simply felt he could not stand out , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristics . What these well-intentioned critics had underestimated was Bird 's competitiveness . And what they had failed to understand was the basic nature of basketball . Year after year , players with singular talent , players who are mind-boggling runners , jumpers and shooters , fail to achieve success . Teams well stocked with so-called " raw " talents do n't necessarily win ball games . Only teams with what is now referred to as " chemistry " prevail , and that is because the game of basketball seems to reject excessive individual effort . position in which it could get jammed . He removed the tape in mid-November and then had to readjust his shooting technique . But had he never been queried on the matter , nothing would ever have been said . Only he knows how aggravating it was to play with such a handicap , and he is keeping the feeling to himself . Handling the press came easier to Bird than many thought it would , but one area which came even easier is the matter of getting along with his teammates . If there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he has always been a model teammate , both on and off the floor . He naturally relates to fellow athletes and to teams as such . It 's that simple . " I think it 's very important that teams get along , " he says . " That 's one thing I was a little worried about when I came to Boston . I was hoping the guys would get along . I had heard some things about last year 's club a sad 29.53 team torn by dissension , but everything has been great . " His reputation as a good teammate had preceded him , so the veterans  --  none of them earning anything close to his salary and therefore potentially resentful  --  gave him the benefit of the doubt . He has fit well into the kidding , army barracks-type atmosphere of the 1979-80 Celtics . About the only complaint anyone has had about having Larry Bird around is a desire Continued on page 111 Larry Bird continued from page 111 crowds of the season with Bird in town . With playing and practicing basketball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his new financial status is his mother Georgia , a former waitress . " Just knowing that my mom will never have to work again and that she can buy all the small things she 's ever wanted means a lot to me , " he says . " She gets sent money every week directly from the bank . It 's great to know she can have everything she wants or needs . That gives me a better feeling than anything . " His next project will be to serve as a basketball tutor to his 16-year-old brother Jeff when he returns to French Lick next summer . " I think there are lot of things I can show him , " Bird says . " He could turn out to be a great player . " But , " he concludes . " He 's got to be lucky . Very lucky . "                     