@@339349

John Sasso excels at a very simple thing : he listens . He fixes people with a steady gaze and , unlike most political operatives , does not cut them short . It is a disarming trait and not a parlor trick . Sasso actually takes what he hears and factors it into his plans . For he is , above all , a strategist , and any bit of stray information will be used to formulate his design . <P> Sasso also excels at a very difficult task : he makes Michael Dukakis listen . The Governor has said Sasso , 41 , is like a brother to him . The unassuming Sasso is like the outgoing , slightly mischievous kid who takes the edge off his stern , driven older brother . Where Dukakis is stiff and awkward in dealing with people , Sasso is a natural ; he puts people at ease . He is Dukakis ' emissary to the outside world . For years , politicians , bureaucrats and constituents have all said the same thing , " I ca n't talk to Dukakis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and blunt , Sasso is neither intellectual nor especially articulate . He is a coalition builder who knows when and how to compromise . Unlike Dukakis , he reaches out to people , and people respond . He engenders loyalty and returns it . The civic-minded Dukakis sometimes gives the impression that he considers himself too good for politics . " What Sasso brought to Dukakis , " says Paul Pezzella , the campaign 's Florida director , " was the conviction that good government and good politics are one and the same . " <P> The son of a research engineer , Sasso was raised in East Paterson , N.J. He was an average student and went on to study government at Boston University . After graduating in 1970 , he worked first for a real estate firm , then for a construction company . But Sasso was restless . In 1974 he became a volunteer for Gerry Studds ' Massachusetts congressional campaign . After Studds won , Sasso became his district manager in New Bedford , where he proved adept at selling a Yale-educated liberal to blue-collar constituents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sasso was supervising a statewide amendment against raising the tax rates of residential properties . Sasso won , Dukakis lost . They met shortly afterward . Sasso was impressed , and they stayed in touch . In 1980 Sasso helped organize Ted Kennedy 's challenge against Jimmy Carter and was an effective Kennedy field director in Iowa and New Jersey . Sasso then signed on for Dukakis ' 1982 comeback attempt , helping create Mike II , the newly mellowed conciliator . Notes Alan Baron , a longtime Democratic strategist : " Sasso can deal with people who really dislike Dukakis . " Sasso became the Governor 's chief secretary , taking time off in 1984 to manage Geraldine Ferraro 's ill-starred vice-presidential campaign . In Boston he used his rapport with local officials and his ability to muster a consensus to push Dukakis ' legislative agenda .                     