@@487687

It is not often that a book is reviewed with the intelligence , expertise and sympathy that Robert Pollin has accorded to our The Debt and the Deficit " The Keynes Mutiny , " Sept. 25 . We may seem churlish , therefore , if we take some exception to his careful analysis . He asks , " Why are n't the large deficits , regardless of what they are financing , stimulating growth ? " His answer lies in changes in the structure of the economy , especially in adverse movements in income distribution and increasing vulnerability to foreign competition . But these tendencies affect the consequences of all spending and borrowing , private as well as public . Hence , they can not be put forward as the reason that deficits , as such , have lost their stimulative power . There are two other answers to Pollin 's question . One of them is that deficits have n't sufficiently stimulated the system because they have been too small In the mid-1930s , deficits ranged from 3 to 6 percent of the gross national product . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would come to $150 billion-$300 billion . That would exert a real push , despite the structural obstacles to which Pollin calls our attention Second , government spending has not been targeted for growth If we had used our Pentagon dollars for education , public infrastructure and research and development , we believe that the stimulus to the economy would have been considerably larger than it has been . We agree with distinguished economists like Franco Modigliani and Benjamin Friedman that the deficit would be a lot easier to live with if more of it had been accounted for by this type of spending . Pollin cites these arguments in his review . Somehow , however , they are forgotten in his overall critique In fact , we would argue that they are an important part of his claim that there are serious stagnationist tendencies in the American economy today Indeed , the book provides evidence that we share Pollin 's concerns . We point out the degree to which the persistence of large deficits was a totally unplanned consequence of the agonizing inflation of 1980-81 and of the deep recession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficit , instead of being the cause of the trade deficit , may in fact have been a consequence of the forces that produced such a huge excess of merchandise imports We still believe that deficits , especially deficits incurred for the accumulation of public sector capital , offer us the best way of coping with stagnationist tendencies in the short run . Robert Heilbroner Peter Bernstein POLLIN REPLIES Riverside , Calif . I could agree entirely with Robert Heilbroner and Peter Bernstein 's concluding paragraph if we could italicize its last phrase . It would then read , " Deficits , especially deficits incurred for the accumulation of public sector capital , offer us the best way of coping with stagnationist tendencies in the short run . " Stated as such , this paragraph incorporates several important observations , which 1 believe clarify the central issues in the deficit debate and speak to the differences between Heilbroner and Bernstein and myself . In particular , it is important to distinguish , and at the same time synthesize , short- and longterm considerations . ( 1 ) There are serious long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced capitalist economies generally . Thus in the United States the rate of per capita growth has declined from an average of 2 percent from 1955 to 1973 to 1 3 percent from 1973 to 1986 . Similar declines in longterm growth have been expenenced by the other advanced economies , including Japan . Even if we narrow the focus to consider the U.S. experience only over 1983-88 , the years of the " Reagan boom , " we see that it was a languid boom indeed . In 1987 , real wages were 16 percent below their peak of the early 1970s , the pretax corporate profit rate was less than half its peak of the mid-1960s , and the percentage of people living in poverty was 19 percent above the level of the early 1970s Even the widely celebrated current unemployment rate of 5.3 percent  --  often referred to as " full employment " ? is still only at a level that President Richard Nixon considered politically unacceptable in the early 1970s ( 2 ) This boom has indeed been fueled by Federal deficit spending , as Heilbroner and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the size of the current deficits , as I think Heilbroner and Bernstein have done . Over the 1983-87 expansion , official deficits ranged between 3.3 percent and 6.1 percent of the gross national product , exactly the range that Heilbroner and Bernstein say prevailed in the mid-1930s and would today " exert a real push " despite structural obstacles ( 3 ) Undoubtedly , by any reasonable standard of economic justice as well as the needs of long-term growth , the deficit funds would have been more beneficially employed had a larger proportion gone toward education , infrastructure and research and development rather than the military . But we must also recognize that the short-term effect on employment and production of $1 of deficit-financed military spending is n't very different from $1 of deficit-financed spending on education The point then is that contemporary deficits are giving the economy a real short-term boost . Why then are n't these deficits leading to more rapid growth , full employment and higher wages ? ( 4 ) The explanation I suggested was that because the economy 's structural problems ? internationalization as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficit spending has had a diminishing ability to stimulate the economy . This would be true , moreover , even if the deficit funds were used in a more socially desirable way A primary indicator of structural difficulties has been the declining rate of investment growth in productive activities In large measure , this is due to the decline in corporate profitability and the associated rise of leveraged buyouts , which involve trading ownership shares in existing plant and equipment rather than building new productive capacity Corporations are also now ready to relocate production to new low-wage , nonunion regions if wage concessions are n't maintained in their traditional U.S. sites Because corporations are less willing to invest in productive capacity in the United States , deficit spending has become less effective in stimulating investment here . This means that larger and larger deficits are required to obtain increasingly weaker stimuli . And as this pattern continues , the negative effects of deficit spending grow correspondingly in their relative impact For example , as Heilbroner and Bernstein recognize in their book , interest payments on the deficits are the fastest growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1987 budget as opposed to 9 percent in 1980 and 7 percent in 1970 This has negative distributional consequences , since the overwhelming share of the government 's interest payments flow from the average taxpayer to the richest 10 percent of the population , those who own about 80 percent of government bonds ( either directly or indirectly through owning the corporations or banks that directly hold most of the debt. ) ( 5 ) Thus , while I agree with Heilbroner and Bernstein that deficit spending does work as a short-term stimulus , where we depart is over my observation that , because of the economy 's structural problems , the stimulative effects of deficit spending are growing weaker over time while its negative side-effects strengthen . A sharp reallocation of government spending such as Heilbroner and Bernstein propose will address this problem to some extent But even with such changes , the basic control over large-scale investment and production decisions  --  the decisions that give the economy its direction and momentum ? will remain in the hands of a few private capitalists They will still have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Continued on Page 616 ) Thompson 's On Growth and Form , which discusses the spiral in some depth . It has been suggested to me that Frank Lloyd Wright was inspired by the book , but since Thompson is careful to distinguish the helix from the spiral , and since it is the former that Wright uses , I am not convinced by the hypothesis . What is true is that Wright was obsessed by spiral-like structures : He designed an observatory in which a spiral makes some marginal metaphorical sense ; a shoestore and an automobile showroom , where it may have had some functional sense ; and then the museum , where it makes sense neither functionally nor metaphorically ( though it might have made both had it housed Japanese scrolls , where the coiling ramp might suggest the act of unrolling ) . The outside of the Guggenheim , which resembles a sort of upside-down spiral , like a squat cyclone , makes no architectural sense at all . In any case , there are enough felt congruities between helixes and spirals for Merz 's tables and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of harmony possible with Wright 's stubborn space . And one feels , in effect , some sort of harmony , cosmic and moral , in a show that fuses so much together into a symbolic whole : humans as dwellers and growers , igloos and tables as primordial forms of art , vegetables and fruits and even animals whose shapes or markings conform to the Fibonacci series , and then the Fibonacci numbers themselves . Then finally there are various slogans , political and sentimental , that Merz encountered , for example , as graffiti on walls in Paris in the evenements of 1968 , executed here in a stylish neon script , attached to or even penetrating surfaces , with a feeling somewhat like the texts in the panels of comic strips . It is a show almost transradiated by sentiment and warmth , as if kitsch and the avant-garde were not quite so polar and opposed as Clement Greenberg made them out to be in his landmark essay " Avant-Garde and Kitsch . " Merz has difficulty integrating an impertinent motorcycle , to which the artist has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself to one of the upper coils of the gallery , where it sticks out like a mechanistic gargoyle above the distant floor . In a superb review of this show the critic Roberta Smith suggested that by placing it where he has , Merz has m effect converted the ribbon of concrete that is the guardrail of the gallery into a sort of loop-the-loop . I think this too ingenious . You can not at once have a tabernacle and a joyride , and the harvest feeling of the show , the sense of plenitude and gratitude , the harmonies of humans , numbers , animals and shapes is at odds with a machine a shade too expensive in any case quite to fit arte povera criteria . Perhaps it was put there to inhibit the sentimentality the artist sensed as an aesthetic danger . No matter what , it is a bad idea where the Fibonacci numbers are a good idea . They are a good idea even when their symbolism is darkened somewhat by D'Arcy Thompson 's observation that " it is in the hard parts of organisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts that this spiral is commonly and characteristically found : not in the fresh mobile tissue , whose form is constrained merely by the active forces of the moment ; but in things like shell and tusk , and horn and claw , visibly composed of parts successively and permanently laid down . . . . The logarithmic spiral is characteristic , not of the living tissues , but the dead . " ( I do n't quite see how to square this with trunks and tails . ) Still , it is the feeling that counts . The show could not be more seasonally appropriate , and for those who care to co-meditate the thoughts conveyed by Succoth or Thanksgiving in a secular enclave , quite apart from the usual style wars of the moment , this is a wonderful show to experience . ?                     