@@432230

 | Crammed into a room at the Beirut airport for a sham press conference with the hostages last week , 150 rowdy representatives of the world press showed why so many mothers do n't want their children to grow up to be journalists . Ignoring glares from menacing gunmen , photographers and cameramen shouted , elbowed each other and even climbed atop the conference table for better angles , stepping on the sweets and beverages laid out by the Amal . After a brief scuffle broke out between some journalists and guards , the hostages were marched from the room . By the time they returned 20 minutes later , Shiite security men had erected a barrier of chairs between the hostages and the press . " Can we first apologize for what happened ? " a chastened Australian correspondent asked the hostages . " It was disgusting , I think we all agree . " Answered hostage spokesman Allyn Conwell : " We do . " Unruly behavior was only part of the problem . The more disturbing question was whether the press was prolonging the ordeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much of the week , the Shiite hijackers ? as savvy in the " global village " as in their own ? got exactly what they wanted out of the news media : a conduit for their cause and their demands . " I do n't know how you avoid that in the initial stage , " says ABC News president Roone Arledge . Further , by dramatizing the story of the hostages and their families ? explicitly recalling the Iranian hostage seizure of 1979 ? the press was creating a crisis atmosphere that might tie the U.S. government 's hands . Television in particular crossed the line from covering the story to becoming part of it . At the same time , it would have been unrealistic to expect a blackout . The press conference was rigged , but it was also the first opportunity to ascertain that the hostages were alive , and even the government learned new details . Some , like former Jimmy Carter aide Hamilton Jordan , went so far as to argue that TV is helpful : the terrorists must keep the hostages alive in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another veteran of the Iran crisis , disagreed : " The best thing that can happen is for this to become a page-five story or a 90-second spot on the evening news . " Scoop Scramble : Such abstractions are n't debated much on the ground in Beirut , where the three major American TV networks are beginning to resemble the local militias . " It 's a very , very tough fight right now , " says ABC 's Pierre Salinger , settling in for the duration with the Davidoff cigars he had flown in from Paris with other equipment . In the last months before the hostages were taken , no U.S. news organization ? electronic or print ? had been willing to risk basing an American in West Beirut full time . Now at least a half dozen chartered jets clutter the airport runway . CBS , with the largest commitment , has 20 people in Lebanon and another 20 on nearby Cyprus , where the accommodations and communication arrangements are better . The competition touched off the usual scramble for scoops . When ABC won an exclusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and CBS refused to relinquish previously booked satellite time so that ABC could transmit its tape right away . Tensions grew further when ABC was falsely accused of having paid the Amal to set up the interview . Only Cable News Network , which was providing solid around-the-clock coverage , seemed to stay above the fray . Most of the actual pushing and shoving was blamed on foreign photographers . " The French acted like animals , " said one British newsman after Thursday 's press conference . " What can you expect from the people who burned Joan of Arc ? " responded a French photographer . When released hostage Demis Roussos , a Greek singer , stepped off the boat in Larnaca , Cyprus , he was greeted by a horde of fevered journalists who practically rammed their equipment down his throat . Dan Howard , a publicaffairs officer at the U.S. Embassy in Cyprus , lost his patience and yelled : " You 're worse than the f -- -ing terrorists ! " The media were n't always much better behaved back in the United States . John Mazurowski , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press " about as scary as everything else , " particularly when dozens of photographers loomed up at a bus window to snap pictures . One Buffalo TV station offered to fly Mazurowski 's relatives in for a taped family reunion ; another placed a camera crew aboard the last leg of the flight in order to get an exclusive of the family getting off . In Rockford , Ill. , the family of hostage Kurt Carlson uttered the now-familiar plaint that the press trampled all over their flower garden . Turn Ugly ' : The administration argued that the press had also trampled on national security . Many news organizations voluntarily withheld potentially harmful information ; at NBC , which was without the services of either NBC News president Lawrence Grossman or anchor Tom Brokaw ( both on vacation ) , it was done at the specific request of the U.S. government . Still , outgoing Pentagon spokesman Michael Burch attacked the networks for displaying " more respect for the secrecy of new fall scripts for Dynasty ' and Dallas ' than . . . for U.S. contingency plans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the antiterrorist commando group , Delta Force , to the Middle East , conveyed to the TWA flight by radio , made the hijackers " turn ugly . " Network executives and newspaper editors responded that a Delta Force deploy-  | ment was entirely predictable , that they had provided no sensitive details about it and that it was Pentagon officials who leaked word of the mission in the first place . Former Defense Secretary James Schlesinger said the real blame rested with U.S. officials who seek to enhance their status by showing reporters that they knew ? and could tell ? secrets . But security was not the only concern . What disturbs American Jewish leaders is that the coverage of the hijackers ' demands ? and the hostages ' gun-point television appearance ? seemed somehow to shift responsibility for the crime at least partly onto Israel . A story on ABC 's " Good Morning America " featured the families of the imprisoned Shiites ? as if , some Jews charged , they could be equated with the families of innocent American hostages . Hyman Bookbinder of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report suggesting that the slain Navy diver Robert Stethem had died in a war begun by the Israeli invasion of Lebanon . Weeping People : Even right-wing press critic Victor Lasky said last week he had no complaints about print coverage . It was television that bore the brunt of the attack . Because of its immediacy and emotional impact , it is vulnerable to the accusation that it is pressuring the government to weigh the actual human beings on the screen more heavily than abstract national interests . " The problem is when TV shows weeping people and the implicit message is , Mr. President , how long are you going to keep this up ? ' " says author Peter Braestrup . The phrase that captured that message during the Iranian mess ? " America Held Hostage " ? has been banned at ABC this time around , and President Reagan is determined to downplay what his press secretary still refuses to call a crisis . The networks are at least saying that they expect to show some restraint . " If this escalates into more propaganda , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , noting that he already refused to broadcast a tape from another group of hostages that was too " controlled . " But so far there has been no letup . Reagan lost his joust with the press over keeping the coverage low-key ? and has been forced to act as if there really is a crisis after all . This week all three major networks are erecting satellite earth stations in Cyprus to ensure instant reporting . Henry Kissinger and others have recently suggested some collaboration by major media outlets to lessen coverage of terrorists in the future . But such proposals are likely to founder on the independence and competitiveness of the American press . Trying to roll back coverage of a major news event of this kind , says Harvard political scientist Richard Neustadt , is " like King Canute telling the tide not to come in. " 39                     