@@480790

For sixty years the American private eye , an anarchist unimpressed by wealth , power , violence , or sensuality , has etched his acid impressions on every level of our society . Confronted with ambiguities and deceptions , he has always reminded us that truth is not found but made . The hard-boiled dick has changed drastically over the years , though , from marginal self-employment to yuppie self-improvement : where we once had Sam Spade , Philip Marlowe , and Lew Archer , we now have Travis McGee , Spenser , and V. I. Warshawski . If a tradition is going to stay alive , it has to go somewhere , but this one has gone from Mean Street to Easy Street and moved in with Ozzie and Harriet ; Eddie Mars 's Cypress Club has been replaced by the Sierra Club , and the gumshoes are brand-named for jogging . Still , the trip has been in a straight line , and Grandfather Hammett seems to have laid out the early maps himself . We even have tour guides , including New Black Mask ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to revive the Black Mask tradition of tough-guy detective fiction ) , books by academics , and a seventeenyear-old dissertation by Robert Brown Parker , a.k.a . Robert B. Parker , creator of Spenser . Hard-boiled , a slang term that shifted meanings as it passed from minstrel shows through Damon Runyon , by the twenties had become a style , an attitude , a characterization , found in Hemingway as much as in Hammett . Nicely defined in a 1926 magazine article as " hard , shrewd , keen men who neither asked nor expected sympathy nor gave any , who could not be imposed upon , " hard-boiled heroes were tough , wise-cracking , bitter ; they resented having lost their innocence and were determined the world pay a price for it . Their code of honor had become so private they perversely enjoyed being thought worse than they were Only to themselves , and not always then , did they let the truth slip : " It is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime , but at night it is another thing , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1926 . The hard-boiled school of crime fiction arose four years earlier in Black Mask with the first stories of Dashiell Hammett , who looked like an El Greco saint and has been promoted as one by Lillian Hellman ; he had been a private eye himself . CRITICISM 61 Ross Macdonald noted that " we all came out from under Hammett 's black mask . " Essentially , all hard-boiled heroes had the same ingredients , although their sense of loss was spelled out more clearly if they were not private eyes . Here is Jake Barnes , emasculated in World War 1 : " Of all the ways to be wounded . I suppose it was funny . " Ross Macdonald and Raymond Chandler admired the tough-guy novels of James M. Cain ( Chandler co-wrote the screenplay for Double Indemnity ) ; William Faulkner , one of Hammett 's drinking buddies , helped write the screenplay for Chandler 's The Big Sleep . Humphrey Bogart , the archetypal hard-boiled actor who played both Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe , was just as hard-boiled in Casablanca after losing Ingrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , drank destructively , distrusted women , killed when more or less necessary , and took a lot of punishment without complaining . By now , the private-eye fiction of Hammett , Chandler , and Ross Macdonald has become both literature and myth . The literary reality is in the hooks , but Hollywood has seized the myth and held it for ransom . Hammett 's first hard-boiled dick , the Continental Op , never translated to film too well . Sam Spade not only became the model for later dicks but also provided Hollywood with the classic private-eye film , The Maltese Falcon . John Huston transported much of its dialogue directly from the novel , so that now it is difficult to imagine Spade calling everybody " sweetheart " without hearing Bogart 's precise , indifferent sarcasm . Although slightly older than Hammett , Raymond Chandler did n't begin to write detective fiction until Hammett was about finished . Chandler 's first appearance in Black Mask was in 1933 , and his last Philip Marlowe novel , The Long Goodbye , came twenty-one years later . Philip Marlowe lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hollywood cream filling , where the move from dreams to corruption was only one short step . Private eyes know this territory , and Hollywood has provided its clearest image of them through Marlowe , producing ten films based on the six Marlowe novels ? although when The Big Sleep was remade , with Robert Mitchum , the story was idiotically moved to London . Private eyes can only function in their own locales . Our third classic , Ross Macdonald , a full generation younger , wrote his first Lew Archer , The Moving Target , in 1949 . Although Archer had a Los Angeles office , his cases ranged up and down the California coast ; unlike Marlowe , Archer stayed away from Hollywood , and Hollywood has almost reciprocated . Still , The Moving Target was made into the fine film Harper , with Paul Newman as the renamed Archer , and Newman reappeared in The Drowning Pool ( unfortunately moved to Louisiana ) . Because Archer gradually became less hard-boiled , Robert Brown Parker concluded that " Archer 's humanity blurs the purity of line , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marlowe . " Perhaps that humanity has blurred the camera lens as well . onsider the best of the current , vastly changed hard-boiled dicks : Travis McGee , because he has been a pivotal figure and because John D. MacDonald , who died this winter , wrote so well about death , money , and Florida ; Robert B. Parker 's character Spenser , because he 's the toughest wisecracker in the business ; and Sara Paretsky 's V. I. Warshawski , because she gets laid , jailed , knocked out , and shot at , takes the law into her own hands and occasionally has an excessive urge to maim or kill , and generally proves that a feminist can fit hand in glove with the hard-boiled . We should expect changes ; otherwise we would be dealing with a genre as stale and lifeless as English drawing-room mysteries . The hard-boiled dick is a reflection of America , and America itself has changed . Our current concerns are ourselves and our families , which are in pretty bad shape . It may be an optimistic sign that today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old-timers . He is no tougher but he is stronger . Actually , Philip Marlowe began this : he was over six feet tall and had played college football . Football has now become popular for hard-boiled heroes . Travis McGee , who stands six feet four , played professionally until he hurt his knee ; on television , Thomas Magnum , about the same height and in many other ways a borrowing from McGee , played college hall , climaxing with the Army-Navy game . Spenser is a boxer rather than a football player , but he too is built like a brick roundhouse . Women are rare on football teams , so Warshawski , though only five feet eight , played on a state-championship high-school basketball team . Not only have the current dicks played at the most brutal good American games but they also have kept in shape . Lord knows what Sam Spade , Philip Marlowe , or Lew Archer did for exercise other than dodge bullets . Travis McGee is the conscience of us all in this respect . In John D. MacDonald 's sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , McGee realized that if he simply sat around on his houseboat partying between cases , he got soft . He began exercising , with that kind of pain we all know when we suddenly break out the sweat-pants , adding some of his girlfriend Chookie McCall 's dance exercises to his old football and 62 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE /OCTOBER army routines ; this surely made him one of the pioneers in aerobics . In The Lonely Silver Rain he learns shadowboxing from another of his girlfriends , but over the last twenty years ( ten years for Travis , who , like other private eyes , ages only half as fast as the rest of us ) , it has become harder and harder to loosen up the joints . While McGee suffers for his fitness , Spenser obviously enjoys working out for hours and hours , lifting weights , sparring with Hawk ( especially in the television version ) , and jogging . Jogging is also the exercise of Warshawski , who runs five miles most days ; in Bitter Medicine she spends a lot of time in Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Warshawski are all passionate baseball fans ( Red Sox , Tigers , Cubs ) . The casualty in all this healthy-body business is smoking . The Continental Op smoked Fatimas . Sam Spade rolled his own with Bull Durham . Philip Marlowe smoked everything but cigars . Where would Bogart have been in any movie without that smoldering stub to make him squint ? But now the surgeon general should be ecstatic . Lew Archer started out smoking , but after his author quit , his author 's wife had an operation for lung cancer , and the two of them joined the antismoking campaign , he quit also ( quietly , as was his wont ) . Travis McGee started out smoking , but it did n't seem too much of a habit with him ; nevertheless , being an opinionated sort , he has become one of those unpleasant quitters who seem to forget they ever indulged . In The Lonely Silver Rain he grumbles gratuitously : " It 's a funny thing about television and cigarettes . Hardly anybody I know anymore smokes cigarettes or watches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mind . " In her third case , Killing Orders , Warshawski suddenly turned fanatic ; she said that " all smoke makes me ill , " complained to us whenever anyone lit a cigarette or pipe , and offered as one concrete detail of why she disliked her ex-husband the fact that he smoked in bed . They do still drink . In The Thin Man the amount of booze consumed by Nick and Nora Charles and their friends between breakfast and dawn was frightening , especially because they drank so cheerfully ; no wonder Hammett , an alcoholic himself , was essentially at the end of his writing career . And when things got bad for Marlowe , he would drink himself blotto . But today 's dick is picky . Having become a yuppie , he demands brand names . This started with McGee , who insisted that his gin come out of a bottle of Pilgrim . When Pilgrim moved from Britain to America , McGee switched to Boodles . Spenser loves to drink : four margaritas at lunch start Taming a Sea-horse . Mixed drinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drink just about anything , with a preference for beer . Yet he isludicrously picky about his beer , in one novel making a small scene in a restaurant because they do n't have Amstel and he has to settle for another of Holland 's finest , Heineken ? in spite of the fact that from novel to novel he switches brands ( Beck 's , Amstel , Rolling Rock , and sometimes even Heineken ) . Warshawski prefers whiskey neat , especially doubles of Johnnie Walker Black , but twice in Killing Orders grudgingly settles for Chivas Regal , In other words , the hard-boiled detective has become both a decadent connoisseur and an upwardly mobile consumer . Formerly , he was a connoisseur of only two things : guns and women , although even Marlowe once celebrated Huggins-Young Coffee ( " one of these days I 'm going to see that they get the recognition they deserve " ) . In one novel Travis McGee described his friend Meyer as a " finnikin , " but he is finicky himself , and the younger dicks are worse . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baseball and brands of California champagne : ' I opted for Schramsberg , he for Iron Horse . We agreed that Taittinger was the class of the French though Krug and Cristal and Dom Perignon were worth a gulp . " Now there 's something wackily funny about two mean , pistol-toting ex-boxers comparing champagnes , but this name-brand business can get tiring . Take jogging shoes . In Promised Land ( 1976 ) , Spenser notes that his client 's wife wears " white Tretom tennis shoes " and that Hawk has " white Puma track shoes with a black slash on them . " Spenser wears , during the course of the novel , not only old sneakers and dress loafers but " my white Adidas track shoes with the three black stripes , no socks , " not to mention " my Adidas Varsities , in rust-colored suede " ; in the next novel he wears three more pairs of Adidas and some Pumas , and Hawk gets Nikes . In Pale Kings and Princes Spenser has " brand-new Avia running shoes , oyster white with a touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruefully notes that " my Avia aerobic shoes were gorgeous and comfy but were not designed for standing in doorways in the snow . " Warshawski does n't tell us the brand of her running shoes , but she is passionate about " my beloved Magli pumps " ? open-toed , red-leather high heels at $140 the pair . By their shoes shall ye know them . Today 's hard-boiled authors have formidable formal educations , and these are often reflected in the intellectuality ? or pseudo-intellectuality ? of their characters . The only book Sam Spade was known to have read was a compendium of famous criminal cases . But Philip Marlowe eventually let his college education get in the way : his lonely study of chess problems and championship games started off as an endearing , stubborn pursuit , but that was in the early stories when he had to ask who Marcel Proust was ; by The Long Goodbye he was giving a hack writer a brief lecture on Gustave Flaubert and sophomorically discussing T S. Eliot with a chauffeur . Ross Macdonald ( when he was Kenneth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Michigan ( dissertation on Coleridge ) . John D. MacDonald possessed one of the most sought-after degrees in the country , an M.B.A . from Harvard , which apparently failed to make him a successful member of the business community ; this is reflected in the vast theoretical and practical economic knowledge of Travis 's older friend ( and MacDonald 's alter ego ) Meyer , the hairy economist , whose first houseboat , the John Maynard Keynes , was replaced by the larger Thorstein Vehten . We have already mentioned the dissertation of Robert B. Parker , Ph.D . in English from Boston University , who taught literature before breaking free of academia ; his Spenser is the most well-read of all private eyes and quotes poetry frequently , but there is a kind of defensive and offensive quality ? snobbishness , name-dropping ? about it . The very essence of Spenser , of course , is to be two things at once ( symbolically represented by his two shadow selves , Susan Silverman and Hawk ) : a refined man who sculpts wood in his spare time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tough guy who wrecks cars , kills crooks , and in one novel drives clear to Maine just to beat up a man he has never met who had sold his own daughter . Sara Paretsky has a Ph.D . in history from the University of Chicago ; her Warshawski has a law degree , sings lieder and Italian opera , and like Spenser , goes in for gourmet cooking . Paretsky lists every menu and for all 1 know may be about to publish a restaurant guide to Chicago ; Robert B. Parker actually has contributed to a dining-out column in a Boston magazine . Health , education , expensive tastes ? these may be American virtues , but they are not hard-boiled . One can not judge a society if one shares its values . Try to imagine Sam Spade ( or Bogart , for that matter ) in Spenser 's new jogging suit , " shiny , black , with red trim . " he biggest , most alarming change , however , in the hard-boiled dick is his surreptitious attempt to acquire a family . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the peculiar Thin Man , wherein a retired investigator , married and wealthy , sniffed out crimes for amusement . Hollywood spun out a series of Thin Man films ( Hammett 's sketch for Another Thin Man is printed in New Black Mask , Nos. 5 and 6 ) , but Nick was not a hard-boiled detective and the novel was simply a murder comedy . Hanamett 's attempt to bring the private eye out of his self-imposed isolation was a wistful failure : the hard-boiled dick is a loner by definition ; he can be widowed , divorced , or simply abandoned , but he ca n't have a family ? that would be too much of an investment for a shrewd investor to make in a worthless world . Raymond Chandler began to delve into this family area , and Ross Macdonald once described him as " Hammett with Freud potatoes . " A year of psychoanalysis resulted in Macdonald 's own best work , beginning with The Galton Case ( 1959 ) , a family drama along Oedipal lines ; the eleven novels that followed had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monstrous parents . He noted about his own work that Freud " made myth into psychiatry , and I 've been trying to turn it back into myth again in my own small way " ; he was less concerned with gangsters and politicians than with the corruption at the heart of the family , usually festering in secrets at least twenty years old . But the newer detectives have stopped investigating other people 's families and started acquiring substitute families of their own . Travis McGee soon had Meyer , a father figure , to provide cautionary warnings ; and now , after over twenty years of bachelorhood , Travis has suddenly discovered he has a daughter of seventeen , a by-blow from an earlier case . This is the climax of The Lonely Silver Rain , a case which finds McGee more sour on the world and more alone than usual , even quarreling with Meyer for no good reason and wondering about the point of it all , until his daughter appears out of the blue . He sets up a trust for her , including nearly everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimp in his money supply will force him to take more cases , we wonder whether John D. MacDonald had a premonition of his own mortality and felt guilty about leaving McGee out there on the Atlantic side of Florida without the comforts of home . Spenser suddenly stopped aging a few novels into the series , but by then he had acquired the full trappings of a family : pseudowife Susan Silverman , whom he has bedded for many years ; pseudobrother Hawk ; and even pseudoson Paul , whom he pried away from a destructive family some cases back , trained in the manly virtues of carpentry. and sent off to ballet school ( in every novel we get a report on how Paul is doing ) . Since her own family is either hostile or dead , V. I. Warshawski also has acquired a pseudofamily : her older confidante , Lotty , an immigrant medical doctor from Vienna , says in Killing Orders that " you have been the daughter I never had , " and V. I. addresses Lotty 's brother as " uncle . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed himself " her father . In addition , Warshawski has added a new wrinkle to the hard-boiled family romance , solving the murder of her cousin in one novel and in another discovering why her mother was thrown out of the house at age eighteen . Half-Italian , half-Polish , half-Jewish , Warshawski has a complicated and tragic family history to worry about in this maze of Chicago immigrants , and the Freudian family dramas are her own ( as the last paragraph of one novel reminds us , V.I.Warshawski 's middle name is Iphigenia ) . obert Brown Parker was one of the earlier proponents of a thesis about the hard-boiled dick that now seems almost universally accepted : the private eye is the frontiersman in modem dress , having moved to the city after the frontier closed . D. H. Lawrence had written that our earliest frontier hero , Leatherstocking , was " a saint with a gun an isolate , almost selfless , stoic , enduring man , who lives by death , by killing , but who is pure white . This is the very intrinsic-most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observation that the detective is " the cowboy adapted to life on the city streets , the embodiment of innocence moving untouched through universal guilt , " Parker argued that the heroes of Hammett , Chandler , and Ross Macdonald had a " wilderness heritage . " On the other hand , Elmore Leonard , who wrote Westerns before turning to crime fiction , does n't see too much of a similarity , just that his protagonist should be " a stand-up kind of a guy , like the Western hero " ( New Black Mask , No. 2 ) . Is it a good thesis ? The heroes , starting with Philip Marlowe , compare themselves to knights rather than frontiersmen . Travis McGee rather tiresomely refers to himself as Don Quixote in every novel ; V. I. Warshawski thinks of herself as Joan of Arc and " Dona Quixote " ; even Spenser betrays his author 's thesis by choosing a knightly image . Still , Parker cautioned in an interview that his dissertation was not relevant to his own novels . There is something to the argument , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard-boiled dick with the frontiersman . The moral authority of Cooper 's Leatherstocking was that he lived in the wilderness before civilization brought law and order ; Cooper argued in The Pioneers that his law was nature 's law and hence of a higher order than civilization 's law . Americans have always believed that individual morality , individual religion , individual education stand above institutions . The hard-boiled dick carries on this tradition , insisting on individual justice as distinct from the law , which is held in barely disguised contempt ( Spenser is always tearing up parking tickets ) . In an increasingly class-conscious America , the hard-boiled dick restores our democratic dreams of the classless frontier by moving easily through every level of society . But his violence also reminds us of the dark side of an anarchic democracy : when we sign the social contract , we obtain security in exchange for handing over certain rights ; the hard-boiled dick has to provide his own security . The price of freedom is eternal murder . The frontiersman ? Leatherstocking , Daniel Boone ? could always move on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dick can not , and he stays to defend his turf . Ironically , in the process he protects a society to which he refuses to belong , generating his bitter sarcasm . And this is what the frontiersman thesis misses : the hard-boiled dick may be a mad saint , going through increasingly complicated rituals to cleanse himself , but he is no innocent . And now that he has moved into the propertied class , his arguments look increasingly like sophistries.                     