@@326808

Implanting fetal cells in rats <P> Brain damage is forever , or so doctors once thought , but that longstanding medical axiom is now being proved wrong . In laboratories across the U.S. and Europe , researchers are finding that by creating the right chemical environment , and in some cases implanting new cells in the brain , damaged nervous systems can be coaxed to regenerate . Even more encouraging is the discovery , so far shown only in animals , that cellular regrowth can restore lost mental functions , and , in addition , improve memory and learning . <P> The latest achievement in this promising field is the work of Dr. Donald Stein and three colleagues at Clark University in Worcester , Mass . As reported in last week 's issue of Science , the group attempted to restore mental functioning in 21 rats whose brains had been damaged by removal of large sections of the frontal cortex . This section of the brain is involved in the learning of complex spatial relationships . Typically , rats sustaining such a severe injury would take 18 days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternate right and left turns in the correct order to get a drink of water . " The rat has got to remember what he did the last time and then do the opposite , " Stein explains . Normal rats can learn the task in just 2 days . <P> Before attempting to repair the brain damage , Stein 's team waited a week to allow for the natural accumulation of healing proteins called nerve growth factors . Then they implanted a pinhead-size lump of tissue that had been taken from the frontal cortex of normal rat embryos . The researchers used fetal cells because they are rich in growth factors and adapt easily to a new environment . Result of the operation : the brain-damaged rats were able to learn the maze in just 8 days . While this is still slower than normal , says Stein , " the transplant was clearly producing some degree of functional recovery . " Stein later found that new connections had grown between the transplanted tissue and the rest of the brain . <P> According to Stein , the immediate lesson of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more capacity for response to brain injury than previously thought . " The same conclusion has been reached by researchers who have regenerated nerve fibers in other parts of animals ' brains as well as in their spinal cords . At Saint Elizabeths Hospital in Washington , D.C. , for instance , Neuroscientist William Freed has treated rats with fetal cell implants to relieve symptoms resembling Parkinson 's disease in humans . The implanted cells are capable of producing dopamine , a vital brain chemical lacking in the afflicted rats and in Parkinson 's patients . Such techniques used with humans , some researchers believe , may lead to a cure for Parkinson 's disease within five to ten years . Eventually , it may also become possible to repair the spinal cords of paraplegics and regenerate parts of the extensively damaged brains of patients with Alzheimer 's disease , Huntington 's chorea , multiple sclerosis and other degenerative disorders .                     