@@486980

Communists have figured prominently in dozens of American movies , from My Son John to The Way We Were to Daniel , but Seeing Red , a new feature-length documentary , is the first to let them speak for themselves . Subtitled Stories of American Communists , the film is just that . In contemporary interviews interspersed with archival footage , still photographs and connecting narration , a dozen or so present or former Communists , a few well known , like Pete Seeger , but most not , recall their lives on the left in the 1930s , 1940s and 1950s . The effort is admirable , but the results are disappointing . Neither the audience nor those interviewed are given their full due . In 1976 , James Klein , Julia Reichert and Miles Mogulescu made Union Maids , a documentary about three female C.I.O. organizers . Union Maids perfected the interview format and Joshua B. Freeman is a labor historian . set the standard for a host of labor and social history documentaries that followed , but it had one glaring fault : although a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its subjects had been Communists  --  as it turns out all three were  --  the Communist Party was never mentioned . Seeing Red is an elaborate effort by Klein and Reichert to rectify that omission . I suppose there is something worthwhile in simply hearing people talk openly about their experiences as Communists . The filmmakers ' message certainly comes through : Communists were good Americans who tried in their own way to do what they thought was right . The film begins brilliantly , with clips of Ronald Reagan and Herbert ( I Led Three Lives ) Philbrick describing the Communist Party as a demonic international conspiracy in speeches that were originally used to introduce anti-Communist films . What follows is the refutation . But refuting Herbert Phil-brick is an awfully modest goal , and leads to a correspondingly modest achievement . In effect , Reichert and Klein have produced a filmed , and thinner , version of Vivian Gornick 's The Romance of American Communism . We hear people explain why they became Communists : Howard Johnson tells a college class  --  he now teaches sociology  --  about his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communists seemed to make the most " sense " ; Oscar Hunter , a printmaker who died this year , points out that joining the Communist Party was n't a big deal during the Depression . We hear anecdotes about life in the party : Rose Podmaker tells of leaving a factory job for a party training school where she married her instructor , and of her anger at being sent back to her old job so that she could support her husband 's full-time political work ; Carl Hirsch reads letters he wrote to his wife while he was covering a Missouri sharecroppers ' strike for a Communist newspaper ; and several Lincoln Brigade veterans recall the Spanish Civil War . We learn of the troubles C.P. members faced during the cold war , and why they did or did not finally leave the party . Perhaps it 's a coincidence , but two of the most impressive figures are still in the party today ? Sylvia Woods , who was also in Union Maids , and Rose Kryzak , who is shown giving a rousing speech at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extraordinary lives , the interviews often seem surprisingly flat . Although some criticize the party  --  for its relationship with the Soviet Union , for example  --  the overall impression is of a group of people at peace with their past . Maybe too many years filled with reflection have gone by for them to recapture all the passion and turmoil of being a Communist , or maybe f makers asked them the wrong questions . The compromises and contradictions that make many old Communists so fascinating are largely missing here . What 's worse , we learn almost nothing about the Communist Party itself . Seeing Red does not explain what sort of people joined the party , what its institutional bases were or what policies it pursued . The New Deal and the Popular Front are never mentioned ; World War II , when the party reached its peak strength , is barely discussed . The cold war is presented in the crudest possible terms as a vast conspiracy that duped a gullible public , a mirror image of Phil-brick 's view of the C.P. Ultimately , this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is a political film , it adopts the strategy of a Jane Fonda movie : show some obviously decent people and you will win sympathy for their views . What a lost opportunity ! I like Pete Seeger and I even like his uplifting speeches , but I 've heard them many times before . What I have n't heard , and would love to know , is exactly how , as a performer , he related to the party . How did an organization once associated with modernism come to be the midwife of America 's folk revival ? Then there 's Bill Bailey , a wonderful Wobblyesque maritime organizer , who is never asked why the Communist Party was so successful in organizing sailors and longshoremen , and what , if anything , that said about the nature of the party . And Dorothy Healey , an important West Coast C.P. leader , whose comment that she was " a little Stalin " is not pursue'i . As the film went on , I began- to wonder how much Reichert and Klein learned during the six years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who occasionally appears on screen , expresses surprise at the lack of democracy within the party , since those who joined were " questioning " people . But were they , necessarily ? Many , including Healey , joined the C.P. after growing up in homes or neighborhoods where radicalism was the norm . Others joined because the party represented social and cultural mobility  --  a way to escape a ghetto , get ahead in a union or leave behind an immigrant past . By the end , I wanted to grab the filmmakers by the shoulders and shout , like , Joan Rivers , " Grow up . " The subject is too important to be simplified into a morally comforting tale about some admirable folks . Nor is it fair to the C.P. and its one-time members to surround th:r complex , and in some ways tragic , history with a pleasant autumnal glow , and leave it at that . What went wrong ? Perhaps it was the filmmakers ' lack of faith , I hope misplaced , in the audience 's ability to take in more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has reached its limit . As the witnesses in Reds delightfully demonstrated , telling one 's own story does n't insure accuracy or insight . I wish Seeing Red were more inquisitive and adventurous , more in the spirit of Atomic Cafe ( which for all its problems at least invented a fresh narrative form ) , or of Eisenstein 's notes , in which he discusses his desire to film Capital in the style of Joyce 's Ulysses . One final note . This film is itself something of a historical artifact in that it received much of its funding from the National Endowments for the Humanities and the Arts . It is inconceivable that the Federal government would finance a similar project today . That is a shame , because it probably means we will never get to see a better movie about this generation of American Communists . Join The Nation Associates , a group of loyal and committed Nation readers who provide invaluable support for the magazine through annual contributions of $20 or more . Membership includes participation in a variety of Associates activities and a subscnption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tells you what 's going on behind the scenes at The Nation For further information write or call Claudine Bacher , 72 Fifth Avenue , New York , NY 10011 , ( 212 ) 242-8400 Make checks payable to The Nation Associates .                     