@@432014

 | Conservative Christians are waging their strongest battle of the century to unseat liberals as the dominant force among the nation 's 130 million Protestants and Catholics . From Pope John Paul II to television preacher Jerry Falwell , tradition-minded church leaders are launching aggressive campaigns against what they regard as decay in politics , morals , evangelism and theology . The result is growing controversy and a big shift in membership , money and influence toward what psychiatrist Robert M. Liebert of the State University of New York calls " the conservative , fundamentalist side in Christendom 's oldest battle . " " Make no mistake about it , " Dr. Liebert told a group of mainline church leaders , " nothing less than the definition of Christianity is at stake in this holy war . " A majority of U.S. church members still adhere to relatively liberal versions of Protestantism and Catholicism that are heavily influenced by modern concepts of science and social progress . In the last 15 years , however , the mainline churches that espouse such views ? including Methodists , Presbyterians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their memberships by as much as one quarter . At the same time , conservative groups such as Mormons , Southern Baptists and Seventh-day Adventists have been growing at rates as high as 4 percent a year ? faster than the national population . This has swelled the number of evangelicals to at least 44 million ? 1 out of every 5 Americans ? and propelled the 13-million-member Southern Baptist Convention into preeminence as the nation 's largest Protestant denomination . Filling the airwaves . One important factor in this changing tide is a rapidly growing array of evangelical television and radio stations known as the " electronic church . " In the last decade , the number of stations devoted to sermons and gospel variety shows has multiplied from a relative handful to more than 1,300 on radio and 40 on television . Commercial channels , too , are selling more air time to conservative preachers . Combined audiences , according to the National Religious Broadcasters , have soared to about 130 million people a week ? more than go to church . Donations from viewers and listeners exceed 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to use their shows as a source of political power . Nationally syndicated preachers such as Pat Robertson , Jerry Falwell and James Robison have been urging viewers to vote a strongly conservative line on such issues as abortion , welfare , pornography , big government , Communism and defense . Even opponents of the anti-abortion movement concede that it is gaining ground as hundreds of thousands of evangelical Protestants join Roman Catholics and others in the drive behind a " prolife " constitutional amendment in Congress . Two senators who opposed the measure were defeated in the last election . A dozen are targeted in this year 's voting , which both sides describe as a likely turning point in the seven-year struggle . Two fundamentalist political-action groups , Falwell 's Moral Majority and the Christian Voice , are trying to raise hundreds of thousands of dollars for conservative candidates . Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan are among a host of presidential and congressional contenders who have met with broadcast evangelists in hopes of winning their support . On April 29 , Pat Robertson and other TV evangelists plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D.C. , to greet congressional supporters of their " pro-God , profamily " movement . Among their main objectives is House passage of a bill , already approved by the Senate , nullifying the Supreme Court 's 18-year-old ban on school prayer . " Get out the delegate " campaigns by evangelical churches concerned about pornography , abortion and divorce are having a big impact on state meetings to select participants in the White House Conference on Families this spring . Conservatives are accused of unfairly packing the meetings . Their reply is a charge that liberals have unfairly dominated such conferences for years . Evangelicals in several parts of the country have also won official approval of Bible-based " creationism " textbooks aimed at refuting scientific theories on the evolution of the world . Other grass- roots battles are being waged to prevent the imposition of state accreditation standards on fast-growing Christian schools and to purge from public classrooms books regarded as immoral . Waves of born-again sentiment are also being felt in denominational politics . Disputes over the tone of worship have accompanied the spread of bornagain fervor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Presbyterians . The reason is that a significant percentage of those denominations ' members now identify themselves as evangelicals , and nearly one fifth believe in pentecostal practices such as faith healing , according to a new Gallup Poll . Some of these conservative church members are forming watchdog groups to seek stricter standards of personal morality in their denominations . One such organization won an emotional battle to ban the ordination of homosexual priests at last fall 's meeting of the governing body of the Episcopal Church . Another caucus , called the Good News Movement , plans to conduct a similar campaign at the convention this spring of the 10-millionmember United Methodist Church . The pressure from evangelicals is also pushing the mainline churches into making a stronger bid for converts . The United Methodist Church is considering a plan to counter the inroads of broadcast evangelists by buying its own religious-TV station , with satellite connections for relaying its programs nationwide . Commercials saying , " We 're family .... Get to know us , " are being aired by the Catholic Church ? its biggest venture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sheen in the 1950s . " Clearer articulation . " Even the strongly liberal National Council of Churches has felt the influence of this resurgent evangelism and piety . While vowing to maintain their emphasis on social activism and church unity , the council 's 32 Protestant and Orthodox denominations recently unveiled a new directive calling for a " clearer articulation of the Biblical and theological basis of our life and work . " Earlier , the council fired Lucius Walker as the head of its social-action arm , the Division of Church and Society . Walker blamed his ouster on pressure exerted by some denominational leaders who allegedly felt that he was too radical . Council members denied the charge , attributing the dismissal to excessive spending by Walker 's agency at a time when dwindling membership and finances are severely straining the bureaucracies of most of the liberal church groups . Another shake-up was launched by fundamentalists at last year 's meeting of the Southern Baptist Convention . Despite charges of voting irregularities , they elected as president a Memphis pastor , the Rev. Adrian Rogers , a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of  | " new right " political organizer Edward McAteer . Since then , Rogers has angered some members by campaigning on behalf of the school-prayer bill , a move denounced by the denomination 's chief political officer as a " complete repudiation " of the Baptist stand for separation of church and state . Supporters of Rogers are also threatening to dismiss seminary teachers suspected of straying from strict interpretation of the Bible . That move brought published warnings in March against what Baptist Prof. James T. Baker called " a bloody academic and administrative witch hunt . " Doctrinal controversies have also put liberals on the defensive among the 50 million Catholics who make up the nation 's largest church . Pope John Paul II 's recent withdrawal of teaching authority from freethinking Swiss theologian Hans Kung has brought a storm of protests from U.S. scholars ? but to no avail . The Pontiff has also turned aside pleas for a relaxation of his strong stands against women 's ordination , married priests and contraception . Thousands of written applications for permission to leave the priesthood have gone unanswered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a , dose of badly needed discipline . Liberals say the prohibitions are a source of frustration that eventually will undermine the store of good will and inspiration created by the Pope . Basic changes . Most of these disputes have so far had only passing effects on ordinary Protestants and Catholics . But many theologians and sociologists see them as part of a broad rightward shift that is creating a dramatic change in the political , moral and social outlook of the nation . Critics see the evangelicals ' stress on personal salvation at the expense of social reform as a manifestation of the narrow thinking and selfishness often attributed to the " me decade " of the ' 70s . Catholic philosopher Michael Novak , however , describes the change as a natural , and perhaps healthy , desire to " get back to basics " and " batten down the hatches " in preparation for a decade that appears especially fraught with economic and political dangers . " Modern visions of social and theological progress , " Novak says , " are giving way to a search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of suffering in the world . " farms that provide jobs and food for the Mormon poor . As Mormonism gains in stature , however , it is colliding with a growing number of critics who describe the church as a repressive foe of fairness toward women , blacks and dissenters . One clash came with last December 's excommunication of Sonia Johnson , a Virginia Mormon accused of railing against church leaders in her campaign for the equal-rights amendment . The church has also angered liberals by sending busloads of Mormons to help win victories against ERA , abortion and homosexual rights at conventions and legislative meetings across the U.S. Another controversy was resolved two years ago when the church lifted its ban on blacks in the priesthood , a status that has been virtually automatic for white Mormon males . Source of beliefs . The ban was rooted in the Book of Mormon , scriptures that Mormons say were given in the 1820s to their prophet , Joseph Smith , by an angel named Moroni on a hill in New York state . These writings , used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garden of Eden was located in Jackson County , Mo. , and that American Indians are descendants of the lost tribes of Israel . Mormons believe that Jesus , after his resurrection , visited those American Israelites and started a church among them that lasted until war destroyed their civilization . It was this faith that led Smith 's followers to organize their church in 1830 and begin a 17-year journey that ended in the founding of a " new Zion " in Utah . Smith was killed by a mob in Illinois . Others died of cold and disease . From these hardships has come growing devotion to a creed that Elder Gordon Hinckley , a member of the church 's ruling council , calls " an anchor of certainty " that people find attractive " in these unsteady times . "                     