@@480299

HIS WORK is intended to supply a great and long acknowledged want , " wrote George Grove in 1878 , in his pref-ace to the first edition of the dictionary that was to become the standard English reference work on music . A century and a year later , a sixth edition , consisting of twenty volumes , has appeared , edited by Stanley Sadie , a British music critic and expert on the eighteenth century . The New Grove ( as it is called , to distinguish it from earlier incarnations of Grove 's Dictionary ) * is a monumental scholarly achievement . a highly detailed and comprehensive reference work , containing extensive bibliographies , periodical lists , library and instrument-collection lists , lavish illustrations , and technical artides on music and musicians of all cultures written by eminent scholars from around the world . The New Grove supplants any comparable scholarly compendium in music , especially its German rival and nagging source of inspiration , Die Musik in Geschichte and Gegenwart ( " Music in History and in the Present " ) , which has served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now that this new edition of Grove 's has appeared , after eleven years of painstaking preparation and over seven million dollars in production costs , and at a retail price of just under $2,000 , what contemporary " great and long acknowledged want " does the New Grove satisfy ? In Stanley Sadie 's words , the New Grove reflects in part " new attitudes , increasingly scientific and objective in character , " to the study of music . Sadie argues in his preface that the Grove 's Dictionary that had sufficed since 1878 through five editions ( the last completed in 1954 ) could no longer do justice to the world of musicology , a world that has changed far more during the past twenty-five years than in the prior seventy-five . Less than 3 percent of the 1954 edition remains intact . Despite the assertions to the contrary of the publisher , Macmillan , the New Grove is not a set of books for the " music-loving layman , " nor is it written in terms that are always " intelligible " to him . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford to buy it . On the other hand , institutions ? the thousands of libraries in England and America alone certainly can and will , which is a telling indication of the New Grove 's different purpose . The New Grove was conceived and executed by and for professionals : musicologists , critics , and those few musicians who have the range of education and vocabulary necessary to comprehend the technical articles on musical analysis , the philosophical articles e.g. , ( on " expression " ) , or the historical digressions such as that on the underlying significance of Wagner 's aesthetics . In short , the " want " satisfied with merit by a century of Grove editions ? that of music lovers and musicians with a desire for a lucid , intelligent , and elegantly written reference work , has given way to a new one , magnificently satisfied by the New Crave ? the " want " of the academy and the cognoscenti for the finest contemporary musical scholarship . But the change that has come over Grove 's Dictionary since the last edition is neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anomaly . Rather , it highlights the end of an era in which serious music and high culture were important issues in the societies of America and the industrial Western world . Consequently , in its extensive entries on the European tradition of sacred and secular composition , and on composers and the repertoire , the New Grove reveals its scholarly preoccupation with music 's relation , not to politics and society , but to contemporary notions of language , logic , truth , and beauty . Nevertheless , the New Grove is not oblivious to the ways in which certain changes in society , especially in science and industry , have affected the character and perception of music . By describing in detail jazz , popular music , rock , gospel music , country music , blues , and the musical theater of Rodgers and Sandheim , the New Grove comprehends the gulf between music as art and music as commerce and entertainment . And in its systematic exploration of music in non-Western cultures it sustains the ideal of music 's multiform universality , an ideal not shared by Grove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarous nations , unless they have some direct bearing on European music . " W HEN GEORGE GROVE issued his prospectus for the Dictionary of Music and Musicians in 1874 , Brahms and Wagner were alive and in their prime . The aesthetic conflict between the two views of music they represented ? music as an autonomous , absolute art and music as a symbolic means toward redemptive political and futuristic expression ? lay at the center of the moral and philosophical character of the European nineteenth century , a character buttressed by Ruskin in architecture , Arnold in literature , and William Morris in art . In his incarnation as music critic , George Bernard Shaw participated in the intense arguments about music chronicled by the contemporary newspapers . Shaw 's aesthetic judgments , like those of his fellow critics , were allied to his political principles . Music 's important cultural position was not confined to England , of course . In the Neue Freie Presse of Vienna , as in the daily papers of Paris , Berlin , and Leipzig , the debate about and criticism of music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the men in America , England , and continental Europe who led the commercial and artistic boom in music during the late nineteenth century ? the building of concert halls , the founding of orchestras , the manufacturing of instruments , especially pianos , for the middle and upper classes ? were not professionals , or scholars , or merely businessmen ; they were part of society at large . The Steinways , for example , were figures to contend with in New York City politics . In Vienna , the directorship of the opera was a matter of political importance . both mayoral and imperial . Consider George Grove himself . He was a " savant " but not an " intellectual , " as his biographer Percy Young concluded : a civil engineer , who helped build the Britannia Bridge with Robert Stephenson and who figured prominently in the late-nineteenth-century archeological craze for Palestine . Grove conducted his musical studies ( which included writing a lasting , eloquent book on 74 BOOKS the symphonies of Beethoven ) as a matter of leisure for most of his life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " family reading . ' on the widest of subjects . As a broadly gauged servant of knowledge and science , Grove believed , in the spirit of his contemporaries ( such as J. S. Milk in the power of education as a force for social progress and in the moral improvement of the burgeoning middle and lower classes of England . For that reason , during his later career as director of the Royal College of Music as an amateur ) , he embarked on his musical dictionary . Grove was impressed by the " immense improvement in the general position of music ... " since 1800 and by the fact that it was becoming " an essential branch of education . " " A large , important and increasing section of the public " wished to know more , thought Grove , about the rise , progress , and present condition of music , which " is at once so prominent and so eminently progressive . " Grove stressed an interest in new music , in the desire of a new public ( the growing audience for music ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Grove supported that quest , not to vindicate artistic tradition or to assist in a museum tour , but to sustain a changing ' and improving world . Music was essential to culture , and culture to social progress . Grove created a work that was " anxiously divested of technicality " and that provided musical illustrations within " the reach " of the amateur . The Dictionary was to help keep the public " alive " to music 's " many and far reaching associations . " T RE EDITIONS that followed George Grove 's death in 1900 all stuck to the original premises , including the 1954 edition . Nevertheless , the latter acknowledged the demand for sophisticated scholarship and made allowances for recent advances in musicology , which were considerable . Indeed , by mid-century , musicology ? which marks its beginnings from 1898 , when Guido Adler , the father of musicology , succeeded to the chair of music at the University of Vienna ? had come into its own . Of course , the emigration of many Central European music scholars to England and America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Grove 's . But even in the early and mid-1950s the traditions of musical culture that inspired George Grove remained intact , despite a growing conservatism in taste , which would have been foreign to him . Sadie and his fellow editors are therefore correct when they assert that the changes of the past twenty-five years have been more decisive than those of any previous period . But the changes have not only been in musicological professionalization . In the postwar era the musical way of life of the nineteenth century ? the era of the amateur and musically educated layman ? has come to a dramatic end , shifting musical culture from the center of cultural debate to its periphery . The evidence for this is all around us . Performing stars today , like Luciano Pavarotti and Daniel Barenboim , do not play a role in the nonmusical world , whether for good or evil , in a manner reminiscent of , say , Paderewski , Richard Strauss , Casals , Furtw5ngler , and Toscanini . And nowhere is there a new music that can command the attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was first heard . The concert hall , in fact , has become a musical museum . Pop , rock , and Muzak , and film , radio , and television music , together with the classics of the pre-twentieth-century repertoire , have now taken hold of the musical imagination of all but the most self-consciously sophisticated , the professional and the academician ? in short , the audience for the New Grove . The New Grove is a monument to the fact that while the study of music has become more professionalized , the audience for music has suffered from waning passion and sophistication . Contrary to George Grove 's hopes , the music-listening public today , even if it is larger as a result of demographic and economic growth , is less musically literate than its counterpart of a bundyed , fifty , or even thirty years ago . The New Grove marks the enormous gulf that has come to separate the world of the expert from the world of laymen in music . It is a symbol of serious music 's exit from the tumult of active life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archives of culture , heavily guarded by academicians . The new edition is not without its virtues , however . Its treatment of medieval and Renaissance composers is superb , and without the condescension with which they have so often been viewed in the past . In particular , Ockeghem , Lassus , Obrecht , Josquin des Pres , and Gesualdo are discussed in exemplary biographies . The Baroque and Classical periods also benefit from advances in musical scholarship . Instead of the search for germs of later music , which used to dominate writing on pre-Classical composers , for instance , the Neu , Grove offers details of composition technique and performance practice . The eloquent , sentimental descriptions of Handel and Bach in the old Grove 's , cast in a loose " music-appreciation " style , are missing from the New Grove , though it should be remembered that the earlier editions were trying to evoke , through language , the memory of works only occasionally heard , or outlined haltingly at the piano . Recordings have changed all that . When it comes to the nineteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , less complete than that of the old . What was contemporaneous , or nearly so , with earlier Grove edition ? , is now more precisely historic , having moved from foreground to background , as it were . This is all to the good when it allows the New Grove to he less partisan about various musical debates inherited from the nineteenth century . The myth that Berlioz 's composition technique was faulty , for example , is happily absent . ( Historical distance does not prevent the editors from passing along disparaging judgments of their own , however ? of Hugo Wolf and Ernest Chausson , among others . ) But , like its predecessors , the New Grove gives over much space to living musical figures ( predictably . to more purely performing musicians , or " re-creators " of great music from the past , than performer-composers ) , at the expense of minor luminaries from the past . As a result , the old Grove will continue to be a better reference work for certain musicians from the mid- and late nineteenth century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , it is here that the au- dience for serious music , in contrast to its predecessors , feels itself shut out ? primarily by the century 's new musical idioms . And here the New Grove is both inconsistent and confusing . It treats Arnold Schoenberg ? one of the innovators in these idioms ? with little technical detail ( although it is needed ) , while its discussions of Alban Berg and Roger Sessions swing too far the other way , and can only be properly understood by the trained theoretician . Not surprisingly , the entries on Debussy , Rachmaninoff , and Prokofiev , whose breaks with the past seem less obviously radical , are lucid and comprehensible . The new musical idioms among this century 's composers naturally account in part for the ascendancy of expertise ? of the professionalizalion that seems to eclipse the lay audience ? so evident in the New Grove . But there is more to it than that . For the new musical language has its corollary in the academy , in a new language for talking about music ; this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grove . Nowhere are the departure of music from the center of culture and the gap between layman and professional more clear than in the New Grove 's entries on the theoretical elements and character of music : forms , acoustics , composition techniques , perception , sound , notation , and the materials of musical analysis . The current popularity of structuralism , linguistics , and philosophy of language is everywhere in evidence , as is the work of Heinrich Schenker. whose complex analysis of the structures of music changed music theory in the first decades of this century . An " average " training in the perception of forms ( e.g. , sonata and symphony ) or of the distinctions between harmony and counterpoint , or tonality and atonality , is not enough to penetrate the new self-referential vocabulary of these articles . In the article on " Expression , " for instance , one is faced with an eclectic discussion of Wittgenstein 's notion of expression , including an explanation of expression 's transitive and intransitive meanings . Gone is the attempt of the old Grove to stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place is a complex critique of the commonplace idea that music somehow expresses something . In " Analysis , " one finds a polemical discussion of the different techniques of comprehending musical logic and structure rather than a learned but still useful guide to ways of penetrating the character of musical forms . These arcane presentations of the " language " of music are more than the products of high erudition . They reflect a crisis of understanding within the academy itself , derived from the various kinds of intellectual skepticism that have swept away traditional ways of considering music and other kinds of cultural expression . In the wake of intellectual challenges to historicism , positivism , and objectivity in historical and social-scientific research have come new , obscure theories and ways of talking about texts , meaning , sound , perception , and the like . As surrogate , the academy of the New Grove offers virtuoso technical displays of how what one hears is not actually what one thinks is out there ; or , alternatively , of how what one hears may not be explicable by referring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is somehow outside the listener himself . T HE RESULT is that the New Grove is a somewhat contradictory scholarly statement . In the entries on composers , institutions , performers , instruments , and genres , it presents a confident statement about accuracy , evidence , and authenticity . In contrast , in the entries on the nature of music and musical perception , a far more complex , sophisticated , and confused idea of truth emerges , and with it a skepticism that impedes clarity . The result , for the unsuspecting and untrained reader ? the nonacademician , the " music lover " ? is that the New Grove may pose questions he did not realize existed . It may confuse him ; it may draw him into the continuing speculation on the nature of music and how we hear it , which the dictionary 's writers are themselves in the midst of . This epistemological crisis , when strengthened with insights from critical theory , hermeneutics , and the like , and accompanied by an acute awareness of where we are in time ( without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a discussion of music that leaves the old Grove far behind , and makes it appear na ? ve . George Grove believed in historical progress . He thought music was on a path of diverse but comprehensible development . He believed ? as did the other editors of Grove 's , through 1951 ? that the elements of music could be identified , talked about , and explained in nontechnical language , and that whatever subtle analysis might be brought to bear on music , it could never seriously impair its capacity to be understood and enjoyed . The significance of the New Grove , then , is that through its very mastery of scholarship it is symbolic of the protective posture of a new aristocracy ? that of the academy ? over music . Sir George geared his work expansively to the improvement of the middle classes , because he believed that real artistic understanding and appreciation could be shared widely , without detriment to the subtlety and character of great art . The editors of the New Grove are not so certain . This is why the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its limited audience as merely a work of superb scholarship , a specialty item . In its name , heritage , and scope it retains an echo of the founder 's premise that a reference work of its kind can broaden and heighten the public understanding of music . The New Grove betrays the need explicit in its name for a new effort to reach out and establish a broader audience for serious music , and for a culture of the future that is neither philistine nor arcane . The main function of such an enterprise would be to pierce the self-protection of the academy . If music entertains and delights , if it inspires , it does so as an empowerment to the individual . To shroud the nature and history of music in the mysteries of science and scientific language , to frighten the potentially serious lay public more than has already been done , is a misuse of scholarship . Observing the modern audience in the winter concert halls or at summer festivals , one senses an anxiety of ignorance combined with an honest concern ( " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One sees the frightful harriers placed by the semi-experts who write pretentious , jargon-filled music criticism and program notes . One senses still the audience 's yearning for the explosive experience music can be . Grove attempted to reach that audience , drawn without guile to the seductions of serious music . The new editors of Grove spurn that audience with academic arrogance . They make it less likely that it will emerge from its bad habits and ignorance . Yet the scholars say : " Depend on us . " Musicologists and music theorists say : " We shall guard the treasury that may delight you Your predecessors , so well treated by Sir George , misused the little knowledge provided them . One ca n't , in the modern world , integrate the serious love of music with anything else . Choose between passivity and professionalism . " In the realm of art , the New Grove may represent a new dark age , in which priestlike guardians of culture tower over a mass of cultural illiterates , the modern equivalents of a theologically sophisticated clergy of the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If so , the brilliance of the musical scholarship evident in the New Grove may , by its triumph , hand both the priests and the faithful , scholars and public alike , a truly pyrrhic victory .                     