@@432067

 | The women 's movement , which in the 1970s evoked images of marches , banners and fiery speeches , today has settled into a tough behind-the-scenes struggle for economic rights . Gone from daily headlines are Betty Friedan , Gloria Steinem , Bella Abzug and other leaders who carried the fight in those years . Replacing them is a cadre of little-known individuals laboring intensively on specific issues ranging from abortion rights to jobs to Social Security . Foremost in their minds : Preserving the gains of the ' 70s in the face of the growing " new right . " Meanwhile , a woman whom most observers view as a foe of the movement ? Phyllis Schlafly , an outspoken critic of the equal-rights amendment-seems to garner more attention than anyone . At first glance , it would seem that the movement has lost its drive . By this time next year , the campaign to pass the equal-rights amendment may well have ended ? unsuccessfully . There is strong support in Congress , too , for softening affirmative-action programs in employment and challenging the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pregnancy . Feminists view the administration as supporting such moves and worsening matters by seeking deep cuts in key social programs . " I 'm concerned that we have been indulging in some fantasies that doors  | had opened and that the struggle had paid off , " says Federal Trade Commissioner Patricia Bailey , former vice chair of the National Women 's Political Caucus . " I see dangers of backsliding . We 've got to stop moaning and groaning and get together and be productive . " Much depends upon whether today 's battles will be fought with the same intensity that characterized the ringing speeches and best-selling feminist books of the ' 60s and ' 70s . In those days , the goal was consciousness-raising ? telling the world , often in militant terms , that women had been either ignored or exploited in American society . In her 1970 book Sexual Politics , theoretician Kate Millett wrote : " Our society , like all other historical civilizations , is a patriarchy . . . . Every avenue of power within the society , including the coercive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Betty Friedan , who spurred the movement in 1963 with her book , The Feminine Mystique , led a massive march in 1970 down New York 's Fifth Avenue . Proclaiming a Women 's Strike for Equality to celebrate the 50th anniversary of women 's suffrage , she predicted : " The women 's movement is going to be the biggest movement for social and political change in the ' 70s . " During that rally , some held placards reading , " Repent , male chauvinists ; your world is coming to an end . " Men nearby countered with signs saying : " Bra-less traitors . " New tactics . Though little more than a decade ago , that rhetoric has a feel of ancient history . Public confrontations have given way to low-keyed campaigns on vital issues . The National Organization for Women , led by Eleanor Smeal , has launched a drive in 171 cities this summer for passage of the ERA . The group also has led efforts to reform the Social Security system to give more benefits to women , especially to homemakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Karen Mulhauser , is working to block moves in Congress to outlaw abortion once again . Since January , the league 's membership has grown from 100,000 to 125,000 . The Women 's Legal Defense Fund participates in a number of crucial cases before the Supreme Court and other legal bodies . Directed by Judith Lichtman , the group has filed briefs in support of suits challenging genderbased draft registration and sexual harassment in the workplace and seeking more equitable pay for women . Working Women , directed by Karen Nussbaum , is composed of office workers , and its primary goal is unionizing clerical personnel . The group also is geared up to battle proposals in Congress and in the administration to weaken affirmative-action rules . Women 's Equity Action League , whose lobbyist is Patricia Reuss , is pressing Congress to head off proposed budget cuts in education and other social services affecting mainly women . These and other groups are joined by members of Congress , such as Barbara Mikulski ( D-Md. ) and Patricia Schroeder ( D-Colo. ) , who focus on needs of families and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , are not silent . The 60-year-old Friedan has just completed another book , The Second Stage , in which she describes her view of where the movement is headed : " The next stage must deal not with the problems of women alone but the problems of women and men together . " Her big concern : Added pressures on marriages and child rearing for two-career families . Steinem , 47 , writes a monthly column for Ms. , the magazine she helped found in 1972 , and travels the country speaking on women 's issues . What all of these people agree on is that the agenda of the women 's movement has moved well beyond the rhetoric stage and into the more practical task of spurring local efforts on a host of dollars-and-cents issues : Day care , flexible working hours , equal pay for comparable work , pension reform and fairer promotions . " Economic matters will dominate the next decade even more than the ' 70s , " says Carol Bellamy , president of the New York City Council and a longtime feminist . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one half of the labor force composed of women who are not working for pin money . " The women 's movement , observers note , has done well in mustering support from the 60 percent of adult females under age 65 who work outside the home . Where it has faltered has been in capturing the loyalty of the 45 percent of married women who list as their main activity " keeping house . " Filling vacuum . Failure to win the allegiance of housewives left a vacuum that has been filled in part by Phyllis Schlafly , 56 , an Illinois lawyer who for years has stumped the country in opposition to the ERA . In her view , the movement threatens the female 's traditional role of wife and mother and undermines the fabric of the family . " American women have never had it so good , " she claims . " Why should we lower ourselves to equal rights ' when we already have . . . special privilege ? " Some believe that the single-minded drive to pass the ERA and to counter such opponents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was wasted on an issue that was not crucial to women 's future welfare . Whether or not the drive to pass the ERA was a mistake , feminists agree their goal must be economic progress . " Now , it 's straight bread and butter , " says Smeal . " Older women who remained homemakers ... find they do n't have the money to live on into old age . The opposition would like us to believe that there is no change , but you ca n't turn back the clock . "                     