@@487019

With nearly 2,000 farm families going bust every week , distress is sweeping the American countryside . While Republican strategists are beginning to worry about their prospects in the heartland , some observers on the left see potential for widening the constituency for genuine political change in the United States . A few years ago the left could no more number farmers in its coalition than it could count on the support of stockbrokers . Most farmers lined up behind Ronald Reagan in the 1980 election , partly to protest Jimmy Carter 's grain embargo on the Soviet Union , which sent farm prices sliding . And despite four years of worsening conditions in the farm economy , they stuck with him in 1984 , in the hope that recovery would eventually come their way . Even in Iowa , one of the rural states hit hardest , Reagan won 60 percent of farm family votes . By April 1985 , The Des Moines Register reported , the President 's approval rating among Iowa farmers dropped to 24 percent . Nationally , his approval rating among farmers slipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 1985 , according to a poll conducted by Successful Farming . In the months following the election , many farmers figured out that the policies outlined in Reagan 's 1985 farm bill , which mandated lower prices for farm goods in order to increase sales abroad , were designed to help agribusiness , not working farmers . The price of corn , which costs an average of $3.25 a bushel to grow , has been cut in half over the past seven months , down as low as $1 a bushel . With such prices , farmers have no hope of paying off their debts . But the profits of grain-trading companies like Cargill or Continental Grain shoot up when crop and livestock prices drop . Discontent with Reagan and the Republicans was apparent last month at the United Farmer and Rancher Congress , organized with money raised by Willie Nelson 's two Farm Aid concerts . Around 1,500 delegates , representing farmers from thirty-eight states , met in St. Louis , and it was clear that most of them were looking for a political solution to their problems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Texas State CommisJay Walljasper is executive editor of the Utne Reader . sioner of Agriculture , diagnosed the farm crisis as a case of " Reagan mortis , " and delegates leapt out of their seats when Jesse Jackson added a few new lines to his usual appeal for the Rainbow Coalition : " The same hands that picked cotton and picked beans and picked fruit can now pick congressmen and senators and Presidents . " Farmers , who now make up only about 3 percent of the U.S. population , do n't have the numbers to win in Washington . Nevertheless , as farm activists point out , rural people make up 31 percent of the electorate , and most of them are economically or sentimentally attached to the family farm system . The Minnesota Agriculture Department calculates that every farm loss wipes out three to five other jobs , most of them in the same area . And Prairiefire , a rural advocacy group in Iowa , estimates that for every five to seven farms going under , one Main Street business shuts its doors see Osha Davidson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nation , June 14 , 1986 . That 's the reason many small-town bankers , business owners , teachers and clergy  --  once the bedrock of the Republican Party in the Midwest  --  have joined the attack on Reagan 's farm policy . In Missouri , three county-level Republican leaders made a much-publicized switch to the Democrats . In Minnesota a key coordinator in Reagan 's 1984 statewide campaign , Dave Johnson , is now the Democratic opponent to U.S. Representative Vin Weber ( a close colleague of conservative Georgia Representative Newt Gingrich ) . And in Nebraska three rural Republican legislators switched to the Democratic Party . This year rural voters may decide who controls the Senate , with races in North Dakota , South Dakota , Idaho , Wisconsin , Missouri and Oklahoma . In 1988 rural voters could help pick the President by delivering dozens of electoral votes in states from Montana to Missouri and tipping the balance between suburban Republicans and urban Democrats in larger states such as Michigan , Ohio , Illinois and Texas . After all , it was the dismal state of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stinging defeat in Congressional elections and paved the way for John Kennedy 's victory two years later . The election of Hightower as commissioner in Texas was another sign of change in farm politics . Hightower pulled together an alliance of small farmers , Hispanics , blacks and liberals in 1982 ; he expects an easy re-election this year with the same formula . " The left has made a lot of misassumptions , " he says . " For instance , they write off Texas as a conservative state . It is . But that does n't affect how people go out and vote . They do n't care about ideology . They want someone to come out and talk sense on the issues . " As head of the Democratic National Committee 's Agriculture Council in 1983 and 1984 , Hightower asked hundreds of farmers throughout the country what kind of Federal farm policy they 'd like to see . He and his staff then teamed up with the Minnesota Agriculture Department to draft a new farm policy , which was introduced in Congress last year by Senator Tom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Devorah Lanner , " A Farm Bill by and for Farmers , " The Nation , July 6/13 , 1985 . The bill would do away with expensive foreign subsidies and instead set a minimum price for farm goods that would give farmers the chance to recoup their production costs . It would also take some land out of cultivation , enhance soil-conservation programs and boost food-stamp benefits . Despite bitter opposition from the White House and intense lobbying by agribusiness interests such as Ralston-Purina and the National Food Processors Association , the bill attracted support from farm-state Republicans in the House . It was killed by a group of forty-seven big-city Democrats , including leading liberals Stephen Solarz , Barney Frank , Henry Waxman and Patricia Schroeder , who claimed it would result in higher food prices for the poor . Members of the Congressional Black Caucus , however , gave the bill unanimous support . Farm activists condemned the urban Democrats who supported the Administration 's farm bill and thereby dashed hopes of reaching a compromise with Reagan on farm policy in a House-Senate conference . Hightower admits that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the supermarket , but he compares this to the inevitable price increases that come when urban workers are helped by boosts in the minimum wage . Kevin Ristau , a bankrupt Minnesota hog farmer and a field coordinator for the League of Rural Voters , points out that a small increase in food prices now could forestall a much larger one that would come later if giant companies gain control of the food production system . He also notes that increases in food-stamp benefits and reduction in the cost to taxpayers for farm subsidies could compensate for higher costs at the checkout line . Nearly everyone agrees that Reagan 's farm program , which so far has cost more than the combined farm expenditures of every President from Roosevelt to Carter , is a disaster . Besides driving tens of thousands of families off the land , it has failed miserably in its own mission : boosting income from agricultural exports . Last summer , for the first time since 1957 , the United States imported more food than it exported over a ihree-month period . In addition , thefarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large number of farmers are n't making enough money to meet payments on their loans see Jim Schwab , " The Shaky Farm Credit System , " The Nation , May H , 1985 . It 's against this bleak backdrop that Senator Harkin reintroduced his Save the Family Farm bill on September 23 , and the farm movement has begun organizing across the Midwest using the Harkin bill as Exhibit A in its effort to draw rural people away from conservative politics . Among the engines of this movement are the Minneapolis-based League of Rural Voters , which conducts media campaigns in fifteen states aimed at educating rural people about the issues at stake in Washington ; the American Agriculture Movement , Inc. , a lobbying group which grew out of the " tractorcade " protests of the 1970s and which recently has taken a turn to the left ; and the North American Farm Alliance , a coalition of grass-roots groups based in Ames , Iowa , which strengthens the farm movement 's links with labor and progressive organizations . Although most farm activists are stressing electoral politics this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of rallies , strikes and blockades . With leaders whose politics were framed by the student radicalism of the 1960s and who opted for farming over graduate school , the progressive farm movement is adept at tying the farm crisis to other issues . " Farms , not arms " is a popular slogan seen on feed caps and T-shirts at farm rallies . At the farmers ' congress in St. Louis a vice president of the United Automobile Workers and the president of Nicaragua 's Farmers and Ranchers Union both drew hearty applause . Links have been forged with the environmental movement on behalf of soil-conservation programs , and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has publicly supported the Harkin bill . Jesse Jackson has become something of a hero to many rural people after helping protesters try to block foreclosure sales of some Minnesota and Missouri farms last year . Busloads of white farmers from ten states drove to the Rainbow Coalition 's convention last April in Washington to show their support for Jackson . In North and South Carolina an activist group called the United Farmers Organization has set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counties . And in South Dakota several hundred farmers showed up on September 29 to protest Reagan 's appearance in Sioux Falls . As important as the organizations and the demonstrations are , some observers say the most significant change in rural America is in the way farmers view the world . " When politicians used to come out and talk to us , " notes Roger Allison , a grain farmer and director of the Missouri Rural Crisis Center , " they 'd tell us that our problems came because too many blacks were on welfare in the cities and because labor unions made too much money . But there 's been a great awakening out here . We 've realized that blacks are not our enemies , unions are not our enemies . We 're all up against the same thing . Our problem is that we 're politically powerless . " Allison points to a coalition of farm , labor and civil rights activists in the Kansas City area as a model for progressive farm politics . The groups trade speakers and bring out people for one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and leader in the Wisconsin Farm Unity Alliance , asserts that farmers touched by these organizing efforts often reappraise their opinions on issues that reach beyond farm policy . " A lot of the people involved in the movement now , you might have called right-wing a few years ago . The man who is the president of our organization was someone you 'd have called a redneck . But last year he spent several months in Mississippi helping black farmers deal with their creditors . " If all this sounds too good to be true  --  a Little House on the Prairie version of a radical 's dream  --  it 's instructive to recall that it 's nothing new in American politics . " There 's a strong tradition of farm politics with left ties going back a hundred years , starting with the Farmers ' Alliance and the Populist Party on through the Progressive Party of Henry A. Wallace in 1948 , " says Dixon Terry , a dairy farmer and leader in the Iowa Farm Unity Coalition . Some of the American left 's more notable accomplishments are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all-time local membership totals in Oklahoma before World War I , the state-owned bank and grain mill established in North Dakota by the Nonpartisan League and eight years of radical government in Minnesota under the Farmer-Labor Party in the 1930s . Yet like much of the left , the radical farm movement faded after World War II . Since the 1950s the Agriculture Department under both Republican and Democratic administrations has promoted bigger farms using more machinery and applying larger doses of chemicals . According to the League of Rural Voters , 30 percent of American farmers left the land between 1950 and 1960 , with 26 percent more leaving between 1960 and 1970 . But it was n't until the late 1970s , when the " get-big-or-get-out " policies began backfiring on many middle-class farmers , that the tractors converged on Washington and many state capitols . Unfortunately , some of the farmers radicalized by those protests later succumbed to the arguments of the far right , which blamed either a Jewish conspiracy or the Federal Reserve System for the farm crisis . These extremists gained ground in the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culprit  --  unlike most liberal politicians , who blamed " poor farm managers " for the crisis , and urban leftists , who generally ignored the problem . The left 's current activity in rural areas may reduce the far right 's drawing power among despondent farmers . The new farm activists have a hard row to hoe . They must convince a majority of farmers , most of them individualists with little experience working in groups , that their problems can be solved through political action ; that the farm crisis is a result of the same corporate attack on the American people that keeps unemployment rising and industrial wages slipping . The success of spreading this message throughout the countryside may save not only the family farm but progressive politics as well . ? Big Horn County , Montana A merican Indians may soon gain access to local governments that have been dominated up to now by white people . In only the second lawsuit ever brought under the 1965 Voting Rights Act on behalf of Indians , U.S. District Court Judge Edward Rafeedie has handed down a landmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Montana from Los Angeles , ruled in June that Big Horn County must dismantle its at-large voting system . That system has allowed white voters to elect white candidates to school boards and county offices in every election but one since 1924 , the year that Indians got the right to vote . Big Horn County , although appealing Rafeedie 's decision , has followed his order to devise a district voting system that mirrors the concentrations of the Indian and the white populations in the nation . This means that votes for Indian candidates in predominantly Indian districts will not be diluted by white votes . Hardin , Montana , the county seat , reminds me of a circle of covered wagons in Indian country . It perches near the confluence of the Big Horn and Little Big Horn rivers , fifteen miles from the hillside where Col. George Armstrong Custer 's Seventh Cavalry was rubbed out by Arapahoe , Cheyenne and Sioux warriors in 1876 . It sits just beyond the northern edge of the Crow Indian Reservation ( Crows , by the way , scouted for Custer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ west of the border of the Northern Cheyenne Reservation . Wilbur Wood is a poet and a journalist who lives in Roundup , Montana .                     