@@487017

At the end of eleven hours of negotiations in Reykjavik , Mikhail Gorbachev turned to Ronald Reagan and said , " We missed a historic chance . Never have our positions been so close . " Was Gorbachev right ? Since the Administration is presenting a united front on behalf of Reagan 's version , it falls to the Democrats to set the record straight and identify any unmissed opportunities that may still remain . One hopes that the " leading Democratic strategist " quoted in The New York Times a couple of days after the failed summit was not speaking for his party when he said that it " must be very careful " in the next week , lest the " liberal Democrats seem to be doing Gorbachev 's work forhim . " Now , if ever , is the time to transcend cold war platitudes and take the truth from wherever it can be found , rather than worrying who is doing whose work . For almost two years the Russians , under Gorbachev , have made significant concessions on arms control . In almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moratorium on nuclear testing , the United States has reciprocated with disdain . But Reagan 's attempt to disinform the American public about the negotiation record at Iceland can not undo the fact , as many American participants observed , that the Russians offered sweeping compromises . Even Secretary of State George Shultz characterized the Russians ' tentative agreement at Reykjavik to eliminate their SS-20 missiles from Europe and cut their Asian forces by 80 percent as " breathtaking . " The Soviet negotiators had other surprising proposals for their American counterparts : 50 percent reductions in their strategic forces , a freeze on the number of short-range nuclear missiles in Eastern Europe and negotiations on lowering the numbers of those weapons once the agreement on long-range intermediate nuclear forces was signed . And Gorbachev dropped his demand for a total test ban , accepting Reagan 's proposal that both sides take interim steps to reduce the number and yield of nuclear tests . Yet Reagan 's refusal to abandon Star Wars undermined a breakthrough in arms control . The Strategic Defense Initiative , it should not be forgotten , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't believe will work , whose purpose is an imperial one ( safeguard America , the rest of the world be damned ) , whose costs are projected in the triple trillions of dollars , and which the Administration has tried to sell as a defensive shield although , as any first-year West . Point cadet can tell you , in wartime defense is offense . A laser that can hit a missile can hit a city . We do not know why Reagan expected the Russians to give something for nothing , or whether anyone in the Administration advocated negotiations on Star Wars  --  as former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger appeared to do when after the talks he told Charlayne Hunter-Gault on the MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour that he never understood why the United States would n't agree " as offense goes down . . . to lower the level of defense . " We do n't know what happened behind the scenes , or what prompted chief of staff Donald Regan to insist that after Reykjavik a summit was impossible , while Shultz and other Administration officials said no such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find out , to clarify and to force the Reaganites to run on Reagan 's record . After all , only last year the President said that " too much SALT is bad for you . " And two years ago , it was revealed that Reagan had initiated a disinformation program to release , through the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department , deliberately false data about S.D.I. in order to impede the transfer of technological information to the Russians . And it must be made clear that in calling for an extension , Reagan is essentially calling for a phase-out of the 1972 ABM treaty . Perhaps this is the only positive outcome of the aborted talks in Iceland : Americans may now realize that the Reagan Administration wants to continue the arms race . Despite the President 's public show of optimism , he and his advisers know that if the Democrats find the nerve to make their case , they may be able to defeat the Republicans in the fall and gain a majority in the Senate . After a long season of acquiescence , here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to challenge Reagan 's arms control record ? " In order to retain a very theoretical weapon , " Senator Gary Hart said after the summit , Reagan " gave up what would have been an extraordinary achievement in arms control . " This Administration , he pointed out , " apparently never intended to use S.D.I. as a so-called bargaining chip , as they have often alleged . " Even an ardent centrist like Senator Sam Nunn expressed hope that Reagan would rethink his position . Such stirrings offer some hope that the Democrats will return to the role of opposition party . Papa Do n't Preach 1 ast week the New York City Board of Education voted to cut back a pilot program through which health clinics in nine high schools had prescribed , and one had distributed , contraceptives to stu-dents . Several board members joined the Roman Catholic Archdiocese in arguing that giving advice on birth control to teen-agers encourages promiscuity . Board president Robert F. Wagner Jr . agreed to limit the provision of contraceptives on school grounds to students 18 and over . This compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means they will be less likely to practice birth control . At the same time , a clinic based in a Chicago high school has been sued by a group of thirteen black clergymen and a handful of students and parents . They make the demagogic charge that the distribution of contraceptives at the all-black DuSable High School is " a calculated , pernicious effort to destroy the very fabric of family life among black parents and their children . " Another party to the suit is the ProLife/Pro-Family Coalition , a group that apparently opposes birth control as well as abortion . Their victory would endanger all school-based clinics . According to the Center for Population Options , the number of school-based clinics offering family planning and other health care has increased from twelve in 1980 to sixty-one today , with another hundred expected to open soon . At least ten dispense contraceptives directly , and about forty more are staffed by physicians who can write prescriptions for birth control pills or devices . Schools with these clinics have reported a marked decline in the rate of student pregnancy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In New York City alone , 14,300 women 17 and younger became pregnant in 1985 , including 1,240 pregnancies to girls under 15 . In 1985 , more than 1 million women between the ages of 15 and 19 got pregnant , and over half of them carried their babies to term . Teen-age mothers are far more likely than their childless peers to drop out of school and to end up living in poverty . Of women under 30 who receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children , about 60 percent were teen-agers when they had their first child . Meanwhile , Madonna 's hymn to adolescent motherhood tops the charts . For a brief period last year , children having children made the front pages , but the hype had little impact on Federal priorities . No wonder , since the best way to combat teen-age pregnancy runs counter to the conservative agenda . According to an international study of family planning policies by the Alan Guttmacher Institute , the lowest rates of teen-age pregnancy were in countries that made contraceptives accessible to young people at low cost or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . A detailed survey conducted last year by the House Select Committee on Children , Youth and Families reported that in most states " existing prevention and assistance services are inadequate . " Achieving adequacy requires more money than states alone can easily raise . It also requires officials willing to stand up to the right-wingers who would sacrifice the prospects of millions of young women to their fantasies about what America should be . October Memories w ith Zbigniew Bujak , Bogdan Lis , Adam Michnik and their comrades out of jail , there is reason to rejoice . With the Polish government stubbornly refusing to tolerate even a shadow of Solidarity , there is reason to worry . Compared with the exhilarating mood of six years ago , when Poland seemed to chart a road to worker democracy , the prospect is now gloomy . But the events should be seen in a historical perspective and this month of October is one for commemoration . Thirty years ago the joyful Polish " Spring in October " led straight to its bloody counterpoint , the Hungarian insurrection . Nineteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indictment of Stalin , delivered in February at the 20th Party Congress in Moscow , shook the Communist world . Its first reverberations proved strongest in Eastern Europe . The Poles had the good fortune of possessing in Wladyslaw Gomulka a fallen leader whose rehabilitation was not posthumous : the party reformers decided to put him back in office . As the plenary session of the Central Committee opened on October 19 , a mighty Soviet delegation , headed by Khrushchev himself , landed in Warsaw to proclaim its veto . After forty-eight hours of explosive tension throughout the country , the Russians yielded . The election of Gomulka sketched how far Moscow would tolerate reform within its bloc . The Hungarian events wrote those limits in blood . The two were linked . On October 23 , Hungarian students took to the streets to celebrate the Polish success , and the celebration turned into an uprising . Prompted by spreading insurrection , the newly formed government of Imre Nagy was changing course . Here again the Russians hesitated . Then , aided and abetted by the Anglo-French Suez expedition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Strangely , this tragedy did not at once kill the revisionist illusion prevailing at the time that the transition from Stalinism would somehow be gradually carried out from above by the leaders , with the help of steady economic progress . It took another tragic invasion , of Czechoslovakia in 1968 , as well as the lengthy reign of Leonid Brezhnev , with its absence of both reform and economic progress , to destroy this myth and simultaneously to shatter the once-monolithic international Communist movement . But while hopes for Fabian reform from above dwindled , Poland revealed the scope of pressure from below , foreshadowing the resurrection of an independent labor movement in Eastern Europe and proving that dissident intellectuals may play a role if they manage to join forces with such a movement . But have not the great expectations been disappointed in Poland as well ? Undoubtedly . Yet to say that a movement was defeated is not necessarily to suggest that it was useless or insignificant . From the day Soviet tanks entered Prague it was clear that no reform in Eastern Europe would be safe until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crucial position of Russia meanwhile imposes limitations on the movement in Eastern Europe . The revolution , if one may say so , must be a creeping one and self-restrained . But this does not mean that all action is in vain . If the idea of a Fabian solution bestowed on the people was an illusion , the now fashionable propaganda concept of Eastern Europe as permanent hell is a total absurdity . Today a visitor to Budapest or Warsaw is struck in both cases by the road those very different towns have traveled . Hungary , with its obvious concessions to a market economy , and Poland , with its freedom of speech , mass samizdat and the defiance of dissidents , provide a striking contrast to the Stalinist period . It takes the hypocritical blindness of a Jeane Kirkpatrick to describe the Soviet empire as frozen forever , unchanged and unchanging . History did not come to a stop in Eastern Europe . The questions on the agenda given this historic perspective concern a changing society . As the Soviet Union is driven to economic reform , postponed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the political situation ? In particular , can the conflict between apparatchiks and managers within the party give scope to the revival of a labor movement there ? Will political changes in Moscow once again precipitate events at the periphery ? Can the dissidents outline projects and offer prospects so as to influence those events ? Will the rulers have the courage and imagination to change enough to avoid explosions ? ( It is in this context that the recent events in Poland inspire both hope and ' worry . ) Our problem in the West is how best to contribute , with our very modest means , so that when the movement of reform in Eastern Europe quickens pace  --  partly through pressure from below , partly through concessions from above  --  it will head in a progressive direction . DANIEL SINGER Daniel Singer is The Nation 's correspondent in Europe .                     