@@480246

ONE DAY a twenty-eight-year-old woman notices some bumps on her neck . She has always been healthy , and it worries her that the bumps do not shrink over the following weeks but get larger and harder . And , frighteningly , she begins to wake at night , swept with chills and fever . She goes to her private doctor , who sends her for biopsy . The bumps , it is discovered , are invaded by the tumor of Hodgkin 's disease . At a university hospital , which has a research group specializing in the treatment of Hodgkin 's disease and other lymphomas , she undergoes an extensive work-up in order to " stage " her disease . The researchers ask her to become part of an experimental protocol whose purpose is to evaluate two forms of therapy , one standard , the other experimental . She agrees . And so she is entered in a randomized clinical trial ( B.C1 ) in which patients are selected at random for one of two therapies : half receive radia tion therapy alone , the other half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second group . After several thousand " rads " and six monthly courses of a combination of drugs known acronymically as MOPP , her Hodgkin 's disease is declared to be " in remission . " Three years later she develops acute myelogenous leukemia ( AML ) as a result of her experimental treatment . And , in fact , when the leukemia kills her four months later , the autopsy reveals no sign of Hodgkin 's disease . T HIS Is no hypothetical case , but that of a patient I treated recently while on the oncol- ogy service of a large univer-sity hospital . She died not from her original disease but from the treatment she was given , an experimental treatment . No malpractice was involved -- -the study in which she was a subject was well-designed and scientific . She was merely unfortunate . The original disease she had , Hodgkin 's , a type of lymphoma or tumor of lymph nodes , is an uncommon but not rare disease . Until the past decade it was almost universally fatal . In recent years , therapy of Hodgkin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various forms of the disease may have over 90 percent survival five years after diagnosis . It is one of the first cancers to have yielded to radiotherapy , and oncologists speak optimistically of treatment yielding total freedom from the disease , not just the " five-year remissions " usually called " cure . " Yet recently there have been disconcerting reports of AML , a type of leukemia , occurring as a result of treatment for Hodgkin 's disease and other cancers . It is almost always fatal . As Susan Sontag writes in her recent book Illness as Metaphor : " The treatment meant to cure kills . " By far the greatest incidence of therapy-linked AML occurs when patients have been given both chemotherapy and radiotherapy . The woman described was in a study to evaluate this combination therapy , and she was in the group given both modes of treatment . When she came to be my patient it was too late : she was dying . It is unnerving for the doctor to create a disease worse than that he is treating : the Hippocratic oath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient harm . It is frightening for the patient , particularly one involved in an experimental protocol for a new . unevaluated treatment , or a patient who is undergoing difficult or painful treatment to prevent the occurrence of some potential complication . But more important , it raises questions as to the balance of power between doctors and patients in the making of decisions about therapy , the goals of sophisticated medical treatments , and the social context of experimentation . I ARRISON 'S Principles of Mternal Medicine , the plump , maroon-bound text that got me through my first clinical years in medical school , spends all of three paragraphs discussing iatrogenic disease . It defines iatrogenesis reasonably well : " When the deleterious effects of the physician 's action exceed the advantages that could have been anticipated , one is justified in designating these undesirable effects as iatrogenic . " The author does not imply that the physician must be negligent or incompetent to create iatrogenic disease . In fact , most iatrogenic disease today comes from good , or at least well-intentioned , treatment . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aspect of contemporary medicine , particularly given the prominence of iatrogenic diseases ; yet Harrison 's three paragraphs are typical of medicine as a whole . Generally one looks in vain for books , articles , and conferences on iatrogenesis in clinical medicine . Physician-writers are narrow thinkers , preferring to look at one disease at a time rather than at trends : toward the future , not the past ; at things , not ideas . Only Ivan Illich , in Medical Nemesis , has tried to formulate an explanation for the wide range of iatrogenic diseases seen today : his analysis , in terms of the " medicalization " of life , spans clinical , social , and cultural iatrogenesis ? and goes further in a condemnation of scientific medicine than I think justifiable . In preparing to write this article , I made a list of iatrogenic illnesses I saw in a little over one year of work at a university and a county hospital . Yet soon after beginning this list I gave up , overwhelmed by sheer numbers . There were innumerable patients with anemia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liver damage , blindness , bleeding from various bodily sites , lung scarring , and so on as a result of treatment with " big gun " antiCURES THAT KILL biotics or anticancer drugs . Many others developed complications from barium enemas. thoracentesis , cardiac catheterization . And on some services , notably hematology and oncology , the majority of my time was spent treating iatrogenic disease . T HE FEW medical studies that have been done on the subject of iatrogenic disease suf- fer from the same flaw : they rely on self-reporting by physicians . In a British study of general practitioners , one out of forty clinic visits was found to occur as a result of iatrogenic complaints . In an American study , 20 percent of all patients admitted to the hospital suffered one or more iatrogenic " episodes , " including drug reactions , negative reactions to diagnostic and therapeutic procedures , and ward accidents ( 11 percent of mistakes were " medication errors " ) . As regards death of patients from drug effects , about one out of a thousand patients admitted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug treatment ; one fourth of these were deemed " avoidable deaths . " None of these studies , however , addresses the problem of what one can do as a doctor to decrease the incidence of iatrogenic disease , much less what a patient can do to avoid unanticipated medical complications , or even death , as a result of hospitalization . When a person becomes ill , he may suddenly be faced with a bewildering range of therapies for his condition , which are in many cases painful or dangerous , His first impulse often is to tell his doctor : " Do what you think is right . " While for many illnesses there is one best treatment , for a large number of others ( including treatment for breast cancer , coronary artery disease , gall bladder disease , hypertension , etc. ) a wide range of potential treatments is available , each with its advantages and disadvantages . The patient who believes in the myth of medical objectivity , however , expects that since medicine is a science there will be one best treatment for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an objective scientist , will recommend it . He can not believe that his doctor would recommend an overly dangerous treatment , or that a researcher would subject him to a risky procedure . And the doctor , too , often believes this myth ; his training in emotional detachment from patients , his paternalistic habits , and his immersion in medical literature may lead him to extend his scientific authority beyond reasonable limits . Yet the physician may want to do risky procedures in order to make a diagnosis that will not improve treatment . Or , since success in medicine is generally measured by longevity , he may recommend painful , debilitating therapy . Several recent studies using the technique of utility theory and decision analysis have shown that patients may choose less painful or disfiguring treatments than what doctors would recommend , even if they will not live as long . These preferences are not necessarily irrational or unscientific ; they merely reflect different values or a willingness to take fewer risks . Doctors may be willing to accept higher rates of iatrogenic disease than many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher chance of cure ? or for a " definitive diagnosis . " At times the interests of M.D. 's and patients may be the same , or ? in terms of decision-analysis ? the two groups may have similar utility curves , but there is no reason to assume this must be always true . And we will see below that the difference in interests between the patient and the medical researcher in the situation of therapeutic research is even greater . While it may be to the advantage of all concerned for the doctor to guide patients past irrational and childish fears , it is important for patients to continually remind their doctors that longevity is not everything , that dignity and subjective feelings of wellness can be as important as extra years . The patient who says , " Do what you think is right , " and thereby throws himself on the mercy of his doctor , may be abdicating the territory of his own preferences , which might be the decisive factor in treatment . F , : ) UALLY PERVASIVE is the myth of exciting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoted , was held by a seven-teenth-century French physician who advised other doctors to use new drugs as quickly as possible , since they would soon become useless . Despite scandals over thalidomide . DES , and oral contraceptives , this myth is still subscribed to by the general public and the medical community . Generally , it can be stated something like this : " Disease X has always been painful ( or debilitating , or fatal ) , but now we have an exciting new drug ( or operation ) with which we hope to conquer Disease X forever ! " It is buttressed by extravagant claims of popular journalism ( " The Miracles of Modern with heart transplantation , microsurgery , Hodgkin 's disease treatment , etc. filling the blank ) , in which the potential benefits of the treatment are advertised as if already realized , and the limitations are summarized in one short paragraph , or ignored . And among medical journals , a similar , if muted , enthusiasm reigns : " Our research group at Hospital Z , with out exciting new treatment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ randomized clinical trial . " A sophisticated patient will do well to know the limits of such hopeful claims : while the research group may be scientifically responsible in their evaluation of a new treatment , in their enthusiasm to succeed they may well minimize potential negative effects of treatment or apply it quickly to a wider range of people than can really benefit from it . The patient should keep his desire for cure from obscuring the fact that a new treatment is unevaluated , that there is frequently little reason to believe it will be more effective than existing treatments ( no matter how " exciting " the initial trials may have been ) , and finally , that there are likely to be hidden costs to virtually all new treatments . When a new drug is released on the general market , the first several thousand ( or million ) people using it are performing an unpaid , and often unwitting , service to the drug company and the medical profession : they are testing the drug for unknown side effects that might occur too infrequently to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drug induces a high rate of a particular illness , it is unlikely that negative effects will be noticed before general marketing of a drug . Such effects as the possible increase in fatal heart attacks from oral antidiabetic agents , or the association of oral contraceptives with uterine cancer , gall bladder dissease , and fatal strokes in young women have been discovered after such drugs have been widely marketed and used by large populations . A new drug that is released to general use is therefore likely to have many unknown effects . And even more disturbing are cases of interactions between two or more drugs , or between drugs and other modes of therapy ? these are much less likely to have been anticipated . When one realizes that whole classes of drugs have moved from being " exciting new drugs " to being deemed " too dangerous for general use " within the span of a few years ? oral contraceptives and oral antidiabelie agents are two prominent examples ? it is apparent that these hidden costs may be greater than the well-advertised benefits . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their positivistic and forward-looking habits of mind rarely tend to do , one can see that the much touted " new therapies " of one generation may be laughable in the next . The nineteenth and early twentieth centuries ' theories about female complaints arising from slippage of the uterus and the equally pernicious theories of " visceroptosis , " prolapse of the abdominal organs , thought to cause a wide variety of complaints , are well known , and the variety of surgical procedures used to remove , reconnect , and tack abdominal organs in various positions remains astonishing . Many of these and similar procedures ( removal of the teeth for arthritis , routine tonsillectomies , appendectomies for " chronic appendicitis " ) were perpetuated because they were never properly scientifically evaluated . Many more useless and potentially dangerous therapies have been promoted , though , by responsible scientists in the interest of research . In the 1950s hundreds of patients received mammary artery ligations purported to improve coronary circulation , a useless operation . The freezing of stomachs for treatment of peptic ulcers , popular in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and improved " packaging of drugs can have hidden dangers : in the 1960s the use of pres-6 ? surized inhalers for patients with bronchial asthma caused thousands of sudden deaths . All treatment has risks ; one must take risks for cure . The point here is that the myth of the new treatment makes the patient 's risks appear much smaller than they most likely are . And bolstered by his own desire for cure , by notices in the press , and by medical hopes for the conquest of disease , the patient may embark on a new form of therapy with completely unrealizable hopes . A NOTHER MYTH , one fostered by the fledgling work of patient 's rights advocates and medical ethicists over the past decade , is the myth of consent . This myth holds that patients become responsible for the direction of their own treatment by the process of informed consent . Before a course of therapy is begun , the patient is supposed to have the potential risks and benefits of several forms of therapy laid out before him by his physicians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between them , depending on his own values and desires . In the actual workings of a hospital ? both in ordinary therapy and in experimental protocols ? true informed consent ( if such a thing exists is rarely attained . And in the realm of the law , informed consent protects not the patient 's rights to have a say in the making of decisions about his health , but the doctor , who can point to a signature on a consent form and be excused from claims for compensation , as long as no overt malpractice has occurred . That patients remain far from having a say as to the course of their therapy can be seen from a trivial example : blood drawing . A hospitalized patient , no matter how well he may be , can have blood drawn any number of times per day , any hour of day or night , by any of the physicians responsible for him , whether or not there is any medical indication . A patient who assumes that informed consent implies participation in the making of medical decisions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing , immediately will get in trouble with the hospital staff . He will be labeled as " a crock " or " uncooperative " even if it is at 3 A.M. and blood is being drawn the sixth lime that day or because somebody forgot earlier or because an intern wishes to impress his attending physician with his completeness . And in practice , frequently the patient will be forced to have the blood drawn despite his refusal . Granted that very ill patients may need blood drawn more frequently than once or twice a day ; most patients do not . Nevertheless , when a patient enters the hospital , he cedes his basic rights to privacy . to the integrity of his own body , and often to the determination of what procedures will be performed on him . Informed consent gives extremely limited protection to the patient and almost none at all against the paternalistic assumption of responsibility for the patient 's body made by the medical profession . I chose this example deliberately because of its triviality and omnipresence in medicine ? and because the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the placing of central venous lines , or the performance of thoracenteses or bone marrows ? and especially to the dispensing of medications . For all these treatments , the patient is rarely advised of their indications or risks , but merely is told by his doctors , " We 're going to do this because it will help you . " In these situations the patient is at the mercy of his doctors , not merely because of the power of their specialized knowledge ( and what they may choose to reveal or conceal ) , but because the basic structure of the hospital is so powerfully weighted in favor of physicians and against patients , especially those who wish to take an active , knowledgeable role in their therapy . And even in situations where major surgery or chemotherapy is contemplated , the patient will generally find that the major element of decision is being made away from his bedside , and he is lucky if his doctors present him with an actual choice between therapies . The patient is much more . likely to he presented with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech beginning , " We 're going to perform this operation on you tomorrow because you need it , " and if he is fortunate , ending with . " Any questions ? " The patient who wants to know whether a procedure is likely to benefit him ( as opposed to the doctor ) , who wants numbers regarding the risks of various alternatives , who questions whether a particular symptom needs to be treated , is likely to be dealt with as the patient who refuses to have blood drawn : as a troublemaker and a hindrance . PATIENT who is injured during the course of participating in a clinical medical experi- ment , like the patient whose treatment caused leukemia , will discover that informed consent , or lack of it , has little to offer in terms of legal recourse . Legally , compensation is not due the patient who is injured in the course of therapeutic research . My patient , or her family , might sue for compensation for the leukemia she got as a result of the experimental treatment she received on the grounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And she will find that legally she is entitled to nothing ; depending on the insurance coverage of the institution in which the research was conducted , or on the generosity of the hospital , she may have medical treatment for her fatal leukemia given gratis . But in fact her consent to participate in that particular experiment on Hodgkin 's disease releases the hospital from responsibility for unanticipated negative results . In other words , she agreed that she would bear not only the physical costs but also the financial costs of whatever negative result the experimental treatment may have produced . The burden of this kind of iatrogenic disease ? incurred in the course of experimental therapy ? falls squarely on the patient . Many people argue that this patient , one participating in therapeutic research , stands to benefit so much from the therapy that compensation is not justified . They would corn-pare it to the case of nontherapeutic experimentation , in which a subject gives of himself altruistically for the cause of scientific progress ( whether or not he receives money for participation ) . Such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is no significant difference between a patient injured in therapeutic research and a subject injured in nontherapeutic experimentation . Because both subjects are taking risks of unknown magnitude for the general benefit of society , their own possible benefit is incidental . When a friend of mine discovered that she had breast cancer and underwent a mastectomy , she then had the opportunity of deciding what sort of further therapy she would have . She could have entered a randomized controlled trial at the local university hospital , which was evaluating one standard treatment against a new set of chemotherapeutic agents . She and her husband decided that she would get better treatment from a private oncologist , using the best-known regimen of chemotherapy . Both she and her husband are doctors ; yet they chose against participating in a scientific protocol . Why ? I suggest this was because my friends , like many other well-informed patients , understood the risks and costs of participating in a randomized clinical trial and did not think that for them the potential benefits justified participation . Many of these risks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from the individual patient 's best interests than are the private doctor 's . Essentially the researcher wants to get a statistically significant difference between two ( or more ) groups of patients who are randomly selected for these groups , whereas the patient wants the best chance of cure for himself . Of course I do not dispute the role of randomized clinical trials in evaluating new therapies ; they are essential . I am merely saying that what is good for the society ( scientific progress ) and best for the individual ( cure ) are different things . For the individual patient , participation in an RCT is never the " treatment of choice . " In the context of an experiment , the treatment can not he adjusted to his personal needs . And to find a significant result in the study , a number of subjects may have to suffer significantly . The subject in such a study bears the brunt of possible damages , whereas the general society and the medical profession only gain from the knowledge thus obtained . The death of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an experimental treatment is one extreme example of this . Her death and the death of other patients like her can lead to improved treatment for other patients . Already the use of combination drug and radiation treatment in Hodgkin 's disease has been restricted to situations where the benefits are likely to justify the risks . The subject 's sacrifice by failure of a useless therapy , or the creation of iatrogenic illness is one cost of medical progress . When a patient decides to become a subject , he or she is making a sacrifice of substantial magnitude .                     