@@432107

 | Underscored by the plunge of Israeli-American relations to their chilliest level in years , a paradoxical mood of militant defiance and growing isolation is sweeping over embattled Israel . Prime Minister Menachem Begin is asserting a bold declaration of independence from Washington . His affirmation , in effect : Israel values America 's friendship . But it is prepared to go it alone , if necessary , in pushing its hard-line confrontation policy against the Arabs . At the same time , there is a mounting feeling of beleaguerment and alienation here as Israel 's traditional friends in Western Europe , and now the U.S. , assail the defiant actions taken by the Begin government . All the signs in Israel indicate that the paradox could become even more acute , with Begin risking further moves that are sure to alienate the U.S. and Western Europe and thereby deepen the Israelis ' sense of isolation . The message . The Israeli Prime Minister appears to be driven by determination never to return to Arab hands the territory seized in the 1967 Six-Day War ? other than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That is the message being read into Israel 's surprise annexation of the Golan Heights on December 14 . The absorption of the Golan brought to a head the AmericanIsraeli confrontation that had been developing since Israel 's air attack on Iraq 's nuclear reactor last June and its bombing of downtown Beirut in July . Some American officials suspected that Begin deliberately was trying to sabotage efforts to achieve overall peace in the Middle East so Israel could keep most of the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip , as well as the Golan Heights . Even so , Begin was shocked when Washington retaliated against the move . First , the U.S. voted in the United Nations Security Council to declare the annexation null and void . Then it " suspended " a strategic cooperation agreement reached with Israel just 18 days earlier , froze plans to purchase 200 million dollars ' worth of Israelimade military equipment and banned the use of American aid by other countries to buy Israeli arms . The stern action was seen as serving an additional message to Begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-rule for Palestinians and make no massive strike into southern Lebanon against Palestinian guerrilla camps and Syrian surface-to-air missiles deployed there . Begin , for his part , responded by lashing out at the U.S. in an unprecedented diatribe , accusing the Reagan administration of treating Israel as a " vassal state " or " banana republic . " What compels the 68-year-old Begin to take on the U.S. , Israel 's best friend since its birth in 1948 ? For one thing , the Prime Minister is certain ? despite growing economic woes at home ? that his tough talk toward the U.S. has the support of the majority of Israelis , the voters who returned his Likud coalition to power last year . In the words of one longtime Middle East observer : " The Israelis want the U.S. as a friend , but they 're not prepared to dance to Washington 's tune . What Israelis are saying is that they are going to do things they feel have to be done , and if it affects American foreign policy , that 's tough . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern extraction , the lower classes who now form the majority of the 3.9 million population and are on the way up politically . Sephardic Jews played a key role in Begin 's re-election victory and are among the most enthusiastic supporters of Begin 's tough posture on peace with the Arabs . A large number are religious zealf , ts who insist , like the Prime Minister , that Israel 's final borders should include not only the Golan Heights , but the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as well . Also encouraging Begin 's unilateral decisionmaking is what he sees as America 's stepped-up courtship of the Arabs . His big fear is that at some time in the future this could lead to Washington 's open dealing with Israel 's deadly enemy , the Palestine Liberation Organization . More important , Begin is convinced that President Reagan , anxious to curb Soviet influence in the Mideast , needs Israel as much as Israel needs American military and financial aid . Begin seems confident  | that historic U.S. support for Israel , coupled with efforts by the Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious attempt by Washington to impose meaningful sanctions on his nation . " Begin appears certain , " says one Western analyst in Jerusalem , " that America will not do much more than scream a bit , that hard feelings over the annexation will blow over quickly , and that the Americans need Israel too much to risk any open break . " Even when it is pointed out that Israel is nearly wholly dependent on the U.S. for sophisticated arms , that only American aid helped Israel avert defeat in the 1973 war and that American economic and military assistance runs to more than 3 billion dollars a year , many Israelis still insist they can survive on their own . As one expert put it : " Some Israelis feel that if the U.S. walked out tomorrow , Israel still could get along by itself . " Israel 's strength . To buttress that argument , Israelis note that their country has developed high technology ? probably the nuclear bomb ? and has built the strongest defense structure in the region . Most Israelis , including Begin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any threat from the disorganized and comparatively illtrained Arab armies . Says one resident : " Begin wo n't be dictated to . In a sense , he is operating from a position of strength . " Similar defiance is surfacing among Jewish settlers living in occupied Arab lands . For example , as the April 25 deadline nears for turning over the last of the Sinai to Egypt , signs have sprung up around the seaside town of Yamit and nearby agricultural settlements saying , " Stop the retreat from Sinai . " Israeli officials , as well as many settlers themselves , believe that Begin will give back the Sinai unless Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak , as one observer in Jerusalem put it , " does something blatantly stupid . " But accompanying talk of a withdrawal is this typical comment : " What do we have to lose ? We can always take the Sinai back , and the next time we might not be so willing to return it . " Nor does the Israeli presence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip show signs of compromises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and water conduits snake into the West Bank from Israel itself , leading one analyst to say : " It is an infrastructure that could put 80,000 to 100,000 Israeli people there in the next four years . The Israelis are n't building these things just to give away . " Still , along with Israel 's tougher stance has come a spreading sense of disillusionment about life inside the country and anxiety about the winds of alienation blowing outside . Western-oriented Jews who once ran the country are leaving in greater numbers . The reasons , explains one Jewish-American resident : " Israel is getting a bad press , 30 years of war make people uneasy and a 100 percent inflation rate is frightening . " An American engineer and his wife who came for a " new and refreshing life of Zionism " complain they are amidst " fanatically religious " Jews . " Is this the society we are to expect in the modern state of Israel ? " he asks . A 22-year-old former paratrooper says the only ideal of the country 's present leaders " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not enough . " Yet , even as the paratrooper and his friends talk of enlisting youth to serve as teachers and scientists , other young Israelis contribute to a law-and-order problem . By one estimate , one Israeli in every four packs a gun . Muggings have turned some sections of Tel Aviv into off-limits versions of New York City 's Central Park at night . In Jerusalem , cars are chained against theft and apartments are bolted like bank vaults . Some officials warn that things will " get a lot worse before they get better . " An inflation-riddled economy continues to plague the nation . Under pressure of heavy government spending and printing of more and more money to pay for it , Israel is headed toward a fourth straight year of tripledigit inflation . To keep exports flowing , the shekel was devalued 60 percent against the U.S. dollar in 1981 . Many shops , restaurants and hotels quote their charges in dollars rather than change price lists every other day . So far , harried government planners have managed to hold the economy together by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rises in consumer prices . It worked well enough so that Israel 's economy grew more than 5 percent in 1981 . But , asks Ezra Sadan , Finance Ministry Director General : " At what point does inflation get out of hand ? " Criticism assailed . Overriding everything else is the pervasive feeling of isolation as Israeli policies , even though popular at home , come under bitter fire from friends as well as enemies . Many Israelis believe the criticism to be unjustified . For all of the Jewish state 's military power , they see Israel as a tiny nation threatened by larger , more populous hostile Arab states ? with the current exception of Egypt . Therefore , any of Begin 's moves that enhance security ? the annexation of the Golan Heights and the bombing of the Iraqi nuclear plant among them ? is seen as a vital necessity , even at the cost of stirring up U.S. hostility . For the same reason , U.S. efforts to promote its own interests by strengthening links with Arab-world moderates are viewed as a potential threat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolation . Some Israelis go even further . Though thankful for past and present American aid and political support , they condemn U.S. efforts to weave closer ties with the Arabs as a betrayal and label American criticism of Israeli actions a breach of mutual trust . One Israeli supporter of Begin sums up Israel 's ambivalent attitude now spreading across the country in these words : " We want and need the Americans , but they are not gods . We must control our own destiny , and we certainly are not going to follow the administration in Washington blindly. "                     