@@325802

Military and congressional tensions rise as El Salvador goes to the polls <P> From the halls of the U.S. Congress to the mountainous reaches of El Salvador , the battle over the future of Central America became a war of scattered skirmishes last week . In Washington , partisan attacks flew back and forth , centering on the anti-Communist policies of the Reagan Administration . There also were harsh diplomatic exchanges between the nuclear superpowers , each accusing the other of complicity in the region 's simmering conflicts , while both Soviet and American warships showed the flag in the Caribbean . In El Salvador , government soldiers and Marxist-led guerrillas played a deadly game of hide-and-seek at a crucial political juncture . In neighboring Honduras , controversy broke out anew over a U.S. military presence that the Reagan Administration describes as temporary but that is potentially a good deal more permanent . <P> All those signs of tension were sidelights to a long-awaited main event : El Salvador 's March 25 presidential elections . After two months of acrimonious campaigning , the U.S.-backed process to choose that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drew to an end late last week . As up to 1.7 million voters prepared to trek to the polls , the seven-man race was still considered a toss-up between the controversial front runners , Jos Napolen Duarte , 58 , of the center-left Christian Democratic Party ( P.D.C. ) , and Roberto d'Aubuisson , 40 , leader of the ultrarightist Nationalist Republican Alliance , known as ARENA . There was a good chance that neither candidate would win the outright majority required for election , and that a runoff vote would be necessary within 30 days after Sunday 's results were certified . <P> As the din of election propaganda faded , the rattle of gunfire in the background grew louder . Both the 30,000-member Salvadoran army and some 10,000 members of the Marxist-led Farabundo Mart National Liberation Front ( F.M.L.N. ) launched election-eve offensives , each claiming that the tide of the four-year civil war was turning in its favor . Some 4,000 Salvadoran troops fanned out through the country 's eastern departments , where the guerrillas are dominant , to harass the rebels and to protect the elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countercampaign under such slogans as " No to the Electoral Farce ; Yes to the People 's War . " Despite an F.M.L.N . promise to avoid disrupting the elections , roving guerrilla bands occupied remote towns and set up roadblocks along the country 's central Pan American Highway , confiscating from passers-by the national identity cards needed to cast ballots . In the regional center of San Miguel , the rebels managed to destroy an aircraft carrying ballot boxes to local polling places . On Saturday , guerrillas ambushed and killed a contingent of 30 Salvadoran soldiers and national guardsmen 45 miles east of the capital of San Salvador .                     