@@487720

. Agnes Smedley was one of those rare American radicals whose politics grew directly out of her own experience . As Janice and Stephen MacKinnon write in their marvelous new book , " Her political commitment sprang basically from personal rage over the indignities she and her family had suffered in the mining towns of the West . " Freda Utley , a one-time Communist Party member who ultimately turned against Soviet Communism described Smedley as " one of the few spiritually great people I have ever met , with that burning sympathy for misery and wrongs of mankind which some of the saints and some of the revolutionaries possess . " In spite of her humble beginnings , which she wrote about so movingly in her autobiography , Daughter of Earth , Smedley managed to educate herself and to make her way to California , where , the MacKinnons explain , she " joined the Socialist Party less for its theoretical insights or Socialist vision than to satisfy immediate emotional and social needs . " After a disastrous marriage , she ended up in Greenwich Village where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and met the haut monde of postwar American political activism  --  people such as Margaret Sanger , Kathe Kollwitz , Roger Baldwin and Emma Goldman . From New York she moved on to Berlin , making a trip to the Soviet Union in 1921 , where she was less than impressed by what she saw of the authoritarianism Orville Schell has written widely on China . His forthcoming book , Discos and Democracy : China in the Throes of Reform , will be published this spring by Pantheon. fruitless exercise . Enough to remember Beals in the context of his times , as one of the new Bolshevik state . After one more in a string of disastrous relations with men , this time with the Bengali nationalist Virendranath Chattopadhyaya , who left her penniless in Berlin and on the brink of psychological ruin , in 1929 she departed for China . In Shanghai , where she spent the next four years writing , establishing contact with the underground revolutionary movement and mixing in Chinese and foreign intellectual circles , she became close to Madame Sun Yat-sen and the writers Lu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and found not only psychological peace of mind but the kind of satisfaction in her political work and writing which had evaded her in the United States and Europe . Dedicating herself to the alleviation of the poverty in China , which she felt " press in upon you on every side , " she learned to crowd out some of the neediness of her private life . " China has done me much good , " she wrote to a friend , writer Karin Michaelis in 1930 : It has made me a sane woman . . . . No man will ever get his hooks in me again I shall have men friends and I shall now and then live with a man whom I admire intellectually and who appeals to me physically . .. There is always a little tendency in me to long for the old kind of love that is senseless and dependent and cruel . But I try to analyze that out of my mind and heart .. I hope to socialize all my emotions in that respect But all this does not mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While Smedley did not become " hard-boiled , " she certainly did become tough . When China drifted into war with Japan in the 1930s , she headed for the northwest , ultimately reaching areas liberated by the Red Army , where she came face to face not only with China 's poverty-stricken peasantry but with the mistreatment of wounded soldiers . At Yan'an , the mountain redoubt of the Red Army , she came to know most of the leaders of the Chinese Communist movement by , among other activities , teaching themhow to square-dance and fox-trot . Of all the foreign correspondents in China , it was Smedley who spent the most time at the front , and her impassioned and lucid eyewitness reports appeared in a wide variety of publications , from the Frankfurter Zeitung and Vogue to The Nation and The New Republic . Out of her long tenure in China she published Battle Hymn of China , about her experiences in that country during the late 1930s and early 1940s , and The Great Road : The Life and Times of Zhu De , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a novelist 's eye for detail . Sadly , this sort of writing about China all but ceased when American relations with Peking were severed in the 1950s and that country became the province of academics rather than journalists . While writing was Smedley 's profession , it quickly became far more than just a way of making a living . It was a way to connect herself to social change . When her former sister-in-law suggested that she might do better financially by opening a restaurant , Smedley replied , " I have but one work : writing . I 'd rather starve and write than make a good living in a restaurant . " Although she was often militant in defense of her political positions , Smedley rarely fell prey to the kind of party-line polemics that made other , more theoretically inclined , leftists embarrassingly doctrinaire . She was never as interested in defending a world view as she was in helping alleviate misery . As Frank Dorn , aide to Gen. " Vinegar Joe " Stilwell , whom she had met in Hankow in the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great heart , she refused to submit to any form of discipline and distrusted all political leaders . " Although Smedley was a good writer  --  one whose reputation has been clouded by unfair political accusations  --  her tumultuous life had a way of eclipsing her craft . Her defiant independence made her a paragon of political integrity but destined her to be a loner . And it was this sense of loneliness that made her suffer most acutely . While living in Berlin in the mid-1920s , severe insomnia and depression born of her attempts to reconcile her need for independence with the demands of possessive men finally pushed her into psychoanalysis . She threw herself into this process with the same desperate but hopeful energy that she lavished on her political work and writing . As she wrote to her friend Florence Lennon , " I prefer death to these spells and follow their Party line , you go right over into the ranks of the money lenders But I am what I always was  --  a real American democrat of the original brand of democracy , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My mind may not be the right kind of mind , but it is all I have . to go by , and I have not been convinced that it can be handed over to the Party to play with as they wish Janice and Stephen MacKinnon have written a painstakingly researched and truly riveting account of this unique American journalist .                     