@@487702

The existing stock of dramatic literature is such that , were all living playwrights to succumb en masse to writer 's block , theaters and audiences could be kept supplied for an indefinite period from the wealth already available . And repertory companies do keep that wealth in circulation . At the beginning of the current season there were no fewer than twenty revivals running or about to open in New York City . More than half of these were for runs limited to a month or less . Many , admittedly , of the more ephemeral productions have an audience in mind only secondarily , their chief purpose being to provide on-the-job training for aspiring actors and directors . But often as not the dramatic fare that 's served up is palatable if not gourmet , and so nonfinicky playgoers who are attentive to the listings in The Village Voice or the Sunday edition of The New York Times should be able to attend revivals three or four times a week all year round . Such a playgoer in the week of November 6 would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ibsen , Gogol , Chekhov , Otway , O'Neill , Beckett , Claudel and others of less than canonical stature . The hot ticket among these was Waiting for Godot . Its all-star cast had committed themselves to so short a run that a goodly number of the Lincoln Center subscribers were unable to get seats . The Times 's Frank Rich did what he could to mollify their sense of miff by pronouncing the production unworthy of Beckett 's genius , while in The New Yorker Mimi Kramer gave so circumstantial an account of the staging that no one who read it need admit to the shame of not having been there . In conclusion she wondered whether we lucky few who saw this Godot will look back in years to come and say we were there when . Will we mythologize Robin Williams 's Estragon as " those who saw the original production ? even those who admit there was nothing special about it ? reminisceabout seeing Bert Lahr ? " " Probably , " she answers herself , but only from a need to " come away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into raptures , I must say I thought it merrier than that . If Mike Nichols has exerted himself to inject more laughter into the play than the text might suggest to a close ( i.e. , academic ) reader , that is what directors are paid to do : invent , enrich , extrapolate , intensify and , most of all , entertain . They are also arbitrators of the conflicting interests of author and actors , a conflict likely to be resolved in the actors ' favor , especially when the author has absconded , like a god , from the scene of his creation . Nichols undoubtedly allows Steve Martin and Robin Williams to put their own Martin and Williams trademark stamps on their roles , but surely that is what they were hired to do . It is Beckett 's play that must prove adaptable to their requirements , not the other way round , for it is part of what makes a play great ( i.e. , universal ) that it can accommodate the local accidents of casting . If Waiting for Godot is the masterpiece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work as a vehicle for the talents of two such accomplished and intelligent clowns . And so , by and large , it does . The audience has a lot to laugh at , and one scene of sustained comic splendor , with Bill Irwin as the malfunctioning sherpa Lucky , careens out of control ? a scene that for all its textual density may most aptly be likened to the inspired comic choreography of the star clown of the Cirque du Soleil , Denis Lacombe . Indeed , it will almost certainly be Irwin , not Williams , who 'll be accounted legendary for this Godot . The problem that Martin and Williams face is that so much of their material is portentous or dull . Beckett had not yet pared his art down to an exiguous minimum , nor was he sure that people would understand that he was a Serious Dramatist if he did not strike a few classic poses . Vladimir and Estragon 's theological discourse on the fate of the thieves hung with Christ is a vermiform appendix of Beckett 's Catholic upbringing ; it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully flensed of histonc particularities . Similarly , Vladimir 's Act II speculations on where they are and what they 've done are a mistake : It 's like a flashing sign above the stage saying : YOU ARE ENTERING A DREAMWORLD . WATCH OUT FOR SYMBOLS ! These are small imperfecLions in a good play , but the actors must deal with them as best they can ; and as they do , the audience ca n't help shifting in its seats and wondering if there is not another way to do the play so that what seems portentous might not be its very essence Beckett does , after all , subtitle this " a tragicomedy , " and the tragic element surely is de-emphasized in this production , whether by Nichols 's conscious strategy or by the sheer force of redeeming friendliness that Martin and Williams generate between them I 'd prefer to think that they have simply allowed Beckett 's meaning to shine out from behind his text ; to wit , that the best cure for existential despair is banter with a loved friend . Conolanus is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Joseph Papp at the Public Theater , and I liked it as little as last season 's Julius Caesar , though I must credit the director , Steven Berkoff , with erring for the sake of an idea , or at least of a style . He choreographs as much as directs , having the mob move and speak in choral unison and requiring stylized movements of the stars even in their big scenes . Irene Worth as Volumnia must pantomime picking the roses from an entire hedge during her first big scene , while Ashley Crow as Virgilia contends with a compulsion mechanism that appears to derive from the art of weaving , a traditional activity of classical wives The battle scenes , which can be the glory , even the raison d ' ? tre , of a proper Coriolanus , were the pits In the first , the ensemble members fight invisible foes ? and look like a bunch of kids playing cowboys and Indians . Then they kill each other serially and seemingly at random  --  in slow motion . Then Christopher Walken in the title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effortless uppercuts to the empty air as the actors obligingly take a fall . Walken acts as though he were , indeed , Conolanus , and not yet persuaded to accommodate , by acting , the base requirements of the stinking mob . Not that he was regal ; only disdainful . The set design by Loren Sherman and the costumes by Martin Pakledinaz were in keeping with the star 's approach  --  to call it muted would be to overstate the matter . Some light shone from the darkness . Paul Hecht delivered his lines as Menenius Agrippa so well that one regretted that Walken could not more often have been onstage to hear them He needs lessons in delivenng Shakespeareandiction Also , the two tribunes , played by Larry Bryggman and Andre Braugher , acted with some vigor . I confess I did n't stay for the end . That 's one of the nice things about Shakespeare : There 'll usually be another chance . The Devil 's Disciple at the Circle in the Square Theatre and Ghosts at the Roundabout on Union Square represent the mezzo-mezzo range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scale . Without realizing either play 's full emotional potential , they offered moments and single performances that commanded respect , and both were undone by one crucial mistake in casting . ( Or was it direction ? These are questions of the might-have-been . ) In the Shaw play it was Victor Garber in the title role who bollixed things . Garber 's sense of tuning is as faulty as the Rolex you might buy for $15 after the show from one of the many vendors on Broadway at that hour . He pauses respectfully before he responds to anyone , and if he has delivered anything like an epigram , he comes to a full stop before proceeding to the text 's next red light . None of the other actors on the stage hobbled along in this way , so it ca n't be that Garber was under orders from director Stephen Porter to retard his delivery for the sake of an audience thought to be slow on the uptake . Philip Bosco , who is accounted a Shavian 's Shavian , handled the role of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part ordinarily receives , and Remak Ramsay acquitted himself of the part of Anthony Anderson , the minister turned revolutionary firebrand , with such energy and charm that one could not help but wish he 'd had a shot at playing Dick Dudgeon . Garber , aside from his speech problems , added none of the flamboyance and body English needed to make Dudgeon 's loose talk about being of the devil 's party anything but the emptiest twaddle . In Ghosts the central absence was also the putative hero , Oswald Alving , played by Raphael Sbarge , and once again it was a man of the cloth , Pastor Manders , played by David McCallum , who redeemed the show . There is a dance exercise that requires being spun about blindfolded until disoriented and then walking slowly and steadily until one has walked into a ( preferably brick ) wall . McCallum performs each of Manders 's successive moral pratfalls with the perfect unwittingness this exercise is meant to teach . It was his perpetual discomfiture rather than Oswald 's simmering anguish that came to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a flavor more of Shaw than of Ibsen , but it was engrossing for all that . Fionnula Flanagan , a Los Angeles-based actress who has specialized in bringing Joyce to the stage , was Mrs. Alving , on whose shoulders falls the task of delivering Ibsen 's most potentially portentous lines , including , several times , the title , delivered sotto voce to underline significant moments of action . She did it as naturally as saying hello . The one thing she could n't do was to get Raphael Sbarge to emote , and so her scenes with her son were like watching a tennis pro play against a concrete wall . The play is worth seeing , even so , for the sheer mechanical perfection of Ibsen of exposition that is not , also , tingling with emotional energy . If you have had the good luck to have remained innocent of what the story is about , I urge you to see the play with a maiden imagination . Finally , two offerings by the Pearl Theatre , on West Twenty-Second Street . After seeing the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conquer , and perusing its list of past and future productions , I thought that I had come upon the beau ideal of Off-Off-Broadway repertory companies . In a long , narrow shopfront space , with only some seventy-two seats , the Pearl staged Goldsmith 's amiable comedy ( perhaps the least offensive masterpiece in all world drama ) with more finesse and theatrical intelligence than is to be found in all three concurrent productions at the Public Theatre . ( Which , besides Corrolanus , is home to Richard Foreman 's What Did He See ? and an innocuous waxwork of a comedy from 1942 , Cafe Crown , concerning either of which the less said the better . ) The entire , largish cast entered into the festive spirit of Goldsmith 's play as though they 'd been enchanted into English gentry , and the effect was not unlike the performance of Farquhar that is the focus of Thomas Kenneally 's recent novel The Playmaker . In describing how the first group of convicts transported to Australia stage The Recruiting Officer , Kenneally has shown what is timeless and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage . One lesson easily drawn from his pages , or from such a production as the Pearl 's She Stoops to Conquer , is that good theater is a function not of stars or budgets but of good wnting , high spints and capable acting . Joanne Camp and James Nugent in the leading roles were more than capable , but they must share applause with Bonnie Horan , Patrick Tull , Robin Leslie Brown and Tim O'Hare . When so many actors need be praised , necessarily the director , Bob Verini , must be honored , particularly as this production appears to have been his first undertaking on such a scale . ( Watchers of the TV program Jeopardy may already be acquainted with Verini : He was last year 's grand prize winner . ) Alas , glory is a transitory thing , and the Pearl 's next production , Racine 's Berenice , did not at all measure up to its Goldsmith . In extenuation of the failure it must be said that almost any English-language production of Racine is liable to come a cropper for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea change between languages , French classicism requires an acting style within the range of few English-speaking actors . The trick is to embody ( and give voice to ) a kind of animated Platonic figure , to become the embodiment of a Raphael painting , with extravagant gestures but noble withal . If the principals entrusted with the roles ( including Joanne Camp , who handled Goldsmith 's demands effortlessly ) were not equal to such , they can be blamed only for reaching beyond everyone 's grasp . Almost no one ? including Glenda Jackson ? brings off Racine in English . SUrely the Pearl will have more success with the final three plays of its ambitious season : The Philanderer by Shaw , Ibsen 's Hedda Gabler and ( let it be so ) All 's Well That Ends Well . ?                     