@@325803

Nora Astorga seemed perfectly cast as the Mata Hari of the Sandinista revolution , and she played the game of seduction and betrayal with deadly ease . First , she caught the roving eye of General Reynaldo ( " the Dog " ) Prez Vega , second ranking officer in Nicaragua 's notorious National Guard . Then , one night in March 1978 , Astorga lured the smitten general to her home . After sending his bodyguard off to buy rum , she drew Perez into her bedroom and disarmed him . The general undoubtedly thought he was in for a special night ; he was . At that moment , five of Astorga 's accomplices jumped out of hiding and slit Perez 's throat from ear to ear . Her mission accomplished , Astorga donned guerrilla fatigues and openly joined the revolution . She left behind a brazen message : " I want it to be known that I participated in the operation of bringing to justice the bloody henchman . " <P> That daring crime earned Astorga , 37 , a permanent niche in the Sandinista @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Reagan Administration officials , who must decide in the coming weeks whether to accept the onetime terrorist as Nicaragua 's new Ambassador to the U.S. At a time when relations between the two countries are close to breaking because of American support for anti-Sandinista contras , the nomination of Astorga seemed to take Washington by surprise and struck many as a direct challenge to the White House . Said a U.S. State Department representative : " Nicaragua took a real chance sending us someone so notorious . " <P> Normally the nomination of an ambassador follows a dignified routine designed to attract no attention . Once a name is whispered to American officials , the State Department drafts a biography , evaluates the candidate 's credentials and then makes a formal recommendation to the President . If the nominee is acceptable , the U.S. sends an official agreement and the appointment is made public . With some exceptions , consent comes without a hitch . But Astorga 's nomination was far from typical and had already attracted too much public attention to be reviewed behind closed doors . One Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual problem we have . Generally the candidates are too damned dull . " <P> Astorga 's remarkable past would be enough to disqualify her in the eyes of many American officials . But what makes her nomination doubly trouble some is that the man she murdered was not just any functionary in the regime of Dictator Anastasio Somoza Debayle . Apparently Prez was also a valuable CIA " asset . " The intelligence community is thought to have raised objections to Astorga 's appointment . But a flat refusal has its risks . Some State Department officers argue that the nomination ought to go through rather than give the Sandinistas a chance to retaliate by declaring newly appointed Ambassador to Nicaragua Harry Bergold persona non grata.                     