@@492453

0utside a dimly-lit silk factory in the port city of Dalian , a mud-gray row of one-room houses runs precipitously alongside . Overloaded bicycles and pushcarts creak up the narrow road and kick more dust into the already hot , thick air . But emerging from this stark scene of unblinking sameness , a beautiful child , round-faced , with dazzling charcoal eyes , timidly approaches a curious stranger to offer her porcelain smile and an outstretched hand in welcome . In China , you are the honored guest . From the factories and fields , the city streets and crowded waterways , the Chinese people come forward to greet you . Smiling faces and warm , friendly receptions are one of the most delightful aspects of Chinese culture , and they surface unanimously in the enthusiastic reviews travelers to the East bring home . China 's charm is its people . Acting out their lives against a backdrop of bewildering and austere realities , the people appear content , confident , and proud . But often , China is not beautiful . The turbu ' lent past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are healing . To witness China is to witness a country and a culture in an evolutionary stage . And you 'll leave fascinated  --  possibly challenged . The changes are vast and in plain view . Mao Tse-tung 's picture is no longer everywhere . Party historians argue over his historical status . Deng Xiaoping 's bold modernization programs have ushered in a fresh sense of renewal and hope . Slogans plastered and painted on billboards and cement walls urge the workers to " Support the Party , " " Work Hard , " and most recently , " Get Rich . " And the people listen . Education is on the upswing after the crushing sweep of Mao 's Cultural Revolution , when intellectuals were shoved to the rice fields or the pig farms , and culture was suspended . Television is a symbol of prosperity . Color sets are coveted . In Shanghai , I was bewildered by a line of shoppers at a nondescript appliance store . Shoulder to shoulder , the eager patrons began queuing at dawn . By 10 a.m. , hundreds stretched around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a television , and their names were next on the list . Supplies , however , never equal the demand . Many would leave empty-handed and perhaps try again the next week . Why anyone in China would want a set would baffle a Western viewer . The programing is pedantic and by our standards amateurish . To parallel the ambitious reforms , the airwaves teach  --  English , mathematics , engineering , and physics . Occasionally , an opera or an acrobatic act relieves the incessant push for improvement felt everywhere in China . The people are eager  --  for education , for better housing , for more . The pace is sometimes exhausting . Workers and shoppers choke the streets of Shanghai . Twelve million Chinese live in and around Shanghai . It would seem that one false step would trip and topple the entire population . But the rhythm is even , the mood calm . No arguments , shoving , or shouting . Just people going .. . somewhere . Workers returning home from the eight-hour shift at the factory ; others reporting for duty . Shoppers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I Department Store , while others rest on their haunches next to fish and meat markets . In such major cities as Shanghai and Peking , life is lived on the streets . The streets are free . Space is the one commodity the Chinese ca n't buy . To escape the confinement of the typical one-room , four-resident apartment , they fill the boulevards , avenues , and alleys . The crowds reveal signs of change . Proletarian-blue padded coats are worn at the seams and replaced by brightly colored Western blouses and fashionable skirts and pants . Hair salons are back in business . Chinese teen-agers cry for jeans and rock-'n ' - roll . When the British pop group " Wham " appeared in concert in once uptight Peking , thousands of youths packed into a crowded auditorium to enjoy the once banned music . This month , David Copperfield , the magician and illusionist , will attempt to walk through the Great Wall of China . Golf courses are being built in the valley of the Ming Tombs , and amusement parks are slated for construction soon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and desire . So , it is invited . The influx of foreign exchange does not stop at entertainment . Experts in robotics , engineering , and computer science teach and train the young , gifted students at the university . Simultaneously , young men and women by the thousands sit in classrooms abroad . They will return more capable and more useful , and will teach others , thereby guaranteeing the future . Housing developments spring up like dandelions ; blocks of brick and concrete apartment buildings sprout at a phenomenal rate . Peking is one giant construction site ; bamboo continued on page 95 continued from page 92 scaffolding covered with thick , green netting to protect passing pedestrians from the falling brick and mortar is a common sight every other block . Chinese tour guides openly boast of " luxury " apartments where residents have " individual " facilities  --  their own families in China share these facilities with four or five other families . Like work and food , housing is government controlled . Three yards per person is the rule . You can always apply for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per-person quota , it is unlikely your application will be considered . The demand for simply adequate housing is too great . Economic reforms , such as piecework incentives and private land for peasants , have beep initiated to encourage quantity and quality in factories and increased yields from the communal farms . From the farms comes the food . // And food is an obsession in China . The Chinese do not greet each other with the Western phrase " How are you ? " Their greeting is , " Have you eaten today ? " The nightmare of hunger pains and starvation is fresh in the memories of many Chinese people . That they are now well-fed is an achievement not lightly taken . Feeding more than one-quarter of the world 's population is not an easy task , but the workers appear to be succeeding . Mealtime is a time of celebration , and as in ancient times , a celebration includes rituals of food and drink . The frugality of the Chinese character has helped them survive : Nothing is wasted . And new technologies are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The open-door policy of Deng Xiaoping , Time magazine 's 1985 Man of the Year , arches the brows of some conservative Communist leaders , but the procession of foreign influence continues . The thirst for goods , services , and technology outcontinued on following page distanced the desire to remain aloof and autonomous . Reins firmly in hand , the government searches for external means to meet the overwhelming needs of its 1 billion people . In the quest , the party embraced tourism . Curious thousands flock through China 's wide-open doors . Two hundred thousand Americans alone visited China during 1984 . At first reluctant to share many of its secrets , China held an iron fist on itineraries until 1985 . One hundred new cities have unlatched their gates and brought the total of cities and provinces open to foreign visitors to 257 . Riding high on this wave of change are immutable signs of the ancient Chinese culture  --  beliefs , practices , and traits that have endured the tumultuous centuries , and that will continue . In the arts , the temples , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character and mystery emerge testifying to a people timelessly linked to a continuous quest for harmony and balance on all levels of existence . Calligraphy survives , flourishing in the Children 's Palace . Here , the exceptional youth of China are instructed in the ancient music , literature , and plays , as well as in the modern sciences . At the teahouses , folk tales are retold . Traditional dancers in silk kimonos and ornate , jeweled headdresses glide through ancient dramas , performed centuries before in the imperial courts . In Shanghai 's Jade Buddha Temple , monks prayerfully bow to two priceless jade statues of the Buddha  --  one seated , the other reclining . Both are carved from single pieces of white jade . The temple smells of heavy incense , which supplicants light and place before the deity , along with their hopes for harmony and good health . Across the brick courtyard , the Grand Hall houses fearsome , towering minor deities of soil and seasons that glare down at passers-by . Made of clay at the core and gilded in pure gold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed maintained the universe in harmony . The Grand Canal : Life here is as old as China itself . Junks , fueled by human sweat , labor up and down this marvel of Chinese engineering ingenuity . Generations of families cling to the walls of the canal . Neighbors wash their laundry at its docks . Vegetables are rinsed in its muddy waters . Toddlers lean over the walls and curiously eye the strange faces , then shyly wave and retreat . We are in Wuxi  --  one of the garden cities visited centuries before by emperors . Skilled craftsmen labor over clay figurines in the nearby factory , as they have for more than 400 years . Peach and apple blossoms scent the remote , peaceful countryside . An old monk deftly prunes bonsai branches in the famous garden of Liyuan . Outside the garden walls , on Lake Tai , pavilions and pagodas stand guard to preserve the wind-water balance in the city ; balance , as in the days of the mandarins , is a constant in Chinese life . In the provinces , the land is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the soil is planted , watered , harvested , weeded , and nurtured by hand . As in centuries past , the possibility of starvation lurks in the minds of the communal farmers . Every inch of ground , down to the water 's edge of irrigation ditches and the skirts of roads , has a purpose . Unplanted grass growing wild is picked to feed the livestock ; cornstalks stacked against the mud walls of the communal village retain heat in the home during the winter months . Stray branches are cut into slivers , then sanded and lacquered to use as chopsticks . Frugality is part of the Chinese character  --  a virtue that has kept them alive . Nowhere in China is the contrast between old and new more apparent than in Peking , or Beijing . For 700 years , since the reign of Kublai Khan , Peking has been the political heart of China . The name itself evokes images of ancient greatness , mystery , and splendor . Stand in Tiananmen Square and witness China 's past , present , and future . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Heavenly Peace , leading to the Imperial City , stands in immense splendor , a symbol of past civilizations under dynastic rule . A 60-ton granite obelisk in the center of the 100-acre square , with an inscription in Mao 's own calligraphy , reflects the present mood of the People 's Republic , translating to " Eternal Glory to the people 's heroes . " To the west is the Great Hall of the People , where China 's leaders determine the present and future direction of China . As you walk through the imposing Gate of Supreme Harmony within the Forbidden City , a glimpse of ancient China snaps you to attention . Across a massive stone courtyard , the Hall of Supreme Harmony is one of the most beautiful wooden structures in the world . With massive crimson columns topped by hand-carved mustard tiles , the 123-foot-tall hall was , at the emperor 's decree , the tallest in Beijing . The awesome structure is a bold definition of the emperor 's remoteness from common man . He was the son of heaven : the paragon of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal . The three great halls , all called Harmony , reflect the elegance in living and the supreme good taste that was once China . From the Forbidden City the vast empire was ruled . In the Hall of Preserving Harmony , the palace examinations were held . Once a year , students would come to the Imperial courts and try to become mandarins , or scholars  --  the highest state of man in the Confucian system of moral order . Behind this hall , in the center of a stairway , is a ramp covered with sculptured dragons , carved from a single slab of marble weighing more than 200 tons . Dignitaries , eunuchs , and military officials knelt before the emperor in the great court outside the Hall of Supreme Harmony . The courtyard was once beautifully landscaped . One of the emperors , however , felt court security was not tight enough . The city , basically a rectangular island , was surrounded by a moat large enough for naval battle , and steep , massive walls to cut off the would-be climber . So , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were arranged neatly in place in opposite directions . The emperor rested more comfortably . At least , we assume . Along with dynastic rule , so too the court stories , the dramas , and the intrigues of the Forbidden City will forever remain a secret  --  shadows of an opulent past , probably unequaled on earth . There were once 9,999 rooms in this complex : 250,000 skilled Chinese artisans worked ( and some died ) to build the city . And as you pass through concubine quarters , the throne room , the offices of the mandarins and clerks , and the Empress Dowager Ci Xi 's bedroom , the objects seem to whisper to you , and you begin to construct visions of what might have been . Undoubtedly , the Imperial Palace in the Forbidden City is the most awesome , but the Summer Palace offers a more relaxed view of Imperial days . During the summers , the heat in Peking was intense . The emperors built a getaway several miles south of the city to cool off . Palaces , pavilions , temples , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Kunming Lake . The Marble Boat beached at the edge of the lake hits a sour note with the Chinese people : Funds earmarked to rebuild the navy were channeled into the building of this huge , double-decker boat . The Empress Dowager Ci Xi preferred to feel the cool breeze off the lake at night . The Covered Way , decorated with landscape paintings and depictions of Chinese legends , was the most delightful attraction at the Summer Palace . The intricate artwork and attention to detail is marvelous . These imperial relics are now parks , museums , and recreation retreats for the workers , who turn out in droves to visit them . Packing a lunch and citrus drinks , families enjoy a freedom newly found since the end of the Cultural Revolution . Temples and grounds are being restored , using the same demanding skills that first constructed them . Preservation of the once despised imperial dwellings has become important . The leaders wish to leave the visible legacy of their struggle to future generations . Undulating up the steep hillsides of far-northern China , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall of China stretches out like time itself . The serpentine stone and elongated highway has for 2,200years been the symbol of China , the nation . To some , it is the longest graveyard in the world ; to others , a massive statement of China 's superiority , visibly divorcing itself from the known world  --  one of barbarians . The Great Wall is a wonder of the world  --  something ancient peoples somehow conceived and achieved , a powerful statement of inner resolution and fortitude . Perhaps it is still the symbol of China . But 1 hope it will remain one of the great wonders , and not a barrier , because I would like to return to China . I felt welcome there . Making travel arrangements to China requires extensive preplanning . The necessary documentation ( passports , visas , etc. ) must be in order . Reserving hotel accommodations at the various sites you plan to visit and arranging necessary guides and interpreters are essential steps in preparing for your adventure . Travel experts knowledgeable of Chinese customs and itineraries will help you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land-sea cruise package that sets sail in the early spring and fall . The ports of call and the excursion packages are well-planned and expertly handled . If interested , contact Royal Viking 's headquarters in San Francisco .                     