@@494341

Vietnam exports dissidents to Siberia . LTERMS OF ENSLAVEMENT ? TTERS that have made their way out of Vietnam over the past two years have conveyed a new sense of fear . Although all mail passes through government censors , deep anxiety and hopelessness can be read between the lines in letters about friends and relatives who have been sent to construction sites in the Soviet Union , particularly Siberia . And although few facts about the numbers and names of those involved can be verified , at least two things can be ascertained : a large-scale deportation of Vietnamese is underway , and those who have been deported regard their conscription as virtual enslavement . Initial reports of the deportations appeared in the London Economist in September 1981 , followed by accounts inthe European and Asian press that peaked in 1982 and that have recurred sporadically since . The American press , by and large , has been extremely cautious . Direct evidence has been difficult to obtain , and there is a marked reluctance to cover so volatile a subject without an accumulation of tangible proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and specifically the Labor Cooperation Treaty signed in February 1981 , provides a background against which the powerful , occasionally contradictory , evidence begins to make sense . HERE IS no question that Vietnamese labor has been sent to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe in increasing numbers since 1981 , and very likely since 1980 . In a statement published in 1982 by Nhan Dan , the party daily , a Soviet spokesman said , " The Soviet Union and Vietnam have firmly and actively cooperated in all fields ? political , economic , and defense ? to increasingly develop the natural resources of Siberia and the Far Eastern region . " But information on how many people are involved is inconsistent . In hearings on the human rights consequences of the trans-Siberian pipeline , Senator William Armstrong 's International Finance Subcommittee learned from reliable sources that two Soviet freighters , the Obdurst and Doudinka , sailed from Vietnam in March 1982 with approximately twenty-five hundred Vietnamese laborers aboard . According to the same sources , an additional thirty-two hundred were transported on the Soviet warships Minsk and Denskovitch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liner Rugen . In May 1982 , Izvestia reported that seven thousand Vietnamese students , between the ages of 17 and 35 , had arrived for a year of training and work . At the same time , however , Tass quoted Leonid Kostin , deputy director of the State Committee for Labor and Social Affairs , as saying that the program provided for a five-year stay . The Soviets appeared eager to downplay the numbers , while the figures released by Vietnamese sources fluctuated wildly . Four months prior to the Tass article , Vietnam 's Military Daily News had announced that not seven thousand , but sixty thousand Vietnamese " trainees and workers " were sent during 1981 ; the government-supported Ket Hop magazine put the number at fifty thousand . At about the same time , in response to questioning from the French press , the Vietnamese Embassy in Paris released the figure of 24,500 . Writing in Nhan Dan on April 1982 , Vietnam 's minister of labor , Dan Thieu Thi , noted that " hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese workers have been sent to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to train , and to work , " and that " Future labor cooperation will be doubled . " However , a Radio Hanoi broadcast of December 1982 declared that " many tens of thousands of Vietnamese workers " had been sent . This same broadcast reaffirmed Minister Thi 's report that the number of workers was expected to increase substantially in 1983 . Unofficial party sources inside Vietnam and information from refugees indicate that the projected total number of workers for the first five years of the treaty ( 1981-1986 ) is five to six hundred thousand . Although such sources must be treated carefully , this at first astonishing estimate seems to be conservative if one takes the low " official " Vietnamese government figure for 1981 of 24,500 , doubles it for 1982 , and assumes proportionate increases through 1986 . I T IS POSSIBLE that the Soviet articles were meant as rebuttals to Western charges of forced labor , and that the Vietnamese reports were primarily for home consumption in a society whose leaders are anxious to affirm what party Secretary General Le Duan has called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union . " But whatever the actual figure is , both Soviet and Vietnamese sources deny that the labor transfers can in any way be regarded as enslavement . According to Nhan Dan , workers are well treated in their host countries and receive salaries on a scale of 68 rubles per month for unskilled labor to 268 per month for skilled work . Czechoslovakian radio reports that at least some of the Vietnamese there ( a total of thirty thousand ; the number is slated to rise ) work in standard industrial jobs under conditions not much different from those of Czech workers . And we know from refugee sources that some Vietnamese have indeed volunteered for foreign labor service . In 1980 and 1981 , during a time when there were food riots in Haiphong , Vinh , and Nghe Tinh , and starvation was widely rumored , many North Vietnamese were willing to take any work available , regardless of location or conditions . Estimates of Vietnamese real unemployment still range from 10 to 20 percent of the work force . Under these circumstances , foreign opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is more to the story , however , than volunteers performing standard industrial jobs . Letters from Vietnamese in the Soviet bloc say that work is harder than in Vietnam , and the weather unbearably cold . One worker wrote to a Canadian friend that his construction site in western Siberia is guarded by Vietnamese soldiers , and that clothing , issued for a three-year period , is grossly inadequate for winter conditions . The pay is 7 rubles a month , enough for ten packs of cigarettes . The only way out is to " create a serious disciplinary disturbance , " but , the writer adds , " you know what would happen to me and my family . " A letter from another worker in Siberia says that he arrived by plane and was sent immediately to a work camp where there is none of the promised training , only " hard labor day after day . " The monthly salary is 90 rubles . A third smuggled letter is from a worker who says he is part of a Vietnamese labor gang and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work performed . The U.S. State Department believes that one-third of the workers ' wages are held by the Soviet government toward payment of Vietnam 's approximately $5 billion debt to the U.S.S.R. , and that another third goes directly to the Vietnamese government . French and British press reports have indicated that 60 percent is held by the host government , 20 percent by the Vietnamese government , and the remaining 20 percent distributed to the workers . On a pay scale of 68 to 268 rubles a month , this would mean a wage of about $3 per week to unskilled laborers and $14 to skilled workers . Even the Tass article left open the possibility that wages are not being fully distributed . In letters gathered from the refugee community , we have identified twelve people who have been transported involuntarily to the Soviet Union . The language used is often Aesopian . One letter says , " Tan is happy to be chosen for work in Siberia . He was released from prison camp a few months ago , and again he is far away , separated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a chance to see Mr. Ba . " This letter passed the censors , who were unaware that Mr. Ba died in prison several years ago . The real message : Tan had been re-arrested and sent to a Soviet labor camp , where he did not expect to survive . It is clear from the letters that families are not told how long the prisoners will be forced to work . Some are sent directly from Vietnamese corrective labor camps to the Soviet Union ; others , like Tan , are re-arrested after completing prison terms . All twelve deportees have either been in Vietnamese prisons or were suspected of opposition or of pro-Chinese sympathies . The overall picture that emerges is that there are apparently several categories of Vietnamese workers in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe , including both volunteers and prisoners , and that in one category at least the Vietnamese regime regards forced labor abroad as an alternative to internment for political crimes at home . rr HIS PICTURE is given added credence by the Viet- namese draft law of 1980 which , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 and 35 ( including those held in prison camps ) into two categories . Category A includes all those who have revolutionary credentials , or have no history of reactionary activities . These people are drafted into the Peoples Army , and many of them serve occupation duty in Cambodia or Laos . Category B includes all those who were associated with the former regime , whose relatives were associated with it , or who are currently suspected of opposition . They are subject to a work draft , and it is from this group that much of the export labor appears to be culled . Because it is considered impossible to predict how long re-education might take in any given case , indefinite sentences are standard in the Vietnamese domestic prison and labor camp system . It is unlikely that different regulations are applied to those sent abroad . There is nothing inherently unlikely about a national labor export program designed to help achieve Vietnam 's economic and political goals . The Vietnamese government expelled the ethnic Chinese in 1979 , confiscating property and charging from four to ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . The government has also forced an estimated two to three million people with politically suspect backgrounds into the so-called " New Economic Zones , " previously uncultivated jungle areas that are considered potentially productive . Vietnam has a substantial labor surplus , and the Soviet Union faces a troublesome and growing shortage . For Vietnam , a sizable labor transfer would provide a means of amortizing the Soviet debt while alleviating to a certain extent the difficulty of feeding the population ( 20 percent of domestic food requirements are imported ) . It would also play a role in the suppression of domestic opposition . There is little reason to believe that the Soviet Union , with its long tradition of corrective labor camps , would be averse to accepting forced as well as volunteer workers from Vietnam . These are the circumstances that lead to deep and legitimate suspicions that Vietnamese are subject to forced labor in the Soviet Union . Enough is known now to warrant an investigation by the International Labor Organization or Amnesty International . At the least , such an investigation might bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions , and the numbers involved . Should it also reveal the widespread human rights violations that the refugee reports suggest , then the Soviet and Vietnamese governments would be put on notice that such practices contravene the most basic expectations that the international community has of its members . For the West to avoid responsibility in this matter is to share the blame .                     