@@432105

 | Economic turmoil in Poland is triggering fresh alarm over mountains of debt piling up around the globe . From Latin America to Africa , from Asia to Eastern Europe , the story is the same : Scores of nations are struggling to service a staggering volume of loans made to them over the years by Western banks and governments . With its economy in shambles and its political future uncertain , Poland represents the biggest risk to eventual repayment . But European and American lenders are becoming more and more edgy over the safety of their money in other countries as well . While virtually no authorities foresee a string of outright defaults , many question whether the Western banking network has been too lenient in extending credit . " You wonder how many of these loans the system can keep juggling in the air at the same time , " says Richard Herring , a foreign-debt expert at the University of Pennsylvania 's Wharton School . Behind the worry lie these basic problems Worldwide debt is gigantic . Many nations in Eastern Europe and the Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for purchases of Western technology and to stay abreast of skyrocketing oil prices . As a result of this , outstanding debt to the West ? basically , the United States , Western Europe and Japan ? now stands at more than 600 billion dollars . A decade ago , it was 93 billion . Even the Soviet Union is in hock to the . West for at least 19 billion . IOU 's by governments alone came to some 424 billion dollars in 1980 , according to Western estimates . By now , when combined with debts run up by private borrowers , the total is well above the half-trillion level . Moreover , the outstanding loans are so large and interest rates so high that the funds required just to make timely interest and principal payments are rising at an alarming pace . Since 1971 , the debt-service burden carried by developing countries has soared from 11 billion dollars to 112 billion ? a rise of 26 percent annually . No bargaining room . Compounding the basic repayment problems are other ominous factors . Many borrowing countries are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts ? leaving little room for internal improvements , such as new factories or transportation , necessary for future economic health . To make matters worse , little relief is on the horizon . " Increasingly , these countries will have to borrow just to service old debts , leaving less and less for productive investments , " says Kurt Richebacher , a banker-economist in Frankfurt , Germany . Foreign aid from the West , too , is being held down or trimmed as governments ? faced with big budget deficits at home ? cut spending programs . Financial authorities say funds available for lending may become scarcer . A prime source of money during the 1970s ? petrodollars , or profits reaped by wealthy oil-exporting countries ? is already slowing . The international balance-of-payments position of members of OPEC , the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , may fall into the red by the middle of this decade , after registering a 116-billion-dollar surplus in 1980 , predicts Carlos Canal , Jr. , executive vice president of Bankers Trust Company , New York . Adding further to the gloom is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 24 nonCommunist nations belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are predicted to grow by an average of just 1.25 percent in 1982 . This expected sluggishness , which includes a recession in the United States for at least half of 1982 , will shrink export markets for borrowing nations and hinder their earnings . Likewise , European governments are under growing pressures to restrict imports from the Third World in order  | to protect jobs in ailing industries . Unemployment in the OECD countries , already close to 25 million , could approach 30 million by 1983 . All told , concern over international lending risks is snowballing . Says Nicholas Hope of the World Bank in Washington : " We now have a situation where many bankers are extremely concerned about being paid back . " Communist red ink . Nowhere is the debt problem more acute than in the Soviet bloc . Together with Moscow , these countries owe at least 80 billion dollars to the West , compared with 6.5 billion in 1970 . Poland , now under martial law , has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and governments have poured vast amounts of loans into Warsaw . Now , more than three quarters of Poland 's huge external debt is due among 16 Western nations . As the loans have stacked up , the Polish economy has deteriorated , undermining ability to repay . National output in 1981 was down 15 to 20 percent from the 1978 level and will most likely fall again in 1982 . Coal exports to the West , Poland 's most important currency earner , dropped by about 60 percent in 1981 . " This is the worst setback in any country we have seen since the days of the Great Depression , " says a Geneva financial expert . Negotiations are under way in Zurich between the Polish government and leading Western banks over rescheduling of 2.4 billion dollars in principal and interest due in 1981 . The bankers are insisting that Poland ? or the Soviet Union ? make good on about 500 million dollars in interest due before they will discuss postponing the principal payments . Poland may need an additional 20 billion in loans in the next four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively small ? 1.3 billion dollars . The biggest burden is being carried by West Germany ? some 5.3 billion . If Poland were to default on its loans , the Western banking system would be able to absorb the pain , according to financial experts . " A default would put a big dent in bank profits , but it would not create any financial disaster or cause any major bank to go under , " says John Wilson , senior vice president at the Bank of America , Poland 's largest private American creditor . But a Polish default would seriously undermine the financial credibility of all other countries in the Soviet bloc , authorities say . Already , Romania is near bankruptcy . Bucharest owed the West nearly 13 billion dollars at the end of 1981 . But Romania 's financial plight is considered less serious than that of hardpressed Poland . Romania belongs to the International Monetary Fund , a source of credit , and has been granted most-favored-nation trading status with the U.S. A long-held theory by Western bankers is that the Soviet Union would rush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that assumption is being questioned . " The Soviet economy is no great shakes , " says one American banker . Bad harvests plus falling oil and gold prices have cut into Moscow 's ledger sheet . Moreover , Soviet deposits in Western banks have fallen sharply ? from 8.6 billion dollars at the end of 1980 to 3.6 billion in June , 1981 . Debts owed by the Soviet bloc pale in size when compared with those of developing countries , many of them dirt-poor and struggling just to supply basic necessities to their citizens . The OECD in Paris estimates that total Third World debt has reached 524 billion dollars to public and private lenders , up 56 percent since 1978 . Mexico alone owed nearly 50 billion at the end of last year and will need another 11 billion in 1982 , despite abundant oil resources . Brazil made principal-and-interest payments of 16 billion last year , double the 1978 level . For the entire Third World , interest payments alone have jumped from 3.3 billion to 46.5 billion over the last 10 years . Some nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derived from sale of products abroad into debt service . Banking authorities consider 25 percent to be the " critical " point where serious imbalances exist . Major American banks have their biggest international lending stake in Latin America . Of all Western loans to Latin America , at least $3 of every $5 is owed to U.S. lenders . Unlike Poland , a number of Third World nations appear able to boost exports significantly . Brazil , Peru , South Korea , Taiwan , Thailand and the Philippines are examples . Nevertheless , other developing nations face serious problems . The credit standing of nations such as Zaire , Sudan , Tanzania and other African states is so bad that bankers are shying away from new loans . " It 's hard to generalize about Third World countries , " says Herring of Wharton . " In lots of cases , the lending has been based on sound assumptions . In other cases , it 's more like wishful thinking . " Nightmare finale . One scenario that gives bankers the shudders : Multiple defaults . One or more large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bag . If enough large borrowers defaulted , it is conceivable that some lenders could be forced to close their doors , undermining confidence in the world 's banking structure . " A Polish default could trigger chain reactions , " says an American banker stationed in Switzerland . " The threat of financial collapse is real . " Few financial authorities actually think this will happen , however . " It 's very difficult to envision a country totally reneging on its debts forever , " says John Haley , executive vice president of Chase Manhattan . More likely , say financial authorities on both sides of the Atlantic , will be a new era of caution by Western lenders . Scrutiny will be more intense in considering loan requests . And banks may set aside more reserve funds in the event they have to absorb loan losses . " Bankers will have to be extremely prudent from now on , " says Franz Liitolf , general manager of the Swiss Bank Corporation . From the borrowers ' viewpoint , developing nations will have to cut their ambitious growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus , the crisis in Poland could mark a turning point in the relationship between Western lenders and their clients . As one European monetary official puts it : " Poland 's debt problem may be a blessing in disguise . It may teach bankers a lesson and lead to sounder financing practices in the 1980s. "                     