@@487735

The following is a statement issued by the Association of Professidnal Pundits on December 7 . It was prepared by an ad hoc committee whose members include James Reston , Flora Lewis , David Broder , William Pfaff , Meg Greenfield , Walter Isaacson , Jack Rosenthal , Richard Reeves , David Ignatius and Walter Lippman . The A.P.P. suggests that the statement be run with emphases added , and I am happy to adopt this recommendation : With his frank admission of error in his radio address of December 6 the President has done much to dispel the div4iire scandal that threatened his Administration . It is now time to call a halt to the inquiries , which have been taking on the repugnant guise of a witch hunt . Let the healing process begin . This nation , can ill afford the trauma of another Watergate or two years of drift . Already our allies are expressing astonishment and dismay at- the bloodletting in Washington . As journalists we feel no joy in the unfolding of the Iran arms saga . The uniqueness of our , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our unity of purpose . By reaching out to such experienced statesmen as Frank Carlucci , Mr. Reagan has shown the ' decisiveness that has been one of his most admirable features . With the appointinent of a bipartisan council of wise men and women , he could emerge from his present difficulties with his political credit not diminished but increased . Mr. Reagan 's goals , foolishly executed by overzealous subordinates , were not in themselves at fault : A search for opportunity in a post-Khomeini Iran , resolve in curbing the expansionism of the Sandinista dictatorship ; Such policies need not lurk in the shadows of illegality . They can step forward in the high noon of public approval . In the past six years the President has done much to renew America . There is still time for his final years to serve as a fitting climax , not to trickle away in an ignominy that would only give comfort to the enemies of democracy . Nervous North Lieut . Col. Oliver North 's quivering emotion on taking the Fifth was solemnly acknowledged by many onthe House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join with Reagan in honoring a man who has spent the Past few years arming men whose favored pursuit is the raping of women and the disembowling of infants . North was the recipient of an ecstatic pen-portrait by Shirley Christian in The New York Times on November 30 , and a scarcely less enthusiastic profile by Charles Mohr in the same ' paper on December 4 . An associate of North 's in the Marine Corps paints a-less flattering picture of the man , as a rank opportunist with overweening ambition , propelled to the National Sedurity Council by his " daddy-rabbit , " or patron , Lieut . Gen : Ed Bronars , now retired . This associate also wondered how North could have got high-security clearances given what he tactfully implied to be a disposition of extreme nervousness and excitability . North , incidentally , hired a lawyer last summer . Even if the press was not payingmuch attention , the arms smugglers knew they were breaking the law . Creepy Carlucci " His fans ? Just about everybody , " Dan Rather told the viewers of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to succeed Vice Adm . John Poindexter as director of the National Security Council . And , indeed , the general impression given by the press was that in Carlucci could be found the rich tilth of statesmanship , integrity , regard for due process and the rule of law essential to " restore confidence " ( a crucial pundit buzz phrase , indicating usual fear that masses will catch on , rise up , throw rascals out ) . Ih fact Carlucci is admirably suited to carry on without a hiccup from where Poindexter and North left off . His curriculum vitae is as good ' as a course in postwar imperial history . He joined the Foreign Service in - 1956 , and after a spell as economic officer in the U.S. Embassy in Johannesburg , he served as political officer of the U.S. Embassy in Leopoldville , the Congo , at a crucial moment in that country 's fortunes . Patrice Lumumba had led the Congo to independence and was publicly expressing views disturbingly at odds with the interests of the ' United States , a stance which led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 , 1961 . After the assassins were done 41th Lumumba , a C.I.A . officer trundled the body about for a few hours in the trunk of his car while he figured out what to do with it . In 1964 , ever on the move , Carlucci was to be found holding the post of Consul General in Zanzibar , and shortly ' thereafter he was expelled for plotting the overthrow of Abeid Karume , the country 's leader . His old love for the Congo surfaced once more when , the following year , he assisted in the eviction of Joseph Kasavubu from the presidency and the installation of the then-Maj . Gen. Joseph Mobutu , a stalwart of the United States and Israel and one of the greatest robbers- in African history . When Mobutu visited the White House on December 9 of this year he was no doubt pleased and touched to find Carlucci weIcoining him at the door . Carlucci next headed to Brazil , in the wake of the military coup of 1964 in which then-Col . Vernon Walters , eternal ax-man and currently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important advisory role . Carlucci stayed in Rio until 1969 as political counselor , oiling the thumbscrews through five dark years of Brazilian history . Between 1969 and 1975 he was back in Washington , at the Office of Economic Opportunity , where he played a devious role in Governor Ronald Reagan 's onslaught on California legal services ; then at the Office of Management and Budget , forging a close relationship with Caspar Weinberger ; and then at the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . In 1975 Carlucci was rushed to Portugal , taking over as Ambassador and entrusted by Secretary of State Kissinger with the task of " saving " Portugal from the radical tides then swelling strongly . Standard liberal bios assert that Carlucci December 20 , 1986 The Nation . Pre- , . - .1- tationc Abemdeen , South Dahota 5-7481 resisted Kissinger 's orders to implement a coup on the Greek model and instead recommended the traditional C.I.A . /social democrat buy-out plan , sturdily reliable in many a postwar NATO crisis . This may be so , but directly after the abortive right-wing coup of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " I do n't know what will be the attitude of our government , but it would without a doubt be preferable for Mr. Carlucci to leave Portugal for his physical security . The way things now stand , it is possible he might experience certain regrettable incidents . " Carlucci finally returned to become Deputy Director of Central Intelligence under Stansfield Turner . Along with Carter , Brzezinski and Turner , he helped hatch a mad scheme to destabilize South Yemen . Apart from that he performed routinely in the endless war against truth and freedom , down to such mundane duties as lobbying Congress successfully to exempt the C.I.A . from important provisions of the F.O.I.A. , and fostering the Intelligence Identities Protection Act . In 1981 he joined his old boss Weinberger as number two in the Pentagon , and struck up a close relationship with Maj. Gen. Richard Secord , then Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Middle East and subsequently , one of the arms dealers forming part of Reagan 's shadow ; government . From there Carlucci went to Sears World Trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fortune remarked that international traders had been speculating that the company was a front for U.S. intelligence activities abroad . , So we may reasonably say that Carlucci is the right man for the job . Footnote : The Winter 1986 issue ( Number 27 ) of Covert-Action Information Bulletin reviews Carlucci 's career . Box 50272 , Washington DC , 20004 , ( 202 ) 747-5317 . Murky Muskie History will probably not give much space to the deliberations of the investigative commission of wise men appointed by President Reagan to look into the procedures of the N.S.C. Wisdom in this case assumed the form of John Tower , Edmund Muskie and Brent Scowcroft . Tower , formerly a Texas Senator and latterly a U.S. arms negotiator , brings with him the undoubted asset of having once had Robert McFarlane on his Senatorial staff and having as a brother-in-laW Sam Cummings , head of Interarms , the largest private arms dealing firm in the world . Muskie may have caught the White House 's attention on account of his role in winching the good name of Nestle out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storm of bad publicity surrounding its marketing of infant formula to Third World mothers . A boycott was under way . Nestle 's P.R . strategist , Ray Pagan , dreamed up the notion of a " task force " to examine the company 's conduct , pull no punches , bar no holds , drop chips where it may . Muskie was hired and thus was born the Infant Formula Audit Commission . From Nestle 's point of view everything worked out fine . The Muskie commission took the heat off Nestle andduly made a number of recommendations that conspicuously omitted any discussion of Nestle 's marketing techniques in pushing infant formula to Third World mothers . For this strategy Nestle received a Silver Anvil Award this year from the Public Relations Society of America . Jumping Judy Connoisseurs of the tempestuous career of my old friend Judy Miller will be interested to see how she fares in Washington . Judy has been recalled from Paris to become , news editor in the Washington bureau of The New York Times . ( John Vinocur , preVionsly The Times 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Herald Tribune , which spells doom for that excellent paper . ) Judy caused some stir earlier this year by disclosing that when five female journalists had been interviewing Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi , he had invited three of them  --  separatelyinto a tiny bedroom and made " an abrupt sexual advance . " At the time she wrote this Miller had been banned from entering Libya . The ban was not , it turned out , the consequence of fearless political coverage . When some of Judy 's colleagues visited the appropriate Libyan official to ask him to lift the ban , he said sourly , " Miss Miller is a very rude lady . " It turned out she had addressed the front-desk man at the press hotel as " you fucking bastard , " and when told of the ban at the Tripoli airport , she , had hit an immigration official with a telephone . History 's Threads Entwine To defend itself in the matter of Renata Adler 's articles , against the libel suit entered by Greg Rushford , former Congressional investigator , The New Yorker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Richard Nixon 's legal team . He will now be defending Adler 's articles , which were well nourished by the working notes of David Dorsen , assistant counsel for General Westmoreland and earlier assisting counsel on the staff of John Doar , special counsel to the House Judiciary Committee during Watergate . Now Crook the Pregnant Hinges of the Knee The Osric Dining Society is meeting in Washington to select the most sycophantic journalist of the year . Last year 's winner , Morton Kondracke , has since slid into oblivion and has to keep his knee in good crooking condition by practicing in front of the mirror . Smart money favors perennial suckerfish Hugh Sidey ( 3-1 ) though I prefer to see young blood honored , such as David Ignatius , but 6-1 the field . Addendum Due to early Thanksgiving deadlines , I was unable to correct the dates between which the Congressional ban on military aid to the contras was in force . From October 1984 to June 1985 there was a complete prohibition on U.S. funds to the contras ; until last September military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not granted until October .                     