@@332463

In the beginning was Walt . With Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs ( 1937 ) , Disney established the rules of the movie-fantasy universe and anchored it in the fears and wonders of childhood . But Disney 's success turned the innovator into a caretaker at the mausoleum of his own style . After his death , the studio limped along on audio-animatronic pilot , while the true heirs of the true Walt  --  canny kids like George Lucas , Steven Spielberg and Jim Henson  --  updated the old master 's tricks and made pots of dough . Now a new generation of Disney artists , some young enough to have made Star Wars , Close Encounters and the Muppets their boyhood models , has produced a cartoon feature in the old Disney tradition . And Henson and Lucas have teamed for an ambitious flight of fantasy that plays like computer-age Walt . <P> In The Great Mouse Detective a mouse chanteuse performs what may be the first tentative striptease in the Disney canon . Otherwise it 's business and pleasure as usual . Keen-witted Basil of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl mouse 's father , a toymaker abducted by the evil rodent genius Professor Ratigan . The movie 's scene-stealer is a peg-legged bat named Fidget , who gets laughs when someone stomps on his foot ( " My only foot ! " ) . Later Basil and Dawson are trussed up on Ratigan 's killer mousetrap , a Rube Spielberg device that jump-starts the filmmakers ' ingenuity and accelerates the plot toward its nifty climax . Nothing as weighty as the art of animation is at stake here  --  just some clever cartoonists having a holiday on mice . <P> If The Great Mouse Detective is aimed at children and their indulgent parents , Labyrinth ( written by Monty Python 's Terry Jones ) means to beguile precocious adolescents of all ages . With nods to L. Frank Baum ( The Wizard of Oz ) and Children 's Author Maurice Sendak , Labyrinth lures a modern Dorothy Gale out of the drab Kansas of real life into a land where the wild things are : deaf-and-dumb doorknobs , feral party animals that toss their heads like volleyballs , a terrier-faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a talking bird growing out of his head , and an orange-haired hybrid of a buffalo and a gorilla , who walks like Charles Laughton 's Hunchback of Notre Dame and talks like Grover on Sesame Street . <P> Such fanciful creatures are diversions as a lonely teenager ( Jennifer Connelly ) wanders the labyrinth in search of the castle where a malefic king ( David Bowie ) has detained her year-old brother . The maze , of course , is adolescence , and its dark lord is Bowie , the charismatic Kabuki sorcerer who offers his ravishing young antagonist the gilded perks of adult servitude ( " Just let me rule you , and you can have everything you want " ) . With their technical astonishments , Director Henson and Executive Producer Lucas have been faithful to the pioneering Disney spirit . In suggesting the thrilling dilemmas that await a wise child , they have flown worlds beyond Walt .                     