@@432400

 | At Michael Italiano 's desk is a snapshot that serves nicely as a remedy for the blues . It shows him two and a half years ago , a frail , completely bald 21-year-old leaning on crutches , racked by bone cancer in his right leg . When life seems harsh , a glance at the photo reminds him that things could be worse . Remember how it was ? the young man in the picture seems to ask . Remember the surgery and the gut-turning chemotherapy and the deathly smell of the hospital ? " You take things for granted , " Italiano says , " until something like this happens . " In the throes of disease he did n't dare look much beyond tomorrow . Now it is in remission , and he has married and launched a career as a securities trader . He makes a living by selling the future . Italiano is one of more than 40,000 American adults , most of them in their 20s and 30s , who fought cancer while young and lived to tell about it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved in more than a decade , the number of children and young adults who have survived the disease has increased sharply . Thirty years ago kids diagnosed with the most common childhood cancer ? acute lymphocytic leukemia ? were given months to live ; today 65 percent of them live at least five years after the diagnosis . Half of the youths afflicted with bone cancer survive five or more years . Thanks to effective therapies , Wilms 's tumor of the kidney , which primarily afflicts toddlers , is now 82 percent curable . All told , according to the National Cancer Institute , 63 percent of young cancer patients survive five years or more after being diagnosed ? an improvement of 40 percent since the early 1970s . These young veterans of the war on cancer are getting a lot of attention from researchers . Psychologists study how a drawn-out encounter with death shapes the developing personality . Medical scientists search for disorders brought on by the harsh cancer therapies themselves . Meanwhile , dozens of organizations have sprung up to help survivors navigate a wilderness of dilemmas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcoming discrimination on the job . " Kids today are being cured of the disease , but they 're not always left physically and psychologically intact , " says Dr. Aaron Rausen , director of pediatric cancer services at New York University Medical Center . " Now we 're also trying to handle the problems associated with treatments , for the kids and their family . " IQ scores : Many cancer veterans suffer lingering side effects from therapy . Wilms 's tumor , for instance , is often successfully treated with chemotherapy and radiation ; but as the radiation eliminates tumor cells it also harms backbone tissue , sometimes leaving the child with a curved or stunted spine . Therapy may rob some kids of brainpower , too . NCI researchers David G. Poplack and Pim Brouwers studied 32 young leukemia patients who had received radiation aimed at stray tumor cells in the brain . And , within this admittedly small sample , some of the patients scored lower than healthy kids on tests of memory , verbal skills and IQ . Harsh treatments may also contribute to the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a cancer specialist at Children 's Hospi- tal of Philadelphia , says that radiation and chemotherapy are at least partly to blame for the fact that malignancies are about 1C times more prevalent among cancer veterans than in the general population . Cancer treatment can also cause infertility . Victims of genital tumors are n't the only ones at risk ; sterility can result from treatment for other cancers as well . Chemotherapy and radiation left Tom Hopkins . a 33-year-old carpenter who lost a leg to bone sarcoma 20 years ago , unable to father a child for years . He blames this second blow for worsening an already serious drinking problem and disrupting his  | marriage . No one ever warned him of the potential problem . Male survivors often regain their fertility later on . ( Hopkins has fathered two children , quit drinking and repaired his marriage . ) But Dr. John Mulvihill of the NCI estimates that permanent infertility is 15 percent more common among survivors than among other adults . With such drawbacks in mind , medical scientists are trying to develop less-damaging treatments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therapy to use on the basis of what will be the long-term effects , " says Dr. Stuart Siegel , of Children 's Hospital in Los Angeles . For one thing , physicians have grown more reluctant to aim radiation at the head . They 're also searching for alternatives to amputation . Rather than remove Italiano 's left leg , his doctors replaced much of the bone with titanium . Still , cancer specialists concede that they have to take the bad with the good . " We ca n't make apologies for long-term side effects , " says Dr. Philip Pizzo , chief of NCI 's pediatric branch . " There are obviously some we ca n't prevent , and that represents a difficult challenge . " Often ostracized : For some survivors , the emotional trauma of a battle with cancer may be as painful as the physical aftermath . Their childhood memories are often dominated by dreary hospital stays , disfiguring treatments , isolation from friends and doubts about whether they were going to live . Yet , psychologists say , most survivors are wiser and unusually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what real problems are , " says Maura Donohue , 26 , who had non-Hodgkins lymphoma as a child and is now a graduate student in art history at Princeton . But Donohue recalls being made to feel like an outcast . She had a friend whose mother advised , " You should n't be friends with Maura ; she 's going to die . " The fact is that afflicted kids and adult veterans are often ostracized for no good reason . Several surveys show that at least one in four victims of a childhood cancer have been discriminated against ; they are shunned at work , at school and in obtaining insurance . Until 1986 , when the Department of Defense adopted antidiscrimination guidelines , the U.S. armed services generally rejected applications from cancer survivors . In one fairly recent case the police department in Nassau County , New York , barred a young man with a history of Hodgkins disease from becoming an officer ? until he sued . Medical schools are known to have turned down qualified applicants with cancers in their past . And according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , approximately 25 percent found it difficult to obtain health insurance . Others are denied it outright . Critics say that denying coverage to cancer veterans is unfair , given that insurers sign up , say , men in their 30s , a large number of whom will develop costly heart disease . Insurance companies counter that the selectivity is only prudent business . The implicit reasons for denying a survivor a job , a promotion or a policy are that he will miss a lot of work , perform less efficiently or die prematurely . But such assumptions are misguided , says attorney Barbara Hoffman , vice president of the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship in Albuquerque . " Corporate and professional studies , " she says , " as well as thousands of case histories , show that people with a cancer history are as productive in the workplace as their fellow workers . " To combat such biases and help patients overcome disabilities , 26-year-old Ted Kennedy Jr. , who lost a leg to bone cancer at the age of 12 , founded the program Facing the Challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages the same battle . The problem , says Selma Schimmel , 33 , who started the group after a bout with breast cancer , is that " cancer patients are going out into a world that has n't caught up with the reality of the disease . " The reality promises to keep changing . Dr. Meadows predicts that survival rates will continue to rise . By the year 2000 , she says , at least one of every 1,000 Americans between the ages of 20 and 29 will be a cancer survivor . Any real progress against the disease is encouraging ; it is especially heartening to consider that more and more young people with cancer will experience the change of mind that Tom Hopkins has . He was once " afraid to make plans . " Today , the builder says , " I can have goals . "                     