@@432203

 | For the first time in months , the ever optimistic people of Beirut are daring to hope that the latest cease-fire in this war-battered capital is really going to lead to an enduring peace . Hovering within reach , many Lebanese feel , is the long-term stability that so far has eluded American Marine peacekeepers , Israeli occupiers , Syrian interventionists and whole battalions of foreign diplomats . To a resident returning home after weeks abroad , the initial successes of a limited and still shaky new security plan are impossible to ignore . Artillery shells no longer scream endlessly across the city . Traffic crossings are being opened in the " Green Line " dividing ' Christian and Moslem quarters of the capital . Members of feuding militias have doffed their uniforms and keep their heavy weapons out of sight , if not out of reach . Positive signs . In contrast to the quick collapse of numerous earlier cease-fires , the latest Syrian-backed truce shows some signs of greater resilience . On July 17 , police moved quickly to control exchanges of machine-gun and mortar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outskirts of Beirut . Police officials said the sporadic fighting did not disrupt the overall security plan , which seeks to spread government control first throughout Beirut and then into more outlying areas . Ultimately , increased physical security is intended to pave the way for political reforms and an Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon . The popular mood is visibly brighter , the confidence stronger . Families accustomed to crouching behind sandbags frolic on sparkling Mediterranean beaches and picnic in shady olive groves from which Druze rockets pounded U.S. Marine bunkers a few months ago . Lebanese who had fled abroad are jamming flights coming into Beirut 's recently reopened airport . A few businessmen are starting to repair bulletscarred shops and even are ordering new merchandise . Yet even as guns fall silent , the bitterness and rivalry that spawned nine years of civil war linger as ominous spoilers . Numerous foreign diplomats feel that down the road the present cease-fire will wind up as little more than a longer-than-usual summer recess in the fighting . They warn that turmoil in the future could be even more severe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic extremism and bitterness over the death or disappearance of thousands of ordinary citizens . Likewise , many Lebanese are dubious that lasting peace is at hand . " We do n't trust this quietness , " says a Maronite Christian saleswoman in a shop in East Beirut . More significant , factional leaders seem to be waiting for someone else to make the first concessions essential for any long-term stability . " It depends on the other side , whether they want to reach a compromise to settle the problem , " insists an official of Druze chief Walid Jumblatt 's Progressive Socialist Party , an important Syrian ally in last year 's fighting against the U.S.-backed regime of President Amin Gemayel . One prime example of the continuing political deadlock : Failure of Lebanese warlords to implement last March 's agreement to select a committee to draft a new national constitution . Almost everyone here agrees that a new charter is needed to assure personal security for Christians while expanding political influence of the Moslems , who now form a majority of the population . But disagreements run deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been named to the committee . Some analysts also feel the present truce is working only because it recognizes de facto partition of the country along communal or special interest lines . In Beirut , for example , the Army has succeeded in broadening its influence by using Moslem units in predominately Islamic neighborhoods and Christian troops in Maronite areas . Army 's role . Further afield , the Army does not even attempt to enlarge its role in eastern or northern areas occupied by Syria , or in Israelioccupied southern Lebanon . Analysts also point out that it was military intervention by Syrian forces , not Gemayel 's Army , that halted several days of fighting in mid-July between two pro-Syrian groups near Tripoli in northern Lebanon . The hurdles that must be overcome to restore normalcy to this country are dramatically evident along almost every mile of a trip from Beirut to the mountain resort town of Aley . In what Lebanese still fondly recall as " the  | good old days , " it was a half-hour drive ? with delays only for traffic snarls or breaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cafes . Now , the journey takes 3 hours or more over narrow , twisting back roads through the mountains . The main highway is blocked by opposing militia forces . The restaurants are closed , or were destroyed long ago . The destructive power of the war is evident on every side . Old stone houses have collapsed into piles of rubble . Broken telephone and electric wires hang in crazy disarray in deserted villages . Along the road are scores of overturned , burned-out vehicles , some serving as the tombs of drivers caught in the factional fighting . Victims ' families . Few people now live in Aley , a traditional Druze stronghold and main city in the strategic Chouf Mountains east of Beirut . In a makeshift basement office , a welfare committee prepares checks for families of war victims . The stack of checks is high ? mute testimony to the human cost of the conflict . Anything but mute is rising anger over another casualty of the war : Thousands of people , most of them noncombatants , missing after they were captured or kidnapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named Fuad , a 60-year-old Aley auto dealer , and Emad , his 27-year-old son . The two Druze men disappeared on Oct. 25 , 1982 , while driving two new Mercedes cars being delivered from Europe . Their families later learned that the pair had taken a detour into an area controlled by the Maronite Lebanese Forces militia only a few miles from Aley . Neither has been seen since . The rolls of the missing cross every communal line . A committee in predominately Christian East Beirut has gathered names of 1,460 persons who have disappeared since Israel 's invasion two years ago . A similar group in Moslem-dominated West Beirut lists 2,100 persons missing since the civil war broke out in 1975 . The International Red Cross so far has located " fewer than 200 " of the missing . As a result , concern grows that most kidnap victims were murdered and their bodies hidden . " Lebanon is going to have to live with a very tragic problem of missing people , like Argentina and Chile , " says Marwan Hamadeh , a former cabinet minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Anger over the kidnappings and general emotional backlash from years of strife threaten to become as divisive as the fighting itself . In Aley , relatives of the missing Fuad and Emad say they never supported the Druze militia ; they do so now with bitter enthusiasm . In East Beirut , a young Maronite Christian woman says she " never wants to go back " to the city 's west side , even though she attended school there with many Moslem classmates . " The war has made us fanatics , " she explains . Particularly frightening to Lebanese Christians is a wave of Islamic extremism running strongly in regions dominated by Shiite Moslems , a sect many Maronites consider more prone to religious violence than the Palestine Liberation Organization ever was during its days of power here . Stirring special fears is an ornate emblem showing up on building walls in West Beirut ? Arabic script spelling out the word " Allah " in the shape of an assault rifle . This is the mark of the Hizballah or " party of Allah , " an Islamic extremist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three Americans . Despite the spreading communal fears , there is a clear desire among the Lebanese to try to make the truce work . The shattered state of the economy reinforces the desire for stability . " Everyone is exhausted and broke , " says one foreign diplomat in explaining the reduction in fighting . On some past occasions , Lebanon 's dedication to achieving economic prosperity has , in fact , pulled it back from the brink of political disaster . Though the divisions have never been as great as they now are , a few people see signs that this could happen again . Along Beirut 's rubble-choked streets , some construction crews are beginning to repair stores and office buildings battered by years of shelling . The owner of a men 's clothing store in East Beirut says he has just ordered $35,000 worth of new suits despite the dearth of customers . More than 90 banks continue to operate , with considerably more deposits than they held during relatively peaceful days a decade ago . However , efforts to rebuild quickly are the exception , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until they can get a better reading on prospects for lasting peace . Continuing squabbles . Political and communal barriers still disrupt trade that is essential to national survival . In southern Lebanon , fruit is rotting in orchards because tough Israeli occupation regulations prevent shipments to Beirut for local sale or export to Arab countries . In Beirut itself , part of the lucrative port remains under exclusive control of Maronite Christians even though the Army supposedly is in charge of the overall facility . Syria 's role in Lebanon adds a further complication . Even though Syria welcomes an end to the violence , some Lebanese are suspicious of Syrian intentions . They wonder if Damascus is prepared to accept anything short of a major overhaul of Lebanon 's permanent political structure ? with Syria 's Moslem allies in a clearly dominant role ? as the price of lasting peace . In the end , Beirut 's newest truce , like many before it , may yield only a temporary respite from war . But it is generating optimism that seemed almost impossible a few months ago .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          