@@487700

For two-thirds of this century , Pittsburgh was co-capital ( with Detroit ) of the industrial world . John Hoerr , a senior writer for Business Week , grew up in the area during the 1940s and 1950s , the heyday of steel . Over the years , he followed the fortunes of the industry and the region . In 1965 , he was among the first writers to forecast Pittsburgh 's decline as a steel center . In 1982 ? steel 's plague year , the industry lost over $3 billion ? he witnessed the massive dislocation resulting from shutdowns in the Monongahela Valley , and began research for a book that would offer an explanation . Later he took an unpaid leave of absence from Business Week and produced a huge manuscript which was rejected by ten publishers . Fortunately the University of Pittsburgh , which has supplanted steel to become the largest employer in the region , saw fit to publish it . There seems to be a market for " the reason why " of deindustrialization . Issued initially in August , the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stage by offering good short histories of the companies , especially the dominant U.S. Steel ( now USX ) , and of the United Steelworkers ( U.S.W. ) . He also examines his own roots as a sometime steel worker and son of the owner of a now closed hotel and bar frequented by the millwrights , operators and laborers at U.S. Steel 's National Tube Works in McKeesport , Pennsylvania . Hoerr recalls the boom town of his youth , a bastion of ethnic pluralism , patriotism , good schools , soccer leagues and prim James Lieber practices law in Pittsburgh . He is at work on a book about the employee buyout of Weirton Steel ? neighborhoods where hourly and salaned workers lived side by side . Not surprisingly , McKeesport fared poorly when the mills closed . Five percent of laid-off employees in a survey cited by Hoerr said that they had seriously considered suicide . Residential real estate values plummeted , public works decayed and the downtown area , once home to 700 retail establishments , grew shabby and deserted . Hoerr interviewed the survivors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Sun Belt looking for work ; a promising graduate student in biophysics who gave up his studies for better money in the mill and for union politics only to find in middle age that he had neither an employer nor a local ; the owner of a large , now empty department store who lives like a hermit in the shell of his unsalable building ; and a former middle manager who has erased the credentials on his r  --  sum ? in order to get minimum wage jobs . What happened to the mighty American steel industry ? Hoerr identifies most of the factors leading to the fall , including cut-rate , often subsidized , foreign competition ; high domestic interest rates ; slow domestic depreciation rates ; cartelized pricing ; inadequate capital improvements ; inadequate research and development ; too much vertical integration ( owning rather than buying or leasing ore , coke and barge and rail services ) ; bloated management ; and the maintenance of excessive production capacity in the face of flattened demand But what sets Hoerr 's book apart from the bulk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a rule , C.E.O.s are recruited from engineering , finance , sales or law , but rarely from the personnel side of a business . Hoerr believes , and this is controversial , but I think accurate , that steel 's demise followed mainly from horrendous labor relations . The ambiance in steel plants typically has been negative , adversarial and wasteful . U.S. Steel , which long called the tune for the industry , subscribed to the " scientific management " method of work organization pioneered by Fredenck W. Taylor at the turn of the century . The by now familiar Taylonst approach encouraged management to regard employees as appendages to machines ? workers who need little training and no knowledge of the operation beyond their rigidly defined work assignments . Job satisfaction plays no part in productivity ; the only worker incentive is pay Sam Camens , a U.S.W. official , explained to Hoerr how Taylorism worked in the mills : You were told when to do something , how to do something , how far you could go Every job was broken down to its smallest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants , " You could hire any dumb hunky off the boat and put him into the plant , and he could do the job " And it developed a perception in America that you 've got to guard a worker , that he ca n't be trusted , that you 've got to have a foreman on his back , that he 's irresponsible Like traffic cops ordered to give out a certain number of tickets , foremen also had quotas of employee infractions to meet . As the saying goes , a work day often amounted to " punching in , catching hell , and punching out . " Hostile to their employers , some workers pilfered , read , napped or took drugs on the job . Hoerr descnbes his own experience as a bored mill worker with a do-nothing job . At contract time the union 's objective was to get as much money out of the companies as possible , preserve useless past practices and increase crew sizes . By 1980 , the domestic industry had lost its cost and productivity advantages over competitors . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , compared with 8.5 hours in Canada and 7.4 hours in Japan . To manufacture a ton of steel cost U.S. producers $307 , compared with $218 in Canada and $183 in Japan . Hoerr believes that the steel workers union avoided taking responsibility for the industry 's health and was a partner with management in the decline . " We decided , " Ben Fischer , a former top U.S.W. negotiator who now teaches at Carnegie-Mellon University , told Hoerr , " that management ran the show and that our only course was to demand more of the pie . We accommodated to the notion that unions have a limited function in industry . Labor accepted the residual rights of management theory in the 1940s and established its own downfall . " In the best section of the book , Hoerr shows that the U.S.W. once knew better . Three extraordinary aides to founding union president Philip Murray ? Clint Golden , Harold Ruttenberg and Joe Scanlon ? won his support for union-management cooperation teams on the shop floor and for giving labor a stake in benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were installed in a number of small steel companies . The left attacked workers involved in cooperation as " capitalist factotems . " The National Association of Manufacturers saw labor-management collaboration as a means of " sovietizing " American industry . After World War II , Murray and the U.S.W. turned their backs on cooperation , and Scanlon , Ruttenberg and Golden were eased or squeezed out of the union . Scanlon went on to teach industrial relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . His " Scanlon Plans " ? embracing humane work organizations that invest employees in company performances ? have been adopted by thousands of small firms . In the 1950s notions of steel worker input and cooperation further receded as the union engaged in industrywide bargaining led by U.S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel . Top negotiator Bruce Johnston of U.S. Steel maligned worker participation as " a favorite of the university people . " Intended to prevent any one company from reaping the benefits of a strike against another , group bargaining failed because domestic steel buyers turned to foreign sources before and during industrywide strikes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their first Experimental Negotiation Agreement in 1973 . The U.S.W. , headed by I.W. Abel , agreed to drop the right to strike in return for annual raises of 3 percent , plus cost of living adjustments pegged to inflation , both compounded annually . " Once this machine started operating , " writes Hoerr , " its generative ability was awesome . " Between 1973 and 1981 , compensation rose 260 percent , and U.S. steel work became the highest paid industrial work in the world . In 1982 , losing $90 per ton of steel produced , the industry triggered a convulsive round of concessions and closings during which U.S.W. president Lloyd McBride ( who privately believed steel workers made too much money ) , had a fatal heart attack . Several major companies , including LTV and Wheeling-Pittsburgh , went into bankruptcy , and others , such as USX and National Steel , diversified in order to minimize their reliance on steel . The wolf finally came . To John Hoerr , employee participation and ownership are the last best hopes for saving mainland industry and jobs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including one at a General Motors plant where labor policy had been as imperious as at U.S. Steel . G.M. 's plant in Fremont , California , had been the corporation 's worst in terms of quality and the highest in absenteeism ( 21 percent ) . Reorganized in 1985 by a Toyota management team that gave workers greater discretion in production areas , the plant 's quality shot up and absenteeism dropped to 2.5 percent . Even steel has had its bright spots . In the midst of the crisis of the early 1980s , 8,000 employees of Weirton Steel bought their mill and have operated it successfully for nineteen quarters . The U.S.W. under progressive Canadian Lynn Williams ( who succeeded McBride ) now seeks board memberships and stock for steel workers , which is in part an effort to give workers more responsibility Cushioned by a weaker dollar and by " voluntary restraint agreements " ( which will expire in 1989 ) , the industry is making profits again . But it is a sadly shrunken industry , largely focused on specialty steels . It can no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It probably wo n't be involved in rebuilding oil fields and platforms wrecked in the Iran-Iraq war or in rehabilitating our sagging domestic infrastructure . Nor will it anchor a vast blue-collar middle class . An enormous labor of love , John Hoerr 's book comprehensively chronicles a national tragedy . ?                     