@@487684

Cela Vie MICHAEL UGARTE Spanish essayist and cultural critic Fernando Diaz-Plaja said that Spaniards are the first to sing the woes of their own country . His judgment was borne out recently at a commemoration of Spanish Civil War exile literature at the University of Maryland , held exactly fifty years after the defeat of the Second Republic in 1939 . The proceedings were interrupted to announce that Camilo Jos ? Cela had won the 1989 Nobel Prize for Literature . The reaction among a group of critics and writers intent on preserving the memory of exile poets such as Rafael Alberti and Leon Felipe was at best mixed and at worst disdainful . The disdain was understandable in light of the neglect of exile writers by the Spanish cultural establishment ( El Pals , the Ministry of Culture ) . The most distinguished members of the Spanish intelligentsia , writers and thinkers such as Jorge Guill  --  n , Pedro Salinas , Luis Cernuda , Jose Gaos , Max Aub and Luis Bawd , were forced to leave the country with the rise of insurgent fascism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly a decade . Camilo Jose Cela not only stayed in the wasteland , he was on the side of the nationalists , and ? immediately after the war he supported the Franco regime . The wide range of opinion expressed at the conference was indicative of a variety of problems exacerbated by this year 's prize . " The Latin Americans are going to kill us , " said one scholar , to which another responded , " And it would be an act of justice . " " Another Echegaray ! " complained one participant . " My God , what an embarrassment ! " Jose Echegaray , a mediocre playwright , won the Nobel in 1904 , when Spanish novelist Benito Perez Galdels was alive and considered to be second only to Cervantes ( he still is ) . Echegaray 's supporters were stunned by the 1904 prize and spent much energy trying to justify it . Subsequently , a handbook was published with a synopsis of the lives and works of the Spanish Nobel Laureates . For progressive Spaniards , it is difficult to determine , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poets Juan RamOn Jimenez and Vicente Aleixandre , which is more culturally embarrassing : the handbook or Echegaray 's theater . It is far more difficult , however , to determine if Spaniards should be as embarrassed in 1989 as they were in 1904 ; although Cela has been a politically problematic figure for many years , his novels are well worth reading . Born in 1916 , he was declared exempt from military service because of tuberculosis but later joined the nationalist forces , as did countless other Spaniards in 1936 , not out of a firm ideological conviction but as a result of the vagaries of social circumstance and geography ( ideological inclinations often depended on the area in which one happened to reside ) . Perhaps more difficult to rationalize is Cela 's collaboration in the early 1940s in journals such as El Espanol and La &lafeta; Literaria , run by Juan Aparicio and Dionisio Ridruejo , ideologues of falangist-fascist aesthetics : sonnets in the style of sixteenth-century poet Garcilaso de la Vega extolling la madre patria ( " the Motherland " ) and the " innate " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cela has never been an ideologue . His break with fascist aesthetics came gradually and cautiously . Some might even say that his discretion in the face of repugnant lines of thinking and writing was politically astute , given that , as Enrique Tiemo Galvin ( Marxist mayor of Madrid from 1977 to his death in 1986 ) pointed out , the Spain of the early 1940s was a Spain in which one was either an uncompromising supporter of the regime or a scoundrel . But while Tierno became a self-proclaimed scoundrel and went to jail as a result , along with other writers who called themselves " interior exiles , " such as Antonio Ferres and Armando Lopez Salinas , Cela was ironic and coy . Cela 's first major novel , La Familia de Pascual Duarte ( The Family of Pascual Duarte , 1942 ) , dealt with the squalor and brutality of a peasant from Extremadura who relates his life from prison after being condemned to death for murder . Pascual Duarte could have been read as a scathing attack on censorship and on a type of individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repressive and intolerant society . Fortunately for Cela , however , the literary elites praised the novel for what they saw as a moral statement on degradation . These contradictory readings are indicative of the ambiguity of both Cela 's political posture and the novel itself , a typically picaresque tale that requires the reader 's moral assessment of the protagonist . What remained after Pascual Duarte was not as much a political statement as the narrative artistry of a man whose talents were on the verge of full development . After politically suggestive experiments with travel narrative , like Journey to the Alcarria and New Trials and Wanderings of Lazarillo of Tormes in the mid-to-late 1940s , Cela wrote what may be his best novel and the one he had the most difficulty in circulating : La Colmena ( The Hive ) . It was first published in Buenos Aires in 1951 and did not reach a wide Spanish audience , because of censorship , until 1963 ? earlier Spanish editions were not officially banned but had been distributed with extreme caution and lack of financial support . Written in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Hive deals with the squalor , boredom Captain John Smith . Just beyond are the stuffed effigies of other mammalian Americans  --  mountain goats , buffalo and polar bears . Similar arrangements survive in major museums across the country not as quaint reminders of outdated scientific ethnocentricities but as our principal public-supported messages about indigenous humanity . " By the time they reach second grade , every child in the country knows what an Indian is , " says Rayna Green , director of the American Indian Program at the Smithsonian 's National Museum of American History . " They wear lots of feathers , ride spotted ponies and shoot arrows . Indians who do n't fit the type are invisible ; they simply ca n't be imagined by the majority of white children or adults . " Films and television have played a major role in creating this image , but museums have almost always supported the stereotype . Teaching cultural relativism at Columbia University early this century , anthropologist Franz Boas successfully discredited the idea that contemporary native peoples represent stages of cultural evolution below the level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways in which native peoples survive in the modern world , coping with the presence of external political powers , mass-produced goods and radical environmental change have replaced purely descriptive studies of indigenous housing and dress as subjects of useful inquiry . Cultural Survival , an organization founded by Harvard anthropologists , has entered international politics and commerce in support of threatened indigenous peoples and created a sort of Amnesty International for minority cultures . Yet museums and public interest have been slow to follow . Research and advocacy groups have sparked a growing concern about the fate of rain forest populations , but museums have done little to open some minds to the lives , ideas and needs of these native peoples . One highly visible Smithsonian show , " Tropical Rain Forests : A Disappearing Treasure , " was effective in teaching about the complexity of human and environmental factors involved in deforestation . For all its attention to individual voices , though , it was noticeably noncommittal about the human rights of the affected native populations . By ignoring all but the earliest contact between Native Americans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have no meaningful role to play in the nation 's affairs . At the same time , they encourage non-Native Americans to overlook relationships in which fair and conscientious economic decisions need to be made . By implying that recent Indian history is either unworthy of attention or too embarrassing to treat publicly , they reinforce majority perceptions of the kind expressed by some northern Wisconsin whites in the slogan , " Save a walleye , spear a pregnant squaw , " and by the Supreme Court 's latest rejection of native rights to protect sacred worship sites see Jim Oberly , " Spearing Fish , Playing Chicken , " June 19 . After persistent pressure from native rights groups , re-created Indian graves have slowly been removed from display at the most prominent museums . Even a dignified state-funded show of antique artifacts from the Ganondagan site in New York State was disclaimed in 1986 by its Iroquois advisers because most of the objects had , over many years , been taken from the graves . The funerary origin of most early Native American artifacts with artistic appeal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many prehistorians defend mothball storage of Native American burial artifacts , yet European-American cemeteries are seldom excavated despite their potential for providing information about the same subjects ? health , diet , life expectancy ? that native remains provide . Scientific analysis of skeletons has recently begun to play a more informative role in archeological research , but the general unwillingness of prehistorians to consider Native American concern about the dead seems a particularly inexcusable case of ethnic hegemony . Yet some museums offer hope and a few even give cause for celebration . We now see the slow and fitful appearance of shows that respectfully examine beliefs of native peoples and present their perspectives , occasionally in their own words . Most obvious and widespread are those that recognize aesthetically pleasing objects as the artistic creations of individuals working in a cultural context rather than as anonymous expressions of shared values . There is occasionally a frank and full portrayal of native people as individuals , individuals who experience terrible pressure to change their lives and who survive to tell the story . A few examples illustrate the new direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1760-1800 , " the National Museum of American History 's big permanent show , is intended to be an egalitarian portrait of life in the early Republic . It presents slavery more frankly than the Smithsonian has done before , and it begins to suggest what parts of African culture were destroyed by slavery and what parts survived . The show briefly treats the economic and political power of the Iroquois confederacy and looks in some detail at how the lives of Seneca women and men changed in response to acculturative pressures in the years after the Revolution . Most compelling is the presentation of the Seneca creation story as an alternative explanation of our presence on earth . Dance masks are represented pictorially instead of using the objects themselves . That choice was made in response to the sentiment of living Senecas , who objected to the public display of these ritual objects . Most museums with substantial Native American collections ignore such entreaties . Larger treatments with comparable sympathies are necessary , but " After the Revolution " is a thoughtful beginning . The dispute over artifacts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining how the site is presented to the public . The seventeenth-century village was designated a historic site in the early 1970s at the insistence of Iroquois leaders , and Iroquois have planned its interpretation . This includes an explanation of why the village was destroyed by its residents in 1687 in the face of French attack and ? equally important ? Iroquois perceptions of the natural universe . In this case , allowing the historic site to be run by the descendants of its seventeenth-century occupants has produced more than fair representation . It actually increases the value of seeing the exhibits by making the objects more than disconnected exotic artifacts in a case ; it offers us new ways of seeing the natural environment . The most pervasive change in the presentation of indigenous people has occurred in art museums . Any self-respecting museum concerned with a general history of art has built or found space for African galleries , and the work of other native peoples has followed . The principal event in this area has been the creation of the National Museum of African Art in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Age collections are generally presented in terms of artistic merit and function , but special thematic shows have consistently used African art to look closely at communities and individuals and to illuminate historical change as well as cultural continuity . Last year , a show employed collections of German photographs rather than three-dimensional art objects to analyze native and colonial interaction at the court of Barnum in what is now Cameroon . Other shows at the Museum of African Art have suggested social roles for artistic media ranging from gold to gourds . The success of this museum and others like it across the country is perhaps the most encouraging museum development of the last half century . While Native American art does not yet have a national museum of comparable stature , it continues to attract a lot of attention . Between 1977 and 1985 , curator Ralph Coe traveled around the United States and Canada collecting recent Indian art for a show called " Lost and Found Traditions , " sponsored by the American Federation of Arts and presented at a number of American museums . Coe 's intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is now being produced rather than a hit parade of objects by the most famous Native American artists . By commissioning a Sioux woman 's beaded buckskin dress from Regina Brave Bull and buying an exceptional Grando rug made by Navajo weaver Mae Jim , Coe nudged at the upper edges of contemporary craftsmanship , but he also included beaded sneakers and baseball caps , to the confusion and displeasure of some well-known art critics . Whether visitors to Coe 's show moved slowly and pondered each piece or raced breathlessly through the galleries , the impression was memorable : Native American traditions in making beautiful things are alive and flourishing , despite the assaults on their communities . Finally , despite the conscious omission of many acknowledged masterpieces , the show disabused the notion that Native American work is largely anonymous because it exhibits strong cultural affinities . Other shows of new Native American art , generally much smaller and focused on individuals or single tribes , have consistently made this point . However , like most of these more modest shows , " Lost and Found Traditions " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their role inthe communities from which they come . Beaded sneakers suggest a mass market , but they are not used to teach about life on reservations . Despite their reputation for keeping inadequate records about community context , the old ethnographic collections sometimes reveal much more than expected . The National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man and the Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography in Leningrad worked together for ten years to produce a show rich with artifacts and cultural meaning about native people of Siberia and Alaska . This splashy event , called " Crossroads of Continents , " tries to present these people 's lives using categories of reality comprehensible to the subject people : food gathering , social order , role of people in the creation and so on . Bringing the subject into the twentieth century allows use of taped and filmed material , so people are permitted to speak for themselves about connections across national boundaries . The show acknowledges the disruption of this contact when Russia sold Alaska in 1867 , and it hints at the changes resulting from contact with new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that perhaps it is not necessary to board up the " Halls of Man " in such museums . Still , " Crossroads of Continents " acts fundamentally like an old-fashioned ethnographic exposition . Individuals remain entirely subordinated to group identity , fundamental change is not closely examined , and extraordinary objects are used more to dazzle viewers than to raise questions about their meaning in the community . " Crossroads of Continents " is a fine step toward improving East-West cultural relations ? Russian banners hanging from a Smithsonian edifice are worth seeing  --  but it is limited in what it does for either the subjects of the show or its patrons . Difficult for most Americans to see but of substantial importance as a model for other museums is a new installation at the Australian Museum in Sydney that treats the lives of Aborigines , particularly those in New South Wales . The exhibition was planned jointly by museum curators and representatives from Aboriginal communities , with results that contrast sharply with the cool detachment of " Crossroads of Continents . " The show , called " Aboriginal Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artifacts and modern means of recapturing . the prehistoric past . The spiritual world is given sympathetic and full treatment , with evocative explanations of the " dreamtime " before Aboriginal people lived on the earth and of the direct links between living people and the dream-time spirits . What most distinguishes the Sydney show from " Crossroads " is the extent to which the radical change of the post-contact era is drawn into the story rather than grudgingly appended as a final chapter . It deals frankly with the brutal majority policies toward the Aborigines , from as early as 1788 to 1951 , when major assimilation legislation was adopted by the Commonwealth . One leaves the show with the sense of having seen a coherent story , one that continues firmly into the present rather than having es sentially ended with the abandonment of traditional material culture and subsistence patterns . The differences represent different museum perspectives and intentions rather than different subjects . This is most vividly illustrated by the way in which the Sydney museum interviewed living people specifically for the show , allowing them to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of servitude in white homes , not just about the safer subjects of native customs and beliefs . The Sydney show , like " Crossroads , " is a large exhibition , but it says much more about the interdependence of cultures in the twentieth century than does the more lavish Washington-Leningrad extravaganza . There is nothing innately wrong with museums portraying the exceptional quality of native culture . There are many reasons for native people to take pride in what makes them distinctive , and for the rest of us to be interested enough to learn about them . On both counts , museums can and occasionally have played a useful role . Furthermore , it would be myopic for institutions to use native groups solely as a vehicle for observing the effects of cultural hegemony ? not that such a revolution in museum orientation is likely to occur . But museums should stop treating native populations as natural specimens and instead deal with them as people singly and collectively responding to change . " Crossroads of Continents " shows that improvement is possible , and the Sydney exhibition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reveal something of the humanity that we all share . ?                     