@@432017

 | The " world car " is coming ? f.o.b . Detroit . The first wave of U.S. autos designed specifically for world markets will hit the nation 's showrooms this fall and usher in a new international era for the auto industry . With this new era are likely to come basic changes in the way U.S. auto companies operate and in the types of cars that Americans drive . Jobs and prices also will be affected . So pervasive are the implications that Ford Motor Company Chairman Philip Caldwell calls it " the most massive and profound industrial revolution in peacetime history . " Unlike traditional American gas guzzlers , this breed of small , Europeanstyle vehicles is designed for foreign as well as U.S. markets and will be built in every part of the world . " In the 1960s , " says American Motors Chairman Gerald C. Meyers , " typical U.S. cars were almost twice the size and weight of the average European or Japanese product . The gap is narrowing dramatically . " A new fleet . In just a few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world car will become the mainstay of the American auto fleet . What 's ahead : Ford Motor Company next fall will unveil the first of its world cars ? the Ford Escort and Mercury Lynx . The two front-wheel-drive subcompacts , which will replace the Pinto and Bobcat , will have components from 12 different countries , will be assembled in the U.S. and Europe and sold throughout the globe . General Motors , which calls the Chevette its first world car because of its European origins , will follow in mid1981 with a line of small cars to be assembled here and abroad . Those cars will be small , front-wheel-drive replacements for the Chevrolet Monza and Pontiac Sunbird . American Motors and its French automotive partner , Renault , will join forces in 1982 to build an all-new , front-wheel-drive car in the U.S. and Europe . Chrysler Corporation , although presently cutting back on its overseas operations , is seeking agreements with Mitsubishi in Japan and Peugeot-Citroen in France for future products . Foreign auto makers , who are no strangers in the global market , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. , South America and Africa ; Renault in Mexico , Portugal , Rumania , Spain , Sweden and the U.S. ; Fiat in Spain , Poland and Brazil , and Peugeot-Citroen in the United Kingdom , Spain and Eastern Europe . " In the 1980s , what it takes to succeed in international competition will in most cases also be what it takes to succeed at home , " says General Motors President Elliott M. Estes . Ford 's Caldwell adds : " Our success will depend increasingly on adapting to the new realities of a global economy . " For auto companies , the advantages of a world-car program seem clear . Already hurrying to pare down the size of cars to meet federal regulations and stiff foreign competition , they can achieve substantial savings on production and tooling costs by establishing a global network of parts and assembly plants . " When the full effects of the financial and technical challenges here at home began to sink in , we had one more good reason to look seriously at reducing duplication on a truly worldwide basis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make huge overseas investments now to help cut expenses later . Ford and GM alone estimate their combined overseas investments for plants and tooling will exceed 16 billion dollars in the next four years . More incentives for pushing ahead with world-car programs , say industry analysts , are the growing automotive markets in developing nations . Car-hungry nations . While demand for cars in the United States is expected to grow at an annual rate of about 2.5 percent in the next five years , world growth will surpass 4 percent , with markets in some South American and African countries climbing at as much as a 7 percent rate . " There was a time when many American industries could afford to concentrate only on domestic sales , " says GM 's Estes . " That day is gone . " In some developing nations , where tariffs and local-content requirements pose trade barriers , having plants there is the only way to assure access to the market . " We 'll essentially be buying our way in , " says Arvid Jouppi , auto analyst for John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industry officials predict the heightened international competition will force smaller companies to form alliances to survive . The net result : Fewer auto companies for the future . Says AMC 's Meyers : " By the year 2000 , there may only be a dozen producers worldwide , compared with the 30 independent car makers existing today . " While the world car may be a boon for the industry , the effects on American motorists and workers are less clear . Unions are fearful that jobs will be lost here as more foreign-built parts are used in " domestic " cars . " There is no question that the development of a  | world car is going to reduce employment , " says Irving Bluestone , vice president of the United Auto Workers . " We will be watching closely and pushing harder for job security . " However , company officials and some economists say American jobs should increase as U.S.-built cars gain acceptability here and overseas . Says University of Michigan economist Saul Hymans : " If the market for U.S. cars goes up , it will improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fewer U.S.-made parts . Moreover , increased reliance on global production may spur UAW efforts to recruit members overseas . Notes UAW President Douglas Fraser : " I imagine it would expedite the international organization . We 'd have to do it in self-defense . " Streets full of clones . Other critics say styling will suffer as American cars take on standardized , world designs . " Before you know it , we 'll all be driving clones , " says one disgruntled car buff . Automotive-design engineers , however , say that even though cars will be similar in size , there will be a lot of variety in shape , color and appointments . " You will still have small luxury cars , small sports cars , small trucks and plain vanilla vehicles for little old ladies in tennis shoes , " says a Ford executive . Caldwell says that , like sisters , the cars will be similar under the skin , but will look different . Few experts expect the world car to affect prices noticeably . Although savings are expected from more-efficient production and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold prices up . " It should just about balance out ? the result being no major impact on prices , " says David Healy , auto analyst for Drexel Burnham Lambert . Another unknown : The effect on the balance of trade . Hot-selling. imported Japanese cars presently are a major contributor to huge U.S. trade deficits . Some economists expect U.S. exports to pick up as domestic cars become more acceptable overseas , thus helping to restore some balance . But a greater positive impact will be felt , experts say , if import penetration into the U.S. can be cut back . Thus , the security of U.S. jobs , the health of some of America 's biggest corporations and the vitality of the U.S. economy could all be affected by how well Detroit 's world cars sell in tomorrow 's world markets . When Hard Times Strike an Auto Town Not just the auto companies are having to adjust to changing markets . So must hundreds of towns across the U.S. that are dependent upon the industry for jobs and tax revenues . Reeling from the loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant , this predominantly Polish enclave of Detroit is fighting for survival against discouraging odds . Unemployment is surging , the tax base is crumbling and Hamtramck 's 22,000 residents must choose : Get out now , or stay and fight . The struggle is indicative of problems other " auto towns " are facing as the U.S. car industry falls on hard times . Poor sales and tough foreign competition are taking a heavy toll in large cities and small . In Hamtramck ? a city of tight rows of aging frame houses , 70 bars and five Catholic churches ? hundreds of residents lost their jobs when the 70-year-old Dodge Main plant folded three months ago . That was just the beginning . City in trouble . Dozens of merchants who catered to the factory workers saw their businesses wither . The city lost nearly 2 million dollars in payroll and real-estate taxes ? a quarter of its budget . Drastic spending cuts ensued . A third of the city 's 300 employes were idled , including some firefighters and police officers . Nonessential city services may be cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bone , " says Mayor Robert Kozaren , who took office the week the plant closed . Though shaken by the staggering financial blow , city officials , merchants and residents ? many of them first-generation Americans ? began pulling together to keep the town from foundering . In recent weeks , Hamtramck voters agreed to maintain the current tax rate , averting a catastrophe for the city 's schools . Dozens of block clubs and neighborhood watch programs have sprouted in response to police cutbacks . Townspeople are seen sporting lapel buttons that declare : " I Care About Hamtramck . " Others are helping , too . Chrysler , Hamtramck and General Motors ? which operates a Chevrolet gearand-axle plant near the town ? each chipped in $20,000 , matched by federal funds , to help find a new industrial tenant for Dodge Main . Kozaren and city merchants are pushing plans to revitalize the business district and make it a tourist draw with a distinct Polish flavor . Federal funds would cover about one fourth of the $800,000 project . There are also plans fora new shopping center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residents to the city . These projects will require approval of government agencies and at least some outside funding . Neither is certain . But Kozaren , and apparently many of his neighbors , are convinced they can and must succeed . " Probably in any other city you would see For Sale ' signs all over the place , " says Kozaren . " But there has been no mass exodus . People feel as I do : Being in trouble helps us realize what we have . And we do n't want to lose it . "                     