@@494968

vladimir Vladimirovitch Nabokov was never shy about admitting it : he was a wonder . As the son of a remarkably liberal jurist and Anglophile at the top of czarist society , he had an extraordinarily privileged and even enchanted youth . His memoirs , especially Speak , Memory , wonderfully bring this back . An avid lepidopterist as a boy , a talented poet privately published by his family when he was 17 , he escaped the Leninist dictatorship at 20 and took a degree at Cambridge at 23 , then under the pen name " Sirin " became an admired , envied , vaguely disturbing member in Berlin of the Russian literary colony , published novel after novel while also making his living as a tennis coach , chess expert , maker of crossword puzzles in Russian , and translator . ( He turned Alice in Wonderland into Russian . ) In 1937 Nabokov fled Hitler 's Germany with his Jewish wife , went to Paris , was esteemed by French writers , then in 1940 made it to New York bearing his first novel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America he had a part-time position as entomologist at Harvard , taught at Stanford , Wellesley , and most famously at Cornell . He was an ideal teacher , capa-ble of bringing into class a diagram of an old Russian railway carriage to illumi-nate the opening pages of Anna Karenina. lie wrote for the New Yorker , did a critical biography of Gogol , a painstakingly liter-al translation ( the only kind he believed in ) of Pushkin 's Eugene Onegin with in-valuable notes . Lolita ( 1955 ) , turned down by publishers who said they were doing his reputation a favor , was first issued in English in Paris by Maurice Gir-odias , a publisher of sexy books whose imprint helped to make the novel notorious before it was recognized by American critics at its real worth . Putnam published the book , enabling Nabokov to leave Cornell and to take up residence at the Palace Hotel in Montreux . He died in 1977 in Switzerland . Nabokov 's accomplishments as novelist , poet , translator , literary scholar , and teacher , even his obsession with chess , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious animosities , a world dominated in every situation by distrust of the deepest and most lasting kind . Nabokov was yanked from his enclosed , luxurious earls life ( it certainly gave him a taste for luxury in language ) to the endless travail of emigration . He triumphed over very great difficulties by a typically Russian and self-confident sense of strategy , by elevating himself into a special kind of exile , imaginative as well as political . More than most 20th-century modernist masters , Nabokov exuded an extraordinary sense of his own primacy . While still in the Russian literary coldny in Berlin , he made his compatriots uneasy . He once admitted , " I have a bad habit ( not really bad , just being coy ) of choosing th ? most difficult path in rim literary adventures . " my knowledge , no one in English since Poe has written out of such public pride in his imagination , out of so much contempt for his most talented contemporaries , out of such an aggrieved sense of genius at hay and condemned ( here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English ) to being underrated by simpler minds ignorant of the difficulties within and between languages that Nabokov emphasized as his torment , specialty , opportunity , and triumph . As a personal document , as a revelation of character and literary ambition , Nabokov 's letters are intimidating without being interesting ? he made such a cult of pride . These are not memorable literary letters , but incidents of battle , so defensive , feisty , haughty , magisterial was Nabokov , so insistent on being recognized at his own valuation . His son Dmitri , footnoting many of these letters , does n't know why Nabokov as a man has been thought unpleasant , and testifies to his father 's warmth and richness of character . What put people off was not Nabokov 's personality , but the rich , lush , yet secret and almost underhand quality of his imagination . It could become just too private and self-celebratory . Nabokov was right to bridle when people compared his ability to write splendidly in English to that of Conrad . Conrad never wrote in Polish ! Nabokov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . belong to Russia and her literature , and not only style but subject undergoes a horrible bleeding and distortion . " But newly arrived in the United States , Nabokov admitted to James Laughlin , the publisher of New Directions , " In Modern Russian literature I occupy the particular position of a nova-tor , of a writer whose work seems to stand totally apart from that of his contemporaries . " What this was all about is best communicated by Nabokov 's great admirer , the critic Vladislav Khodasevich , who wrote : Peculiar to Sirin is the realization , or perhaps only a deeply felt conviction , that the world of literary creativity , the true world of the artist , ... conjured out of apparent simulacra of the real world , consists in fact of a completely different material .... So different that the passage from one world into the other , in whichever direction it is accomplished , is akin to death . Nabokov was an extraordinary writer . But except for a marvel of tenderness like Pain , I rarely want to reread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , properly grotesque , and richly comic , but many of the books tend to suffocate me . The point of view is so rarefied , the subject so much one of obsession . Lolita , marvelous , a work of psychological and satiric genius , nevertheless remains in one 's mind not a story of love or passion , but of fatality . I know exactly what Nabokov meant when he said that the book had its inception in Europe . /t monkey there was taught to draw ? and drew the bars of its cage . This in no way annuls Nabokov 's conviction that art begins in , and should afford , " aesthetic bliss , " or " writing with ecstasy , " as John Updike says of Nabokov . Russians like to say , used to say . of their supreme writers that given their despotisms , the writer can be " another government . " His writing banned in the Soviet Union , his heart full Of rage and contempt for what was going on there , Nabokov interpreted his absence from Russia as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his aversion to Soviet authoritarianism became an aversion to radicals like Bertrand Russell , Jean-Paul Sartre . even to the Harvard Russian linguist Roman Jakobson , who occasionally visited his old country . All this is in the letters , but minus Nabokov 's literary genius . Nabokov admired Dorothy Parker and other Americans , but he hated Mann , Freud , Faulkner , Eliot , and Pound . The last two were " big fakes , " Freud was a " Viennese quack . " Maybe Nabokov was right to say that " all my stories are webs of style and none seems at first blush to contain much kinetic matter .... For me ' style ' is matter . " I remember reading years ago that Isaac Babel thought Nabokov did n't have too much to write about . Nabokov would have replied ? as he does in these letters ? that all these other people were incapable of locating his special quality . " Style " was not window dressing but a category , it was a special attribute of the imagination . In Ada he wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VV " ) apropos ? of the great man 's ecstatic lovemaking up to old age , " Reality lost the quotes it wore like claws ? in a world where independent and original minds must cling to things or pull things apart in order to ward off madness or death ( which is the supreme madness ) . " The swagger of that passage , the grand manner , calls up Nabokov in all his pride and talent . It also helps to explain " the slight uneasiness " that his imaginative world provides to some people . Not only is it rarely our world , it is not a world that conceivably explains or replaces the one we know . But there are many others , perhaps more akin to Nabokov in imagination , who gratefully accept him at his own valuation . That can be bracing to non-believers like myself . In a time thirsty for genius , it brings back a familiar glow .                     