@@487028

This Administration has sought to blur completely the question of Presidential responsibility . The White House image makers have transformed Ronald Reagan into a protean symbol rather than an accountable official . He takes credit for actions he had nothing to do with and avoids blame for bad results when he was clearly in charge . Take President Jose Napoleon Duarte 's offer to negotiate with the Salvadoran guerrillas . Reagan embraced the initiative as his own , even though his policies have favored a military solution in the region . In fact , the probability is that Duarte met with the rebels now because he knows that election politics prevent Jeane Kirkpatrick and other Administration hardliners behind the scenes from vetoing the talks . And as Patrick J. Sloyan reports on page 410 , last year the President kept the marines in Beirut in the face of warnings from his top military and intelligence advisers that there was danger . By shrewdly accepting the responsibility  --  but not the blame  --  he prevented a trial of the officers responsible for the lax security precautions , thus avoiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dodge of denying that a formal recommendation for withdrawal of the troops was put before him . Thus , the policies of the anti-Soviet hardliners prevailed in Lebanon , with tragic results . The Presidential insulation from reality described by Sloyan represents , in microcosm , what has happened under this Administration  --  and shows what will happen during the next four years if the President is re-elected . The hardliners will run things while Reagan perches on a safe limb above it all , taking credit , evading blame , covering for them : an incorporeal smile , like the Cheshire cat . EDITORIALS . Salvadoran Hopes The simple act of meeting , the event in itself , in La Palma , El Salvador , last Monday has already had important results . The process that could lead to peace in that country may be long and drawn out , but it has been set in motion and there is reason to hope that it will continue . The guerrillas have been recognized as a legitimate force , one with which the government must deal if it wishes to unify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceived , nationally and internationally , as the President of all Salvadorans . The question now is , When will there be peace ? The U.S. Ambassador , Thomas Pickering , made an intriguing comment . " No one in La Palma has made any commitment to a cease-fire , " he said . " Something was said about humanizing the war . I think for the time being there will be a period of fire and talk . " In other words , the issue is not peace at all , but power . Power shifts and social changes in El Salvador over the last four bloody years of civil war produced the meeting in La Palma . That the dialogue began at all suggests that both sides are dubious about the possibility of a military victory . In that stalemate , the Salvadoran middle class , which supports Duarte , is willing to consider a new social contract and political arrangement that would encompass a tactical alliance with the left . As an industrialist who supports Duarte framed it , in an interview with correspondent Lucia Annunziata before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and anticommunism but between two solutions for the future of El Salvador . D'Aubuisson is a local solution , the reaffirmation of the small-town identity of El Salvador , the continuity with the past where repression and the army were played against anything new . Duarte is a modern and international solution , whose focus is to get the Salvadoran economy going again . People like me are interested in making a product competitive in the international market . If that means negotiations with the unions and guerrillas , it is fine for me . For the left , the meeting was a way to enter the broader political discourse . Leftists hope that this process will create a peaceful climate in which the political and social struggle can be waged . The new guerrilla leadership is not pacifist ; those who head the negotiations merely won the protracted political debate inside the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front when it became apparent the revolution could not be won by military means alone . Now they have a chance to put their theory into practice . Double Vision T he American electoral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But two other elections in this hemisphere serve to clarify issues the Reagan Administration is trying to confuse . The Administration considers the Nicaraguan balloting to be held November 4 a one-party affair , a typical Soviet-style referendum , because Arturo Cruz , the man whom George Bush , in one of his manic moments , endorsed as " the only viable challenger , " has chosen not to participate . At the same time , it hails the presidential election planned for November 25 in Uruguay , even though the military government there has imprisoned Wilson Ferreira Aldunate , the leading opposition candidate see " Dispatches , " page 408 . Surely it is regrettable that Cruz is boycotting the elections , but whatever the faults of Sandinista democracy ( and they are real ) , it is important to distinguish the electoral process in Nicaragua from the more traditional Latin American " democratic exercise " taking place in Uruguay . In Nicaragua , seven parties are on the ballot . The opposition candidates have harshly criticized the Sandinistas at public meetings , in marches and in the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy , Ferreira sits in prison and the leading opposition newspaper has been shut down because it published an interview with him . Nevertheless , the Reagan Administration condemns Nicaragua 's electoral process as a sham and dismisses its acceptance of the Contadora peace plan as a trick but remains stunningly silent while Uruguay 's most popular politician , a proven democrat , sits out the election behind bars . With such a double standard , the real sham is this Administration 's professed concern for democratic elections . . The Reagan Court T n our special issue " Fifteen Years of the Burger Court , " we said that the composition of the Supreme Court was a matter for election debate . Conserva- tives agree with us . On October 2 , National Public Radio 's All Things Considered interviewed Bruce Fein , formerly the Reagan Administration 's Associate Deputy Attorney General and General Counsel for the Federal Communications Commission . Fein has written extensively on the Court , and as reporter Nina Totenberg points out , " His views are echoed elsewhere in the Administration , including high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Because what he says reflects so accurately the New Right 's agenda for the Supreme Court , we publish excerpts of the program . ? The Editors FEIN : I believe that perhaps the most apposite comparison to this year 's election would be 1936 . At that time Franklin D. Roosevelt expressly made the Supreme Court an issue . He repeatedly denounced many of the High Court 's decisions that were invalidating a series of his New Deal legislation . ? " First , in the area of abortion , I believe ultimately that Roe v. Wade will be overruled . ? ? - I believe that the principle known as one man , one vote has no foundation in the constitutional origins . It was not accepted by the Republic for almost 175 years , until 1962 , and . . . simply can not stand as a constitutional mandate . TOTENBERG : Fein outlines other areas of law ripe for reversal under a Reagan court : sex discrimination . FEIN : I think we will find greater latitude permitted the legislative bodies in dealing with gender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the last ten years , really , a jurisprudence authored almost exclusively by the Court under the Chief Justiceship of Warren Burger has created very substantial burdens for legislatures in discriminating between males and females in their legislative activity . ' ? ? TOTENBERG : In the criminal law , Fein says , the Reagan Court would not be satisfied merely to trim back decisions of the Warren Court . FEIN : I think perhaps five , eight , years are needed before we will find a new reconstituted Court overruling such landmark cases as Miranda against Arizona , which requires police to inform suspects of their rights to silence and to an attorney when they are under interrogation and being held in custody . I believe that case will be overruled . I believe the Court will continue to relax standards that must be complied with before imposing the death penalty . TOTENBERG : Another area that Fein and many others say would change under a Reagan Court is citizen access to courts . . . . FEIN : With a Reagan Court , I believe we would find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has not suffered what we would traditionally call a tangible permanent injury ; either he has been physically hurt or he has lost money or some tangible way of that sort . If he has n't suffered that kind of injury , I think the Court will announce doctrine that will largely keep him out of the Federal judiciary . TOTENBERG : Another crusade of the President 's is to allow greater accommodation between church and state . . . . Mr Reagan would like . . . to overturn the key decision in the church-state relationship , the decision banning spoken prayer in public schools . . . . FEIN : I do believe that a Court , once again , dominated by Reagan appointees , would overrule the school prayer decisions . TO'TENBERG : . . . Under the Warren and Burger Courts , it ' s been established that most of the Bill of Rights apply not only to the Federal government but to state governments as well . Many Reagan conservatives do not accept this legal doctrine . They believe , for example , that while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for saying certain outrageous things , a state government could be free to lock you up for saying the same things . . . . FEIN : The First Amendment itself says Congress shall make no law restricting or abridging freedom of speech . A state , as far as I know , still is not Congress . TOTENBERG : As Bruce Fein pointed out at the beginning of this broadcast , the 1984 election is more than a fight for the Presidency . It is a fight for the future of the Supreme Court and the law that will govern this country into the twenty-first century . Crime Packaging T he President 's crime package , which slid through Congress on the coattails of the spending bill passed on October 11 , includes many goodies that hard- line lawmakers have long sought . It restores nine-teenth-century standards for criminal responsibility in Federal courts . The insanity defense is now permitted only when the defendant can prove that as a result of a mental disease or defect , he was " unable to appreciate the nature and quality or the wrongfulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug offenses , reduce time off for good behavior and eliminate releases on parole . The bill establishes a Presidentially appointed commission charged to come up with sentencing guidelines that will " promote respect for the law , " and it allows prosecutors as well as defendants to appeal sentences . But bail reform is the centerpiece . The law empowers a Federal judge who thinks certain defendants may " pose a danger to any other person or the community " to confine them for up to ten days before trial . It does not define whatkind of conduct would pose danger sufficient to warrant denial of bail or what procedures a judge should follow in determining that such a danger exists . In addition , the statute permits detention of persons who are arrested while on conditional release for another charge , no matter how minor either or both offenses are , and of those apprehended for violating immigration laws . The impact of the preventive detention provision may turn out to be more symbolic than real . Only a small number of defendants in Federal courts can be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constitutionality of the statute is likely to be challenged , will forgo exercising their increased discretion . Still , the symbolism of the measure is powerful . It sends several clear messages : crime can be reduced by the pretrial confinement of a tiny fraction of suspects who come before Federal courts ; government power should prevail when it collides with the presumption of innocence ; state courts need not be overburdened by the due process requirements of the Constitution . A combination of nasty Congressional competition and the political posturing that regularly determines criminal justice policy in this country produced the legislation . The Republican Senate passed the Administration 's bill many months ago , but passage in the House , which had its own set of proposals , seemed unlikely . Moreover , John Conyers and other Democratic members of a House judiciary subcommittee regarded the legislation as repressive and were determined to stall it indefinitely . Then , on September 25 , House Republicans bypassed the committee process , introducing a surprise motion to attach the President 's crime package to the continuing resolution to finance government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , and there was a strong show of support for the bill early on . As a result , sixty Democrats fell in line behind it . Most of them were from the South , but even such Northern liberals as Peter Kostmayer of Pennsylvania , Bernard Dwyer of New Jersey , Tom Harkin of Iowa and Les Au-Coin of Oregon were swayed . Apparently , they were afraid to vote against the President on crime control in an election year . It did n't matter that nobody knew what was in the 419-page bill : the flier circulating on the House floor in support of it and the exhortations of conservative California Representative Dan Lungren , who made the motion , were sufficient . " The American people have shown in the latest poll that this is the number-one issue for them , " said Lungren . " Do not worry about next week ; do not worry about last week . " But next week is upon us . As Representative Robert Kastenmeier , one of the few remaining voices of conscience in Congress on criminal justice policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a cure for the violence of our society  --  just a karate chop to the Bill of Rights . DIANA R. GORDON                     