@@487728

Jighty-six " is hash-house slang for the act of an ccellation and prohibition . " Eighty-six the home fries , eighty-six the jukebox , eighty-six the drunk at the end of the bar . " President Reagan must wish he could eighty-six 1986 , or at least its last four months . The year that began brilliantly for him , with the bombardment of Libya , the passage of tax reform , the vote for contra aid , the invasion of the Bolivian coca fields and the proposal of a national policy of mandatory uri nalysis , has ended in disaster , for him . The Fourth of July celebration around and about the Statue of Liberty was ' Reagan 's greatest moment of triumph and the apotheosis of Reaganism  --  the transformation of all the militaristic , materialistic and mean-spirited policies of his Administra tion into a proud evocation of the American dream . After that , things started to fall apart . Disinformation , Daniloff , Reykjavik , sanctions , elections and , finally , the scandal in Washington . Defeat followed on defeat and humiliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the dream was over . How could anyone have guessed that the consciousness and culture of the Reagan era were as vulnerable as its policies and politics ? Although it seems unlikely , the Administration 's shovel brigade could succeed in cleaning up well enough to let the President return to a normal schedule of business . Nevertheless , no matter how the crisis ends , neither Reagan 's authority nor the spirit he projected will ever be fully restored . Reagan 's fall from grace had a classic cause : hubris . The Administration grew so confident in its imperial crusade that it disregarded even the basic courtesies to the democratic process which American history and civic society demand . There is , a pantheon of ideals and icons to which most Americans pay tribute and , indeed , by which the nation has defined itself over the centuries . The earthly powers that be regularly ignore those democratic gods , but the miracle is that retribution comes . more often than not . In the past quarter-century a succession of Presidents have got their just deserts for breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering for his hypocrisy . If there is some small consolation that the President can take from this crisis it is that the opposition so far has been weak , frightened , disorganized and ambivalent . For six years the Democrats  --  as a party and as individual leaders of the political opposition ? Aid little opposing at all . Grenada and Libya won " bipartisan " cheers ; Reagan 's war in Nicaragua was allowed to proceed with only perfunctory delays . Until recently not a word was heard about the dozens of covert operations being carried out in America 's name by Heaven-knows-who around the world . Earlier restrictions on aid to South Africa 's surrogates in Angola were overturned with Democratic concurrence , and the loyal opposition even agreed to limit significantly the sanc  --  tions against South Africa . The members of the select committees in both houses of Congress that will begin hearings on the Iran scandal next year  --  with the possible exception of the low-key but serious Senator Paul Sarbanes and several other alumni of the Watergate hearings  --  have been chosen by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political tact , rather than for any investigatory zeal . Eight of the eleven Senators voted for contra aid ; among the Representatives the tally is 9 to 6 . The behavior of most legislators toward Vice Adm . John Poindexter and Lieut . Col. Oliver North when they appeared before the commit  --  tees earlier this month does not give much reason for op  --  timism that hard- questions will be asked and pursued . Commenting editorially on those hearings , The Washington Post wrote : You would not have guessed that the two witnesses . . . had been called up because they were known to have been deeply involved in ill-considered clandestine activities that had brought ridicule and disgrace on the administration they worked for and the policies it said it was pursuing . On the contrary , you would have thought that they were about to be awarded the Nobel Prize . What we do n't need is an awards ceremony , an apology or a whitewash on Capitol Hill . There is a vacuum of criticism and a failure of policy , and the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they decide not to fill that gap . Ai n't Gon na Play p erhaps bruised by recent skirmishes with conser  --  vative groups over its series The Africans , the Public Broadcasting Service refused to air The Making of Sun City , winner of an International Documentary Association award . Combining filmed seg  --  ments of an antiapartheid concert with news footage and in  --  terviews , the video is the work of Artists United ' Against Apartheid , a group of fifty-four rock and jazz musicians , including Bruce Springsteen and Miles Davis . PBS vice president Barry Chase claims that airing the documentary would jeopardize the network 's " journalistic integrity . " When the filmmakers offered to re-edit Sun City to meet PBS 's objections , Chase brusquely turned them down . " PBS does not exist to distribute programs whose central purpose is to advertise the views and personalities of their producers , " he told them . ( He apparently saw no con  --  tradiction in the network 's recent screening of two Lucasfilm documentaries about the making of its own films , Star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least three PBS affiliates have announced plans to screen a ten-hour miniseries called Shaka Zulu . Partly funded by the South African government , the series was hailed in Parliament as " the greatest project under  --  taken " by the South African Broadcasting Corporation and a vital boost for the country 's " image abroad . " In a Septem  --  ber 26 letter to the makers of Sun City , Chase wrote , " We have absolutely no apologies to make for PBS 's record on serious coverage of South Africa . " Let the viewer beware . Miskito Coast Managua T . t has long been known that U.S. planners want the contras to seize some Nicaraguan territory in order to establish a provisional government . And with Washington under pressure from Honduras to get its surrogate forces out of that country , a contra inva  --  with limited but direct U.S. support may be in the cards . Because of its inaccessibility and the relative hostility of its population toward the Sandinistas , Nicaragua 's Atlantic coast would be the likely staging point . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  ington believe that the Miskito Indians and other ethnic groups on Nicaragua 's eastern seaboard would welcome the invaders , they had better think twice . The Sandini  --  stas have come a long way from , the paternalism and repres  --  sion that first characterized their approach to the region . Early in 1985 they undertook a threefold initiative , in  --  volving a cease-fire and dialogue with the Miskito rebels , an autonomy plan for the region and the offer of a return home to those Indians who had abandoned their villages on the Coco River , including those forcibly resettled by the govern  --  ment in 1982 . Many Miskitos still wonder whether this new found respect for Indian rights is genuine or merely an image-building tactic . In any case the increasing stability of the government 's position in the Atlantic coast region is apparent to anyone who travels there . Many Miskito fighters have honored the cease-fire , and those who have not are being strongly urged by their communities to do so . Of 12,000 local people who crossed into Honduras as refugees in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that those who remain behind would like to come back to Nicaragua but are prevented from doing so by Honduran soldiers and troops of the contra group KISAN . KISAN , a Miskito acronym for Nicaragua Coast Indian Unity , was created from the remnants of Steadman Fagoth 's Misura army in a September 1985 assembly that was de  --  signed to bring the , fractious Miskito rebel movement under the banner of the Nicaraguan Democratic Force ( F.D.N. ) , the principal contra organization . But even as KISAN 's new leaders were courting Washington , a number of its field commanders were returning to Nicaragua to engage in talks already under way with the government . In dramatic illustration of the erosion of the group 's indig  --  enous support , KISAN 's recruitment techniques now in  --  volve intimidation of the Miskito population resettling-the Coco River . One local man who travels regularly on the river says he saw KISAN press-gang thirty young men in the village of Living Creek in November . Charges of KISAN terror , kidnapping and robbery abound . The Sandinistas , meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miskito combatants who favor dialogue . The government has allowed the fighters to keep their weapons . In the central plains of the coastal region , as well as in some upriver villages , the Indian warriors even patrol with Sandinista army regulars . The Miskito communities have begun to see the tangible benefits of peace and , in turn , to regard the Sandinistas and the pro-dialogue rebels with greater respect . In any effort to separate the coastal region from the rest of Nicaragua , the C.I.A . would also require the support of Brooklyn Rivera 's Misurasata army , which maintains its forces around the communities of the Atlantic 's central lit  --  toral . So far , however , Rivera 's insistence on remaining independent of U:S. manipulation leaves him closer to the Sandinistas than to the F.D.N. Rivera 's authority in the field , however , is endangered by his continuing absence and indecision . Already , Misurasata shows signs of disintegra  --  tion , with some field commanders aligning themselves with the F.D.N. and others with ' the Sandinistas . Even as the Sandinistas hurriedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the northern Atlantic coast and prospective capital of a contra provisional govern  --  ment  --  they hold the political and military initiative in the coastal communities . The C.I.A . may no longer be able to count on the Atlantic coast as a beachhead for its invasion . SCOTT WALLACE Partnership ( Continued From Front Cover ) flexible stance would probably better serve Israeli interests . The assurance that the United States is behind us has also reinforced certain tendencies in Israeli policy . Since 1948 Israel 's national security planners have worked from one basic assumption : the Arab world wants to erase us from the earth . Until the late 1960s and early 1970s there was a clear consensus that anything necessary to defend the nation was acceptable . Israel has long cultivated relationships with any group that was unfriendly to the Arab majority in the Middle East . As early as the 1930s and 1940s we sought ties with the Christians in Lebanon and Syria . In the 1950s a plan to aid an irredentist movement ' among the Druse of those two coun  --  tries was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraq and to rebel groups in South Yemen and the Sudan . Relations with Iran were the linchpin of that strate  --  gy . Until the Shah 's fall in 1979 , Israel 's close ties with that country included the training pf Savak , Iran 's secret police . A second pillar of Israeli defense policy that evolved dur  --  ing the first twenty years of the state was military self-sufficiency . For a long time Israel had great difficulty main  --  taining a steady supply of arms from abroad , a problem that was underlined when France and Britain imposed an embargo on Israel on the first day of the Six Day War . We therefore set out to establish our own arms industry . Since local de  --  mand is too small to bring costs to an affordable level , the economics of arms production require large-scale export . If these policies of seeking alliances and selling arms ever made sense , they do n't any longer . A peace agreement was signed between Israel and Egypt in 1979 , and most of the Arab countries surrounding Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be ready to make peace if the Palestin  --  ian problem were solved . Continuing an approach that made some sense in the early years of the state shows that , at a minimum , Israel 's foreign policy-makers suffer from a lack of imagination . The fact that nearly all of the top foreign policy leaders  --  from Peres and Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Labor to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and former Ambassador to the United States Moshe Arens of Likud  --  are products of what must be called Israel 's military-industrial complex raises questions about their ability even to conceive of an alternative path for Israel . We shall reap what we sow . It is the height of stupidity to continue to work for an alliance with an Iran that , under Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and his mullahs , is committed to the destruction of Israel . In doing so we are antagonizing Iraq , which has friendly relations with Egypt and has re  --  cently moderated its stance on Israel . Moreover , while other Arab countries are looking for an accommodation with us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitter enemy . Likewise , through its arms dealings , Israel is connected with the world 's most reactionary regimes . This is due partly to Israel 's export requirements , but it is also the result of its role as a proxy for the United States . Since 1977 , Israel 's                     