@@338053

The bedlam began at Al Moasat Hospital in Damascus , where Khalil al-Wazir , the slain military commander of the Palestine Liberation Organization , lay in state . As the burial hour approached , the casket , draped with a Palestinian flag , was lifted onto a caisson wreathed in flowers and towed away by a truck with a Palestinian youth atop , brandishing al-Wazir 's picture and flashing the victory sign . At the Yarmouk refugee camp , crowds of keening Palestinians surrounded the funeral cortege of Mercedes , jeeps and taxis . Suddenly the casket , bobbing precariously , was hoisted onto mourners ' shoulders and carried amid a sea of people to the Cemetery of Martyrs , about a mile away . There the casket was lowered into a grave , as red-bereted Palestinian soldiers fired their guns into the air and the crowd shouted , " We will avenge your blood , our martyr ! " <P> Officially , Israel continued to deny a role in the slaying of al-Wazir , known worldwide by his nom de guerre Abu Jihad . But that claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunisia . According to details pieced together by TIME , the assassination of al-Wazir had been under consideration for several years . MOSSAD , Israel 's intelligence agency , had begun close surveillance of al-Wazir 's comings and goings in Tunisia in 1983 . The facts and details of his habits and living arrangements were so readily obtainable that Israeli intelligence experts marveled at how such a masterly military strategist could be so careless . " Of all people , he should have known better , " said one . Even P.L.O . Chairman Yasser Arafat had urged his deputy to move , warning that security at al-Wazir 's cream-colored house in the village of Sidi Bou Said was inadequate . But al-Wazir was reluctant , partly because he had just renewed a three-month lease . <P> The possibility of assassinating al-Wazir was raised with the heads of the Israeli intelligence services during the administrations of both Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and his predecessor , Shimon Peres . The plan was shelved out of concern that such an operation might imperil Israeli lives and damage the country 's reputation . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and rejected  --  several times by the " Prime Ministers ' Club , " the nickname for the informal meetings held by Shamir , Foreign Minister Peres and Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin , who was Prime Minister from 1974 to 1977 . <P> The topic arose again when P.L.O . hit squads directed by al-Wazir began to arrive from Lebanon and Egypt to fuel the current uprising in the occupied territories . Israeli officials blamed al-Wazir for the March 7 hijacking of a bus in southern Israel that left three Israeli civilians dead . Later that month the Prime Ministers ' Club gave a green light to all security services for preparing an operation , although it is likely that Peres voiced doubts about the timing .                     