@@487737

The , dispute in these pages about authenticity , left films and folk singers , new and old aesthetics , and the voices in which we speak to America also raises fundamental questions for the American left . Can we imagine a democratic left majority in this country ? Can we begin to figure out how we might help to bring that about ? In my October 18 article , " I Dreamed I Saw MTV Last Night , " I spoke not just of folk culture but of left folk culture , which is a quite different political construct . Now we must speak of the politics of left folk culture . We want neither an art nor a politics that relies on authoritarianism , manipulation and falsehood . In this article I will build on the aesthetic themes of the first article and attempt to relate them to larger political ideas . - Jesse Lemisch is a professor of American colonial and social history on the faculty of the State University of New York at Buffalo . He is currently a visiting professor of history at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agent of change " has been a favorite game of the left . What group will lead us to revolution ? This game has always been played on a tilted board , with all the pieces inevitably tumbling toward the corner marked " class analysis . " But the movements emanating from blacks , students , women , gays and others could not be predicted by class analysis  --  suggesting that we need a more flexible approach to the game , or maybe that we should just throw the board away . Left folk culture has its own ranking of agents of change . Essentially this culture says that an ill-defined but predominantly rural " folk " are the authentic and real Americans from whom change will come . The rest of us , morally and politically of a lesser sort , will get a little closer to the real thing if we sing the songs of the folk and , sometimes , wear their clothes and dance their dances . Left folk culture has involved a laying on of culture in which most of us are trained in the culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cocooned in a theory and politics that they fail to notice it , " folk " is an inclusive term . To others it is an exclusive one . In last week 's " Letters " column Dick Flacks adopted precisely this theory and politics . But he thoroughly misunderstands the implications of his own argument -- that he is taking a specific political position , choosing preferred agents of change and justifying the laying of some people 's culture on others : Songs . . . are repositories of personal and- collective memory . . . They connect the audience . . . to historical struggles . . . . Seeger has led efforts to make folk song a living component of urban popular culture . . . . The so-called folk revival of the late 1930s introduced urban audiences to authentic folk artists . . . . Those artists . . . were proof that an unschooled and uncomrnercialized creativity thrived at the grass roots and could create an alternative culture . . . . It would be a culture more open to popular participation . Whose memory and whose struggles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singing whose songs ? Flacks describes a one-way trip : rural culture is brought to urban audiences . This is terribly condescending and directly at odds with the idea of building a left majority . There is never any suggestion of a cultural exchange in which minstrels might tell the folk of the concerns of urban audiences . ( Imagine the folk , gathered in a field in Kansas , coaxed into clapping and singing along for several hours in a diverse program of rap and salsa . ) I do not urge the imposition of some people 's culture on others , with the attendant assumptions about the superiority of one to another . Flacks unknowingly reaffirms traditional old left priorities about agents of change . He is looking for a democratic and participatory culture , but he endorses a situation in which we sing their songs and , amazingly , he envisions that situation creating a culture open to popular participation . He calls it " grass roots . " Whose grass ? Whose roots ? What became of the fine old S.D.S. idea  --  expressed in those buttons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that people should make the decisions that affect their lives ? What does this one-way notion of popular culture based on " a minstrel bringing the news to the people through song " have to do with the goal of organizing people where they Hire ? The underside of Flacks 's theory is a prescription for paralysis on the part of the urban audience , whose members remain couch potatoes before the great screen of history , incapable of becoming authentic historical actors . - ? This brings us back to the question of authenticity , which I raised in my article but ' which my critics have not addiesied . When Si Kahn sings about the concentration camps in the accent and music of Appalachia , he is inevitably subordinating the experience of one people to the ' expression of others . Few on the left would disagree for a moment if I . objected to a ' scing performed ' by blacks in a Yiddish accent , to the accompaniment of a klezmer orchestra , with lines such as : . Massa whip me so hard , oy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vey Critics who talk abstractly of interesting experiments in adopting the voice of another culture fail to understand that more is at stake than a few " dumb " or " mawkish " songs . Left folk culture rests on a selective and deeply political process in which certain voices are adopted and others are rejected . The left will go no place in America so ? long as it perpetuates these moral rankings and equally bad , fails to understand , even when presented with the most blatant examples , that it is doing so . , . - Many of my critics ' arguments rest not on the here and now but on other cultures and other times . Seeger 's work , says Flacks , has been a model for nueva ( witch. * ( " new song " ) and for a worldwide cultural movement . If that is true , it is an important measure of Seeger 's influence , but ' the Point is irrelevant to the current political impact of left folk culture in the United States ; so are examples from the Americari-past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ song in the early 1950s , and Maurice Isserman quotes Elinor Langer 's evocative description of folk festivals in that decade . Certainly much could be said about hootenannies , which helped sustain the left in those dark days . But times change ; music changes .. It is an exercise in nostalgia to rest an argument about the vitality of left folk culture in 1986 ? in the face of the hegemony of rock and other non-folk forms  --  on fond memories of the " hoot . " Isserman and Flacks both argue that without Seeger , there would be no Dylan . That is like saying that because Protestantism came out of Catholicism , Protestants should love the Pope . Putting aside the fact that-Woody Guthrie had a more powerful influence on Dylan , those who know the history of Dylan 's emergence from Seeger 's womb know that it is not as simple as Flacks and Isserman suggest . At the 1965 Newport Folk Festival , after Cousin Emmy finished " Turkey in the Straw , " Dylan came on stage in " a ' Matador-outlaw orange shirt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( That and the following quotations are from Robert Shelton 's , book , No Direction Home : , The Life and Music ' of Bob Dylan . ) After Dylan 's " rocking electric version " of " Maggie 's Farm , " there were boos , a cry of " Bring back Cousin Emmy ! " - and later , " Play folk music ! . . . sellout ! " Backstage . . . at the first sound of the amplified instruments , . . . Seeger had turned a bright purple and begun kicking his feet and flailing his arms . ( A festival official said later : " I had never seen any trace of'violence in Pete , except at that moment . He was furious with Dylan ! " ) Reportedly , one festival board member  --  probably Seeger It was Seeger , Harold Leventhal later told the singer 's biographer , David Dunaway ? was so upset that he threatened to pull out the entire electrical wiring system In Sing Out ! magazine British folk singer Ewan MacColl wrote of Dylan 's " tenth-rate drivel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " According to Robbie Lieberman , writing in Radical History Review , even the Weavers ' ' pop ' sound " raised the ire of Sing Out ! ' s writers in 1951 . Shelton thinks that Dylan 's 1965 taunt , " Something is happening here/but you do n't know what it is/Do you , Mr. Jones ? " refers to Seeger , among others . I guess these are the " dialectical interconnections " between folk and rock seen by Flack . Certainly Dylan learned plenty from folk musicians , but they were not his only teachers . " Seeger should have put away his banjo and apprenticed himself to Elvis Presley , " writes Isserman , ridiculing my position . But that 's just what Bob Dylan did . " I played , back in 1961- and 1962 , when nobody was around , all those Elvis Presley records , " Dylan reminisced . He claimed to have had a " breakdown " when Elvis died , and he once said , " If it was n't for Elvis and Hank Williams , I could n't be doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dylan ? Is that all there is to say ? If we on the left expect the American people to trust us , we have to tell the truth . The Good Fight and Seeing Red simply do not . We have a duty to go beyond one-sided celebration . Flacks 's defense of those films is labored and disingenuous . They are , he writes , not primarily about the Communist Party or the Spanish Civil War . They are about the vicissitudes of political commitment , about the fate of idealism and the consequences of lives spent fighting for lost causes . That is an invention : the films are about the Communist Party and the Spanish Civil War , are correctly perceived as such by audiences and are terribly misleading . In addition to the many good fights memorialized in the films , the " lost causes " that are not mentioned or seriously confronted include the C.P.U.S.A. 's endorsement of the Nazi-Soviet pact , the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II , government suppression of antiwar groups and the no-strike pledge . This cover-up is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " as Flacks puts it . A left that makes such films and then ducks reasonable criticism of them is'not worthy of trust . Isserman , uninformed about the economics of film production , thinks that the interview format of Seeing Red is cheap and that the American Social-History Project is relatively rich . Neither is true . Seeing Red cost more than double the budget of 1877 : The Grand Army of Starvation . Gary Lenhart 's equally uninformed lecture to me founders on this same point . Had they been more innovative , the makers of Seeing Red could have made a better film about the C.P. with the same or a lower budget . They chose an expensive form . Isserman 's idea that more money would have made Seeing Red better is echoed in Lenhart 's more haughtily phrased argument that it all comes down to economics . ( Lenhart also throws in some cute professor-baiting , another part of the complex of attitudes I 've criticized . ) In a way , I took the filmmakers more seriously when I described their approach as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their work , even if I disagreed with it . I have no doubt that their films would look somewhat better if they had more money , but the filmmakers do have an aesthetic , and there is no reason to think that given sufficient funds they would betray that aesthetic and switch to making what my critics call " slick " films . One of the things that I have learned from this debate is that my critique is too limited . Both I and the letter writers have been discussing left culture in the most instrumental and didactic sense , arguing about the best modes for " political persuasion and education , " in Isserman 's words . Are n't we all still trapped in the stultifying old Communist notion of art as a weapon and failing to think in large ways about the connection between art and utopia ? In the 1960s , while beginning work on a " history from the bottom up " that was deemed " relevant " in the movement , I nonetheless argued against the idea of relevance as an exclusive goal for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New University Conference , I presented a paper titled " Who Will Write a Left History of Art While We Are All Putting Our Balls on the Line ? " It seemed to me that the demand , fashionable at the time , to produce scholarship with an immediate payoff  --  leaflets at the plant gate  --  could only stunt and distort the development of left culture . By the way , I remain friends , almost twenty years later , with the two left intellectuals I criticized in that paper . I am amazed by the failure of some of my critics to understand the role of criticism in an enduring and multi-sided left community . Seeger and Kahn have done important work in the left , but a political aesthetic invites political comment , and making one is hardly " trashing . " On many fronts these days there seems to be a narrowing of permissible dissent within the left . Political commandments suffocate art . Who will engage in the deeply radical work of reconsidering conventions in the realm of form , and struggle to bring new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the left as ' a bourgeois scam ? Who will determine how the world looks ? If the left aims only at the didactic , who will chart the human soul ? If we do n't , others will . They may do it well  --  this is not solely a question of politics  --  or , they may reinforce stunted conservative views of human possibility . These questions belong on the left 's agerida . Attempting to build a left majority ( and avoiding the horrors of Leninism ) requires , among other things , an open and pluralist politics , telling the truth , becoming less bound by dogma about agents of change , disassembling our moral rankings , opening ourselves to our own authentic experiences and voices , and striving , sometimes in concord and sometimes in discord with our movements , to develop left scholarship and art . Without art , there is no vision ; without vision , there is no left . ?                     