@@494003

Catherine the Great by Henri Troyat translated by Joan Pinkham ( Dutton ; $15.95 ) " Our lord , Peter the Great , has drawn us all from nothingness into being , " wrote one of those whom Peter forcibly had detached from traditional Muscovite values and exposed to Western culture . Two centuries later , the same faith in Peter 's protean will helped to shape the Russian Revolution . As has often been pointed out , Lenin 's insistence on the control of the revolution by a small elite owed much to the voluntarism of en intelligentsia which saw its advocates of atomic and nuclear power themselves , in the form of period films and contemporary songs . A movie of the experiments at Los Alamos shows us soldiers drinking radioactive iodine , students inhaling plutonium , scientists feeding radioactive materials to fish . At Almagordo , observers are advised to apply suntan lotion to their faces as protection against the " tremendous blast effects " of an atomic fission bomb . A record plays a merry popular song from the time ( " Hubba Hubba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mine in a B29 dropped another load for luck . " Staged confer- cove scenes , stand-up comedy routines , sexual references to the H-bomb explosion ( " Was it good for you ? " ) all add a tone of horrible jocularity to the proceedings which provides more eloquent commentary than the most ferocious condemnation . The evening ends with a Geiger counter crackling in the corner . What the piece is ultimately about is how we receive information , and how this changes our perception of the forces that endanger us . The Dead End Kids is a political play about the fatal consequences of political propaganda ? the first theatrical work to show that fallout from the media and fallout from the bomb may be one and the same . very existence as evidence of the power of outstanding individuals to change a nation 's consciousness . In the West , too , the myth of Peter 's will has had its effect on historical thinking ? most significantly on popular conceptions of the nature of Russian government . Increasingly , historians have pointed to a continuity between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single experi- ment , the attempt to graft an advanced economy and culture onto a primitive despotism . Given this insight , we can tell why it generally is not disputed that the career of Peter the Great is more relevant to our time than , say , the career of his contemporary , Louis XIV . The origins of the Russian experiment certainly throw some light on its present dynamic , but the popular view of the beginnings of modernization in Russia as the clear articulation of a conscious will , or as a revolutionary exer- cise in control over populations and eco- nomic processes , is not justified . What is less well appreciated , outside specialist writing on Russian history , is that there is an alternative view , thoroughly developed and better supported by the historical record , that these beginnings were a series of short-term measures in response to social and geopolitical pres-SUMS To the extent that the Soviet system is a new variety of home-grown absolutism , this alternative carries essential lessons for the modern reader who may be reduced to searching through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Russia 's past to enable him to make sense of its present . Some skepticism is permissible when one is presented with the all-conquering will of Russia 's greatest rulers as the key to Russian history . This is true of the two biographies under review : regarded as historical preludes to our own age , they make it easier to understand why history conceived as the account of kings and battles is still alive and well , under the name of Kremlinology . Kings and battles account for much of the enormous length of Mr. Massie 's highly entertaining study of Peter the Great . Entire chapters , crammed with historical detail and richly evocative in atmosphere if somewhat overloaded with anecdote , are devoted to the powerful personalities and the courts of Peter 's conternporaries : William of Orange , Louis XIV , George I of England , and Charles XII of Sweden . Their subjects figure only as the docile and uniformed instruments of their bloody maneuvers for preeminence in early 18th-century Europe . The hero loses nothing from such stiff competition : in what is clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources for what no doubt will long remain the liveliest , most sympathetic , and most stylishly written account of the personality behind the legend of Peter 's will . We see a rebellious adolescent who was also ( after the coup which ousted his sister , the regent Sophia , in 1689 ) a czar with , in theory at least , absolute power : a young giant with immense energy , rustic manners , and a taste for simple drunken pleasures , who loathed the semi Oriental rituals of the Russian church and court and was fascinated by new inventions . Peter 's curiosity , combined with a highly developed sense of duty , took him to Europe in 1697 , at a point when Russia 's national survival was threatened by the Swedes , who controlled the Baltic . Mr. Massie gives a superb description of the extraordinary peregrination known as the Grand Embassy , when Peter wandered round Europe with his suite for 14 months in order to acquire the technical expertise which would transform his backward and xenophobic country into a major European power . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , learning how to mend clothes , make shoes , repair watches , pull teeth , dissect corpses , and build fortifications ; he mastered the workings of every scientific instrument he encountered , studied ballistics under a Brandenburg colonel and shipbuilding under an Amsterdam shipwright ? and obtained certificates of competence from both . On his return to Russia , Peter used all the powers of an Oriental despot , combined with ingenious methods such as the famous tax on beards , to break his subjects'attachment to the past . His acquisition of new skills was an example which all were expected to follow . The nobility were sent in drones to the West to learn new techniques , while their hereditary privileges were re placed by a Table of Ranks which made privilege dependent on service to the state . With these methods , backed by savage punishments , he built a magnificent new capital , and created a modern army out of a barbaric soldiery and a navy out of nothing at all , a combination which after awar of 20 years defeated the foremost of power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanently changed the balance of power in Europe , no wonder Peter seemed to his compa- triots a leader unique in modern history ? a demigod who altered the historical course and the spiritual makeup of a great nation in accordance with his personal blueprint for the future . This view of Peter , embodied in Pushkin 's poem " The Bronze Horseman , " is presented by Mr. Massie as the objective No group of photographs could do justice to the discordant realities of Soviet life , but the 200-odd selections in Rusin from the Inshireome as close to it as possible . With a few exceptions , they are the work of professional Soviet photographers , now exiles in the West ; which is to say that they were taken under far more generous conditions than those imposed on Western visitors ( no bridges , no pictures taken from any heights , no scenes considered atypical and offen- Si Ye by your average Soviet citizen , etc . ) . No one who has ever spent any time in the Soviet Union will fail to be struck by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inanimate proof that life in the Soviet Union is still nasty , brutish , and short are the pictures of people , and especially of their faces . What can be more revealing than the peasant family , their faces a study of bewilderment , discomfiture , and awe , goring at the glittering hubbub of a Moscow street ? Or the faces of the elderly women and party official ? ( Note , incidentally , the difference in clothing . ) These ? and any others ? are the true faces of modern Russia that no amount of lakirooks ( " varnishing " ? that quintessential RussianlSoviet resin ) could possibly disguise . The book , of course , does not dwell on the seamy side of Soviet life . There are snapshots of newly married couples , there is a marvelous tableau of a middle-class family displaying their bulbous bodies on a Moscow beach , there are pictures of patently happy children , tenderly hovered over by their solicitous guardians . Yet it is precisely these contrasts ? between deprivation and prosperity , between the desperate search for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a Soviet citizen ) of material well-being and ( to a Westerner ) its bleak objective reality , that impart to the Soviet scene a quality of hopelessness as piercing and poignant as that which led , more than a century ago , to Gogol 's celebrated outcry : " Oh , how sad is our Russia ! " If the pictures speak with the force of revelation , the same , I fear , can not be said of the accompanying text . Robert Kaiser is an accomplished jourtruth . He shows us a hero who single-handedly controls events through the unique combination of the destructive power of a force of nature and a con- scions inflexible purpose : the grand design of remolding his country into a Western state , open to all that was most advanced in Europe . Even when he seemed to be overcome by events , as when his attempts to expand Russia 's southern borders led to ignominious defeat by the Turks on the Prut , in Mr. Massie 's view this was merely the result of a tactical conservation of forces dictated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future of Russia lay in Europe , not in the East . Not surprisingly , Mr. Massie fads to quote the comment in which Peter summed up his attitude to the West for the benefit of his officials : ' ' we need Europe for a few decades , and then we must turn our back on it. - The first historian to note the significance of this remark was the 10th-century Russian Klyuchevsky . Mr. Massie would have had to write a rather different biography if he had taken any account of the considerable body of research by Western historians supporting Klyu chevsky 's view that the beginnings of modernization in Russia were a series of partial ad hoc measures to contain engulfing forces , rather than a revolutionary grand design . There is no hi evidence for inferring such a design behind Peter 's technological , economic , and administrative reforms . They were aimed merely at developing a war machine strong enough to resist neighbors whom Russia could no longer hope to ignore . Neither his end nor his means we wholly original ? all his reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the reigns of his immediate predecessors . The tragedy that clouded the end of his reign ? the killing of his rebellious heir ? came about not because the latter rejected a master plan for the transformation of the Russian state , but because he resisted Peter 's determination to make a warrior out of him . For Peter , as he informed his son in a written ultimatum , accomplishment in the art of war was the principal characteristic of a good ruler . Mr. Massie finds it " curious " that Peter 's interest in the West did not extend to the art of government . He concludes that Peter had no interest in concepts such as the legal limitation of powers , because he believed that only the exercise of force from above would transform Russia into a modern state But there are no grounds for inferring that this was Peter 's goal . On the contrary , all the evidence shows that he was committed to preserving the tradi-tional oMuscovite state ? a structure akin to the ancient Oriental despotism where the ruler had the monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and subjects for ends determined solely by him . From the nalist , and his Russia : The . People and the P82140 ( 1976 ) was on all showings an incisive and readable introduction to Soviet life . This time , however , he has produced a commentary that all too often bears the imprint of en ad man 's copy . To be sure , he spares us the kind of inanities that marked the some- what similarly fitted volume by John Gunther , Inside Russia , published more than 20 years ago . ( My favorite : " Russians are a strongly sexed people , " but " petting in a parked car , in the Ameri- can manner , is almost unknown . " So , to be sure , were parked cars . ) And some of Mr. Kaiser 's observations are unquestionably sound and perceptive . Still , the prose is dismaying , " A human society , " we are told , " is like an elephant neither can be understood at a glance , but the outward characteristics of both , carefully studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( tusks , perhaps ? ) , Moreover , Mr. Kaiser displays a weakness for bogus profundities that has plagued generations of Western traveler , bent on fathoming the myster ies of the " Russian soul "  - -  e.g. , " control is a constant preoccupation of the Soviet authorities ? control of the anarchic instincts within themselves that most Russians seem to fear " ; or the etymological disquisition on the " Russian word for vacation , " which , Kaiser tells us , means literally " letting go of ordinary restraints " ( wrong , it means " disengaging oneself " ) . In fact , the book contains a number of errors : the exemption of peasants from " internal passports , ' which for years effectively had tied them to the land , was lifted more than five years ago . Soviet newspapers are loath to report on rapes , murders , and accidents , but to say that they " stick doggedly to good news , usually ignoring all else , " is to ignore the dreary stories of inefficiency , bureaucratic imbecilities , negligence , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " yet nevertheless persistent , aspects of Soviet life . Massive terror is Indeed a thing of the past , but fear ? pare Mr. Kaiser ? surely remains one of the instrumentalities of Soviet rule . Perhaps the pap-like prose , so uncharacteristic of Mr. Kaiser 's other writings , the factual inaccuracies , and the simplifications are the inevitable result of an effort to serve a potent drink in the form of a light ( and short ) aperitif . If so , Mr. Kaiser might have heeded his own observation that in some cases " pictures help explain the truth probably better than words . " Abraham Brumberg Abraham Reim:berg is former editor of Problems of Communion , and is now working on a book about Po/and. barbaric popular disturbances that were a feature of Russian history Peter , like his predecessors , drew the lesson that only a monopoly of power by the ruler could prevent that vast country from falling into bloody anarchy . h is true that through his stress on the concept of service , Peter helped to introduce into Russia the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the monarch , embodying a national good which the ruler , like his subjects , was obliged to pursue ( characteristically , Peter your his subjects an object-lesson in this respect by having himself promoted to a higher naval rank after each victory ) . But the distincton had little meaning in practice : the czar must serve the national good , but only he could define it . Under Peter ukazes were issued with preambles justifying them on grounds of individual and public well-being ; but as before they emanated from the czar alone and left his subjects no area of self-deter- nation : nobles as well as peasants could be ordered to move from one end of the country to the other , and their property and persons disposed of as the czar saw fit . The size and materials of their houses , the nature of their work , their leisure activities , even their dress were dictated . It was Peter 's belief in the paternalistic and absolute nature of his power that made him emphasize , in his ultimatum to his son , the ruler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " all look to the head : they study his inclinations and conform themselves to them . " Peter 's reforms entailed a more efficient structuring of his administration ( on the model of the Swedish colleges ) , but when his rationalization of the government threatened to diminish his personal power , he consistently reasserted the second at the cost of the first . He effectively paralyzed his bureaucracy during his long absences on military campaigns by entrusting overriding powers to individu tits responsible only to him Mr. Massie concedes the inefficienc , of these methods , but sees them as a consequence of Peter 's decision to force the pace of progress singlehandedly against the will of his subjects . In reality , they reflect his conservative reaction to pressures of change which he scarcely understood and could not control . He realized that the Westernization of Russian technology demanded the development of Western qualities of rationality , responsibility , and initiative on the part of his subjects , but he did not understand that these qualities were conected with a conception of partnership between society and monarch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the system he wished to preserve . As Richard Pipes has pointed out in his book Russia Under the 001Reginte , by attempting to use the technological modernization of Russia as a support for its traditional government , Peter introduced a fa tal contradiction into the relationship between state and society which deepened in successive reigns , as society endeavored to wrest from the autocracy the rights which n saw as a corollary of its new role . Peter 's legacy to his successors was an autocracy fated to become increasingly ineffective in the pursuit of positive goals , as it concentrated its energies on the negative task of defending its monopoly of political power against the determination of its subjects to participate m the direction of their lives . But the prodigious material transformation wrought by I ortrmt ofPeter the Creat from Mk . Peter 's energy has helped his successors to conceal when necessa , the incompatibility of consistent modernization with absolute rule . The more the Rusdynamics autocracy lost real power in the dynamics c/f an experiment doomed from the outset , the more it relied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the myth of the superior effectiveness of absolute potter when directed to rational goals . The development of this myth into an instrument of government took place in the reign of Catherine II , who has the distinction of having deluded not only most of her contemporaries , but also many of her biographers , including M. Troyat It was the dream of Peter 's power that attracted Catherine to the throne of Russia . A princess from an obscure German house , she was invited to Russia at the age of 14 by Peter 's daughter , the Empress Elizabeth , to become the wife of the German-born heir to the throne . As she later wrote , she immediately conceived the ambition of becoming empress in her own right . Her boundless thirst for glory sustained her for the next 20-years while , tied to a foolish and devious husband , she led a precarious existence at the court of the cruel and paranoid Elizabeth . She pursued her purpose with cool calculation and the skills of a considerable actress , charming the influential by her submissiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fervor of her conversion to the Orthodox faith ? all essential tee the success of the palace coup in which , in 1702 , the ousted her crassly Teutonic husband . In the energy with which she pursued the two imperatives of modernization and absolute power , Catherine was by far the most distinguished of Peter 's sussors . A cultivated European with consiccederable intellectual pretensions , she perceived that if Russia were to maintain its prestige in Europe , the gap between its technical and cultural progress must be dosed . She fostered the development of a secular European culture and a national literature . to the role of an " enlightened " monarch who used her authority to promote the universal rule of reason , she courted the admiration of the most progressive circles in Europe . She pronounced herself a devoted pupil of Voltaire , with a " republican soul , " and at the outset of her reign convened a commission for the reform of Russian law , sending young men abroad to acquire the necessary legal and philosophical backgrcmnd . The " Instruction , " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several languages for dissemination abroad , was steeped in the rational humanism of the Enlightenment . She asserted her belief in natural law and the rights deriving from it , and , drawing liberally on the ideas of Montesquieu and Beccaria , proclaimed as her goal the equality of all citizens before the law , which was to replace the arbitrary will of the sovereign as the foundation of the state . But the ideal of rational universalism had to yield before geopolitical realities which Catherine interpreted like her predecessors . Her insecurity on the throne as a foreigner , a usurper , and a regicide by association ( her husband and another claimant to the throne we murdered by her followers in the firstre two years of her reign ) confirmed her in the belief that unrestrained power was the precondition for efficient and stable government in Russia . This was going too far for the philosopher , indulgent though they were toward " enlightened " absolutists . So throughout her reign of 34 years Catherine sought to reconcile the demands of internal order and external prestige through the art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reg Voltaire , Diderot , and M. Grimm she kept the intellectual avant-garde of Europe apprised of her unceasing efforts to abolish the last remnants of despotism in Russia . At home she shelved her project for law reform and saw to it that the bureaucracy , while modified in the interests of greater efficiency , did not intrude on the traditional channel of power ? a patronage system under her direct control . It was through this channel that she attempted to keep up Peter 's modernizing impetus in the fields of agriculture , industry , and commerce . When after two wars , Catherine advanced Russia 's frontier to the shores of the Black Sea , the organization and development of the huge new southern territories were entrusted to one man ? her brilliant and eccentric favorite , Potemkin . To placate a nobility which was denied political rights , she extended their privilege , and their rights over their serfs , introducing serfdom innew as . Thit " Tartu ffe in a skirt , " as Pushkin called her , presented entire villages of peasants as gifts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sions about the methods Catherine used to enforce her will , but this mereh increased her power as a voice in European affairs . In 1787 she invited a party of foreign dignitaries , including the Emperor Joseph II of Austria , on a six-month tour of the southern territories then being developed at lightning speed by Potemkin . Dazzled by what seemed an economic miracle , Joseph wrote enviously : In Germany or France we would never have dared to undertake what is being done here . Here human life and effort count for nothing ; here one can build roads , ports , fortresses , palaces on marsh- land , one can plant forests in the desert , all without paying the workers . who never complain , even though they lack for everything , sleep on the ground and often suffer from hunger .... The master orders , the slave obeys ... ? Catherine can spend what she pleases , without going into debt . Her currency is worth what she wants it to be worth : she can mintmoney out of leather . For European opinion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ability of a creative will to direct the course of history to rational ends . As the French ambassador Segur remarked : " one would have thought the blood of Peter flowed in her vein , " Most of Catherine 's biographers have been equally dazzled , but none has been so naively eager in the celebration of her will as M. Troyat . The silliness of his fatuously admiring book can be illustrated by a single sentence : " there was nothing ... involuntary or unconscious in ICatherine's1 daily behavior . " The other qualities of this " solid rock of will , " as he calls her , are hardly mitre credible . Her fanatical belief in reason and her worship of clarity enabled her , we are told , to become " fully acquainted at once " with any situation in internal or external politics , while as an intermediary in European affairs she was the sole possessor of clear insight among the " bewildered monarchs " of Europe . Like M. Troyat 's claim that Catherine 's mind was " trained " by her reading of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Catherine , always eager to advertise her virtues , made about herself : nowhere in the book are they supported by evidence or analysis . Historical background is sacrificed to a desire for raciness . Catherine 's collection of lovers is described in titillating and clich ? - laden detail , while domestic intrigue , foreign affairs , and human character are treated with all the gossipy triviality of a courtier'sseye view . If Mr. Massie 's book could land probably will ) make a classic screen epic , M. Troyat 's is material for a low-budget 13-movie where all actors apart from the heroine are interchangeable . But the fundamental theme of the two books is the same : a story of unqualified success in the use of historical circumstances and whole populations in the exercise of an autocratic will . M. Troyat does not qualify his conclusion that in the course of her reign , whether by toughness , patience , or maneuvering , Cathe rine obtained " everything that she desired . " Undoubtedly Catherine succeeded in her aim of making Russia culturally a part of Europe while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real substance of that power was rapidly diminished in the course of her reign by the tenacity with which she pursued the dream of uniting the best of two contradictory worlds . Not content with the respect won by Peter for Russia 's military might , she challenged Europe to judge the autocracy by the moral standards of its most progressive public opinion . Inevitably her subjects began to apply the same criteria . She merely had wished to fashion European gen tlemen nut of what were still known in Peter 's time as " baptized bears " ; in the process she created a moral opposition , the intelligentsia , which would ultimately paralyze the autocracy . As the true dynamics of modernization progressively revealed themselves , Catherine 's talent for dissimulation was developed into an art of government . Absolute power could not be reconciled with the political and moral demands of a Westernized society , but , by creating the illusion that it could , she preserved an unstable equilibrium at home and considerable prestige abroad . Her genius lay not , as M. Troyat would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in Russia , but in the way she disguised her lack of control , pioneering the methods whereby Russian autocrats and their Soviet successors have concealed the failure of the Russian experient Catherine wams the first modern dictator to engage in the systematic use of distinguished and progressive fellow travelers to manipulate foreign public opinion . The philosophes were enlisted as propagandists by a skillful mixture of flattery and financial subsidies . There were exceptions . Rousseau , for example , refused Catherine 's invitation to visit Russia and the accompanying offer of 100,000 roubles , which he called an attempt by the " Russian tyrant " to dishonor him in the eyes of posterity . But Voltaire , Diderot , and d'Alembert were won over by gestures such as Catherine 's offer to have volumes of the Encyclopedic ( then encountering difficulties in France ) printed in Russia . When Diderot was forced by poverty to sell his library , she purchased it and appointed him its salaried librarian for life : " W hat astonishing times we hve in ! " Voltaire wrote to him , " France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In private , Catherine 's proteges expressed reservations about the lady whom in public they called the " Semi- ramis of the North . " To Voltaire , d'Alembert explained his reluctance to visit her in Russia by the fear of catching " hemorrhoidal colic " ? the disease from which her murdered husband was officially proclaimed to have died . Diderot , who did make the journey , profoundly irritated Catherine by his persistence in inquiring about the exact For conducting your important business , the Merlin provides a spacious executive lounge , secretarial services and fully equipped offices . The comforts of home . The convenience of our executive facilities . The splendour of Hong Kong Yours at the Merlin . Be our honoured guest legal status of the peasants and by confidentially pointing out to her the defects of arbitrary rule . But in public they could be relied on to act as apologists for their patron 's most dubious acts . When Catherine described the partitions which bound Poland to Russia as the defense of the " freedom " of the Polish people , her philosophy friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other claimants to the throne as a " family affair . " They served her faithfully as channels in disseminating a progressive image of her country which has little connection with reality . At a time when the vast mass of the population , drained by the taxes she levied for her wars and by the landlords whose property they were , was suffering the further afflic-tion of famine , Europe was informed through Catherine 's correspondence with Voltaire that there was not a peasant in her country " who could not eat a chicken if it suited him . " Catherine 's method of coping with those who wished to judge Russia 's achievements at first hand has enriched our political vocabulary . Careful preparations were made for the foreigners ' tour to the south in 1787 : all signs of the dire poverty and unrest of peasant Russia were removed from the route ; gaily-painted facades were erected in front of pitiful hovels and selected peasants , smiling and attractively dressed , greeted the travelers . The economic miracle which to impressed Joseph II had the flimsy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal pressures by feeding her subjects what Isaac Deutscher , with reference to a more rcent tyrant , has described as a " mixed diet of terror and illusion . " Like the 1936 constitution , her " Instruction " was partly aimed at containing discontent by generating hopes that she would be willing to satisfy the desire for reform . But when one of her own officials , Alexander Radishchey , called her bluff in the manner of later dissidents by respectfully asking , in a privately printed work , for the abolition of serfdom in accordance with the " InstructMn 's " principles , he was arrested and sentenced to death the sentence was commuted to hard labor in Siberia ) . Her own propagandist , Catherine pioneered the ideological control of mass communications in Russia . In a torrent of essays , plays , and pedagogical works , she expounded the ideal of obedience to a just and benevolent ruler . She founded and edited Russia 's first satirical journal , which in its attacks on general human shortcomings and subversive attitudes , established the limits of permissible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , addressed themselves to specific social problems , they were forced to close . M. Troyat appears to see both Potemkin 's villages and Catherine 's treatment of internal dissidence as impressive though reprehensible instances of traditional autocratic control . More correctly , they signify a decisive shift of the energies of the autocracy to negative purposes ? the disguising of its own weakness and the jealous protection of its power from all encroach , wants . The exercise was self-defeating The system of patronage to which Catherine resorted to prevent her administration from encroaching oq her powers was a vicious circle in which the master was also the slave . The personal Interests of her favorites and th , patronage networks they maintained dictated how informatMn and pelican were presented to her Her rear M. , vanity made her easy to manipulate , to the detriment of her sense of realist She was encouraged to believe that she was an expert in many fields ; worthless treatises on law , philosophy , and history flowed from her pen . Convinced of the beneficence of her rule , she attributed Radishchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the palace . " Uninformed of the extent of agrarian discontent throughout Russia , she was taken by surprise by the Pugachev rebellion which ravaged southern Russia for two years and even threatened the capital , while on other occasions her fear of revolution was used by those whose careers depended on the maintenance of the status quo to discourage her from the mildest reforms . This process gaMed momentum in the century after her death when an elaborate structure was devised with the sole aim of protecting the monarch against the aspirations of society . The ana rchist Prince Kropotkin was not greatly exaggerating when he wrote of the reign of Catherine 's grandson : " General Shuvalor , the chief of the gendarmes and General Trepov , the chief of the St. Petersburg police , were . . the real rulers of Russia . " Alexander II , whom they daily terrified with the specter of revolution , was " their executive , their tool . " The Soviet regime , having seized the czars ' monopoly of political power , has been caught in the same vicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West to see the relationship of Russia 's masters and slaves in the simple terms in which they were once seen by Joseph II . The kind of history represented by these two biographies has a far more pervasive influence than the works of the scholars who despise it , because it answers a fundamental human need to believe in the power of individuals to direct the destinies of nations . Though history offers little support for this belief , there is a strong predisposition in the West to see the Soviet system as a monolith whose realpolitik is backed up by enormous forces under its sole control , which , unless preempted by an even greater force , will carry all its policies through to their logical conclusion . We should not be too dazzled by Potemkin 's villages : the reality of power in modern Russia was and is perhaps closer to the portrait of the aging Stalin in Solzhenitsyn 's novel The First Cirde ? isolated , fed with lies , a prisoner of his own paranoia . An image no more reassuring than the myth purveyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more options for survival ? there are subtler ways of dealing with the unstable structure of Russian absolutism than by a preemptive strike . Aileen Kelly Alt , Kelly is a fellow of King 's College , Ca mbridge , and a lecturer at Cambridge University . Her hook on the anarchism of Michael Bakunm will be published by Oxford University Press in early 1981.                     