@@494845

Republicans in and around the administration are urging President Reagan to short-circuit the process of justice by pardoning Oliver North and John Poindexter , in advance of indictment and trial , for any legal consequences of their actions in Iranamok . The president apparently is considering the possibility . Reagan has a soft heart for those he considers loyal . He may also be tempted by the notion that avoiding a publicized trial might help put the scandal behind him at last . But by offering a pre-emptive pardon , Reagan would do what more than a year of investigations by journalists , Congress , and the special prosecutor have so far failed to do ; tie Iranamok 's contempt for law directly to the president himself . The case for pardon goes like this . North and Poindexter are good men who believed that they were acting on the president 's wishes and in his best interests . Men of action , they struggled against a suffocating foreign policy bureaucracy and a weak , vacillating Congress . They may have " made mistakes , " but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This summary is appealing , but hardly accurate . It 's true that North and Poindexter were not motivated by personal greed , but other equally self-aggrandizing motives were not absent . In any event , even the highest motives do n't give public officials 007-style free license . That 's what the rule of law is all about . Just what was it North and Poindexter did that got them ? and the country ? into so much trouble ? With William Casey 's help , these two created a foreign policy network dangerous both in its incompetence and in its very existence . Dubbed " the Enterprise , " the network con-ducted critical operations without informing Congress , sometimes ( apparently ) not even the president . Knowing that such a group was anathema to America 's constitutional checks and balances , North and Poindexter repeatedly lied to Congress about its existence . The Enterprise 's original goal was to funnel private contributions to the Nicaraguan contras . But in the summer of 1985 , the government of Israel proposed to this government that selling missiles to Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Reagan OK 'd the operation , and put the NSC ? and therefore North and Poindexter ? in charge of overseeing it . Later , the Enterprise bypassed Israel completely and sold arms to Iran all by itself . But the hope that Iranian terrorists could be so easily bought off was naive and stupid . It also contradicted American principles ( not to mention the perpetrators ' own swaggering machismo ) . Time and again , the members of the Enterprise delivered American weapons to the Iranians , only to find that the Iranians would n't deliver on their promises . Even after it was obvious that the " Iran initiative " would never free all the hostages , North and Poindexter continued the alms sales . Why ? Because the two had discovered that profits from the arms shipments could be passed along to the contras . But even in this diversion the Enterprise was never very successful . Through private contributions and arms sales , the Enterprise raised $48 million . Only $16.5 million found its way to the contras . At least s6.6 million was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and another $4 million was held in Swiss accounts with no sign of imminent shipment to the Con tras . North and Poindexter maintained their pattern of deceit when the story broke in November 1986 . North shredded and altered critical NSC documents , while lying about the U.S. role in Israel 's arms shipments to Iran and helping to put out the cover story that some of the arms shipments were really shipments of oil-drilling equipment . Poindexter lied to Congress , claiming ignorance of the Israeli shipments , and subsequently destroyed a presidential finding that showed the opposite . Every administration has its foreign policy nightmares . The important question about this one is whether any laws were broken to achieve it . In some cases the answer is clear : North and Poindexter have admitted they lied to Congress on numerous occasions , a felony . The obstruction of congressional investigations through such lies and the shred-ding of documents is also criminal . Other issues are trickier . North and Poindexter may have greased their way around the Boland amendment , designed to prevent aid to the contras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October 1984 . Their actions were certainly contrary to its intent . North and Poindexter may also have violated the National Security Act , which requires a " significant anticipated intelligence activity " to be disclosed to Congress ; an executive order requiring a presidential finding for covert operations conducted by a group other than the CIA ; and the Arms Control Export Act . There are any number of legal issues regarding criminal liability under these laws , as well as factual questions that remain unresolved even now . But a presidential pardon in advance of indictments would essentially terminate special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh 's investigation and make such resolution impossible . If President Reagan really believes what he has said repeatedly ? that neither North nor Poindexter broke any laws ? he should be eager to see them stand trial and be vindicated . Unless , that is , he does n't believe in the fairness of the American system of justice . The president 's power to pardon federal criminals is virtually absolute , and apparently includes the power to pardon them in advance of prosecution . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not to avert justice completely . We do n't believe a pardon in advance of trial and conviction is ever appropriate . But even Er in the most notorious case ? President Ford 's pre-emptive pardon of Richard Nixon ? the pardoner and , to some extent , the pardonee acknowledged serious wrongdoing . Those urging a pardon of North and Poindexter have no such acknowledgment in mind . They want their heroes vindicated , and to hell with the law . This is wrong . The idea of a pardon is forgiveness , not absolution . A pre-emptive pardon , finally , would raise the inevitable ? and justifiable ? suspicion that Reagan was protecting not his devoted servants , but himself . North and Poindexter deserve forgiveness , say their defenders , because they thought they were acting on the president 's wishes . The president deserves forgiveness , argue these same people , because he knew nothing about their actions . Check and mate . Who knows what evidence North and Poindexter may yet have that could unravel this conundrum ? And who knows how the prospect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , who knows how the prospect of a pardon has clouded their memories ? The only way the president can rule out such suspicions is by ruling out any thought of pardon before trial and conviction in open court . After the evidence has been presented and evaluated by a jury , a president ? this one or the next ? is free to use his pardon power , knowing of course that the citizenry will have a full record on which to judge the wisdom of his action . At one point in the congressional hearings on the affair , John Poindexter testified that " we were willing to take some risks with the law . " In a democracy , those who take risks with the law and get caught should have to pay a price .                     