@@299223

A New Yorker writer prompts a storm of criticism <P> Reporters labor hard to find perfect anecdotes and quotes to drive home the points they want their stories to make . At times they may even be tempted to take a shortcut and sweeten material by merging people into composite characters , placing them in colorful circumstances or concocting pithy remarks . But such fabrications , however faithful they may seem to the spirit of a reporter 's observations , are violations of the ethics of the craft . Thus , when New Yorker Writer Alastair Reid , 58 , admitted last week that he had indulged repeatedly in such sleight of hand , he prompted a well-deserved storm of criticism , and an apology from the prestigious and generally scrupulous New Yorker . Said the magazine 's editor , William Shawn : " He made a journalistic mistake by our own rules . It hurt no one , it was meaningless , it was done for literary reasons . " <P> Reid 's manipulations of details were recounted in the Wall Street Journal . Reporter Joanne Lipman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a seminar on literary law and ethics . In subsequent interviews with Lipman and then with a New York Times reporter , Reid appeared to endorse romanticizing the setting of a story and even the creation of composite characters and dialogue . Last week , however , Reid told TIME that he had long regarded his inventions as " an error , without qualification , " and said , " I have not made a career of such practices . " He explained that he disclosed his lapses in the seminar as an example of something that you might do and that I had done-I was certainly not defending it . " He did not rule out using the techniques again , but said , " I will take pains , should the issue arise , to make a full disclosure of what I am doing . " <P> Altering facts to achieve a dramatic narrative is a legacy of the New Journalism , which was popularized in magazines and books in the 1960s and ' 70s and has been increasingly criticized . New Journalists may merge characters or invent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third parties rather than participants , and even claim to know what people were thinking . Clay Felker , when he was running New York magazine , edited out Gail Sheehy 's explanation in an article that a prostitute , Red-pants , was a composite because , he says , " I thought it slowed the story down . " He regrets having misled readers . Reviewers challenged the reconstructed dialogue in David McClintick 's 1982 Hollywood expos Indecent Exposure , and Don Kowet 's A Matter of Honor , an investigation , published this spring , of a CBS documentary about General William Westmoreland . Washington Post Reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein used unnamed sources to reconstruct scenes inside the Nixon White House in The Final Days . For Woodward 's Wired , however , about Comedian John Belushi , he named sources section by section .                     