@@487027

This Administration has sought to blur completely the question of Presidential responsibility . The White House image makers have transformed Ronald Reagan into a protean symbol rather than an accountable official . He takes credit for actions he had nothing to do with and avoids blame for bad results when he was clearly in charge . Take President Jose Napoleon Duarte 's offer to negotiate with the Salvadoran guerrillas . Reagan embraced the initiative as his own , even though his policies have favored a military solution in the region . In fact , the probability is that Duarte met with the rebels now because he knows that election politics prevent Jeane Kirkpatrick and other Administration hardliners behind the scenes from vetoing the talks . And as Patrick J. Sloyan reports on page 410 , last year the President kept the marines in Beirut in the face of warnings from his top military and intelligence advisers that there was danger . By shrewdly accepting the responsibility  --  but not the blame  --  he prevented a trial of the officers responsible for the lax security precautions , thus avoiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dodge of denying that a formal recommendation for withdrawal of the troops was put before him . Thus , the policies of the anti-Soviet hardliners prevailed in Lebanon , with tragic results . The Presidential insulation from reality described by Sloyan represents , in microcosm , what has happened under this Administration  --  and shows what will happen during the next four years if the President is re-elected . The hardliners will run things while Reagan perches on a safe limb above it all , taking credit , evading blame , covering for them : an incorporeal smile , like the Cheshire cat.tiALLoll , ryny P-1P , WHERE THE CANDIDATES REALLY STAND Words spoken in the heat of a Presidential debate tend to be either over- or underreported the morning after , and the candidates themselves often obfuscate or downplay their more abiding views to score a rhetorical knockdown . Therefore , in view of the importance of the issues discussed in the Reagan-Mondale colloquy of October 21 , we asked Michael T. Klare , our defense correspondent , to sift through the longterm records of both men and compile a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Herewith his report . ? The Editors MICHAEL T. KLARE Given the . present political climate , there are limits on what either candidate , once in office , could achieve in the area of national security . Reagan could not move much further toward total military superiority over the Russians without alienating America 's European allies and seriously threatening the prospects for a sustained economic recovery . Mondale could not cancel too many weapons programs without alienating major Democratic constituencies in regions whose industries are heavily dependent on defense spending . Realistically , neither man could radically alter the existing military establishment , whether in the direction of full-scale expansion or genuine disarmament . With this in mind , we can identify the key areas in which the candidates hold relatively similar positions : ? High-tech conventional weapons . Both Reagan and Mondale would proceed with the development of " emerging technologies " ( E.T. ) ( Continued on Page 418 ) property taxes . His Proposition 36 would restrict the collection of fees-for-service , on which California local governments widely rely to keep running . It would also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The impact Proposition 36 could have on city and county operations has alarmed business people , and major organizations , including the California Taxpayers Association , strongly oppose it . They fear that the quality of life in the state will deteriorate drastically if sources of revenue are cut further . Jarvis 's initial expectation was that the new tax cut would capture headlines , but the negative reaction to it and the partisan controversy touched off by other initiatives have put it in the shade . The two final Republican-sponsored initiatives are designed to hit Democrats where it would hurt them most . One measure , drawn up at Governor Deukmejian 's behest , would erase the Democratic-dominated legislature 's control over political districting in California by creating a commission of retired appellate court judges to take up the task Judges , being officially nonpartisan in California elections , are thought likely to change the gerrymandered districting , which has advantaged the Democratl . The other initiative would impose limits on campaign fund-raising in a way that would handicap Democrats more than Republicans . It would limit individual donations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of big money , the measure would also benefit the Republicans : they get the bulk of their contributions from small-scale donors , while the Democrats rely on a few big contributors in business and in the entertainment world . Ordinarily such measures would arouse little interest among voters But both parties see them as tests of strength Having concocted the initiatives , Republicans feel they are in command , but if the Democrats can provoke rink-and-file anger , they can make a fight of it . If enough now-apathetic Democrats get stirred up to vote on these ballot measures , especially Proposition 41 , they might shift the Presidential tide in America 's most populous state . ? Candidates ( Continued From Front Cover ) in conventional arms for Europe , such as sophisticated deep-penetration antiarmor missiles . Reagan would do so because the Pentagon and the contractors want them , and Mondale would do so to compensate for any reductions negotiated with the Soviet Union in tactical nuclear munitions . ? Defense spending . When all is said and done , the candidates ' defense budgets would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan could not raise defense spending much faster without producing strong resistance from those business and legislative circles that seek to reduce the Federal deficit . Mondale could not significantly lessen the rate of Michael T Klare is a fellow of the Institute for Policy Studies . His book American Arms Supermarket will be published by the University of Texas Press in December . increase without encountering strong resistance from communities with major defense contracts . Moreover , Mon-dale 's commitment to E.T . weapons will probably wipe out any savings achieved through the cancellation of major nuclear programs . Those limits having been described , we turn to the areas in which the candidates differ . ? Space weapons . Perhaps the most critical difference between the candidates is on the issue of space weaponry . Reagan is firmly wedded to his so-called Star Wars program , while Mondale advocates a ban on such systems . In the next four years , Reagan could lend so much momentum to the program that it would prove nearly impossible for his successor , from either party , to halt it . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an estimated $2 billion in fiscal 1985 . By the end of a Reagan second term , however , it could climb to $25 billion or more annually , creating a web of corporate and political interests that would resist any effort to cancel the program . A U.S. military thrust into space could have grave consequences . Although it is unlikely that any of the proposed weapons would be operational in this century , if ever , their development over the next twenty years would increase anxiety in the Soviet Union and could provoke the Russians to undertake a major expansion of their nuclear arsenal , exposing the United States to greater danger . An American drive into space would also lend credibility to hard-line proposals that the United States develop a first-strike nuclear capability and would further encourage the opponents of arms control agreements with the Russians . ? " Counterforce " weapons and the nuclear arms race . While the Star Wars program has become the primary issue in the nuclear debate , there have been several other worrisome developments in the past year . Particularly significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the MX missile and the Trident 2 submarine-launched ballistic missile . Deployment of those highly accurate weapons , if approved by Congress , would provide the United States with a substantial counterforce capability ; that is , a capacity to destroy Soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles in their hardened underground silos . Many experts believe that the acquisition of such a capability would greatly increase the risk of a nuclear conflict , since each side might be tempted to shoot first during a crisis rather than risk destruction of its ICBMs . A major decision facing U.S. leaders will be whether or not to deploy those weapons . Reagan favors deployment of the MX , Trident 2 and other counterforce weapons , while Mondale would scrap the MX altogether and ban most of the others in a nuclear freeze agreement with the Soviet Union . What Mondale would do if he could not negotiate such a freeze is less clear . While he opposes the introduction of counterforce weapons on general principle , he has so far refused to rule out deployment of the Trident 2. - On another key nuclear issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Europe , a similar pattern emerges . Reagan would continue deployment in the absence of an agreement with the Russians , an agreement that is un likely to be reached so long as the missiles continue to be installed . Mondale says he will suspend deployment of the Pershings to induce Soviet support for the Vienna " walk in the woods " formula , which would reduce the number of intermediate-range missile launchers on each side until parity was achieved . Here again , it is hard to predict Mondale 's behavior in the absence of a U.S.-Soviet agreement , but his commitment to negotiations  --  and willingness to offer the Russians a concrete sign of U.S. restraint  --  stands in sharp contrast to the Reagan approach . ? SLCMs and the nuclear " firebreak . " Perhaps the most momentous military development of 1984 has been the deployment of Tomahawk sea-launched cruise missiles on U.S. ships and submarines , which began in June . The Administration plans to place 758 nuclear-armed SLCMs and 3,236 conventionally armed Tomahawks on some 150 U.S. warships ( including four recommissioned World War II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destabilizing weapon . It straddles the nuclear firebreak ( the barrier ' between conventional and nuclear weapons ) because it can carry either nuclear or conventional warheads . The interchangeability feature also presents verification problems to any arms pact that seeks to limit SLCM deployment . Mondale has shown himself to be considerably more aware of the importance of preserving the firebreak than Reagan has . The Democratic candidate has promised a moratorium on the deployment of the Tomahawk pending talks with the Soviet Union aimed at a total ban . He has pledged to seek a mutual pullback of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact forces , a move which would greatly reduce the risk that those weapons will be used in the first few days of a European conflict . President Reagan , meanwhile , favors massive deployment of the Tomahawk and the introduction of " neutron " artillery shells in Europe . ? Arms control and the U.S.-Soviet relationship . Reagan harbors a deep and abiding hostility to arms control agreements with the Soviet Union . He opposed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty , the SALT I agreement and antiballistic missile treaty and the proposed SALT II agreement . Since coming to office , he has suspended talks on a comprehensive test-ban treaty and scuttled efforts to ratify the already-signed threshold test-ban treaty ( prohibiting nuclear explosions of over 150 kilotons ) . In pursuit of his Star Wars defense he is prepared to abrogate the 1972 ABM treaty . Walter Mondale 's oft-reiterated dedication to arms control can be given greater credibility than Reagan 's recent campaign conversion . He has pledged to make improved U.S.-Soviet relations the number-one priority of his Administration and has reaffirmed his support for the ABM treaty , the SALT II agreement , the comprehensive test-ban treaty and the proposed ban on antisatellite weapons . Moreover , he has offered to take a number of unilateral initiatives to heighten Soviet interest in such agreements , including moratoriums on the testing and deployment of new nuclear weapons , on the testing of space weapons , on underground nuclear testing and on the deployment of sea-launched cruise missiles . Those steps would surely strike a responsive chord in Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eluded the Reagan Administration . The candidates also differ on the kind of language and posture they feel this country should adopt in its dealings with the Soviet Union . Although Reagan proffered an olive branch to Moscow in his recent speech at the United Nations , his Administration has been characterized by a highly belligerent attitude . The Russians undoubtedly expect a certain amount of anti-Soviet rhetoric from any American President , especially one as conservative as Ronald Reagan , but they are not going to sit down at the bargaining table when such rhetoric is accompanied by indications of a deep-seated desire to eradicate the Soviet system altogether . So while the President may talk of improved U.S.-Soviet relations , he will not make much progress in that direction unless he is prepared to repudiate his earlier denunciations . While not hesitant to condemn Soviet behavior in Afghanistan and Poland , Mondale has consistently affirmed the need to conduct U.S.-Soviet affairs on a stable , - businesslike basis . " The superpowers can not communicate by growling through megaphones , " he declared in January . " As President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of the Soviet Union , and I will push for regular contacts between military and Cabinet officers of both countries . " That may not seem like much , but it suggests a different style of doing business , and style could prove critical in promoting U.S.-Soviet arms negotiations . ? Central America . The U.S role in that part of the world , likely to be one of the most divisive and difficult issues of the next few years , is also one of the hardest to analyze in terms of the candidates ' views . Officially , both Reagan and Mondale oppose the introduction of U.S. combat forces into the region and support negotiations under the auspices of the Contadora group . Both also favor stepped-up U.S. aid for President Jose Napoleon Duarte 's regime in El Salvador Within that framework , however , there are some notable differences in approach . Mondale appears to place heavier emphasis on negotiations , while Reagan has tended to favor gunboat diplomacy . The candidates are rather far apart on other key points . Reagan favors continued U.S. aid to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance . Reagan has also promised to resume the highly provocative series of military maneuvers he initiated in 1982 , whereas Mondale has condemned such tactics . Would Reagan authorize U.S. intervention if other measures failed to prevent a guerrilla takeover in El Salvador ? Would Mondale ? At this point , what each would do in that situation is difficult to determine . Certainly the U.S. buildup in Honduras suggests Reagan 's distinct readiness to engage in large-scale military operations in the area , but it is possible that opposition from Congress , the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Honduras itself would militate against his doing so . And though Mondale has denounced Reagan 's saber rattling in Central America , he has not fully ruled out a direct U.S military role . At one point during the contest for the Democratic nomination , he chided Senator Gary Hart for proposing to " unilaterally withdraw from Central America " and " pull the plug on the region . " More recently , Mondale has threatened to " quarantine " Nicaragua if it fails to curb its support for revolutionary activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language may again prove critical : by stressing the importance of negotiations and assigning pre-eminence to the Contadora process , Mondale shows that he would favor the sort of peaceful solution that Reagan has largely succeeded in thwarting . ? Presidential advisers . To a greater degree than his predecessors , President Reagan has delegated foreign policy decision-making to his aides , and he is likely to do so even more frequently during a second term . It is in this area , perhaps more than in any other , that a sharp contrast between the candidates emerges . Reagan has tended to surround himself with people who are ardent foes of arms control talks with the Russians , while Mondale has selected advisers with a strong commitment to nuclear arms control . That is not to say Mondale 's key aides are starry-eyed idealists . Most of them are former Carter functionaries who take decidedly conventional , centrist positions . David Aaron , Mondale 's chief foreign policy adviser , served as an aide to Zbigniew Brzezinski ; Walter Slocombe , an important military adviser , served as Deputy Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Mon- : dale camp . But if Mondale 's brain trust comes from the center of the national security spectrum , Reagan 's comes from the far right , from a fervently anti-Soviet camp that until 1981 had been largely excluded from policy-making after the darkest days of the cold war . Termed " zealots " by former Central Intelligence Agency official Arthur Macy Cox because of their fierce determination to diminish Soviet power whatever the cost , they include Assistant Secretary of Defense Richard Perle , Under Secretary of Defense Fred C. Ikle , Navy Secretary John F. Lehman Jr. , chief arms control negotiator Kenneth L. Adelman and U.N . ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick . The zealots have been counterbalanced to some degree by the pragmatists on Reagan 's staff , who , in fact , are largely responsible for his election-year advocacy of improved U.S.-Soviet relations . If Reagan is re-elected , however , and especially if he is re-elected by a wide margin , the zealots will perceive a fresh " mandate " to intensify their drive against the Soviet Union and its allies . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased covert operations against pro-Soviet regimes in Africa and the Middle East ; provocative military exercises in the Caribbean , Indian Ocean and Northwest Pacific ; and U.S.-backed counterinsurgency operations in Guatemala , the Sudan , the Philippines and other nations ruled by pro-U.S. dictatorships . It will certainly mean an uncompromising stance on arms control negotiations with the Soviet Union and a renewed propensity to engage in military risk-taking in the Third World . In the context of the Reagan policies previously described , this fanaticism could increase the risk of nuclear conflagration . So much , then , for the specific issues . How do we fit all this together to arrive at a final evaluation of the candidates ? For those to whom the issue of war and peace is fundamental in 1984 , the foregoing analysis leads to a safe prediction : Walter Mondale will not end the arms race , but he might create the sort of environment that would permit significant progress toward new U.S.-Soviet restrictions on the deployment of more dangerous nuclear munitions . Ronald Reagan will proceed with the development of counter-force and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the renewal of arms control negotiations . For some , this will be sufficient ground for rejecting the prospect of a second Reagan Administration . For others , who may be dubious about a Mondale Presidency , there is still the issue of the Presidential advisers . However we interpret the positions of the candidates themselves , we must also consider the views of their closest advisers . I , for one , will never feel safe with a clique of zealots making decisions that could mean the difference between war and peace . ?                     