@@487891

For decades , the Democrats won elections by running against Herbert Hoover . Now , incredibly , they are getting ready to run against Franklin D. Roosevelt and all his works . The astonishing thing is that they have chosen to engage in such a self-destructive exercise just when they have in the White House a President who reveres Hoover 's predecessor , Calvin Coolidge ( which Hoover did not ) . Discount the labels if you will , but it 's the rare Democrat who today calls himself " liberal . " The Democrats say they are struggling for " the middle ground , " an area supposed to be occupied by an electoral majority . At least that 's where the Reaganites like to think they are when they call their politics " conservative . " The truth is that they are radical reactionaries , turning over the business of America to monstrously swollen corporations with less sense than ever of acting in the public good . Democratic conclaves are full of talk about rethinking policies , updating programs , winnowing the chaff from the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans ' benighted initiatives of abandonment lack point and resonance . The leadership , if it can be called that , ca n't bring itself to dismiss Jimmy Carter as a disaster and erase his memory . They react to Reagan 's giant mistakes routinely , which is not enough . The Democratic National Strategy Council 's meeting in mid-October was long on rhetoric and tactics , short on passion and a sense of purpose . The Democrats count on inheriting the eventual Reagan mess and confine themselves to the calculating maneuvers of potential legatees . This is safe politics but dangerous for the country . America 's oldest political party seems set to self-destruct , leaving us with no powerful instrument to use against the foreign adventures and domestic cruelties of the Reagan Administration . TATDE THE WEAPONS ELITE THE IRON TETA M IJ1 , E GORDON ADAMS During the next five years , the Reagan Administration proposes to spend $1.5 trillion on defense  --  or more than $6,500 for every American citizen . Even if the cuts now being considered in Congress are made , military spending authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? $1,000 per person . This huge buildup , which is even larger than what took place during the Vietnam War , will restock and modernize the entire American arsenal from strategic missiles to conventional forces . A new generation of weapons will be introduced : MX missiles with ten warheads each ; Trident submarines ; B-1 bombers ; advanced F-16 and F-18 fighters ; precision-guided battlefield weapons ; intermediate-range nuclear missiles like the ground-launched cruise and Pershing 2 , and the M-1 battle tank . The tide of spending seems irreversible . The few protesting voices in Congress are drowned out as the pack in full cry follows the Administration 's commands to " catch up with the Russians " and " rearm America . " The fiscal curmudgeons , those watchdogs of waste and golden fleecings , are out of style , and any proposals of sensible alternatives that might purchase national security at a lower cost , such as the proposal to cancel the B-1 and develop the Stealth bomber instead , go unheard . The magnitude of the Reagan budget explo-sion has caused us to lose sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes on increasing defense spending in good times and bad , during times of detente and times of confrontation . Save for a few years during the 1970s when the military budget ' remained con-stant in real dollars , the graph line of defense ( Continued on Page 441 ) makes any concessions to them the army will react unfavorably . Socialist Enrique Mfigica Herzog , vice president of Parliament 's defense committee and an expert on the military , said , " If Basque terrorists continue assassinating the military , the ultras will use their corpses to push the conservatives in the army to a coup . " The trial of Tejero and the other 23-F prisoners , for which the date has still not been set , will be handled with kid gloves so that the right can not use it as a pretext for a takeover attempt Rightists are already spreading rumors in the army that the King at first sided with the insurgents but later backed down All these difficulties must be confronted by a weak minority government that is rent by jockeying for power among franquistas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a joke going around that the U.C.D . encompasses the entire political spectrum of West Germany . The P.S.O.E. , which received the support of 42 percent of those questioned in a spring Gallup poll , could easily bring down the government and force new elections . But even after the U.C.D . rejected a proposal for a grand coalition , the Socialists continued to mute their opposition . They feared the collapse of the beleaguered government , which would create a vacuum that could invite military intervention . " My job is to insure that the executive power  --  although it is not ours  --  is strong enough to defend itself from the attacks of democracy 's enemies , " Gonzalez told me . The Socialists expect to win the elections to be held in 1983 , but until then they want the present government to survive . For this reason , they backed a two-year pact between the government and the unions that bans strikes and holds pay raises to a maximum of 11 percent . In return , the government promised to create 350,000 jobs and provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who now get none . The Socialists have also sought to assure businessmen that if they win power , they would move slowly on nationalization . They consider their first priorities to be reforming the civil service , consolidating democracy and halting terrorism . The " revolution " will come later Indeed , the P.S.O.E . bears a close resemblance ideologically to West Germany 's Social Democrats . Some Socialists fear the army would step in if the P.S.O.E . won . " The February 23 coup probably did n't succeed because there was a government of the right , " said Carlota Bustelo , a former deputy , " but if Felipe Gonzalez is prime minister , 1 think there is a risk . " Gonzalez replied , " I do n't believe it . " Washington 's chief concern about a Socialist victory is the effect it might have on Spain 's entry into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The Socialists and the Communists favor renegotiation of the treaty permitting American bases in Spain , and both are against joining NATO . " We are worried about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international tension , " explained Gonzalez . Curiously , even the army has kept a low profile on the issue . Colonel MonzOn called Spain 's entry " not very important , " though he said itwould be good to end Spain 's isolation . And Solana acknowledged , " It 's hard to know if the army wants to be in NATO . " A recent poll showed that 81 percent of the Spanish people believe in democracy  --  more than before 23-F . Only 4 percent favored the attempted coup . Of course , a coup does n't need majority support , but politicians on all sides say that another such attempt is highly unlikely . In February , Tejero and his collaborators sought to convince the army that the King supported them ; a future strike would have to be against the King , something that would be " practically impossible for the army , " said Solana . Still , for now , the watchword for Spanish democracy is prbdence . LI Iron Triangle ( Continued From Front Cover ) spending has etched a steadily rising trajectory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . theory , advanced by economists and journalists like Seymour Melman , Richard Kaufman , J. Ronald Fox , A. Ernest Fitzgerald and James Fallows , focuses on the workings of the defense bureaucracy ; it posits rival fiefdoms vying for status and power and driven to spend ever larger sums on ever more complex and costly ( and often unworkable ) weaponry . From different theoretical vantage points , both Keynesians and neo-Marxists reach the conclusion that defense spending serves as essential pump-priming for the U.S. economy . Still others , including a substantial portion of the national security establishment , argue that the defense budget is simply responding to the imperatives of foreign policy and national security . There is some truth in all of these explanations , but they all omit a crucial factor  --  the inner workings of the defense policy apparatus , the " Iron Triangle " of the Pentagon , the defense industry and the armed services and military appropriations committees in Congress . This small , incestuous , mutually supportive group decides what weapons will be made , before they are even on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Triangle sets the priorities that are ultimately reflected in the defense budget . One side of the Iron Triangle consists of the defense contractors . Through lobbying and sophisticated " government relations , " they influence policy and procurement decisions . The defense industry exists in a state of economic dependence on the Federal government , its main customer . The second side , the Defense Department , in ' turn relies on private industry to supply most of its weapons . The third side , the Congressional committees , approves the funding . Money , influence and information are the essential ingredients of power within the Iron Triangle . The defense contractors , for example , seek access to the bureaucracy and Gordon Adams , a senior research associate with the Council on Economic Priorities , is the author of The Iron Triangle ( C.E.P. ) , from which this article is adapted . Congress in order both to sway their decisions and to gain vital information . And the information they provide to the planners and the Congressional money men influences their decisions . The triangle preserves its monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fends off critics of defense spending and blocks legislation hostile to its interests . Let us step inside this closed world where weapons decisions are made . The process begins with the awarding of research and development contracts . Here , removed from public view and Congressional oversight , industry and the Defense Department devise the weapons systems of the future . Today 's multiple , independently-targetable warheads and laser-guided projectiles were once items buried deep in the R &D; budget . A review of the research and development contracts awarded to the nation 's eight leading defense contractors ? Boeing , General Dynamics , Grumman , Lockheed , McDonnell Douglas , Northrop , Rockwell International and United Technologies  --  shows that they received $23 billion from the Defense Department and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration during the past decade . In addition , between 1973 and 1978 , these eight companies were reimbursed by the D.O.D. for $1.3 billion in corporate R &D; investments through a little-known program called Independent Research and Development/Bids and Proposals see Adams and Christopher Paine , " The R &D; Slush Fund , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enables contractors to develop weapons that will ultimately be sold to the Defense Department without risking their own money . It means that ideas for new weapons originate with the firms that stand to gain if these weapons are produced . At this crucial early stage , ideas are freely exchanged between industry and government , giving contractors ample opportunity to influence decisions . Major contractors are well represented on the roughly fifty nongovernmental committees and hundreds of subcommittees that advise the D.O.D. or NASA ? most notably the Defense Science Board and the scientific advisory groups of each branch of the military . Access to these key committees gives the contractors a further chance to affect new weapons policies long before the public or Congress has even heard of them . The close ties between industry and government are reinforced by a steady flow of employees back and forth . In the 1950s , Congressional studies revealed that more than 1,000 retired military personnel had taken jobs in the defense industry . In the 1960s , this number rose to about 2,000 . Between 1969 and 1974 , the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the top 100 D.O.D. contractors . A study of the eight leading defense contractors previously mentioned showed that 2,000 of their employees transferred either from industry to government or from government to industry in the 1970s . Of the nearly 500 civilians in this group who moved in either direction during this period , 34 percent worked in the key R &D; offices in the Army , Navy , Air Force and the Office of the Secretary of Defense . Many individuals circulate at the highest levels of industry and government . Gen. Alexander Haig , for example , moved from the Army to the presidency of United Technologies to Secretary of State . United Technologies employs other government alumni . Clark MacGregor , head of the company 's Washington , D.C. , office , is a former member of the House of Representatives . Hugh Witt , a government relations specialist , was in the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and subsequently director of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy in the Office of Management and Budget . Tom Jones , a former deputy program manager for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the SALT talks in 1971 , went back to Boeing in 1974 as a program and products evaluation manager and recently returned to the Defense Department . Seymour Zeiberg , appointed Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Strategic and Space Systems in 1977 , joined Martin Marietta in 1981 as a vice president for research . Walter LaBerge , formerly Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering , is now executive assistant to the president of Lockheed Missiles and Space Company . This movement and the familiarity it breeds provides contractors with a unique access to the defense policy-making process . The Wall Street Journal reported on February 29 , 1979 , that Boeing had obtained information about plans for a land-based missile from a Boeing employee " on leave to work in the Pentagon 's Weapons Research and Development Office . " Once the report had been read , its substance was telexed to a former D.O.D. employee working at Boeing 's headquarters in Seattle . The Journal concluded : " The movement of weaponry experts between industry and government jobs , frequently on the same project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blur the distinction between national security and corporate goals . " A company with this inside access has a major advantage in winning future contracts . As one defense industry official described it : " Your ultimate goal is actually to write the R.F.P. Request for Proposals , and this happens more ' often than you might think . " As contractors acquire favored access to Defense Department offices and originate specific weapons , all pretense of competitive bidding is dropped . Today , 90 percent of all prime defense contracts are awarded on a negotiated basis . Once research and development on a weapon has begun , it becomes difficult for the government to cancel it , and defense contractors use the lobbying resources of their government relations departments to keep the ball rolling . The contractors ' Washington offices serve as nerve centers for these campaigns . From 1977 through 1979 , the same eight leading defense companies employed 200 people in their Washington offices , including forty-eight registered lobbyists . It is difficult to obtain information about the cost of such operations , but according to figures provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1981 , Boeing , General Dynamics , Grumman , Lockheed and Rockwell International spent $16.8 million on their Washington offices in 1974 and 1975 , or an average of $1.6 million per year each . Rockwell alone spent $7 million from 1973 through 1975 . These Washington offices perform many functions , including keeping track of program developments in the Pentagon and NASA , following the progress of legislation , lobbying on Capitol Hill , handling public relations , funneling information back to the company and handling negotiations with foreign buyers . Virtually all of the nonentertainment expenditures of these offices , including lobbying activities , are billed as administrative expenses on their defense contracts . ( And money spent on entertainment that is a legitimate business expense is , of course , tax deductible . ) The Defense Department tried to halt this practice whereby taxpayers subsidize lobbying by defense contractors , but abandoned the plan under industry pressure in 1978 . This month , the department announced plans to renew its enforcement efforts . Defense contractors also use political action committees . In fact , according to data gathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berkeley , these PACs are among the leaders in spending . The eight leading contractors have channeled more than $2 million into their PACs since the late 1970s . The biggest spender was General Dynamics , which had total outlays of $500,000 ; Grumman spent the most on national races ? $338,000 . The bulk of the contributions went to Congressmen representing states where the companies operate or to members of the defense policy and appropriations committees in both houses of Congress . Congressmen receiving sizable contributions included Senators Strom Thurmond , John Tower , John Warner and Sam Nunn and former Representatives Charles Wilson , Jim Lloyd , Mendel Davis and Bob Wilson . ( Bob Wilson is now a government relations specialist in Washington representing , among others , Rockwell International . ) The influence of the Iron Triangle reaches outside Washington into the hinterlands . Defense contractors ' employees , the communities where the companies are located , their stockholders , subcontractors and suppliers are all part of the network , and may indeed depend on it for survival Leading unions , such as the United Auto Workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of members who work in defense industries and their locals often follow the company 's call to support weapons systems with lobbying in Washington . In the mid-1970s , for example , Rockwell International mounted a grass-roots effort on behalf of the B-1 bomber program , which was on the brink of cancellation The company urged its 114,000 employees and the holders of its 35 million shares of stock to write their Congressmen . More than 3,000 subcontractors and suppliers in forty-eight states were also asked to tell their Congressmen about the adverse impact scrapping the B-1 would have in their districts Rockwell admitted that it spent $1 35 million on such efforts from 1975 through 1977 , an amount that opponents of the B-1 could not have hoped to match . The interlocking ties within the Iron Triangle , and the steady flow of personnel , resources , information and influence through it , create a community of interest in which it becomes almost impossible to tell who controls whom . In time , Iron Triangle members become prisoners of their own isolation , identifying their private gain with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committees jealously guard their power over legislation and appropriations , and other members tend to follow their leadership . Other Congressional groups that deal with defense policy have little influence . The Joint Committee on Defense Production , the Joint Economic Committee and the government operations committees in both houses have regularly debated defense and procurement issues but have had little effect on actual legislation and appropriations bills . The Joint Committee on Defense Production was abolished in 1978 as part of committee reform in Congress , and its functions were absorbed by the banking committees , eliminating an important forum for discussion of alternative approaches to defense procurement policy . Within the executive branch , resistance to the power of the Iron Triangle is minimal . The Defense Department 's Office of Economic Adjustment , which was set up to help communities adjust to base closings and contract terminations , has limited authority and little influence over procurement decisions . The Arms Control and Disarmament Agency has become a weak reed . Even David Stockman recently found it almost impossible to cut defense spending because of the Iron Triangle 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Budget has final say over the budget requests of all agencies save one  --  the Defense Department The department can appeal to the President , who frequently overrules the O.M.B. As Philip Hughes , former Deputy Director of the Budget Bureau ( O.M.B. 's predecessor ) put it : The most relevant consideration is , in blunt terms , sheer power  --  where the muscle is  --  and this is a very power-conscious town , and the Secretary of Defense and the defense establishment are a different group to deal with , whether the Congress is dealing with them or whether the Budget Bureau is dealing with them The development of the Iron Triangle has blurred the traditional arm's-length relationship between business and government in the defense sector . Now we have a situation in which , according to Murray Weidenbaum , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers : The close , continuing relationship between the Department of Defense and its major suppliers is resulting in convergence between the two , which is blurring and reducing much of the distinction between public and private activities In an important branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Iron Triangle has enjoyed a resurgence . Debate prior to making informed choices among weapons has been all but abandoned in an unrestrained burst of spending . Effective cost control , difficult in the best of times , is disappearing altogether . The defense budget grows monolithically with no thought given to its potential impact on inflation , capital supply and . employment . National security is equated with whatever the Defense Department and industry demand . Tile iron Ti iangie MUNI DC DI ( AXIL . VV IIIIC LIIC suggestion by John Kenneth Galbraith and others that the defense industry should be nationalized is sound , it is not realistic at this time . Short of that , the debate must be opened up and more information on defense contracting made available to Congress and the public . Committees in Congress now excluded from the Iron Triangle can and should assert their right to contest defense spending that impinges on their own legislative programs . A true , open political triangle needs to be built  --  one that combines a concern with social needs and economic health with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    