@@432025

 | The business outlook in Europe is turning gloomier than in the U.S. As seen from here , the Western World is headed for a major slump ? as bad as that of 1973-75 and possibly worse . European economists consider 1980 a " critical year , " with many economic yardsticks expected to show declines . But it 's what comes later , in 1981-82 , that really has them worried . At the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , experts say that the full force of the latest oil-price explosion and tight money will not be felt until 1981 . " The higher inflation climbs this year , the worse the business shakeout in 1981 , " a Zurich banker says . President Carter 's latest anti-inflation package is expected by many analysts to increase the risk of a sharp setback in the U.S. and worldwide by threatening a credit squeeze . Forecasts of a setback of varying length and depth are not new , but they have become increasingly pessimistic . A year ago , analysts predicted a 1979 recession in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflation leaped , oil prices were raised sharply and consumers and businesses advanced purchases to beat price hikes . World business and trade held up better than foreseen , delaying the expected slump . The revival of the cold war then raised new questions about the impact of U.S. defense spending . Experts here now conclude that it will hardly stop a major business downturn in 1980-81 . A marked slowdown is already under way on both sides of the Atlantic . World trade in 1980 may gain only about 3 percent , down from 6 to 7 percent in 1979 . In output , this could be virtually a no-growth year for the 24 industrial economies ? including the U.S. , Canada and Japan ? in the OECD ; their unemployment may swell from 17 million to 20 million or more . Morale down . Business polls in Europe 's Common Market reveal sagging confidence from factory to building site . Even West Germans , once buoyant , are scaling down estimates . Executives in France , Britain and Italy are bracing for a sag in export orders . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next two or three years are shadowed by several dark clouds . The most ominous : The unsettled oil crisis , dismal inflation prospects and a rising wave of protectionism among the U.S. , Europe and Japan . The oil scene appears to be calming down , for a while . Fuel stocks are plentiful . But a sudden production cutback in Saudi Arabia or another key oil exporter could send prices soaring . What is more , consumer purchasing power in rich nations will be affected for 12 to 18 months by the last oil-price hike . Most countries , rich and poor , are running big deficits in their international accounts . Some experts fear that the poorest nations could end up bankrupt , causing a financial panic . The gravest threat , all agree , comes from uncontrolled inflation . America 's flaring prices are by no means unique . Europe 's latest prices are alarming . with increases at an annual rate of 21.5 percent in January and February for the nine-nation Common Market , and as much as 26.5 percent in Britain and 31.7 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent rate . That means governments have little choice but to hit the brakes , pointing to more fiscal restraint and monetary restrictions ahead . Zurich bankers say interest rates may not reach a peak before midyear and could stay there until inflation wilts . Europe and Japan are anxious to match America in escalating interest fees . Reason : High Yankee rates and the Soviet threat to the Mideast have caused capital to rush into dollars ? weakening European currencies and making it costlier to pay for oil and other imports priced in dollars . The result is a veritable interest war . The new inflation-recession air also threatens to spur economic nationalism and bars to foreign goods in the U.S. , Europe and Japan , analysts note . Rising expenses , erratic exchange rates and the debut of rivals from low-cost countries have jolted industries from shoes to steel and shipbuilding . Governments are being urged to protect jobs in ailing businesses with subsidies and trade restrictions . A West German poll finds that 1 person out of every 2 regards job security as the No. 1 social issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over items from fertilizers to synthetic fibers . More joblessness ? Economic prospects , even for the medium and longer term , thus are seen as less promising now than five or 10 years ago . Ahead lie mediocre business conditions with , at best , modest growth ? not enough to keep unemployment from rising . As a result , calls are rising from such influential people as Friedrich Hayek , Nobel Prize-winning economist , for strong action to stamp out inflation . The alternative is seen as a risk of financial collapse . As one OECD aide puts it , the Western World at best would be trapped on " a slow-growth path with steadily rising unemployment . " The 1980s would be a decade of permanent crisis . The direction the West turns depends largely on the U.S. , Europeans figure . Says a Zurich banker : " The American President , soon after the election , will have to break inflation to prevent a disaster . "                     