@@492293

Speaking Out HEALTH GROUPS CONCLUDE : " ROUTINE CIRCUMCISION NOT RECOMMENDED " " by Cory SerVaas , M.D. Fourteen years ago on Christmas morning , as the sun rose over the hospital on the campus of Indiana University , I spent the early dawn circumcising eight little boys so that they could be discharged on time . The pre-Christmas celebrations had , no doubt , caused my classmates to let this little chore pile up , and on this Christmas morning I was alone with the scalpel . I knew our own five children would be out of bed shortly , and this would be the first Christmas morning I would miss seeing their " choo-choo train " lineup as they paraded through our bedroom to wake us for the opening of presents . I had ample reason to reflect on whether this exercise of circumcision on those little fellows was really necessary . Each tiny bundle would be sleeping the innocent sleep of the Christ Child when the nurse chose him for prepping . He would be completely aroused when a rather cold steel device was attached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with indignation and rage . I still have n't forgotten how the eyes of each little man would pop open and glare at me ; how they would scream and kick . Even in their helplessness they seemed to be letting me know that to be thus tampered with was an insult to their masculinity . And then they were carried out , fists clenched , quivering with fury and still howling their protest . I wondered at the time why psychiatrists did n't speak up about the trauma inflicted on these little psyches . Having diapered my young brothers , I knew they had never been circumcised , and they did well without it . Most of my queries about the possibility that the procedure could be omitted from the hospital medical regimen were not taken seriously , but I vowed that one day , when time permitted , I would investigate the need for this torturous act . Today , with more and more evidence that circumcision has no proven health benefits to outweigh the hazards , the time is right to investigate why newborns in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other country in the world . Before relating my views on the following pages , I must stress that my arguments are directed only to parents who opt for circumcision for health reasons alone , not to Jewish and Muslim parents whose religions dictate that their male children be circumcised . The Post respects and encourages all religions of the world and in no way wishes to criticize the doctrines of any man 's faith . We are not asking Jewish or Muslim parents to question their religious beliefs . We are facing up to the challenge of changing other couples ' habits and attitudes about circumcision so they will forego putting their newborns through this traumatic experience without first understanding that it is no longer indicated for health reasons . Consider the following : The Committee on Fetus and Newborn of the American Academy of Pediatrics stated in 1971 that there are no valid medical indications for circumcision in the neonatal period . In 1975 , the committee undertook a review of data to support arguments pro and con concerning circumcision of the newborn and Dr. Michael Katz of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Columbia University in a recent letter to the American Journal of Diseases of Children stated that routine circumcision " constitutes child abuse . " If babies could talk , those in the U.S. might well ask the question  --  Why ? After all , few grown men would submit to such an ordeal without pretty good reasons . The answer is n't simple . The practice of removing the penile foreskin of males and the foreskin over the clitoris of females is many millenia old . It is perhaps the first ritual surgery devised by humans and paradoxically , the only one still in widespread use . Although circumcision is universally practiced among Jewish and Muslim people . Jewish historians admit the Hebrews did not invent it . Ancient Egyptian artifacts show evidence that the procedure was well established in the land of the Pharaohs at least 6,000 years ago . Herodotus mentions the custom among ancient Egyptians , who had a hieroglyphic sign for it . The Greek Pythagorus is said to have submitted to circumcision in 530 B.C. in order to study in Egyptian temples . The Syrians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) many tribes in India , Africa , Oceania , Indonesia , the Philippines and Australia . Among the Mohammedans it is called " purification . " In Lahore , India , the ceremony is known as " wedding . ' ' The Jewish rite of circumcision , a festive occasion falling on the eighth day of a male 's life  --  even if that day coincides with a Jewish holy day  --  is called Berith . The service is performed by a Mohel ( pronounced " oil " with an " m " ) , who may or may not be a rabbi or a physician . In the distant past , Mohels were butchers by profession . Today , the Mohels are meticulously trained and pass the practice down from father to son . The Mohel places a drop of wine on the end of the baby 's penis before removing the very tip of the foreskin , which may or may not be ceremoniously burned . Christians on the whole never took to circumcision as a religious ceremony as did the Hebrews . Paul the Apostle apparently did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preached to the Hebrews and Paul believed circumcision would help him become better accepted . We found circumcision referred to in several places in the Revised Standard Version of the Bible , which is approved by both Catholics and Protestants . 1 Corinthians 7:18 , 19 ? " Was any one at the time of his call already circumcised ? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision.Was any one at the time of his call uncircumcised ? Let him not seek circumcision . " Paul explained here his belief that circumcision was not important for religious reasons . And in Galatians 5:6 , Paul taught , " For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is of any avail , but faith working through love . " Circumcision for other than religious reasons continues today because old traditions die hard ... and most hospitals and clinics in the United States offer this routine service . In many hospitals prospective mothers-to-be are given a circumcision release to sign along with other papers when they check into the hospital . Today , some hospitals hold circumcision seminars for new mothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the procedure . One clinic is even preparing pictures and sound presentations of the actual circumcision , screams and all , to show mothers what it is truly like . Have the myths and misconceptions about circumcision abated any in re cent years , due to better information ? Not very much ! I recently asked a groundskeeper , a devout Baptist , if he thought babies should be circumcised . " Yes , " he answered . When I asked him , " Why ? " he said , " Well , I guess because the Bible talks about it . " A man in California about to be married was told by someone that his wife would be less likely to have cervical cancer if he were circumcised ; so he promptly had it done . He was acting on an obsolete medical assumption which has now been discredited . A woman said her brother believed he could n't be admitted to the Navy without circumcision , so he had it done with a great deal of anguish . Neither the Navy nor any other branch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the misconception persists . The many erroneous reasons I heard for undergoing circumcision convinced me to commission George Gallup to conduct a poll to find out just why most parents opt for circumcision for their infants today . He laughed when he told me he was born in Jefferson , Iowa , where people did n't even know what the word " circumcision " meant at that time . He agreed to help find out what people really think about circumcision . The results of his work will undoubtedly help physicians , who now face the task of convincing young parents that their next male child need not be circumcised just so he " will match his older brothers . " In his 1957 book , Baby and Child Care , pediatrician Dr. Benjamin Spock noted that circumcision was good because it helps a boy feel " regular . " Such culturally biased attitudes toward the practice have changed since then . In 1976 Dr. Spock made one of the most forceful statements yet against circumcision : " I am in favor of leaving the penis alone , " he wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harm resulting from the operation . Parents should insist on convincing reasons for circumcision  --  and there are no convincing reasons that I know of. - 21C                     