@@432154

 | No matter the outcome , the rebellion splitting the Palestine Liberation Organization threatens to deal yet another blow to American efforts to negotiate an overall Mideast peace . Even if embattled PLO chief Yassir Arafat can hang on to his full powers ? and this is in doubt ? he will emerge under heavy pressure to chart a more militant course at odds with the U.S. Gone will be the old Arafat who flirted with President Reagan 's proposal for Palestinian self-rule in association with Jordan . In his place is likely to be a born-again , hard-lining Arafat , intent on appeasing the dissident radicals in his midst . Tool for Syria . Analysts agree that the peace process as envisioned by Washington will suffer equally if the rebels triumph . With Arafat gone or reduced in stature , the PLO would become an instrument of Syria 's tough , ' ' anti-Israel policies that run counter to American goals . There is small chance that Sovietbacked President Hafez Assad of Syria will soon agree to pull his 40,000 troops out of Lebanon , much less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays no role . Assad is determined to be the pivotal Arab player in any negotiations . That could happen , with Arafat powerless , with Jordan 's King Hussein deprived of a Palestinian connection and with the PLO card now in the hands of Syria . The tide was running strongly against Arafat in early July . Kicked out of Syria by Assad and denounced as a " defeatist " by mutinous elements within the PLO , Arafat was reduced to directing by telephone his loyalist troops in Syriancontrolled areas of Lebanon 's Bekaa Valley . The tensions eased only slightly when rival factions declared a cease-fire on July 1 and named a committee to mediate Arafat 's dispute with Syria . Seeds of dissatisfaction with Arafat 's leadership date from the humiliating defeat inflicted on the PLO by Israel in Lebanon last summer . In the aftermath of the fighting , PLO officers complained that he was a poor commander and was willing to surrender too much for a Mideast settlement . His talks with King Hussein over a Jordanian-PLO connection added more fuel to unrest . " No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejection of any peace talks ? Reagan 's initiative of last September which called for a Palestinian " entity " in association with Jordan , as well as a plan put forward by Arab nations at Fez , Morocco , that implied recognition of Israel . The rebels demand an independent Palestinian state or nothing . Arafat sees the meddlesome hand of Assad in the 2-month-old mutiny . He charges that Damascus wants to take over the movement and deny the guerrillas the independence of action that the PLO always has insisted upon . Arafat wants the Palestinians accountable to no Arab state , including Syria . While disclaiming responsibility for the split , the Syrians clearly have capitalized on it in an attempt to bring the PLO into line . Assad fears that Arafat will make a deal with Jordan and enter peace negotiations , leaving Syria alone on the confrontation line . In expelling Arafat and surrounding his men in the Bekaa Valley , Syria is showing Arafat that he can not ignore Assad 's political strategy . " By backing the rebels , Syria is demonstrating just how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beirut . " Having failed to convince the PLO ideologically , Assad is doing it geographically , isolating Arafat and showing him that Syria can split his movement and maybe even take it over . " Experts here see the Syrian action against Arafat as part of Assad 's sophisticated regional strategy . In the short term , it prevents Arafat from making a separate deal with Lebanon or Jordan and further isolating Syria . It also enables Syria to prevent the PLO from sparking more fighting with Israel , something Assad wants to avoid in view of Israel 's defeat of Syrian forces in the war in Lebanon . But the big advantage is that by controlling the PLO , Assad strengthens his position in negotiations with the U.S. The Syrian objective is eventually to force a peace conference at which it can discuss the return of the Golan Heights , captured by Israel in the 1967 war . To accomplish this , Assad must prevent individual bilateral negotiations . And with the PLO in his pocket , his position is vastly strengthened . Nobody here is certain how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drag on for weeks . In an ominous turn , the debate has shifted out of Arafat 's Fatah , the PLO 's largest segment , and spread to the other seven factions that make up the Palestinian group . The PLO thus is badly split . But Arafat 's stature as a founder and symbol of the organization is such that most Palestinians in Lebanon and around the 29  | world , as well as within occupied areas , continue to support him . Arafat also has succeeded in lining up support of most major Arab governments and the Soviet Union . But many analysts believe that his prestige and influence already have been damaged . " His power is badly diminished , " says one Palestinian . " Even if he survives , his ability to act unilaterally will never be the same . But since Fatah is so large and there are n't any other reasonable leadership alternatives , I think he will prevail . " Experts believe Arafat can not possibly last without access to his fighting forces , which were scattered throughout the Mideast after their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mend fences with Syria . To do this , he will have to make substantial concessions . Comments one diplomat : " Arafat has been humiliated . He has had his wings clipped . And he will have to accept Assad 's terms in order to survive . " Standing by . Palestinians grimly note that just as Arab nations stood by and watched last summer when the Israelis attacked Beirut , they are standing by again , watching the destruction of an independent Palestinian movement . For Israel , radicalization of the PLO means that Prime Minister Menachem Begin buys time to expand Israeli settlements on the occupied West Bank . The U.S.-sponsored peace process will go nowhere while the Palestinians and the Syrians refuse to talk . Many experts blame the Palestinians themselves for the Mideast mess . A Lebanese journalist expects renewed terrorism , but much of it directed against Arab governments . His view : " Palestinians have yet again turned away from their historical objectives and for a considerable time will have only their fellow Arabs upon whom to vent their frustrations . " A diplomat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evacuation of Beirut . They had world attention . There were Fez plans , Reagan plans , talks with King Hussein , and the Americans were working hard . Now they are back to square one . " Besieged in the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli with Syrian troops waiting outside of town , penned in by Israeli patrol boats off the coast and now fighting each other , the PLO is in a worse situation than it was in Beirut . Moderate Palestinian voices are being silenced . And as the movement succumbs to radical pressure , the dream of the world 's nearly 5 million Palestinians for a homeland of their own is fading further and further into the distance . " If you 're smart , you come here scared . And you stay scared . " So says a tense Israeli soldier , his Uzi machine gun held at the ready as his convoy races along a desolate road in the Bekaa Valley . There is reason for the concern . More than 500 Israeli troops have died in Lebanon since the invasion last June . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20,000 Israelis , 151 soldiers have been killed and over 400 wounded since September when the Palestine Liberation Organization was forced out of Beirut . The occupation is becoming what many feared ? a war of attrition in which Israel 's small Army can not long afford the drain of continuing casualties . Many soldiers favor pulling back to a buffer zone above the Lebanese frontier , a move that seriously is being considered . Reservists , who flesh out the Army and are obligated by law to serve up to 60 days a year , already are griping about duty in Lebanon . " By the time I 'm 55 , I will have spent 10 years in the Army , " says one young soldier with only slight exaggeration . " The reserve time used to be fun . You saw friends . It was like boys ' camp . No more . " Adds another in a forward post near the Syrian border : " There is total agreement from every soldier up here that we want to go home . " Israeli troops confront three distinct threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's land in the Bekaa Valley , the Israelis face 40,000 Soviet-armed Syrian troops . On this front , in an area of hills and winding roads , PLO guerrillas ? when not diverted by internal feuding ? infiltrate from behind Syrian lines to raid Israeli positions . A favorite PLO tactic is to plant remote-control mines , retire to a nearby mountaintop , blow up passing Israeli patrols and escape to safety behind the Syrians . In mountains to the west , Israelis are caught in the cross fire between fighting Moslem Druze clansmen and rightist Lebanese Christians . Another Vietnam ? To the south , Lebanese leftists , who remained behind Israeli lines last summer , are bringing out hidden guns and rockets for random attacks on Israeli patrols . Israeli soldiers , who often compare their lot with the U.S. experience in Vietnam , call one hazardous road along the Mediterranean coast the " Ho Chi Minh Trail . " As the occupation has gone on , the local population in the south , which hailed Israelis as liberators a year ago , has grown more hostile . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Troops are on constant alert , required to wear flak jackets at all times . They move only in convoys of speeding vehicles in constant radio contact with each other to guard against mines and snipers . One driver warns : " Never run over a pothole . It could be mined . " About the only place occupation troops feel relatively safe is the region just north of the Israeli-Lebanese border . That area is patrolled by the Israeli-controlled forces of Saad Haddad , a former major in the Lebanese Army . There have been a few cases of Israelis refusing to go to Lebanon , but most accept such service as a duty to their country . Yet there is growing belief among many soldiers that they have done their duty and fought their nation 's war . Now , they just want to return home .                     