@@336651

Broadway has been aching for years for a splashy , razzle-dazzle , old-style American musical . Last week the main stem got its wish  --  not once but twice . The only hitch : Cabaret dates to 1966 and Anything Goes to 1934 . So their joyous returns do not prove that theater people know how to make ' em like they used to . What these revivals do display is a corps of talented Yanks who can design , direct , choreograph and perform with all the panache and pizazz of the Britons who of late have dominated the musical stage . <P> Anything Goes begins and ends  --  in this production , literally  --  with Cole Porter , whose extraordinary score is the one reason to bring back this sweetly silly show . As the lights dim , his reedy voice is heard intoning the title tune . At the curtain , after a pleasure cruise through the likes of You 're the Top , Friendship and It 's Delovely ( the latter two lifted from other Porter shows ) , a giant lighted-up portrait of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smile benevolently . <P> If Porter really were to lend approval , it would be chiefly for Patti LuPone . As Nightclub Belter Reno Sweeney , she rivals the role 's originator , Ethel Merman , in volume and clarity of voice , and far outdoes her in intelligence and heart . CoStar Howard McGillin has shirt-ad looks , puppyish charm and a lilting tenor . Other delights : Tony Walton 's Art Deco ocean-liner set , Paul Gallo 's seascape lighting and Michael Smuin 's crisp choreography . The supporting cast is mostly ordinary , and Kathleen Mahony-Bennett 's oomphless ingenue is not even that . The book , by P.G . Wodehouse and Guy Bolton but revamped before the 1934 opening by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse ( Life with Father ) , has been timidly updated by John Weidman and Crouse 's son Timothy . It is still so stale and inane that it wheezes of summer stock . But the difference between Porter and other composers remains  --  well , night and day . <P> Cabaret has to compete not only with the memory of its first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bob Fosse 's 1972 film adaptation , which many critics rank as perhaps the best movie musical of all time . Hal Prince 's fluid , expressionistic staging has been so widely imitated that even its slyest devices seem cliched . Although the show 's political anthems and music- hall satires throb with emotion , its love ballads are mostly lame  --  a weakness that has been heightened by Joe Masteroff 's miscalculated rewrite of his own book . Clifford ( Gregg Edelman ) , the American novelist who arrives in Berlin as the Nazis are coming to power and through whom the story is told , is now unmistakably homosexual . His affair with the hoydenish singer Sally Bowles ( Alyson Reed ) has no chance of changing his orientation . Thus his fate no longer rests in her unsteady hands , and when she aborts what may be his child , she has not thwarted a lasting romance .                     