@@432383

 | How much technology does it take to turn a hard shove into a kick in the pants ? The question came to mind as I tromped on the throttle of a prototype Buick Grand National Regal fitted with a new-generation turbocharger near the Torrance , Calif. , headquarters of turbo manufacturer the Garrett Automotive Group . Horsepower can come on slow in many of today 's turbocharger systems , as the exhaust gas takes time to build enough energy to spin the blower up to speed . But it takes only a few starts , bouncing my head off the headrest , to convince me that this is the most lag-free turbo system I 've driven . At a touch of the gas pedal , this experimental turbocharger spins to full speed in a half second , working its magic in the cornbustion chamber and kicking 30 the Regal from 0 to 60 mph in less than six seconds . The 250-plus horsepower nearly overwhelms the fine points of the new system Garrett is demonstrating , but it gets the point across ? when you put your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Today 's horsepower race , still fueled by cheap gas , continues to heat up in a number of areas : Exhaust-gasdriven turbochargers , which became popular in the late 1970s , are being challenged by new alternatives , including bigger engines , multi-valve power plants , and a handful of directdrive supercharged engines " Supercharging Is Back , " Jan. ' 87 . That 's why Garrett and other turbocharger manufacturers are developing a new generation of quick-response turbos . The new systems will incorporate some of the latest advances in hightemperature ceramics , electronics , and exhaust-gas flow design . And because these new turbochargers solve some of the turbo 's most worrisome problems , they promise to be the best of all worlds . Although none of the horsepower options truly solves the continuing standoff between economy and performance , turbocharging advocates have traditionally argued that it 's the best compromise because the exhaust-driven boosters only operate near wide-open throttle , merely sipping gas the rest of the time . Some disgruntled drivers , however , have discovered the turbo 's disconcerting lack of torque at low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bootstrap effect , " Garrett 's David Alfano , manager , application engineering , told me . " When you open the throttle , the exhaust works against the turbine . The boost produces extra power , which produces more exhaust , and more boost . " Aside from delayed acceleration , so-called turbo lag can make downshifting tricky with a manual transmission . Still , the elegant simplicity of turbocharging , both the mechanism and its physics , had tremendous appeal to engineers working to boost horsepower . Today 's turbocharger consists of a power turbine and a small air compressor mounted on a short shaft . Engine exhaust gas is directed through ducts to the turbine , which spins the centrifugal compressor at about 180,000 rpm to pack air into the intake manifold . Despite the simplicity , there are some subtleties . For one thing , the turbo alters the gas flow through the engine . The turbine in the exhaust system is an obstacle to free exhaust flow , building back pressure in the engine exhaust system . Meanwhile , pressurizing the air at the manifold heats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions . Other problems stern from the blowtorch temperatures in the exhaust stream and the stresses of jetlike operating speed . The turbine shaft takes special bearing technology , while the heat in the exhaust means the tur-@#  | bine itself must be made of high-temperature materials such as ceramics . Lastly , some mechanism must control the boost pressure , lest it reach levels threatening to levitate the cylinder head . At lesser pressures , the combination of pressure and temperature can cause preignition , or knock . Problems like these , which in some ways proved even more complicated with the new-generation systems , have killed off turbocharging for passenger cars in the past . This explains why turbos have enjoyed alternating periods of popularity and disfavor . Turbo history Turbocharging was first invented in 1905 , but after an initial enthusiasm , exhaust-driven systems were displaced by gear-driven superchargers . Likewise , in World War II combat aircraft , exhaust-driven turbochargers and gear-driven superchargers both were developed to allow high-altitude operations . Bringing turbocharging for passenger cars to its current state of development meant solving some signifi- MAY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ design . Garrett , one of the pioneers in early gas turbine aircraft engines , adapted advances in metallurgy and manufacturing techniques developed for jets to make turbos for heavy-duty-truck and construction-equipment diesels in the early 1950s ? an area where any improvement in horsepower-to-weight ratio meant more profits . That 's why early development of turbocharging concentrated on heavy-duty diesels , which consume large volumes of air and little fuel . Diesels are also strong enough to take advantage of the boost , and are n't limited by preignition problems as are gasoline engines . Expensive truck engines also could absorb the high cost of the early units . The result was that early experimentation with turbos on production cars needed to rely on some adaptations of small truck turbochargers . The most recent round of turbocharging , which ultimately led to the new high-tech units , started when Buick adapted Garrett 's T-3 turbocharger to the 1975 Buick 3.8-liter V8 . Turbocharging quickly gained popularity in Europe and Japan , encouraged by high fuel prices and tax laws that tended to limit engine displacement . Then Chrysler Corp. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ models without investing in larger engines , became the largest user of turbochargers in the world . Bit by bit , turbos improved . The intercooler , an air-cooled radiatorlike device that lowers the air temperature between the compressor and the engine , was adapted from trucks to passenger cars . Then came electronic boost-level controls , more sophisticated than the early systems operating directly from manifold pressure . The last problem was throttle response , particularly when the turbo is large enough to stuff enough air into a high-revving engine efficiently . One quick solution to turbo lag is simply to use an undersized turbine ? which operates on low levels of exhaust-gas flow , providing boost at lower rpm . This solution has become increasingly popular . But undersize turbos have a tendency to become asthmatic at high speeds , so other quick-response solutions are still being sought . The scope of the research is illustrated by the discarded turbos and other hardware that form a kind of high-tech graveyard on the shelves of a bookcase in Alfano 's office . " This one was particularly interesting , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squirrel-cagelike blower operating at some 25,000 rpm . Another experiment used a small hydraulic motor to accelerate the turbine wheel before the exhaust gas took over . Yet another attempt was an electric drive to accelerate the shaft . The complexity of most of these alternatives , however , seemed at odds with the basic simplicity of conventional turbochargers , so Garrett zeroed in on improving the breed by reducing the weight of the turbine wheel and squeezing more energy out of the exhaust system at low engine speeds . Alfano explained that the reduced mass of the turbine wheel means less energy is required to spin it up to operating speed . Aluminum is used on the compressor side of a turbocharger , but the 1,800-degree-F operating temperature of the exhaust side would turn aluminum into a puddle . A nickel alloy is the standard material on the hot side , but that makes the turbine wheel weigh more than the compressor wheel . Ceramics to the rescue New developments in ceramics offer an alternative . " We tried to redesign the metal wheel to reduce its weight , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Garrett engineers found that the metal wheel could be duplicated with silicon nitride , a high-strength high-temperature ceramic . Japan 's Kyocera Corp . was successful in casting the wheels and is already manufacturing some in limited volume for a Japanese-market Nissan . Kyocera also makes the wheel for Buick 's GNX ? a limited-volume version of the Grand National . Garrett 's ceramic wheel is half the weight of the nickel alloy unit it replaces , at roughly the same dimensions . Early attempts at testing the wheel were prone to failure , however . As it turned out , most of the trouble came from an unexpected source . " Ceramics are strong but brittle , " Alfano said , providing a clue to the wheel 's initial failure . The bull in the china shop turned out to be bits of metal such as weld beads left in the exhaust manifold during manufacturing that took pot shots at the turbine . The solution was a small trap that collects the particles as they spin around the circular turbine housing , before they hit the turbine . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine response time , according to Alfano . The remainder comes from the turbine 's variable geometry . Stainless-steel vanes form a petallike cluster around the turbine wheel . The flaps close at low engine speeds and open when the revs build . The vanes increase the gas velocity at slow speeds . " The effect is the same as when you close down the nozzle on your garden hose , " Alfano said . There is a drawback to the gardenhose-nozzle approach , however . In the closed position , the vanes constrict the exhaust system ? which cuts engine power just as the turbine wheel is called on to accelerate . In the extreme , the turbo spins up but the engine is choked off . It takes some clever control-system engineering to effect a proper compromise . " You have to engineer for the optimum point . Actually , it 's based on feel ... what the driver feels when he drives the car , " Alfano said . I spent a weekend driving an experimental Merkur XR4 Ti equipped with a turbocharger with only the variable-nozzle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stock T-3 turbo used on the conventional Merkur . Boost builds about as fast as the automatic transmission downshifts on the highway , making the combination extremely responsive . Despite the effectiveness of the setup , there is room for further development . Alfano notes that a direct electronic actuator for the variable vanes would be more effective . Lowfriction bearings with a separate oiling system ? and , of course , ceramics ? are also being considered . But the main drawback is the cost ? more than double that of a conventional turbocharger . About half the increment is due to the cost of the ceramic turbine rotor : Current production of volume ceramic components takes lengthy testing procedures , which increase their cost . The variable-nozzle mechanism accounts for the other half . The result is that the system is @#  | likely to be limited to a handful of specialized cars that demand both top-end performance and low-speed acceleration . A limited-run Dodge Shadow modified by Carroll Shelby featuring the variable-geometry turbine was on display at this spring 's auto-show circuit and is likely to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercooling and a special cylinder head designed by Britain 's Lotus Cars Ltd. , the Shelby-modified engine is able to produce about 230 horsepower . " We decided not to go with the ceramic wheel because we have n't completed tests for durability , " said James R. Broske , senior engineer at DodgeShelby Performance Center in Whittier , Calif . Broske feels the variable-vane approach alone makes a dramatic improvement in turbocharger response . The Dodge Shadow is expected to be on the market sometime in the 1989 model year , one year before a hot new Dodge Daytona that is also being tested with a variable-vane turbocharger is to arrive . Mapping boost The impact of turbocharger research is likely to go beyond ending turbo lag , however . The variable-geometry systems are heading turbocharging down the road of separating the control of boost from engine speed , which would allow tailoring an intake system for optimum efficiency and power . Chrysler has already developed a " mapping " system that controls turbo boost under various loads . " Wide open , the vanes reduce turbine speed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure , " Broske said . " Also , the electronics can sense when no boost is necessary , as when you 're going at a constant speed on the highway , " he added . The potential for ceramics holds even more promise . The turbocharger turbine wheel is actually a miniature version of a gas turbine , and experimental turbine power plants are being tested that could be future alternatives to the piston engine . Experience gained with ceramics brings an allceramic power plant even closer . For the present , however , the newgeneration turbochargers greatly enhance drivability , making them a logical way to build high-performance specialty cars out of sedate sedans.                     