@@378085

By any statistical measure , Spencer W. Kimball 's reign as President , Prophet , Seer and Revelator of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints was a triumph . During his twelve-year ministry , the Mormon church nearly doubled its world membership ( to 5.8 million ) and its force of short-term missionaries ( to 30,000 ) . He ordered the addition of 31 temples to the 16 that stood when he took charge . Kimball , who had been an invalid for four years , died in Salt Lake City last week at the age of 90 . Certain to succeed him is the senior among the church 's twelve apostles who govern with the President and his counselors : Ezra Taft Benson , 86 , a controversial archconservative who served eight years as President Eisenhower 's Secretary of Agriculture . <P> Kimball had only a modest business career in Arizona before he became an apostle in 1943 . His self-effacing manner and sieges of heart trouble and cancer led many to believe that he would be a caretaker President . Instead , he proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spurred the international growth of the most successful religion ever born in the U.S. He was the first to put Asians and Latin Americans into Mormonism 's top ranks , and permitted leaders of foreign jurisdictions to live overseas rather than in Salt Lake City . <P> The landmark of Kimball 's reign was a 1978 decree that opened the priesthood to blacks . In the Mormon system , which has no clergy , virtually all twelve-year-old males receive the priesthood , a prerequisite for holding any church office . After assiduous prayer , Kimball announced that he had experienced a revelation about the new status for blacks . Mormonism holds that such divine disclosures are unique to the church President . The new policy , as important and radical a departure as the abolition of polygamy in 1890 , added legitimacy to proselytizing efforts overseas . In nondoctrinal matters , Kimball also took a strong lead , firmly placing the church in opposition to abortion and the Equal Rights Amendment . <P> The church that Kimball leaves behind is expansive and rich ( rumored annual contributions : nearly $1 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mysterious bombing murders of two people connected with the sale of historical documents that cast doubts on official teachings about the origins of the Book of Mormon . Some Mormons are also anxious about the intentions of Benson , the 13th Prophet-President . A wavemaking , pepper-tongued right-winger , Benson acquired some notoriety in the 1960s for praising the John Birch Society and calling the civil rights movement Communist influenced . Other Benson targets : the U.N. , the Supreme Court and disarmament negotiations with the Soviets . Speaking at the church-run Brigham Young University in 1980 , Benson asserted that the Prophet-President speaks authoritatively on civil as well as religious matters , and that his pronouncements supersede the words of the Mormon scriptures and founders . Kimball was reported to have reprimanded Benson after that speech .                     