@@432312

 | With the late-February report of a special White House commission , America 's military is coming under increasing pressure to make the most ambitious reforms since the Defense Department was created in 1947 . Two main developments have triggered the clamor for change ? repeated disclosures of Pentagon waste and a new push to reduce a federal deficit that is swollen by President Reagan 's $1.5 trillion rearmament program . The latest reform demands won prompt backing from the President and top congressional leaders , virtually assuring that at least some steps will be taken this year ? if less sweeping than those urged by the blue-ribbon commission headed by California industrialist David Packard . " I will implement them , even if they run counter to the will of the entrenched bureaucracies and special interests , " declared Reagan in a televised address to the nation on February 26 . He urged Congress to heed the report and " to remove those obstacles to good management that Congress itself has created over the years . " The commission delivered a report urging not only budgetary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The panel 's language , however , was notably milder than in earlier drafts and avoided any direct criticism of Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger . The structural reshuffling has been long sought by critics , who see it as crucial both to controlling waste and to making the services more effective . At the heart of the debate is a call to restructure the five-member Joint Chiefs of Staff , which is composed of the top military officers of the four services and a chairman appointed by the President . As now organized , the Joint Chiefs are a collegial body with a relatively weak chairman . Without real power of his own , he must reach decisions through compromise among competing service chiefs , each of whom is intent on protecting the interests of his own branch . Many experts believe the chairman 's status as a spokesman rather than a true leader almost always prevents him from forcing tough budgetary trade-offs among the services . Consequently , the military-budget process has amounted to simply stapling together the spending requests of the Army , Navy , Air Force and Marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military missions , critics charge . Under the present system , the services often duplicate one another 's functions and sometimes end up operating at cross purposes in the field , which contributes to botched military operations that critics say could risk the nation 's security in wartime . Foulups in the 1983 Grenada invasion , for example , cost lives needlessly and would have been disastrous in a larger conflict , some analysts believe . The solution , according to the Pack ard Commission 's report , is to greatly strengthen the role of the JCS chairman . The presidential panel proposed giving him sole control of an expanded joint military staff and full power to set budget figures and determine force levels for all of the services , subject to the approval of the Secretary of Defense . In addition , a new position of JCS vice chairman would . be established . His prime responsibility would be to represent the interests of the commanders of joint forces in the field in adopting budget priorities . Many experts believe that the 10 commanders in chief , who actually control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in budgetary decisions . The individual services shape those decisions , with each preparing to fight its own war , often giving scant regard to integrated operations . One example : During the Grenada invasion , Army troops were unable to call in fire from the Navy 's ships because their radios were incompatible . A soldier finally resorted to regular telephone lines to route messages back through the United States and on to gunners offshore . Citing a strong need for better longrange planning , the panel also urged that Congress approve defense budgets on two-year cycles instead of annually . This is intended to establish more stable , and hopefully less costly , production rates for ships , tanks , planes and missiles and to minimize congressional interruption of military programs once they are set in motion . The military has long complained that interference with these programs creates inefficient production rates and delays that drive up costs . To stem waste in arms production , Packard proposed a high-level civilian procurement czar to oversee the services ' buying plans . The role of this new " under secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be critical in the early stages of developing and testing new weapons . The initial phases are now heavily controlled by uniformed program man- agers and arms manufacturers who have a vested interest in keeping alive even discredited programs . The procurement czar would demand more-realistic cost estimates and morerigorous operational testing of new weapon systems before decisions were made on actually proceeding with production of any weapon . As explained by Packard , a former deputy defense secretary , the procurement chief 's mission would be " not just to fly before you buy , ' but fly and know what it 's going to cost before you buy . ' " The savings , he estimates , would be tens of billions of dollars annually . The procedures recommended by the commission would be a dramatic departure from current practice . Under the arrangement now in place , the weapons-buying process often has seemed out of touch with fiscal reality . It also has produced some armaments that did n't work . One such debacle was the Army 's DIVAD air-defense gun , an embarrassment that was finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With lawmakers now under mounting election-year pressure to put an end to Pentagon waste and mismanagement , the military-reform movement is getting a big boost in Congress . Far-reaching legislative proposals backed by key Republicans and Democrats are advancing swiftly through the Senate and House , largely over the objections of Defense Secretary Weinberger and many of the military 's top commanders . The Pentagon 's fear is that the reform zeal will spill over into the budget process , resulting in even bigger trims in defense spending than might otherwise occur . Also at stake on Capitol Hill is the President 's request for an 8 percent real increase next year in defense spending to resume his rearmament plans . After capping the Reagan buildup last year , lawmakers have shown little support for the President 's proposed 1987 hike to $311.6 billion . Expected budget cuts , said Reagan in his speech , would be " reckless , dangerous and wrong . It 's backsliding of the most irresponsible kind .... " Reagan also warned that defense cuts would seriously reduce incentives for the Soviet Union to agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentiment is largely a reflection of declining voter support for bigger military outlays ? a feeling that could end up also providing the momentum for the reforms that the Packard Commission now is bent on making .                     