@@294031

Jackson 's coup creates an opening in Lebanon <P> The scene was historical theater at its best , complete with tears , smiles and the unlikeliest of costars . There , standing in the White House Rose Garden and surrounded by beaming relatives , was Navy Lieut . Robert Goodman , dramatically home after a month in a Syrian jail . There was the Rev. Jesse Jackson , the Democratic presidential aspirant whose audacious diplomacy won Goodman his freedom . And there , in the middle , was Ronald Reagan , who a week earlier had declined to take Jackson 's calls before the Baptist minister left for Damascus . But now the President graciously thanked the amateur envoy for his " personal mission of mercy . " Any questions about Syrian President Hafez Assad 's motives for releasing Goodman or the propriety of Jackson 's engaging in foreign negotiations were lost in the fervor of the moment . As Reagan put it , " You do n't quarrel with success . " <P> The diplomatic coup earned political points for Jackson ( see following story ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reagan Administration gracefully to withdraw the 1,800 U.S. Marines from Beirut . Making no mention of its own 40,000 soldiers in eastern Lebanon , the Syrian government said its gesture should prompt Washington " to end its military involvement in Lebanon . " Though Reagan remained opposed to a U.S. pullout now , he did send a thank-you message to Assad saying that " this is an opportune moment to put all the issues on the table . " <P> The liberation of Goodman at least eased tensions between the two countries , whose worsening relations deteriorated sharply in December when Syrian anti-aircraft batteries fired on U.S. reconnaissance planes over eastern Lebanon . During a retaliatory strike the next day , two U.S. fighter-bombers were shot down and Goodman was captured . The new mood could be seen in small ways : Syrian television and newspapers carried the full text of Reagan 's note to Assad , while the U.S. President expressed a willingness to meet with the Syrian leader . Donald Rumsfeld , Reagan 's special envoy to the Middle East , is now expected to see Assad on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate comes at an important time . Lebanese President Amin Gemayel is engaged in delicate negotiations with his country 's brawling factions over a security pact that would extend his military authority beyond Beirut and strengthen the buffer zones between Christians and the Shi'ite Muslims and Druze . Washington is pushing the plan not only because it will enhance the chances for a lasting cease-fire but because it could provide an opportunity to redeploy the Marines to safer ground . Two of America 's partners in the Multi-National Force also were increasingly restive about being pinned down in Beirut . France announced that in late January it would transfer one-fourth of its 1,750-man garrison to rejoin the United Nations Force in southern Lebanon . Italy plans to cut its contingent from 2,200 to 1,100 in the near future . Britain alone has promised not to reduce its presence , but its troops number only 100 or so .                     