@@322305

Secretary of State Alexander Haig and U.N . Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick long feuded over the basic question of whether and when to side with the British in the Falklands dispute . The quarrel not only is a personality clash between two stubborn , prideful antagonists , but it reflects deep ideological splits within the Administration . <P> Kirkpatrick , who wrote her Ph.D . dissertation at Columbia University on Argentina during the Peron years , considers herself the Administration 's premier expert on Latin America . Conservative and staunchly antiCommunist , she repaired the U.S. 's ties with Buenos Aires last year and fervently hoped to build a strategic barricade against leftist infiltration in the Western Hemisphere by forging closer links with authoritarian regimes like the military junta in Argentina . Though Haig shares Kirkpatrick 's fears about Communist advances in Latin America , he is a political pragmatist who is generally more flexible on foreign policy issues . Having been Supreme Commander of NATO from 1974 to 1979 , he tends to be more sympathetic to European interests . <P> After Argentina invaded the Falklands last April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and took Britain 's side , Kirkpatrick spoke against providing London with military intelligence and equipment . Alexander Haig <P> Haig exploded when he learned that Kirkpatrick had met in New York with Air Force Brigadier Jos Miret , a political-military strategist in the Argentine government , to discuss U.N . peace initiatives . Haig tracked her down by telephone at an aide 's apartment where , TIME has learned , she was conferring with Enrique Ros , the Deputy Argentine Foreign Minister . Haig , understandably angry at Kirkpatrick 's apparent disagreement with U.S. support for Britain , blasted her for undermining U.S. foreign policy and blindly supporting Latin interests . Kirkpatrick , in turn , charged Haig with being ignorant of Latin American affairs and suffering from an acute case of Anglophilia . After the 45-minute snarling match , Haig pushed for Kirkpatrick 's resignation . She then further enraged Haig last week by taking her case directly to the President . The pair met for 40 minutes in the Oval Office on Memorial Day . The upshot : Haig and Kirkpatrick were told to stop bickering and get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Haig and Kirkpatrick disagree frequently on substantive policy matters . Kirkpatrick , for example , threatened to resign last January after Haig refused to push for stronger sanctions by America 's European allies following the military crackdown in Poland . In addition , critics claim , she has not been a particularly adept U.N . Ambassador . Yet , as the only woman in the Cabinet and as the most prominent neo-Conservative in the Administration , Kirkpatrick remains politically valuable . Unfortunately , the spat between her and Haig not only diminishes the effectiveness of both officials but raises substantial questions about the direction and intent of U.S. foreign policy .                     