@@494124

Freud and Man 's Soul by Bruno Bettelheim ( Knopf , 112 pp. , 511.95 ) In this short book Bruno Bettelheim 's main contention is that Freud 's message and attitude toward human nature have been misunderstood in the English-speaking world because of inadequate and inaccurate translation of his works . Since Bettelheim is a distinguished psychoanalyst and author , whose work with disturbed children is world-famous and whose description of life in Dachau and Buchenwald ( The Informed Heart , 1960 ) has become a classic , his accusation must he taken seriously . Bettelheim begins by pointing out that he himself comes from a background similar to that of Freud ? " a middle-class , assimilated Jewish family in Vienna . " Although Freud was born in 1856 and Bettelheim in 1903 , he says that there had been little cultural change in the years that intervened between Freud 's student days and his own . Freud 's psychoanalytic writings only began in the last decade of the nineteenth century , just before Bettelheim was born ; thus he was able to study the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was conceived , a study was facilitated by his being in analysis himself . After his liberation from the concentration camps , Bettelheim settled in the United States and was for many years a professor at the University of Chicago and director of the Orthogenic School for disturbed children . He discovered that the staff of the school , though well read in psychoanalysis , was too detached , too " theoretical " in its approach to disturbed children . Whereas Bettelheim himself was not afraid of emotional closeness based on sympathetic understanding of , and identification with , disturbed children , his American staff remained distant and therefore unable to help their patients . Bettelheim 's claim is that this distant , detached attitude developed because Americans studied Freud only in translation . He believes that the effect of the English translation of Freud 's ideas was to make them into an abstract intellectual system , something that might he applied to the understanding of others in a cerebral fashion , but that was not easily applicable to the study of one 's own unconscious . Bettelheim maintains that Freud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar to Viennese students who had been reared on Latin and Greek , lost much of their meaning when transferred to America , where classical studies were confined to the few . Words and concepts derived from classical myth ? like Eros and Psyche and the legend of Oedipus ? tend to become abstractions when denuded of the overtones and associations that have become part of the mental furniture of those who have been familiar with classical myth from early childhood . T HESE DIFFICULTIES in compre- hending Freud 's real meaning have , so Bettelheim argues , been greatly increased by clumsy , insensitive translation and , even more , by the translators ' tendency to substitute unfamiliar , technical , or medical words for Freud 's use of terms that every German-speaking person would easily recognize . Some of Bettelheim 's examples are striking . He states that the German word Mufterleib can he translated only as " womb , " a word that has quite different associations from the medical term " uterus " as used by the English translators . In Bettelheim 's view , to translate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ego " and the " id " is to misrepresent Freud 's simplicity of language . Ich and Es are " among the first words used by every German child " : " ego " and " id " are not to be found in the vocabularies of either German or English-speaking children . Bettelheim also criticizes the translators ' use of " parapraxis " and " cathexis " to cover slips of the tongue and similar phenomena , and investment of an object with libido . These Greek terms , the first of which is an invention , do not , so Bettelheim asserts , reflect the original German , and present the reader with unfamiliar words that carry no emotional overtones . Bettelheim states that The English translations cleave to an early of Freud 's thought , in which he in dined toward science and medicine , and disregard the more mature Freud , whose orientation was humanistic . He believes that the translators wished to perceive Freud strictly within the framework of medicine , " and that this accounts for some of their misrepresentation of his language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrict the practice of psychoanalysis to physicians , which he believes reinforced the tendency , begun by the translators , to perceive psychoanalysis in scientific , rather than humanistic terms . H OW FAR are Bettelheim 's strictures justified ? Many of his points concerning the translation are cogent , but in most instances Bettelheim himself has nothing better to offer . Although The Interpretation of Dreams may not be an exact equivalent for Die Traamdeutung , I am not convinced that Bettelheim 's alternatives of A Search for the Meaning of Dreams or An Inquiry into the Meaning of Dreams are really more illuminating . " Free association " is , admittedly , an unsatisfactory translation of Freler Einfall , a point already made by Charles Rycroft in his Critical Dictionary of Psychoanalysis , but Bettelheim can not suggest a succinct alternative . Although he pays lip service to the difficulties faced by the translators of Freud , he is less than generous to them . Moreover , his accusation of " medicalization " of Freud 's thought can not be laid at their door . James Strachey , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was analyzed by Freud and had a close acquaintance with his thought . Alan Tyson , one of his chief assistants , qualified as a doctor later in his career , but was not medically trained at the time of the translation . In fact The Standard Edition of Freud 's writings was a labor of love , contributed to by many German scholars , and all the points raised by Bettelheim were in fact thrashed out in the greatest detail . The fact of the matter is that any translation is bound to evoke criticism , partly because many German words like Seele do not really have an English equivalent . Bettelheim is fair enough to mention that the whole of The Standard Edition was read and passed by Anna Freud , who was a passionate guardian of her father 's reputation , and would certainly not have countenanced any distortion of his thought if she had believed that this was taking place . Bettelheim 's chief concern is to resuscitate Freud as a humanist with a deep perception of human nature and personal concern for human tragedy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is an understandable aspiration . Psychoanalysis is not , and can never be , an exact science in the sense of chemistry or physics ( although their exactness seems now to he in question ) . But Freud seems never to have lost his belief in science , which he unfavorably contrasts with religion in his late work The Future of an Illusion . Freud was a humane man , and contemporary accounts of his behavior as an analyst indicate that he sometimes showed quite human emotions to his patients , occasionally revealed personal matters like an accident to his son , and was even reported as thumping the table to hammer home a point . But Joan Riviere , who was analyzed by Freud and who became an analyst herself , chiefly recalls his interest in her as being " curiously impersonal . " Freud 's desire to establish psychoanalysis as a science of the mind has had strangely contradictory results . If Freud had not been a detached investigator , who tried to regard his patients as objectively as possible , without becoming involved with their problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as we do . For transference depends upon projection ; and projections can only be understood or indeed fully evoked if the analyst remains somewhat of an enigma to the patient . But Freud's'detachment also had an unfortunate result in that it gave birth to , and seemed to justify the behavior of , a breed of analysts who , one is glad to say , are fast disappearing , These are the analysts whom Bettelheim is really attacking , and whose impersonality he found so therapeutically ineffective when he was in charge of the Orthogenic School . There is a revealing account of such an analyst in the person of " Aaron Green " in Janet Malcolm 's recent , brilliant book , The Impossible Profession ( Knopf ) . In my review of the book ( THE NEW REPUBLIC , September 16 , 1981 ) I wrote of Aaron Green : He calls psychoanalysis a science , He believes that Freud made certain fundamental discoveries concerning infantile sexuality and the Oedipus complex which ought to have been accepted and passed down in the way that discoveries in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still not the case , He considers psychoanalysis equivalent to a surgical operation ; that is , it is both extremely intimate and vet entirely impersonal . Bet telhei m ' s advocacy of a more humanistic attitude in psychotherapy is entirely justified . Modern research into the efficacy of psychotherapy has demonstrated that genuine concern and warmth are important therapeutic factors . Moreover , for the therapist to show concern and warmth does not mean that he has to indulge in giving personal details about himself , the revelation of which might interfere with understanding the patient 's transference projections . But I do n't really believe that mistranslation of Freud can have had quite the powerful effect in producing fundamentalist analysts like " Aaron Green " that Bettelheim attributes to it . Psychoanalysis is a body of knowledge and a technique of treatment that is passed down by training analysts to their trainees in the uniquely compelling situation of a training analysis . Bettelheim would allege that misunderstanding of Freud because of mistranslation was the cause of producing inhuman practitioners ; but is there really any evidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the same trap ? Bettelheim himself is , and has always been . a humane , concerned person , though sometimes feared as an authority . But not all his emigrant colleagues are like him , however much they have read Freud in the original German . Freud did not always practice what he preached ; but the tradition of the detached , " scienbtu. ' analyst originated t ? Itit him , and he certainly did not welcome the fact that his patients developed strong feelings toward him . In fact , he tried to protect himself from the emotional impact of his patients by king them on a couch in such a position that they could not see his face or establish eye-to-eye contact with him . Bettelheim seems overconcerned with protecting Freud , whose influence , as today some of his most able followers are able to admit , was by no means always constructive . Insofar as England is concerned , most psychoanalysts there are quite warm and human in their approach to their patients , and Bettelheim is flogging a dead horse . In any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and disputes about what he actually meant or said are beginning to take on the aspect of medieval controversies about how many angels can be accommodated on the point of a pin . Bettelheim has written some marvelous books for which all of us are in his debt , but I would advise any reader who is unfamiliar with his work to begin with one of his other books , The informed Heart or The Uses of Enchantment .                     