@@492298

God fashioned Eve from Adam 's rib , the Bible says , but scholars these days would turn the metaphor on its head . As psychologist June Machover Reinisch has put it , nature " imposes masculinity against the basic feminine trend of the body . " That may be part of the reason that there is a 500-percentgreater incidence of dyslexia in boys than in girls and that girls have more stamina . Then again , it may not . The scholars keep at it . Stacked on a library table , the literature on sex differences in behavior and physiology , published in scholarly journals during the 1970s by chemists , sociologists , physicians and other researchers , would stand about 6 feet high . That does not include a dozen or so reputable books , such as Eleanor Maccoby and Carol Nagy Jacklin 's Psychology of Sex Differences and John Money 's Love and Love Sickness . As they peel the onion of sex , scholars have scrutinized males and females in the workplace , in the army , in the schools and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clue to " normality " and drawn lessons from the experience of wallabies and coral-reef fish . Where the specialists have been less successful is in imposing theoreticalorder on our expanding body of knowledge . That men and women do differ , biologically , cognitively and behaviorally , no one disputes  --  although such differences , it must be stressed , are not usually absolute but apparent only as averages when groups of men and women are compared . Yet , as psychologist Jeanette McGlone writes , " Questions such as Why ? ' and ' Does it matter ? ' remain unanswered . " Those two questions , of course , are what the fuss is all about . The staunchest believer in equal opportunities for both sexes will , if he or she is honest , concede that the real world is not Plato 's cave . Rightly or wrongly , men and women have long assumed  --  and still assume  --  that differences in expectations and behavior exist between the sexes ; over time , through countless adjustments and accommodations , they have learned to live with what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , come to depend on one another in different ways , to behave in one way when with one 's own sex and another in mixed company . During the past decade , scientists have probably quadrupled what is " known " about biological differences between the sexes . Men 's and women 's brains seem to be dissimilar in certain respects , but the human brain remains a mystery , and drawing inferences is like writing on sand . In some ways , social scientists are more helpful , at least in explaining the broader implications of the way men and women behave . One fact that does emerge clearly  --  and here the research merely ratifies common sense  --  is that , regardless of their origin , gender-linked traits appear , and acquire significance , at varying ages for men and women . Males , the Vulnerable Sex It begins at fertilization . Men and women will never again be so much alike as they are during the first seven or eight weeks after conception . Until then , although the male possesses a " Y " chromosome in addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pair of X 's ) , male and female embryos appear identical . Scientists debated for years whether it was the distinctive Y or the extra X that prompted sexual divergence . It turns out to be primarily the Y. The mechanics of this process are still not entirely clear . In essence , though , midway through the first trimester , the male embryo secretes a hormone that incites his previously undifferentiated gonads to develop into testes . These produce another hormone , testosterone , which in turn programs further development of male sex organs . If an XY embryo can not produce testosterone , or can not metabolize it , it is in for trouble and will develop , however quirkily , along a preprogrammed female line . In a sense , then , all human beings are female until something acts to make some of them male . The likelihood of error in male development is extraordinary . About 140 boys are conceived for every 100 girls , but various defects cause most of those extra boys to succumb before birth . A differential remains even then ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but males are more susceptible to childhood diseases . Boys are also more THE SIITURDRY EVENING POST 49 likely to stutter and to be colorblind . Males may be , as Henry Higgins put it , a " marvelous sex , " but they are also exceedingly vulnerable . The first connection between hormones and behavior was made long ago , in 1849 , by the German scientist Arnold Berthold . Berthold discovered that castrated roosters stopped fighting and lost their interest in hens . Research into hormones and their effects intensified during the 1970s . In some nonmammals , researchers discovered , the injection of male hormones ( androgens ) before birth can change a female into a male . Certain mature fish can change their sex when confronted with new environmental conditions . Nothing so extreme has been demonstrated in mammals , but female offspring of rhesus monkeys that have been heavily dosed withandrogens do exhibit " male " behavior ? " rough and tumble " play , for example , and the mounting of other females . For ethical reasons , scientists do not conduct experiments on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from " experiments of nature ' ' ? e.g. , children with brain damage , hermaphrodites  --  or by pondering the unexpected side effects of hormones administered to avoid toxemia in pregnancy . John Money of Johns Hopkins and Anke Ehrhardt at Columbia have studied girls with adrenal hyperplasia , an enzyme defect resulting in production of massive amounts of androgens . These girls , they found , became extreme " tomboys , " were very athletic and rarely played with dolls . Most studies confirm that boys , on the average , are more aggressive thangirls , and most studies indicate that testosterone probably has something to do with it . Hormones may not make certain types of behavior inevitable but merely , as John Money puts it , " lower the threshold so that it takes less of a push to switch you on to some behavior . " The male and female timetables continue to vary after birth . As neurologist Richard Restak has noted , girls at the age of four months are far more attentive than boys to " social contexts " : faces , speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sooner . Boys , on average , are the first on their feet ; they have better total body coordination throughout their lives but somewhat less stamina . They are more curious , more active and more mechanically inclined . No one knows how much ( if any ) of this to attribute to chemistry and how much to child rearing . Parents treat boys and girls differently , and that difference rubs off . For example , if girls learn to talk earlier , it may be primarily because most mothers spend more time chatting to their infant girls than to their baby boys . Hormones do leave an imprint on men 's and women 's livers , kidneys and the nerve endings in their brains . They differentiate the hypothalamus into a male and female type . What scientists can not establish is whether hormones account for the many observed differences in the way male and female brains work . The most striking difference is in brain " lateralization . " In right-handed people , the left hemisphere of the brain is primarily responsible for verbal skills , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less pronounced in girls than boys  --  so much so that in girls , one side of the brain seems to be able to make up for deficiencies in the other . Thus , girls have a lower incidence of dyslexia , aphasia and infantile autism . Thanks to her neural " insurance , " an adult woman will recover faster , and more completely , from a cardiovascular accident . Different Creatures ? Women are far more sensitive than men to odors , tastes and touch , as well as to extremes of light and sound . For example , they can detect Exaltolide ( a musklike odorant ) when it is dispersed in quantities as low as one part per billion ; the male threshold is 1,000 times higher . " It may be , " conclude June Reinisch , Ronald Gandelrnan and Frances Spiegel , " that males and females are essentially quite different creatures , whose perceptions of the world differ markedly even when confronted with similar physical environments . " It is not necessary to understand the origins of these differences in order to glimpse some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting elementary school . As some scientists and educators are beginning to point out , throwing both sexes together in a classroom and teaching them in the same way may be doing each sex an injustice . Because of boys ' greater spatial-perceptual skills and girls ' superior verbal ability , it may be better to use the " look-say " method of teaching reading with the former and the " phonics " method with the latter . Schoolboys tend to be far more " hyperactive " than girls ( 95 percent of all clinically hyperactive children are male ) . One reason could be that the classroom environment is oriented more aurally and verbally than visually . Opportunities for rambunctious young males to work off steam are few . In the early grades , at least , school is geared to skills that come naturally to girls . Ninety percent of the time , the teacher is also a woman . In later grades , when certain subjects with a heavy spatial-perceptual content are introduced  --  math and the sciences , for example  --  girls tend to lose their advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most often a man . A radical overhaul of the educational system would cause more problems than it would solve . But some tinkering may be in order . " The nerves that feed the brain , " Virginia Woolf speculated in 1928 , " would seem to differ in men and women , and if you are going to make them work their best and hardest , you must find out what treatment suits them . " The onset of puberty generally coincides with the three years of junior high school , but again the male-female timetable differs . In most girls , estrogen begins to build up in the body between the ages of 10 and 12 ; boys get their hormonal burst on average two years later . In both sexes , one result is a period of rapid physical growth , lasting for two to four years in girls and for six years or longer in boys  --  on into the late teens . Puberty is the second time in male and female lives that hormones exert a sudden , decisive and unquestionable impact . In women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereafter until menopause . They determine the shape of the female pelvis and the level of body fat . ( About 25 percent of the body weight of mature women is fat , compared to 14 percent for men . ) Hormones spur sexual maturity in men and promote the growth of body and facial hair . The males ' bones grow longer , their shoulders broader ; they acquire 10 percent more heart and lung capacity than do females . Mirroring Society During adolescence , the difference in verbal skills between men and women begins to narrow , but the gap in spatial-perceptual skills does not . Boys start getting better grades than girls do . Certain patterns in behavior and expectations continue to firm up . A window on these years is provided by the U.S. Department of Education 's comprehensive High School and Beyond ( 1980 ) , a survey of 58,000 secondary-school students . Not surprisingly , boys and girls in high school mirror the larger society . Already , the males have taken after-school jobs and entered the labor force in greater numbers than have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 22.5 hours a week versus 18.6 ) and making more money ( $3.38 per hour versus $2.99 ) . By a margin of 64 to 41 percent , the boys are more likely to participate in school athletics ; they have far more disciplinary problems . Girls are the mainstay of extracurricular activities other than sports . They spend more time reading ( unless the reading matter is a newspaper ) and talking on the phone . ( According to Ma Bell , the girls will , as adults , initiate 60 percent of all nonbusiness telephone conversations . ) What about the future ? Both sexes see themselves taking " traditional " jobs  --  the girls lean toward teaching and clerical work , for example ; the boys indicate a taste for managerial and blue-collar jobs . High-school girls are more concerned than boys about " finding the right person to marry , " high-school boys are more apt to envision " having lots of money . " More boys than girls look forward to having no children at all ; more girls than boys hope to have " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more diverse lot , their lives more complex . We have plenty of general statistics about men 's and women 's jobs and education . But in-depth research necessarily focuses on smaller , more cohesive groups of individuals . Here , the availability of funding and the " relevance " of the subject tend to favor some groups over others : men and women at " elite " universities rather than those at community colleges ; women executives " climbing the corporate ladder " rather than women on the assembly line ( and most people on assembly lines are women ) . Especially since the rise of the women 's movement , researchers have been more interested in females than in males  --  a propensity that is less pronounced when boys and girls are the object of study . That said , the existing studies do raise some intriguing questions . One example involves higher education . By 1970 , the historic education gap between men and women had virtually been eliminated . On average , both sexes finished high school and about half a year of college . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's elite schools  --  ranging from small colleges such as Haverford to universities such as Princeton  --  remained " male bastions . " Angry voices were raised , and , during the 1970s , despite alumni grumbling , nearly all of the elite all-male institutions that had not already done so opened their doors to women . A decade later , scholars have begun to assess the impact . So far , at any rate , it appears that equality of opportunity is not necessarily the surest path to similarity of outcome . The most comprehensive study of the effects of coeducation was sponsored by Brown University and published in 1980 . It was based on a survey of 3,300 men and women at Barnard , Brown , Dartmouth , Princeton , the State University of New York at Stony Brook and Wellesley . One major finding was that women at coed schools tended , in effect , to lose much of their worldly ambition . They majored in fields where women had always done well  --  the humanities , the arts , the social sciences . While men and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the women aspirants experienced significant attrition . They seemed , in sum , " to be adjusting their plans downward " to a greater extent than men students . Shortly after the release of the Brown study , the Women 's College Coalition , a Washington-based association , reported that America 's 118 women 's colleges had recovered from a brief slump and recorded a net enrollment increase of 15 percent since 1970 . Up to 30 percent of the women at many of these schools were majoring in math and science . The report 's message , though never bluntly stated , was that women 's colleges were still uniquely equippedto motivate women to excel in the courtroom , the operating room and the board room . Dropping Out The entry of large numbers of women into the labor force beginning in the late 1960s  --  whether in search of a " career " or just a " job " ? is among the most significant phenomena of the postwar era . As Peter Drucker has written : " We are busily unmaking one of the proudest social achievements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the work force so they could devote themselves to family and children . " About 39 million adult women , including 55 percent of all mothers , now hold full- or part-time jobs . While half of them are still employed in " traditionally female " jobs  --  those like stenography or teaching elementary school , where more than 80 percent of all workers are female  --  women have made extraordinary gains in virtually every occupation . One-third of all accountants today are female ( versus one-sixth in 1960 ) ; one-half of all tailors and bus drivers are women , as are 33.5 percent of law-school students ( compared to 3.6 percent in 1963 ) . While women physicians ( 10 percent of all M.D. 's ) still tend to shun careers in aerospace medicine or orthopedics , they are coming to dominate other medical specialties , such as obstetrics and gynecology . The impact of all this on American society has been immense . One reason that the unemployment rate is so high-10.2 percent in April 1983 ? is not because women are taking jobs that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women are out " looking for work , " which is the U.S. Labor Department 's threshold for inclusion in the labor force . For a full-time working mother , raising a family can become a severe challenge . No survey shows that menfolk do their full share of the housework . Of course , there may be compensations . Few intact families where both the husband and wife work are below the poverty line . ( Some 51 percent of all married couples are " dual-earner " families . ) But 21 percent of all working mothers are without husbands , and 44 percent of these are living below the poverty line . The income of women who work full time is only 59 percent that of men  --  relatively less than it was in 1955 . But it is by no means clear how much sex discrimination or , more important , the concentration of most women in low-paying occupations ( e.g. , nursing ) can account for the earnings gap . France , West Germany and Sweden are all experimenting with programs that would diversify women 's employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But such experiments fail to address a central problem : Female labor-force participation slumps deeply between the ages of 25 and 35 as women bear and rear their children . As economist Lester C. Thurow observes , " If there is any one decade when it pays to work hard and be consistently in the labor force it is the decade between 25 and 35 . " This is when lawyers become partners , academics get tenure , blue-collar workers become supervisors or acquire new skills and businessmen move onto the " fast track . " " For those who succeed , " Thurow says , " earnings will rise rapidly . For those who fail , earnings will remain flat for the rest of their lives . " All of women 's gains during the past decade have not erased this basic fact . Nor has the advent of effective contraception dampened the urge to bear children . Increasing numbers of women , who entered the labor force five or ten years ago telling pollsters and reporters that the most important thing to them was proving themselves on the job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ babies . Over time , at least two choices that working women must make have far more ramifications than the same choices when faced by men : whether to get married ; whether to have children . It is probably no coincidence that a 1976 Harvard University survey of its junior faculty revealed that 61 percent of the institution 's married women professors had no children , compared to only 32 percent of their male peers . It is perhaps no coincidence , either , that virtually every male chief executive officer of a major American company is currently married , while 54 percent of the female CEOs are divorced or never married . There are , perhaps , other kinds of trade-offs . A recent study of 123 women who graduated from business schools in 1977 and 1978 found that they were " paying a price " for success . They demonstrated significantly more stress than their male colleagues , much of it due to worry about how things were going at home . ( Other studies , however , suggest that holding a job may improve a woman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether more employment has anything to do with it , women 's overall physical health has deteriorated relative to men 's during the past 30 years . They are suffering from more ulcers and respiratory ailments than ever before . They have not been asquick as men have been to quit smoking . " Adult women , " writes the University of Michigan 's Lois M. Verbrugge , " are adopting life styles which bode ill for their longevity . " They are , in short , behaving more like men . We do not live in an ideal world and rarely agree on what an ideal world would be . Even when we do agree on some incremental " improvement , " it is generally difficult to bring about . For example , every bit of poll data indicates much rethinking by employers , employees and ordinary citizens about the relative capabilities of men and women . The old notion that " a woman 's place is in the home " finds a dwindling number of adherents . If the Gallup Poll 's measure of people 's ideals were an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women might have disbanded long ago for lack of new fields to conquer . In fact , as everyone knows , human beings take a more personal , less abstract approach to their own lives . " Give me chastity , " St. Augustine prayed , " but not yet . " At a time , 1 many popular attitudes arc si , unevenly changing , when legal and social barriers to women 's autonomy and advancement are falling and when American society is patiently absorbing the resultant aftershocks , it is sometimes easy to overlook the things that never change . Men and women still manage to fall in love , still seem to draw some special comfort from one another that they do n't get from their own sex . They still get married and have children , and enjoy their little boys and girls in different ways . Having both a mother and a father at home is still the best way for a child to grow up ; single-parent households are , statistically , candidates for trouble and , collectively , a troublesome burden on the larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have imposed , differences between the sexes contribute something vital to our lives and essential to our civilization . For most people , in the end , being male or female is not a circumstance to be overcome but one to be savored , and the odds are good that this useful sentiment will long survive .                     