@@492549

small , preinvasive breast cancers can be routinely detected by radiographic examination . " ? Kenneth J. Billings , M.D. eral visitors gamely submitted to the free screening and asked , " Is that all there is to it ? " when the simple procedure was completed . Dr. Pat Harper , well-known among radiologists for her outstanding research on breast imaging , set up the protocols in the Mammobile . She assured us that the Thomson-CGR mammography equipment in the mobile van would give the same excellent results as if it were permanently installed in a clinical setting . In fact , the equipment is identical to that she uses daily . Those who arrived as skeptics went home as confirmed believers , thanks to comments from therapeutic radiologist Dr. Peggie Findlay , who emphasized the startling projection that more than 40,000 deaths will result from breast Who would ever guess that the handsome , three-time Olympic gold-medal track star Wilma Rudolph is over 35 ? Or that she 's a grandmother ? Or that she 's been identified as a potential high-risk future cancer victim ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent invitation to gather in Indianapolis , board the 28-foot-long mobile cancer-screening unit , and examine its low-radiation mammography equipment . Sevcancer this year and that early detection permits breast-conserving lump removal rather than breast removal . Findlay was the radiologist in charge of the large randomized double-blind study at the National Cancer Institute in which lumpectomies ( lump removals ) with radiation and mastectomies were compared . She reported that newly released preliminary results show that lump removal with radiation is just as effective as breast removal and that the survival rate is equally good . Some of these women in the study have been followed for seven years . Findlay 's announcement gives women a great deal of incentive to be mammogramed for early detection . Both Dr. Harper and Dr. Findlay agree that as a group , lumpectomy patients do far better psychologically than mastectomy patients . Mammography can locate a growth three to four years before self-examination reveals it and before a physician could feel it . U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Dr. Otis Bowen added his endorsement of our pilot program : " 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my sharing in this occasion with you . I commend the Saturday Evening Post Society and Mary Kay Cosmetics Inc. for their commitment to women 's health and their undertaking this important new program . We at the Department of Health and Human Services are especially pleased to see partnerships such as yours expand all of our efforts in cancer prevention and control . " Dr. Vincent T. DeVita , Jr. , director of the National Cancer Institute , challenged Mammobile visitors to help the institute reach its objective of administering annual mammograms to 45 percent of peri- and postmenopausal women by 1990 , and 80 percent by the year 2000 . " We will not be able to reach our goal unless we let women and doctors know of the advantages of mammography screening and make such screening affordable and convenient , " Dr. DeVita stressed . " If this nation is to solve the cancer problem , if we are to cut cancer incidence and mortality , if we are to do it quickly , we need more partnerships and programs like this one being launched today . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Robert D. Orr , Governor of the State of Indiana , do hereby proclaim Mammogram Awareness Week in the State of Indiana , and encourage all Hoosier women over 35 years of age who have n't had a mammogram to get one as soon as possible . " Our Society 's very special collaboration with Mary Kay Cosmetics Inc. evolved after results from a Saturday Eve-ning Post readers ' survey were tallied by the National Cancer Institute . The tabulation indicated that only 15 percent of respondents over 50 years of age  --  a high-risk group  --  receive annual mammograms . A staggering number of women over 35 had never had baseline mammograms . Why ? Some poll participants insisted their doctors never recommended screenings ; other readers assumed that no symptoms meant no screening was necessary ; several respondents were concerned about X-ray exposure ; and many cited costs as being prohibitive because they were n't covered by their health insurance . The purpose of the Mammobile is to address these issues . We not only have to increase awareness of breast cancer and emphasize the promise of recovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stubborn old wives ' tales . Take the issue of radiation , for instance . Women who avoid mammograms because they fear exposure must be taught that new mammography equipment is so low in radiation that the risk is practically nonexistent . Any " danger " could be equated to that of smoking half a cigarette . And that was before the Eastman Kodak Company came out just last week with the good news that it has developed a new film that reduces radiation by 60 percent . This development might mean the risk would be less than that of one-fourth of a cigarette . . . or a mere puff or two . We hope that the splendid example set by Mary Kay Cosmetics will encourage other civic-minded corporations to come forward with matching funds for the Society 's Mammobile . So far it costs $40 for the radiologists and technicians to complete each mammogram for us . Your Society is providing matching funds with corporate sponsors that will pay for one-half of each mammogram , which we offer free to cause more women to become aware of their great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given , undoubtedly the costs for this diagnostic procedure will come down . Urologist Glad to Know about Calcium Citrate Dear Dr. SerVaas : I hope you still have the questionnaire and research diet available , as you mentioned in the March Saturday Evening Post . My husband has had ulcerative colitis ( diagnosed as such ) since 1956 ? also rheumatoid arthritis , and has had five operations for kidney stones , four in the past two years . He is on three diets  --  low oxylates , low fat , and no milk products in any form . We are curious about your diet , and if we can help your research project we 'd be more than glad to . Thanks to the Post , he is now taking Citracal . Our urologist was glad to read about it . Citric acid in other forms had upset my husband so he had n't been able to take it . Genevieve Busse Onalaska , Wisconsin We are observing that irritable-bowel disease is often a problem for members of our Kidney Stone Formers Club . Your diet is on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the article " Boning up on Calcium " in the April 1986 issue and am interested in trying Citracal ( calcium citrate ) . I have contacted several drugstores , but I 'm unable to locate any . Will you please let me know where I might be able to find Citracal ? Violet MacNeilly Chester , Pennsylvania The Egg and You Dear Dr. SerVaas : I 've tried taking calcium supplements because I know I should . My mother broke her hip from osteoporosis . However , whenever I take calcium , I 'm bothered by gas and bloating . It 's painful and makes my waistline seem inches larger . Does calcium citrate really make a difference ? Where can I get it ? Shirley Morgan Grand Rapids , Michigan I too suffered bloating and gas from calcium-carbonate tablets I was taking . Quite by chance Dr. Charles Pak of the University of Texas Health Science Center told me in an interview of an amazing discovery he had made in a most serendipitous manner . He was watching an experiment at the Franklin Institute Science Museum in Philadelphia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bowl of vinegar . Eggshells are made of calcium carbonate , he told me , which reacts with the vinegar and causes carbon-dioxide // bubbles that float the egg to the surface . It dawned on Dr. Pak then and there why 25 percent of women ca n't take calcium carbonate . It is carI 1 l bonate reacting with hydrochloric acid in the stomach that gives off carbon dioxide . The gas does not occur with calcium citrate , he told me . I switched to calcium citrate instead of calcium carbonate , and sure enough , all signs of gas and bloating disappeared . Thank you , Dr. Pak ! He further explains that this reaction , more likely to occur in younger persons who still have good stomach secretions , does not occur in those who use a calcium-citrate supplement . Older people also benefit from calcium citrate , because their ability to absorb calcium decreases with decreased acid secretions . Enhanced absorbability with calcium citrate was demonstrated by Dr. Pak 's study of healthy individuals with no kidney or bone problems : " . . . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater than that absorbed from an equivalent amount of calcium carbonate . " Calcium absorption and relief from bloating are just two important benefits of calcium citrate. if you also happen to be a former of calcium kidney stones , Dr. Pak says that the calcium citrate also helps get the calcium you need while decreasing the chances of precipitating it out as a stone . Two circumstances in which calcium citrate is useful , Dr. Pak says , involve stone formers who have irritable-bowel diseases and those who are prone to osteoporosis . Unfortunately , we have n't been able to find Citracal in our area yet . Mission Pharmacal Company assures us it is working very hard to distribute the product nation wide . You may want to contact the manufacturer directly to find out where it will be available in your area . The address is shown on page 110 . Vitamins Instead of Sulfites Dear Dr. SerVaas : We enjoy your lectures on CBNTV very much . The last one on sulfites was very interesting . It reminded me of a discovery I made . Vitamin C @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lettuce and other green salads , will keep them from getting rust-colored due to oxidation . Also , if you rub the crystals on cut apples or pears they will keep for days in the refrigerator without turning dark . When we cook fruit we add a half teaspoon of crystals in a quart to preserve the light color . It works on tomatoes , too . When my eyes itch , I put a pinch of the crystals in a cup of water . I slap it on my eyes and the itching stops . We are growing lysine corn again this year . Philip H. Faucett Eureka Springs , Arkansas We 'd like to urge restaurants and grocery stores to use Vitamin C instead of sulfites to keep their produce and salads looking fresh . Lysine Helped Dear Dr. SerVaas : I am writing about your segment on the " 700 Club " in regard to L-lysine . I have been subjected to cold sores or fever blisters for as long as I can remember . Too much sun will bring them out  --  nervousness , etc . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500 mg ) once every day . I have not had any cold sores ! The reason this is such a miracle is that my husband ( age 61 ) had coronary-bypass surgery on January 27 , and all through the testing , the changing of medications , the terrible reactions to the changes , the angiogram , and finally the coronary bypass itself ( which surely in the past would have produced a " crop " of fever blisters ) , there have been none . Mrs. Fred W. Zilke Oxnard , California Liberty 's New Look continued from page 102 20 light pits placed at the statue 's base . Some lights will illuminate the statue 's body ; others , trained higher , will reflect off the gold-leaf-covered flame to create the effect of a lighted torch . Lighting engineers have been conducting tests for six months to make sure all is ready when President Reagan visits on the night of July 3 for the official rededication ceremony . When you see the restored Statue of Liberty on television during the Fourth of July weekend , she will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , her future assured for at least another 100 years . Liberty will continue to stand for freedom and opportunity , especially for immigrants  --  like Harry , Jack , Murray , and Izzie . ? ? ? Whatever happened to them ? Well , Izzie , . lack , and Murray became furriers , and Harry became a candy wholesaler . They all married . Izzie had no children . Jack 's son is a messenger in Los Angeles . Harry 's son fled the United States to Canada , to escape the Vietnam War draft , and is now a Canadian citizen . Murray 's son wrote this article .                     