@@432078

 | Half a year into his Presidency , Ronald Reagan faces a growing paradox : Within Washington , he is the clear ruler of the roost ? the most powerful Chief Executive since the early months of Lyndon Johnson . But outside the nation 's capital , opposition to his policies is mounting in many quarters . At the heart of this seeming contradiction is the aura of success that has surrounded the 40th President since he took office on January 20 , promising fundamental changes in the way the U.S. is governed . His record so far includes these accomplishments A string of stunning victories on Capitol Hill , with final approval near for sweeping cuts in many expensive programs that earlier Congresses had steadily enlarged . Laying of the groundwork for a massive program of tax cuts startlingly close to what Reagan proposed in his campaign . An extraordinary physical recovery by the President from a bullet wound suffered last March 30 in an assassination attempt . Highly favorable bipartisan reaction to Reagan 's choice on July 7 of Sandra Day O'Connor as the first woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had a very successful six months ? remarkably so , " says White House Chief of Staff James A. Baker . " I 'd like to see another six months just like it ? but without the shooting . " Yet Reagan 's actions clearly have angered many Americans . A new Gallup Poll found his approval rating had fallen to 59 percent , the lowest on record for an elected President after six months in office . Twenty-eight percent of the people polled by Gallup disapproved of Reagan 's performance , compared with 15 percent who were critical of Jimmy Carter and 16 percent opposed to Richard Nixon at the same point in their Presidencies . Gerald Ford 's popularity fell sharply not long after his swearingin because of his pardon of Nixon . Policies slammed . Some analysts believe Reagan 's standing in the polls might be lower still had the assassination attempt not occurred . The attack ? and Reagan 's plucky , humortinged recuperation ? won sympathy and admiration for the Chief Executive from millions . But protesters now have begun picketing Reagan whenever he leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the rich . " Some observers charge that he lacks a firm grasp on foreign policy . Speaking up for the first time since he left the White House , former President Carter released a letter on July 8 in which he condemned Reagan 's policies as " ill-advised " and " misguided . " Although Reagan aides insist they are unconcerned about these developments , they acknowledge that criticism probably will grow even sharper in the  | months ahead as the President presses his ideas on such controversial issues as voting rights , air pollution , abortion , immigration policy and the MX-missile system . " We 've managed to keep these issues on the back burner , " says cabinet director Craig L. Fuller . " But the back burner 's boiling over . " Democrats , for their part , predict that Reagan 's popularity will continue to slide unless his economic program begins to show results soon . " He seems to be doing very well in getting his program through Congress , " says Senate Minority Whip Alan Cranston ( DCalif . ) . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debatable . " Whatever misgivings some have about his policies , the President 's operating style has proved his best asset in his first half-year in the Oval Office . A unique combination of Hollywood glamour , executive skill and easy wit has set him apart from most predecesors . These traits , plus Reagan 's jovial meetings with members of Congress , have made him better liked on Capitol Hill as an individual than any Chief ecutive in a long time . Biggest victory . Approval of Reaproposed spending cuts by a Democratic-controlled House of Representatives in late June ? totaling close to 40 billion dollars in the next federal budget ? is viewed as the biggest achievement of the administration 's first six months . Not only did this victory represent a big step toward Reagan 's goal of balancing the federal budget by 1984 , but it brought together a bipartisan coalition that could be cruon other matters ? including tax cuts and defense spending . Reagan is given a better than even chance of seeing his proposed tax-cut package passed by lawmakers before they recess for August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patting themselves on the back for lining up a number of conservative Democrats behind a compromise bill that meets the President 's goal of chopping personal income taxes by 25 percent over the next three years . " I do n't think it 's unfair for us to claim a victory of sorts on principle , " says White House Chief of Staff Baker . The appointment of a woman to the Supreme Court also bolstered the President 's reputation as a pragmatic politician . The nomination of O'Connor , a moderate conservative , won praise even from liberal Democrats . House Speaker Thomas P. " Tip " O'Neill , one of the President 's harshest critics , hailed it as " the best thing he 's done since he was inaugurated . " Women 's groups were equally pleased , suggesting that the O'Connor appointment will improve Reagan 's sagging popularity among women voters . Polls show his disapproval rating runs 11 percentage points higher among women than among men . On the minus side , some of the President 's allies on the right were upset because of O'Connor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and opposing limits on abortion . Howard Phillips , national  | director of the Conservative Caucus , predicted that the nomination would throw the President into a " costly fight " with some loyal supporters . Much in evidence during the President 's first six months : Corporate-style management . Experts praise his ability to delegate authority to White House aides and cabinet members . Vice President George Bush and others took on many presidential duties during the two months he was convalescing . Even though Reagan has now recovered , he continues to spurn long hours and shun duties that can be performed by others . Reagan 's published daily schedule seldom lists more than a half-dozen events . He reserves weekends for relaxation and Wednesday afternoons for horseback riding . He will spend most of August vacationing on his California ranch . How rough a road ? Despite Reagan 's winning ways in Washington , danger signs are mounting elsewhere . Reagan 's drive to slash the budget has cost him dearly in public support . The Gallup Poll shows that 44 percent of those who disapprove of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also is reflected in a continuing lack of confidence among financial investors . When Reagan made a brief visit to Chicago on July 7 , about 5,000 demonstrators lined his mile-long motorcade route , many holding placards objecting to budget cuts in fields such as food stamps , jobs and health . With House Speaker O'Neill leading the charge , Democrats are seeking to capitalize on the sentiment expressed by these demonstrators . If it keeps growing , some opponents feel , Reagan 's Capitol Hill successes could quickly evaporate . " The President may be as hard as nails when it comes to programs that help poor people , " O'Neill tells his audiences . " He may be a real tightwad when it comes to programs that help working families . But when it comes to giving tax breaks to the wealthy of this country , the President has a heart of gold . " This picture of the President as an enemy of the poor was inadvertently reinforced in mid-May when the administration unveiled a proposal to put the Social Security system on a sound financial footing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits for millions of people who are planning to retire before age 65 . The plan proved so controversial among older people that some of Reagan 's best friends in the Senate denounced it . The proposal was put in cold storage , with the next move up to Congress . Almost as controversial has been Reagan 's stance in the international arena . Unlike the President 's well coordinated economic program , critics say the administration has failed to put together a strong team to manage foreign policy . Result : Frequent confusion over who speaks for the administration and what its policies are . Cited by analysts is the dramatic action officials took in publicly drawing the line against Cuban military aid to Marxist guerrillas in El Salvador . Shortly thereafter , in response to an adverse public reaction , Reagan simply dropped the challenge , even though Castro had not relented . Also seen as a confusing signal to the world was the President 's decision to lift an embargo on American grain sales to the Soviet Union ? at a time when Russian troops remained poised on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been more critical , however , of what they call the administration 's excessive anti-Soviet rhetoric . They see a tendency to invite EastWest confrontation unnecessarily . The administration also has run into controversy over its abandonment of Carter 's human-rights policies . Reagan 's nomination of hard-liner Ernest Lefever for the job of State Department human-rights chief had to be withdrawn in the face of stiff Senate opposition . And Reagan still faces a fight in Congress over his proposal to sell AWACS spy planes to Saudi Arabia . Some of the foreign-policy headaches have been rooted in persistent friction between top White House officials and Secretary of State Alexander Haig . The latest tiff came in late June when Haig 's aides attacked United Nations Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick for her role in a U.N . resolution condemning the Israelis for bombing Iraq 's nuclear reactor . The President censured Haig , issuing a statement describing Kirkpatrick as a " heroine . " The Haig-White House feud is not the only personnel problem the President has faced . Critics have attacked him for the slowness of his appointments ; women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs . If events of his first six months are any indication of what is to come , Ronald Reagan is likely to remain personally popular , but his policies will have plenty of ups and downs .                     