@@432370

 | The people of America are notorious fidgets . Nowhere else do fashions come and go so swiftly . It 's a natural feature , observes an indulgent world , of a restless young nation . The oddity is this business of the Constitution . Americans have stuck with a 1787 model that we adopted when there were fewer than 4 million souls on the eastern edge of the continent , while every other country has traded in . The forms of government that existed among the great powers of 1787 have all been superseded , and in some cases the nation-states themselves have vanished . Even Mother England , which had already cut off its King 's head , took many decades to reach the degree of democracy worked out at Philadelphia in 1787 . America , in fact , is not a green young nation ; it is the oldest in terms of its Constitution . It is hardly surprising that political ears cocked for the 21st century detect a knock in the 18th-century engine . Is n't it time to fix things ? There has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 13 states would fly apart . But it was , of course , a slow virus that provided the lethal trial 74 years later . The English critic Walter Bagehot blamed the Constitution , not the people South or North , for the Civil War . The Constitution , he thought , was a vicious piece of work because it failed to control the furious impulses of democracy . It relied on fancy paper checks and ingenious balancing devices instead of placing power in the hands of men of education and property . It was bound to catapult into office nonentities like Lincoln and , in a great crisis , cripple Presidents with laws they would have to break ? and a Congress they could not direct . Bagehot predicted dissolution and anarchy . Modern gridlock Nobody worries much today about the quality of the glue . It held through the Great Depression , the traumas of McCarthy and civil rights , an unpopular war in Vietnam and the muddled ' 60s . But if the Constitution has delivered unity amid diversity , some of Bagehot 's barbs stick in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength of the parliamentary system of England have seen numerous times when our separation of the legislative and executive powers has produced the gridlock he predicted . President Carter had his notorious energy malaise , Reagan his stalemates in budget and arms control . And there has been a showdown Bagehot could not have foreseen , where the parliamentary system would have been defter : Had President Nixon been a European prime minister , he could not have survived forfeiting the confidence of the legislature . It is not merely hoity-toity Englishmen and academic theorists who complain today . Men with long experience in government , like Lloyd Cutler and Douglas Dillon , blame the government 's structure for the policy hodgepodge , where everybody passes the buck . Proposed reforms are as thick as cherry blossoms : Presidents free to give cabinet seats to congressmen , six-year terms for Presidents and congressmen , a line-item veto for the President , presidential and congressional powers to dissolve the legislature . There is also a form of constitutional bootlegging whereby special lobbies are attempting to foist nostrums of political and social policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ban on abortions . That 's not what the Constitution is for , as we learned to our cost with Prohibition . The genuine constitutional reforms would fuse rather than separate power , and we are recommended the centralized British system , where a Prime Minister draws authority from the votes of the majority party in the House of Commons . There is confusion here among reformers about whose power the fused power would be . Some advocates of fusion think it would put Congress in charge , some the President . There is no doubt about the British experience . Whatever the outward forms , the inward reality is that Britain operates an elective dic- tatorship . The Prime Minister may need the support of the members in the majority party , but they are under the Prime Minister 's thumb . About 25 percent of them can hope for government jobs . Ministers fear the Prime Minister 's power to sack anyone from the cabinet . And they all fear the power to call a general election . Members of Parliament of the majority party are not watchdogs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poodles . There are many political ills in the American system unforeseen by the Founding Fathers : Voter turnout is No. 20 in the league table of 21 democracies ; money plays too big a role in elections . But fusion is a bad idea for America . It embodies the idea that authority knows best , and that 's inimical to the spirit of a republic of equals . Call it dither if you will , but for every example of opportunity lost , there are others where check and balance have saved America from domestic turmoil and foreign misadventure , and protected minorities from oppressive majorities . Nor is immobility endemic . Where there is leadership and openness , a bold consensus for action can be built . Time and again over 200 years , Congress and the people have responded swiftly and resolutely to a President who knows how to draw on the ultimate moral authority : We , the people .                     