@@330963

Five years after forming the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War , the organization 's U.S. and Soviet founders met last week in Geneva , the city of its birth , to plan future activities . They had barely begun to talk before they got exhilarating news : the IPPNW had been awarded the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize . <P> The announcement from Oslo was a personal triumph for Bernard Lown of Boston and Yevgeni Chazov of Moscow , the cardiologists who have presided over the antiwar organization from its beginning . The two met in 1960 and got to know each other at international professional conferences over the next two decades . They launched IPPNW in hopes of slowing the arms race . With headquarters in Boston and a branch in London , it now claims the support of 135,000 physicians and health-care professionals in 41 nations ( 60,000 doctors in the Soviet Union alone , according to Chazov ) . The Nobel judges lauded the group for having " performed a considerable service to mankind by spreading authoritative information and by creating an awareness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The physicians ' co-presidents differ markedly in political sophistication and influence . Lown , 64 , long associated with Harvard 's School of Public Health , is largely apolitical except for the subject of disarmament , on which he has strong opinions . Last week he stated that the unilateral Soviet ban on nuclear testing , announced in July , " should be reciprocated by the West " as an inducement for " enormous achievements " at the upcoming Reagan-Gorbachev summit . Chazov , 56 , director of the vast U.S.S.R. Cardiology Research Center , is a member of the Communist Party Central Committee and head of the group that oversees medical care for members of the ruling Politburo . The two have become close personal friends during their years with the IPPNW , and at their press conference last week they accommodated newsmen by backslapping American-style and kissing Russian-style.                     