@@337648

Three or four years ago , when the surprise of new figurative painting coming out of Europe was still fresh , when American critics were slapping the label of neoexpressionism on everything that moved , there was a good deal of excitement in New York City over three young Italian painters nicknamed , whether for convenience or as a tribute to their common origin in the land of opera , the three Cs  --  Sandro Chia , Francesco Clemente and Enzo Cucchi . <P> Cucchi made end-of-history folk art , full of skulls and torrents of lava , cemeteries and crowing cocks . Chia , in a melange of 20th century styles ranging from early Mussolini to late Chagall , did ladylike coal heavers expelling wind while floating in postures vaguely derived from classical statuary . And Clemente ? Somewhat more elusive , various and parody resistant : a survivor . The three Cs are now reduced to two , if one can judge from the abysmal quality of Chia 's New York show last winter  --  whimsies impacted into cliche by the stress of overproduction . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and drawings . He has three separate shows ( one more than Cucchi had earlier in the season ) at the Leo Castelli , Sperone Westwater and Mary Boone galleries . <P> At 33 , Clemente is a curiously polymorphous artist . He works , not always with the same assurance , in numerous media : fresco , watercolor , pastel , oil on canvas , sketchy washes over silver leaf . His work embraces a lot of art-book references , from the overripe baroque of his native Naples to Tantric symbolism . It is full of occultism , tarot , necromancy , devils , Sabbats and pallid sexual grotesquerie . It always looks hasty . It is heavy on the orifices : eating , coupling , defecating ; the mood varies from mysterioso rhetoric to voyeurism . One moment Clemente is quoting poses from Giulio Romano 's illustrations to Aretino to Indian miniatures ( he spends part of each year painting near Madras ) ; the next , copying a spiral staircase out of Mario Praz 's Illustrated History of Furnishing ; and after that , doing a billboard-size head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the secret of his success is that his eclecticism creates surface expectations of major art ( complexity , depth , psychic intensity and so on ) without discharging them in explicit meanings . He wittily exploits the affinity between artist and charlatan . A symbolist with roller skates , he moves very quickly across a vast terrain of appropriated motifs , and the results are usually banal . Even in today 's morass of worthless " personal " imagery , it would be hard to find a sillier painting than one in the Castelli show of a green whirlpool a la Poe with a man and his separated genitals disappearing into it .                     