@@487756

now , God willing , dead . Friedman was particularly useful in helping that view along . On November 25 he loyally quoted " Israeli Government officials " as saying that " first indications were that someone in the Israeli intelligence community , acting on his own initiative , might have undertaken a spying operation in contravention ' of Government policy and never informed the country 's political leaders . " The next day Friedman was at it again , reporting the rumor that " a present or former Mossad agent was running an independent operation in Washington , without the knowledge of the current Mossad chief or the political leadership . " It became increasingly hard to read all this without laughing , since it was simultaneously emerging that the Pollard operation had been run by Rafi Eitan , who had worked for Begin , Shamir and Peres . Some newspapers took a more detached view than The Times . On November 28 , the day The Times was reporting that U.S. and Israeli officials had agreed to cooperate in the investigation , The Boston Globe 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reported that " US officials said yesterday that Israel was being uncooperative in the investigation of the Navy counterterrorism analyst . " A day later Joe Pichirallo and Don Oberdorfer of The Washington Post said that " tensions " between the United States and Israel were rising because the Israeli government had broken its promise of cooperation and withdrawn two diplomats involved in the Pollard operation . Indeed , Friedman 's early reports were sufficiently craven to cause Curtis Wilkie of The Boston Globe to report sourly from Jerusalem on December : " The Israeli government has not ... objected so far to a story that appeared Friday in The New York Times , which has historically been Israel 's chief conduit for news for American consumption . The piece , Written by Thomas Friedman- , . . . and carefully attributed to a ' highly placed ' source in the Israeli government , serves as an unofficial but authoritative Israeli ex- planation of recent events . " So dog-in-the-mangerish a descriptioh of The Times 's role in U.S.-Israeli relations is extremely rare ? at least in public . Perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 30 about Israel 's excuses , Friedman somewhat stiffened up his subse-. quent coverage . The Pollard business is very strange . Why , after years of tolerant restraint , would the U.S. government arrest someone spying for the Israelis ? Maybe because Pollard was allegedly taking secrets from the U.S. Navy , an institution with a memory long enough to stretch back to the U.S.S. Liberty , the spy ship attacked by Israeli fighter planes during the Six Day War , with the loss of thirty-four lives . The consternation of Israeli officials , and of many U.S. commentators , is puzzling in view of several quite widely dis- . , cussed episodes . Without Israeli government-sponsored spying , how may we suppose that nuclear material was smuggled out of the NUMEC plant in Apollo , Pennsylvania , in 1965 and transported to Israel to assist in the country 's manufacture of nuclear ' weapons ? Among the documents removed by Iranian students from the U.S. Embassy in Teheran and later discussed in the U.S. press vyas a March 1979 C.I.A . internal report headed " Israel : Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this interesting document are the following : In one instance Shin Beth the Israeli internal security agency tried to penetrate the US Consulate General in Jerusalem ' through a clerical employee who was having an affair with a Jerusalem girl . They rigged a fake abortion case against the employee in an unsuccessful effort to recruit him . Before this attempt at blackmail , they had tried to get the Israeli girl to elicit information from her boyfriend . Two other important targets in Israel are the US Embassy in Tel Aviv and the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization ( UNTSO ) with headquarters in Jerusalem . There have been two or three crude efforts to recruit Marine guards for monetary reward . In the cases involving UNTSO personnel , the operations involved intimidation and blackmail . In 1954 , a hidden microphone planted by the Israelis was discovered in the Office of the US Ambassador in Tel Aviv . In 1956 , telephone taps were found connected to two telephoneS in the residence of the US military attache . do 1960 , a microphone was discovered behind the wall Praitejin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jordan-Israel Mixed Armistice Commission Office. ? - Another way of allaying any sense of shock over the Pollard affair would be to study Michael Saba'i book The Armageddon Network , published in 1984 by fA.ripana Books and not widely reviewed in the American press . Saba was the man who , while sitting in a Washington coffee shop , overheard Steven Bryen , at that time working for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , discussing classified U.S. information with Israeli officials see Kai Bird and Max Holland , " Dispatches , " June 22 . Nothing happened to Bryen , who had powerful protectors , despite an internal Justice Department memorandum calling for a grand jury investigation . Bryen now works for Richard Perle , Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy , in which role he supervises the transfer , or nontransfer , of technical information . Perle , through whose interested fingers an avalanche of classified information has passed over the years ( often into the column of Rowland Evans and Robert Novak ) , was reported by Jeff Gerth in The New York Times of April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israeli arms manufacturers while a senior official in the Defense Department . There is , in short , nothing surprising about Pollard spying for the Israelis . The only odd aspect of the affair is that ' someone wanted to arrest him . We may safely assume that after its manly apology the Israeli government , realizing that Pollard and his wife , Anne , still have to go on trial , will follow William Safire 's advice and appoint a commission to mount a no-holds-barred investigation , which will be praised in the U.S. press for its self-lacerating honesty , after which time it will be business as usual . Down-the-Gangplank Liberals Bill Moyers , once a liberal icon , now sounds like George Will . Consider his commentaries from Geneva , which should have permitted him to go athwart the consensus of the assembled U.S. press corps . On November 18 , byway of a quotation from de Tocqueville , he contrasted Gorbachev , " the true collective man , " with the " mull-town personalism of Dixon , Illinois , burnished by the Hollywood image of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ending , " by which we may assume he meant Ronald Reagan . Moyers had proceeded to Geneva via the Berlin wall , from where he courageously reported on November 15 that " a system that came to power by coogspiracy and intrigue and stays in power by repression can not feel secure about itself . " Not for Moyers the notion tit the Soviet Union ( " A military giant . . . but . . . a paranoid economic cripple " ) might feel insecure for reasons connected with the present nuclear capacity and future nuclear intentions of the United States and of the small-town personalist who leads it . At no point did Moyers bother himelf with the subject of the summit  --  arms control  --  or with what the two sr s we proposing . Instead , in his commentary of November ' exhibited fufther intellectual originality by remarking , f Mr. Gorbachev strives as efficiently for disarmament as he did for agriculture , the Soviet Union will simply sink opt of sight under the weight of missiles , guns and tanks , and this summit will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moyers had a few guts back of his belt buckle . Not anymore . Would he have dared to say from Geneva , " If Mr. Reagan strives as efficiently for disar ment as he has for balancing the budget , the United will simply sink out of sight under the weight of miss &; guns and tanks and this summit will have been unnoessary " ? Would you , Bill ? The Private Use of Public Space The architect 1 . M. Pei supplied his usual grin in a photograph accompanying a respectful article in the November 24 New York Times Magazine about a pyramid he designed now being erected in a courtyard of the Louvre . What is the point of this ridiculous structure ? Pei told 77IF Times : " You need to be welcomed by some kind of great space . . . . That space must have volume and it must have light and it must have a surface identification . You have to be able to look at it and say , ' Ah , this is the entrance . ' " As far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiencing enormous difficulty in discovering the entrance to the Louvre . What Pei really meant was that in our unfolding fin de siecle , public institutions need an area with " volume " and " surface identification " where rich people can assemble for cocktail parties , banquets and kindred functions , to which the word " charity " is attached to satisfy bodies such as the I.R.S. Consider Pei 's last essay in triangular form , the East Building of the National Gallery in Washington , which was completed in 1978 . The museum 's ? pictures are secreted in tiny closets . Voluminous space is given over to an immense area whose sole function is to contain the fetes and galas mentioned aboye . In the same spirit Mies van der Rohe 's 1929 Barcelona Pavilion is now being restored solely for cocktail parties and allied festivities . - The main purpose of the Metropolitan Museum in New York these days is to supply its various courts and arbors for black-tie affairs . At the New York Public Library we find the same dismal story . It is entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed word , under the excuse that the stacks are under reconstruction . The truth is that the library now exists solely to defend itself , rather like an aircraft carrier . Month after month it hosts splendiferous charitable functions , faithfully reported in The New York Times , in which " Friends of the Library " prattle and prance in their finery , inviting the admiration of all at their munificence in preventing this noble institution from crumbling into dust . The way things are going , the library will soon be closed permanently to the public , the better to permit fashionable charitable affairs to be held on its premises . And people will regard it as natural , even good , that such a public institution should survive only as an ap-. pendage to the social columns of The Times . Let the regular patrons of these parties at the library go to Washington and chain themselves to the benches of the Senate Finarice Committee 's chamber , demanding that these places receive adequate government funding . Then it may become possible for the library 's staff to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume are now blocked by cases of empty champagne bottles . As the World Turns " Holly Coors , whose refrigerator door is laden with religious messages , says the most important things in life are faith , family , and freedom . ' When I say freedom , I mean free enterprise , ' she says . ' That 's what makes it possible to have opportunities . ' " These elevated sentiments were volunteered by the wife of Joseph Coors , noted funder of far-right causes , to the Denver Post Magazine for October 20 . She may run for the Colorado governorship . Holly Coors , who seems to share her husband 's Cro-Magnon views , conducts a busy life and " credits her two housekeepers , each of whom has been with the family for over thirty years , and company gardeners who tend to the famous Coors rose garden and expansive grounds , with helping to - make it all possible . " ? Footnote : It may have seemed more natural to credit Mr. and Mrs. Coors with " Neanderthal " views . But the Neanderthals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting in caves and their nights in frolicking and love . The trouble is that they were hideously . igly and therefore foolishly enamored of the good-looking Cro-Magnons , a bunch of ignorant , bellicose phallocrats . They intermixed and soon the days were given over to war and the nights to expensive Cro-Magnon banquets to " save the caves , " on whose walls the paintings speedily decayed amid the toxic fumes from the charitable revelry . 