@@493960

Reagan 's Cronies Ronald Reagan 's best friends are one another 's best friends . Holmes Tuttle , an automobile dealer , and Henry Salvatori , an oil man , knew each other well from Barry Goldwater 's presidential campaign , when they asked Reagan to run for governor in California . Tuttle is on the board of directors of Justin Dart 's company , Dart and Kraft . Alfred Bloomingdale , whc started Diner 's Club , and Earle Jorgensen , a steel executive , use the same interior decorator that Salvatori does . Nancy Reagan swaps Hollywood stories with Bonita Wrather , who , like Mrs. Reagan , used to be an actress , and who now is married to business executive lack Wrather . They all eat dinner together a lot . Holmes Tuttle told the New York Titnies last May that the group , unofficially known as the " kitchen cabinet , " believes in the free enterprise system . " We felt that if it was to be preserved , instead of going around bellyaching about it we should go out and do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a common interest and decided to help Ron . " Does the common interest lead to excessive homogeneity ? William French Smith , Reagan 's attorney , who became attorney general last week , does n't think so . " This group represents a pretty good cross-section of people who are in the spectrum of what you could call Meagan 's , " he told the Washington Post . If the irony of this remark was intentional , Smith may have the makings of an amusing attorney general . In fact , the group is so homogeneous that it is rarely described in newspaper profiles as a collection of individuals . Rather it is described as a collective portrait of the Los Angeles businessman , that self-made maverick who made a huge fortune during the postwar California boom by taking chances that made his timid Wall Street colleagues tremble , and who has lived to a ripe old age without a moment 's thought of retiring or naming a successor . This portrait is inaccurate in two particulars . First , not all the members of the circle are self-made , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are Alfred Bloomingdale is the most obvious exception . He is the grandson of the man who founded the Manhattan department store . ( The family still owns the building and the land . ) Bloomingdale played football at Brown , where he graduated in 1938 , then went to work at the store , which , though no longer family-owned , was still friendly to Bloomingdales . He on tired of the work and went into show business as i an agent and producer . In 1946 he married a Cal-fornia-born woman , Betty Lee Newling , who persuaded him to settle in Los Angeles . Four years later , Bloomingdale started Diner 's Club , the first major credit card company , and made the Bloomingdale family a second fortune . A similar path was taken by lack Wrather . Wrather inherited the family oil business , sold it , then became a TV producer and , ultimately , chairman of the Wrather Corporation , whose holdings have included Musak , Inc. , the Disneyland Hotel , " Lassie , " " The Lone Ranger , " and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the George Bush school of self-made men . Like Bush , who left a wealthy home in Connecticut and made a wealthier one in Texas , they started with advantages that made their subsequent successes less startling . Justin Dart also started with advantages not commonly enjoyed by self-made men . He was educated at a Pennsylvania prep school and at Northwestern University and , most important , married Ruth Walgreen , heiress of a successful Chicago drug store chain . Still , Dart made uncommonly good use of these advantages . His term at Walgreen , where he became director within five years , outlasted his marriage by two . He joined Rexall Drugs as vice president and director in 1941 , persuading the company to move from Boston to California , and became president the following year . In 1946 the company became Dart Industries , whose holdings came to include Duracell and the enormously successful Tupperware , and which merged last September with Kraft . Dam is probably the most successful and powerful member of the Reagan circle , if not quite the " bootstrap pioneer " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salvatori and Earle Jorgensen are closer to what the Times had in mind . Both were sons of your immigrants . Salvatori grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan , worked his way through the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University , and eventually founded Western Geophysical , an oil company later absorbed by Litton Industries . ( Salvatori was director of the latter until 1967 . ) Jorgensen grew up in San Francisco , never went to college , and founded Jorgensen Steel in 1920 , when he was 22 . He is now 82 , and still chief executive officer and chairman of the board of what has become one of the biggest steel companies in America . Salvatori and Jorgensen are genuinely self-made men . T HE SECOND inaccuracy in the collective portrait of the kitchen cabinet he s in the exaggeration of the difference between the west coast maverick and the Wall Street company man . Things may have been different in the boom years of the 1950s , but in recent years the maverick has tended either to be a bit more careful or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although Henry Salvatori claims that the result of the recent influx of eastern businessmen to California is that " they change their ways ? we do n't change ours , " there is more evidence to the contrary . The merger of Kraft and Dart is a case in point . Dart has long had the reputation of a man who follows his instincts and tries his luck . A number of unlucky investments resulted , including a disastrous 1970 resort development venture that led to two class aection suits alleging unfair sales practices . But a lucky acquisition ? that of Tupperware in 1958 ? was so successful that the conglomerate remained strong . The success , Dart fears , will not continue . " We 're already in 35 countries , " he told Fortune last July . " Where do we go next ? Poland ? " The merger with Kraft , whose sales have increased 7.4 percent annually over the past five years ( compared to Dart Industries ' 14.5 percent ) would result in " diversification , security , stability , " Dart said On June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merger , emphasized that John M. Richman , chairman of Kraft , was a " Harvard-trained " businessman . Dart , according to Pamela G. Hollie , " has come to recognize that a corporation the size of Dart Industries , with 1979 earnings of $72 million , can not be run on whim . " The value of the collective portrait of the Los Angeles businessman is not that the kitchen cabinet conforms to it , but that it tends to suit the members ' view of themselves . That may be why Holmes Tuttle described every member of the group as " self-made . " It may also explain why Justin Dart 's name appears 20 times on the outside of the company headquarters on Beverly Boulevard , in contrast to the pretentiously discreet lettering on Wall Street facades . It almost certainly explains the confident , stand-tall way these men express their opinions . After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , Justin Dart advised Ronald Reagan , in the presence of an LA journalist , to call for the Marines to be sent in Dart might cite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortitude , " but it is merely recklessness of the sort that makes one wonder whether Reagan 's circle has , through its homogeneity of ideals , lost touch with the large group of people who take exception to that kind of talk . Henry Salvatori sees no need to recognize even other views in his own ( Republican ) party : " I do n't know what ' moderate ' means , " he says , " but conservatism has taken over . " The realities of life and business have come between these men and the ideal of the self-made maverick . Now they must look past the ideal to find out what " moderate " means . 