@@486977

The Great Depression was a time when black Americans became more like white Americans , as poor blacks found themselves included in plans designed to deal with suddenly widespread white poverty . As never before or since , blacks and whites were similarly dependent upon government welfare programs , and by 1936 both groups were similarly supportive of the Democratic liberalism responsible for these programs . Since then , whites have generally moved on to greater affluence and new political allegiances while blacks have for the most part remained mired in Depression conditions and have retained , with unparalleled unanimity , old political loyalties . Given the present state of American politics , most black voters will continue to support ideologically unremarkable Democratic Presidential candidates ( although Jesse Jackson 's pseudomilitant jingles obscure this fact ) . The three books under review remind us , how ... ? er , that the incorporation of blacks into the liberal Democratic coalition was merely one manifestation of a general transformation of black political thought . The Depression forced Afro-Americans to draw on both separatist and integrationist political traditions . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's visionary black nationalism Clayborne Carson is an associate professor of history at Stanford University and the author of In Struggle : SNCC and the Black Awakening of the 1960s ( Harvard University Press ) . survived the 1920s , black cultural assertiveness and racial militancy remained evident even as blacks struggled to enter the American mainstream . Between the extremes of racial chauvinism and acculturation , of revolutionary resistance and accommodation , black people developed new militant political forms that were neither separatist nor assimilationist but instead combined racial pride and desire for self-determination with a firm demand for fair treatment within American society . More than any other predominantly white institution , the Communist Party responded to these converging trends and provided models for subsequent black militancy . This was despite the fact that the party neither attracted a sizable black membership nor appealed to many black voters . Nonetheless , though no more than a thousand blacks in Harlem were Communists at any one time , historian Mark Naison demonstrates that the Communist Party singularly reflected the new spirit of black pride and militancy that characterized Harlem in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emergence of militant protest activity as a significant force in black politics . A politically committed scholar , Naison is clearly disappointed that the Communist Party , for reasons that still plague present-day socialists , was not more successful in attracting work ingclass blacks , but he also sympathizes with the difficulties Communists faced as they attempted to confront a legacy of racial oppression that was largely ignored in Marxist thought . His thoughtful , judicious study vividly conveys a heady atmosphere of political experimentation that produced important insights about the nature of race and class identity as well as tragic ideological blunders . Previous historians have belittled the Communist Party 's contributions to black political development , emphasizing instead the party 's betrayal of black interests when they conflicted with those of white Communists or of the Soviet Union . Wilson Record , for example , argued in The Negro and the Communist Party ( 1951 ) that the party simply used the race issue to pursue the goal of world Communism . Naison disagrees . The party did alter its position of racial issues at the behest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the party 's racial policies were greatly influenced by black organizers and community leaders who were independent of the party 's control yet essential allies in the complex world of Harlem politics . The party 's plan for black " self-determination " in the Deep South , for example , was clearly the product of Comintern concessions to nationalist movements elsewhere in the world rather than a response to black nationalist sentiments among Afro - Americans . But the plan was also part of a larger effort to demonstrate Communist sympathy for integrationist as well as nationalist militancy . Recognizing that substantial black support was essential to any successful socialist movement in the United States , Communist leaders went beyond attacking the use of derogatory racial epithets . They took the more difficult step of breaking down racial , barriers , bringing immigrants and blacks into daily contact within the integrated groups that replaced the foreign-language federations that had been the basis of the party 's support in the 1920s . They urged party members to treat blacks as equals and to expand their knowledge of the black experience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dance ( in order to prevent social isolation of black females ) to the sponsorship of countless forums on black culture and history . Naison recounts the 1931 " trial " of party member August Yokinen , who was charged with verbally supporting the ejection of blacks from a dance at the Finnish Workers Club in Harlem . Yokinen 's conviction and temporary expulsion came after carefully staged public testimony at the Harlem Casino , with black Communist Richard B. Moore acting as defense attorney and Yokinen admitting his guilt ; nevertheless , the event convinced many blacks that the party was serious in its campaign against internal racism . The most significant demonstration of the party 's commitment to equality was its immediate and steadfast support for the Scottsboro Boys , who had been convicted of rape and condemned to death or prison in a lynch-mob atmosphere in Alabama . The N.A.A.C.P. attacked the party for exploiting the case , but its criticisms merely indicated the extent to which it was initially placed on the defensive by the party 's vigorous efforts to demonstrate the innocence of the defendants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own N.A.A.C.P. has sold us out " and impetuously proclaimed , in 1933 , that " the day will come when being called a Communist will be the highest honor that can be paid an individual and that day is coming soon . " Although Powell and other black leaders would later become disillusioned with the party , their early enthusiasm is understandable considering that the Democratic and Republican Parties would not even include anti-lynching legislation in their platforms during the 1930s . Until 1936 , no black delegate had ever attended a Democratic National Convention . Until that year , even the Socialist Party did not dare advocate " social equality " for blacks in its platform . A measure of the Communist Party 's success in identifying itself with the cause of black civil rights was the degree to which , in many sections of the nation , racist officials in the 1950s and 1960s equated interracial civil rights gatherings with Communist activity . Ultimately , the Communist Party failed in Harlem because its interracial social network never attracted many working-class blacks . Although the party initiated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slowly among white workers , whom most blacks saw as the greatest obstacle to black advancement . Although it identified itself as the vanguard of the working class , the Communist Party had its greatest impact on the social consciousness of middle-class reformers , black and white . The party 's antiracist propaganda and self-conscious race mixing impressed a number of black intellectuals  --  including Richard Wright , Langston Hughes and Paul Robeson  --  but black workers were more interested in winning tangible economic gains through boycotts , which often , to the party 's dismay , pitted blacks against European immigrants . The party 's most visible success in appealing to black voters occurred , ironically , during the 1940s . Although the party 's de-emphasis of civil rights militancy after the Hitler-Stalin Pact destroyed most of its credibility among Harlem blacks , it was able to forge pragmatic ties with a segment of Harlem 's middle-class leadership , most notably with Powell . In 1944 party leader Benjamin Davis even won election to New York 's City Council as Powell 's designated successor . By that time , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the National Negro Congress , had used the 1941 March on Washington movement to launch a largely successful effort to exclude Communists from the civil rights struggle . Despite the anticommunism of the cold war years , the Communist-led movements of the 1930s had permanently altered the tactical and ideological vocabularies of militant black politics . In New York , especially , the political culture which the party helped to create among blacks and Jews during the Depression profoundly influenced subsequent black radicalism . Activists on the margins of both groups kept the spirit of vigorous political and cultural dissent alive . Among the products of this culture , curiously , were a few blacks , including Stokely Carmichael and Harold Cruse , who would later offer trenchant critiques of the party 's intellectual legacy . Naison reflects these critiques when he suggests that the Communist Party of the 1930s broadened popular understanding of black culture while failing to penetrate the cultural world of the black masses . Communists offered blacks a positive racial image , but it was not an image blacks created for themselves . Religious cults , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for self-expression and a sense of security that secular radicalism . . . had difficulty matching . " But black religious culture was not static during the Depression , as Robert Weisbrot makes clear in his important new study of Father Devine , leader of the foremost black religious movement of the era . Devine has often been dismissed as a religious charlatan , but Weisbrot insists that Devine did not " bask , immobile , in the adulation of his followers " ; instead , " he redirected their devotion outward , in support of the reform causes he valued : integration , equal rights , and economic cooperation . " Although Weisbrot may be faulted for too readily accepting Devine 's view of himself , he has proved beyond question that Devine 's Peace Mission programs were a serious response to the Depression . Indeed , far more than competing black nationalist cults , the Peace Mission , with its opulent banquets and communal homes , offered poor blacks a rare alternative to New Deal subsistence programs . Weisbrot does riot greatly add to our sketchy knowledge of Devine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evangelist 's sudden rise to prominence . Devine became a hero am org blacks after he was convicted in 1932 of disturbing the peace of white citizens in Long Island . When the obviously biased judge suddenly died three days after sentencing Devine to one year in jail , Devine was reported to have commented , " 1 hated to do it " Thereafter , thousands of blacks ( and a substantial number of whites ) responded to Devine 's radical theology , which contrasted sharply with the prevailing conservatism of the black clergy . Devine 's followers , often middle-aged and female , gave up their worldly possessions , abstained from sex and devoted themselves totally to building a world without racial prejudice and economic exploitation . Weisbrot describes Devine as a shrewd administrator who used the donated resources and voluntary labor of a core group of " Angels " to provide food and clothing for a much larger group of " Children " ( Weisbrot estimates 50,000 became " fellow travelers " ) . DeVine 's charismatic leadership style may have led many of his followers to place their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action , but his teachings were not inconsistent with the secular progressive politics of the period . Like most black leaders , Devine distrusted unions ; however , as Weisbrot points out , he also " denounced the exploitation of workers , and maintained at least sporadic contact with union leaders in order to promote common economic goals . " He advocated international disarmament , sweeping civil rights legislation , government takeovers of idle plants and tue nationalization of banking . Rather than urging withdrawal from politics , Devine helped found the All People 's Party , which endorsed some Communist and radical candidates . Despite fundamental disagreements on many issues , thousands of Devinites joined with Communists to march against fascism and racism Devine told Democratic and Republican leaders who criticized his leftist ties , " Give me something better than the Communists have and 1 will endorse it . " In his effort to portray Devine as a progressive leader , Weisbrot does miss an opportunity to discuss the limitations and dangers of charisma , religious or otherwise , as a major component of a mass struggle He mentions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idealistic and charismatic religious leader , Jim Jones , but ak ? , . ues that the former " combined a will to power with constructive purpose , " while " Jones ultimately made power alone the center of his cult role . " The important point to make , however , is that uncritical reliance on the leadership of any individual undermines a group 's ability to recognize and struggle against tyranny , which thrives as much on the faith of followers as on the ambition of leaders . Whatever his limitations , Devine contributed to the modernization of Afro-American political life by emphasizing the radical implications of black religious values . Some Communists derided ( as well as envied ) Devine 's " reactionary " influence over the black masses , but the Peace Mission actually exposed blacks to the tangible benefits of cooperative economics , while Communists mainly sought to gain equal treatment for blacks in New Deal programs . Nevertheless , the fact that the New Deal programs were far more substantial than Devine 's and that they were controlled by liberals rather than Communists helps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of most blacks . The transference of black political loyalties from the Republican to the Democratic Party has proved permanent , while the successes of the Communists and Devine were ephemeral  --  despite the fact that they promised blacks far more than Franklin Roosevelt ever did During the 1932 campaign , Roosevelt did not even bother to respond to an N.A.A.C.P. question  --  aire about his racial views , nor did he ever propose a single piece of civil rights legislation Moreover , many New Deal programs discriminated against blacks . As Nancy Weiss states at the beginning of her careful study of black voting behavior , the political realignment involved a paradox " The New Deal paid only the most limited attention to blacks , and vet it was in response to the New Deal that blacks moved into the Democratic fold. ? Weiss resolves the paradox through an exhaustive analysis of voting patterns in the 1936 election , which sig naled the black " farewell to the party of Lincoln . " She finds that lower-class blacks led the movement into the Democratic Party , and that these voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than about Roosevelt 's unimpressive civil rights policies . This conclusion will surprise few historians , although as Weiss concedes , black adulation of Roosevelt , even among the lower class , was based partly on noneconomic factors , including the President 's black appointments and his wife 's social activism . Indeed , Weiss 's study is weakened by its overemphasis on proving that lower-class black precincts voted somewhat more heavily Democratic than other black precincts . The rapid shift of lower-class blacks to the Democratic ranks is less historically significant than the generalized growth of the collective political confidence and sophistication of all classes of blacks as they began to realize that they could be the beneficiaries rather than merely the victims of American democracy These three historical studies suggest important continuities linking black politics of the 1930s with those of the 1960s . The topics of the books poverty , militant protest activity , charismatic religious leadership and liberal reform coalitions  --  became the analysis , Albert Einstein , and religion and socialism variously dated 1949 , 1951 , 1950 and , presumably , the present . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Kristol takes typical pains to be dogmatic : " And lest there be any misunderstanding as to what I am saying , I will put it as bluntly as possible : If you care for the quality of life in our American democracy , then you have to be for censorship . " Really ? Then there 's " Machiavelli and the Profanation of Politics " in which , in the course of an intriguing survey of Machiavelli 's shifting reputation over the centuries , Kristol quite unnecessarily asserts , " The scholarship on Machiavelli and his times has been voluminous , technically superb , and almost invariably misleading . " This verdict exemplifies the almost casual claim to omniscience that is a second badge of membership in the New York intellectual community A proper Commentary or New York Review of Books critique will make plain its author 's certainty that he or she knows more about the topic than anyone else and certainly could have written a better book than the miserable wretch under dissection . New York intellectuals prefer essays to books , possibly because the strain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finally , it does n't hurt in this community to be Jewish . What , then , is the neoconservative ethos that threads through these mostly topical commentaries ? In " Confessions of a True , Self-Confessed -- Perhaps the Only -- Neoconservative , ' " offers a convenient eight-point gull* Neoconservatism begins as an adverse reaction to the excesses of contemporary liberalism . In emotional style it is " antiromantic in substance and temperament . " Its philosophical roots are classical , " admiring of Aristotle , respectful of Locke , distrustful of Rousseau " To ward bourgeois society , neoconservatives harbor a " detached attachment . " For , " in the spirit of Tocqueville , neoconservatives do not think that liberal-democratic capitalism is the best of all imaginable worlds  --  only the best under the circumstances , of all possible worlds . " Propositions 5 , 6 and 7 are , respectively , faith in a " predominantly market economy , " stress on the necessity of economic growth " not out of any enthusiasm for the material goods of this world , but because they seek economic growth as indispensable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frugal welfare state " that takes a degree of responsibility for helping to shape the preferences that people exercise in a free market  --  to ' elevate ' them if you will " Finally , " Neoconservatives look upon family and religion as indispensable pillars of a decent society . " , 