@@486757

We mourn Penny Lernoux 's death , and not only because she was a fine reporter and analyst . She also took the time to encourage young American journalists who hoped to journey , however modestly , down the trail she blazed . I met Penny several times , most recently this past spnng when she returned to lecture for an evening at Macalester College in St. Paul , where she had served as a visiting professor in 1983 . We talked briefly about our profession , and she promised to write with further words of advice about freelancing from abroad . Much to my surprise and delight , she kept her word Her June letter was not only full of good advice about the mechanics of freelancing , it ended with words that serve as a tribute to her life and her unique contributions to Amencan journalism . She wrote , " I think I 've been blessed in my experience because Latin America has changed my life ? if I had n't leapt when I did , I would never have acquired the vision and values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my life , and that , I think , is worth more than money or the prestige of a high-powered job . " No more eloquent words could ever be spoken about her career . Chris Herlinger DOCTOROW 'S MIRROR Panama City , Fla . The article containing the text of E.L Doctorow 's speech and the accompanying chronology , " ' A Gangsterdom of the Spine " Oct. 2 , stands out as one of the finest pieces I have read in The Nation . With a constant blizzard of vile news heaped upon our heads , new acts of evil , brutality and pernicious greed no longer retain their mind- and heart-stabbing quality ; they are only another layer of the grim fog surrounding us , dulling the small flickers of truth and justice which so seldom shine through . Thank God for Doctorow . His speech is a blazing beacon exposing a society off course . He gives me hope . Maybe the very spiritual essence of our country has been usurped by Ronald Reagan , James Watt , Martin Peretz and the rest of their ilk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doctorow and the late Abbie Hoffman to " hold the mirror up wherein we see ourselves " all is not lost . Rob Middlemas POLICY REVIEW New York City As a graduate of Brandeis University ( class of ' 82 ) I was more than interested to read E.L . Doctorow 's commencement address . I found it rather sad that the Brandeis Review initially chose not to run what was probably the most important lecture of the year given on campus . Also , it seems rather peculiar to hear that the Brandeis Review has a " policy " not to reprint commencement speeches . It had no problem printing the keynote speech given by Abba Eban at the Founders ' Day convocation in its spring issue . Malka Margolies THE SUNSHINE BOY Boston Polite applause greeted Martin Peretz at Brandeis University 's graduation in May , but a loud Bronx cheer would have been more fitting . His ad horninem diatribe against E.L . Doctorow 's masterful commencement address was truly pathetic . On that Saturday in May , threatening skies gave way to sunshine as Doctorow eloquently exhorted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I got mine " ethics of the Reagan era . And rise they did , with a thunderous , prolonged ovation . To the extent that Brandeis is still a bastion of the American Jewish middle class , it was heartening to see the " rank and file " respond so favorably to Doctorow 's critique from the left . Happily , a few of our thinkers and cultural leaders never became apologists for nor cleaved to the narrowness and rampant meanness that has so defiled this country during the Reagan-Bush ( and Koch ) years . K. Silver TRADE WINDS San Francisco Thank you for publishing Susan Eisenberg 's excellent article about tradeswomen " Women Hard Hats Speak Out , " Sept. 18 . I 've worked as an electrician since changing careers in 1976 and I , too , almost always have been the only woman on my crew , often the only woman on the job site . My fear is that those of us who entered the skilled trades in the 1970s will remain a little bump on the demographic scale till the end of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sex discnmination is alive and well in the blue-collar trades . Readers may be interested to know that Susan Eisenberg is a contributor to an anthology I have edited , Hard-Hatted Women : Stories of Struggle and Success in the Trades ( Seal Press ) . In this collection of first-person narratives , twenty-six women chronicle our fight to enter and stay in nontraditional blue-collar jobs Susan is also the author of a wonderful book of poems about working as an electrician , It 's a Good Thing I 'm Not Macho ( Whetstone Press ) . Molly Martin OF GODS AND MEN Omaha , Neb . It was sad to hear the so-called civil rights leaders denouncing Ralph Abernathy 's statements from his book And the Walls Came Tumbling Down . Abernathy saw Martin Luther King in questionable circumstances with women . This is a paradox many African-American leaders are confronted with : wine , women and the struggle . Too often , many confuse their priorities and thereby retard the struggle . As many run to repudiate the words of Abernathy , they demonstrate their ignorance and detract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Others , such as David Garrow in his scholarly Pulitzer Prize-winning work Bearing the Cross , delineate King 's weakness for women . This bit of history must be measured along with the great contributions he made to this society . King achieved an important place in history because he preached a message of nonviolence . . . . Many of us are confronted with the question , Can the message be separated from the messenger ? If he or she demonstrates contradictory messages , what can we believe ? We are living in a so-called Christian nation , yet when we read the paper or watch TV news , people are doing many unchristian acts . We live in a society that purports to support life , yet we offer little substance to those who are living in poverty . We claim to believe in peace , yet billions of dollars from our national budget are devoted to producing weapons of death . We go to church each Sunday , but as Malcolm X said , " Sunday is the most segregated time in America . " King , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakness . For Jesse Jackson , Benjamin Hooks , Joseph Lowery and Andrew Young to attempt to stifle the truth reflects their frailty . One questions how many of them have committed the same sin . Our children see our behavior and mimic us in undesirable ways . Teenage pregnancies and out-ofwedlock births are internal problems which are symptomatic of our lack of respect for ourselves Dispossessed people are often searching for godlike personalities to avoid holding themselves accountable to higher standards . This recent revelation about Martin Luther King will help us to consider that he was a man and not a god . A 7amal-Rashad Byndon                     