@@494082

There has been a surge of interest in the world of fin de sierle Vienna in our culture . Carl Schorske 's widely reviewed Fin de Steele Vienna ( 1980 ) ( which quickly sold over 15,000 copies ? more than the most optimistic projections by its publisher ) is only the most recent in a remarkable array of fin de sieele Vienn- a which has come out since the mid-1970s . These years have also seen a Mahler and Bruckner revival on records and in concert programs , and a host of new and reissued biographies and letter collections of Wolf , Mahler , Schoenberg , Berg , and Webern has appeared . The past two years have seen a flood of books on the " historical " Freud . In the arts , there was the 1979 Vienna Modern exhibit in New York and Houston , and a serieS ' of art and coffee table books on the Vienna Secession , on Vienna 's fin de sikle architectural innovators , and on Klimt and Schiele . This cultural and historical curiosity recalls the vogue of Weimar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when talk of a " Weimar analogy " was in the air . America was in an age of aesthetic experimentation , with a visible avant garde in the academy , in music , poetry , and drama , an avant garde often self-consciously reminiscent of Weimar 's experimental culture . The 19605 and early 19705 brought new scholarship on the Weimar period . The public presence of Herbert Marcuse as guru of the new politics drew scholars to neo-Marxism , to the Frankfurt School , to critical theory , to Walter Benjamin , and to the Georg Lukacs of the 1920s and 1930s . All that was new , especially with conscience , with daring , with a sharp critique of monopoly capitalism , bourgeois sanctimoniousness , liberalism , and nationalism in the 1960s evoked the spirit of the Weimar period . The challenge to routine politics in the 1960s lent cogency to the " Weimar analogy . " Turmoil in the streets and on campuses over Vietnam and civil rights , the idealistic challenge by the young , with its burgeoning stylistic " counterculture , " and the sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mar a na/og ues . To some , Weimar contained explicit political lesson , " Uncivilized " political radicalism and extremism in mores ( notably in sexual behavior and in the disparagement of monogamous romantic love ) might lead to destruction of the very freedoms that made the political and cultural challenge possible . Amer.ica might , like Weimar , find itself reeling toward the extreme right in a populist surge toward reactionary authoritarianism . As m Weimar , respectability and tradition appeared to be pitted against seeming decadence and modern- is in the America of the 1960s . By the late Nixon years , the political struggles and artistic adventures that had given impetus to such warnings from the American center and the right we over Yet some final and predict- ably commercial symptoms of the American romance with Weimar continued to appear , such as the Broadway musical and film Cabaret . Its portrayal of Weimar was a box office success even in a moment of decline in intergenera Clonal strife . Weimar is now passi . The avant garde in art , music , and theater , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet . Brecht has receded into academe , Fritz Lang 's films have lost their student cult , the Bauhaus has become just one more notable artistic m ovement . Weimar , like radicalism itself , is absent from the campus culture . Our futurist , often optimistic , enthusiasms of the 1960s have lapsed into apathy . Even the tame heir of 1960s political activism , the post-Watergate vigilance against political corruption , has dissipated into political withdrawal and ennui in 1980 . The styles of modern culture in art , dress , and architecture of the 1960s have become transmuted into varieties of nostalgia . In 1980 , the particular past that fasdnates the present has shifted from the Berlin of the 1920s to fin de 5Iecle Vienna . Experimentation and the modern in a context of radical politics drew us back to Weimar . The absence of politics , a gradual social fragmentation in our nation , the decline of America as a world power , the retreat into self , a selective reclaiming of tradition , nostalgia , aestheticism , and a deeply passive pessimism now drawi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international politic , the broadest Context for a historical analogy , there are pathetic , somewhat cheap , comparisons to be made . In 1900 Austria-Hungary appeared to he a world power , but was viewed by its fellow world powers as essentially second rate , on the verge of internal dissolution , burdened with a weak , cumbersome military and internal bureaucracy and a faltering , underdeveloped economy . The Hapsburg defeat at Sadowa in 1866 and the loss of Austrian : controlled provinces in Italy cruelly exposed this Hapsburg weakness . Since Vietnam , America has lost credibility , despite appearances and official claims , as an effective world power with maneuverability . It appears to be a lumbering giant incapable of swift , decisive action . Its status in the international economy is steadily weakening as a result of its dependence on OPEC , the vulnerability of the dollar , and the aging of its industrial plant . The contrast of apparent power with actual ineffectiveness leg . the Iran rescue escapade and the hostage stalemate ) also marked the huge Hapsburg empire M the decades before its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and now can be compared . The utility of the old Emperor Franz Josef as a symbol of unity reminds one of the fading but continuing myth of the power of the presidency to hold us together and lead us forward in the face of disintegration and decline . Internally , turn of the century Vienna mirrored the fragmentation of an em- pire . Its politics were dominated by competing nationalities tearing away at the appearance of a unified monarchy . Poles , Czechs , Slovaks , Hungarians , and Germans all made even the impotent parliament of the monarchy a stage for inaction , argument , even brawls . Beyond the antagonisms of nationalities , conflict among social classes and political groups in turn of the century Vienna was severe . Socialists , Christian-burialists , pan-Germans , conservative monarchists , and liberals all made a mockery of the idea of national unity . Is our situation so different ? Ethnicity has successfully outdistanced the myth of common citizenship . Are we not a collection of ethnic , social , regional . and economic factions . all acting on narrow grounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good ? Our recent deterioration further separates groups in the nation by eranomic status and race . The resulting character of our domestic politics is analogous to the Austrian and Viennese predecessor : national paralysis in the face of serious economic , social , and international challenges . Turn of the century Vienna , like Am in the past decade , was rocked by internal political scandal involving treason and bribery . From Watergate to Abscam , the persistence of mediocrity and venality among politicians hasengendered a cynicism about politics worthy of the alienated intellectuals and artists of fin de siecle Vienna . The cultural responses to these comparable political and social conditions of fragmentation , leaderlessness , ineptness , corruption , and general dissolution are remarkably similar . Consider the world of music . Mahler and Schoenberg , two of the most vaunted innovators from the turn of the century , were in their own estimate not as self-consciously modern as we might like to think . Their musical response reflected an effort to reclaim the forms and techniques of earlier musical traditions . Mahler rejected , for himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wagner , the opera and the new political , programmatic aspects of music . Bruckner took refuge in traditional Catholicism . Schoenberg , who started under the sway of Brahms , saw the 12 tone system as a refuge from the cheap sentimentality and decadence of contemporary music . Theirs was a traditional and backward-looking modernism and a wholly apolitical one Compare what has happened in modern music in America . George Crumb and Philip Glass , two of our major composers , seek an almost sentimental if not wistful modernism by generating new pleasing effects and sonorities . Other composers like George Rochberg and Frederic Rzewski have rejected the avant garde and seek artistic solace in quotations from the past , and in older idioms and styles . Nostalgia reigns supreme in our musical audience . Like the Viennese audience of 1900 , the concert-going public of today has scant tol- erance for the new and relishes the older repertoire ? Baroque , classical , and Romantic works and sounds . In the plastic arts , the interest in Viennese painting and crafts reveals a comparable retreat from the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about Klimt and the Vienna Secession is their blend of ornament and symbolism , their subtle prettiness . An eclectic effort to decorate every detail of life from lettering to tableware to buildings pervaded Viennese art . The art of that period , notably the portraiture , is personal and inward looking , rarely revolutionary in artistic technique or style . Only superficially " modern , " it is easy and safe to look at The craft movement , the growth in interest here in weaving and ceramics , had politi-cal significance 10 years ago in its implicit rejection of industry , the city , and capitalism . Now it has become a consumer success , a platform for loan Mondale , a fetish of decoration . The art nouveau and art deco taste of today reflects our desire to Cover with color and intricate designs the ugliness of the reality around us . The apolitical , ahistorical trends and general alienation of intellectuals from politics and society in Vienna of 0900 bred a non-politics and a weak socialism , a passion for " art for arts ' sake " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can see a contemporary American analogy in our obsession with new therapies , with personal growth and development , with one 's own personal odyssey in life . The educated middle class of Vienna was absorbed in Geiniiiliehkert , inc drive , as Stefan Zweig put it , for security and respectability . It was driven by a passion to consume culture and appear civilized without making political commitment , Theater , opera , concerts , poetry , books , popular presentations of knowledge , the historical novel , the popular biography flourished . They flourish here too : merely on the basis of the new expanded sections in our mater newspapers on the house , culture . and " living , " it is apparent that we too are a nation not of producers of new culture but of consumers of old culture . This smug cultural sophistication in the midst of political hopelessness and national mistrust and boredom constitutes the real Vienna analogy . We absorb ourselves in a culture of the past and immerse ourselves in our private lives , but are without hope when it comes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fin de siirle Viennese , in what Hermann Broch called a " value-vacuum . " The tragedy of the Vienna analogy , of our fascination with that period , is not visible in the simple awe we feel for the giants of that culture . Rather it lies in the possibility that the generation ahead of us , much like those that followed fin In siiirle Vienna , will grow up not merely as aesthetes , comfortable middle-class culture mongers and political illiterates , but as potential victims of the extreme political domination that may follow . The lesson of the current roman with Vienna and the Vienna analogyce should be to rededicate ourselves to the tasks of politics and society in order to give meaning to our com-mon life . Ludwig Wittgenstein , himself a product of fin de circle Vienna , observed : One ran Imagine an anima/ angry , frightened , unhappy , happy , startled . But hopes ful ? And who not ? A dog believes his master is at the door . But can he also believe his master will on the day after tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? How can Ida it ? ? How am I supposed toanswer this ? Can only those hope who ran talk ? Only those who have mastered the use of a language . That is to say , the phenomena of hope are modes of this complicated form of life . Unlike our Viennese antecedents , let us heed Wittgenstein 's insight , and shed the political and social hopelessness of fin de chile Vienna . 