@@432140

 | Did Operation Urgent Fury save Grenada from Cuban subversion " just in time " ? The president thought so and said so last week . The sheer volume of captured Cuban weapons , documents and prisoners strongly suggested that Fidel Castro had something more than Grenada 's national defense in mind . And the 49 Soviets , 24 North Koreans , 10 East Germans and assorted Bulgarians and Libyans who turned up under the palm trees appeared suspiciously like a comradely advisory board bent on transforming the little island into a strategically placed anti-Western base . Castro had called his advisers a peaceful complement of doctors , teachers , construction crews , technicians ? and only about 40 military trainers ; none armed with more than " light infantry weapons . " But on the ground the U.S. invaders quickly came up against a hardened professional corps of about 600 Cuban troops . Their arsenal bristled with AK-47 assault rifles , 82-mm mortars , antiaircraft cannon , BTR-60 armored personnel carriers and sophisticated communications gear . The Americans said they captured an officer who may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived hours before invasion day to take charge of Grenada 's defenses . Tortola commanded an executive officer and two battalion commanders . In any case the Americans confronted a Cuban force estimated as half a combat regiment . @# While the fighting was tougher than expected , the American victory hurt Castro badly . Operation Urgent Fury pounded Grenada hard enough to rattle his ambitions from the Caribbean beaches to the panicky streets of Nicaragua . Looking pale and weary ? even his beard seemed more scraggly than usual ? the Cuban leader sank into a vinyl armchair to face foreign reporters in Havana . Why had he not evacuated his Grenada garrison as the U.S. strike force closed in ? That would be " demoralizing and dishonorable for our country , " Castro said . Had he considered sending reinforcements ? " Impossible , " he snapped . " They would never compare with the air and land forces of the United States . " Then how could he secure his larger stakes in Central America ? " We would try to do everything possible for Nicaragua , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same problem as in Grenada . . . Those are the facts . We do not have any other options . " Dismay : Strategically , the U.S. assault cost Castro a well-placed refueling depot on the air route between Cuba and his troops in Africa . And it denied his Soviet sponsors a potentially valuable harbor convenient to Western oil lanes . Cuba 's Grenadian disaster sprang from the island 's political coup last month and the subsequent murder of Grenada 's Prime Minister Maurice Bishop . Castro 's expressions of shock and dismay at his Marxist protege 's execution were apparently genuine . Western diplomats in Havana reported that an angry Cuban Politburo even debated cutting off ties with the new Grenadian leadership . " They were really sick about it , " said one diplomat . " If Bishop had been quietly put aside , they would have learned to live with it . But when Bishop was killed so savagely , they were outraged . " All the same , U.S. intelligence reports suggested that the Cubans could blame the debacle mostly on themselves : despite protestations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold on Grenada by replacing Bishop . The plotters were Grenadian Army leader Gen. Hudson Austin and Deputy Prime Minister Bernard Coard , both found to have strong links with Cuba . The vehicle , as U.S. officials reconstruct it , was supposed to be a bloodless coup . The two missed their first opportunity last June , when Bishop was visiting the United States on a fence-mending mission that Havana and Grenadian hard-liners opposed . When Bishop finally was toppled , there was " considerable evidence " of Cuban complicity , said one senior administration official . It was difficult to say whether the reports were disinformation aimed at justifying the American invasion or whether Castro had , indeed , been shedding crocodile tears over Bishop 's fate . Whatever the case , Castro has had nothing but sour luck ever since . On the very evening of the U.S. invasion , Havana 's relations with another carefully cultivated revolutionary frayed when Surinam 's strongman Lt. Col. Desi Bouterse announced on television that he was giving 77 @# Cuban Ambassador Oscar Oswaldo Cardenas and all but a skeleton embassy staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been shocked by the death of Bishop ? especially since Bouterse himself has had to fend off at least two coup attempts in the past three years . U.S. diplomats in the capital of Paramaribo made sure to keep Bouterse current on evidence that Cuba had aided the Grenadian coup , and the rest was left to his well-prepped paranoia . By late last week U.S. officials were trying to persuade Bouterse to break all ties with Cuba and the Soviet Union . They also urged him to spike the anti-American diatribes in Surinam 's press ? and began trying to educate him on the niceties of human rights . Nobody in Washington was eager to welcome the brutal Surinam regime into the Western fold . But as one U.S. official put it : " Everybody would rather have him down there without Cubans than with them . " Complaints : If Castro counted on a groundswell of Yankee-go-home sympathy among fellow Latins he had to be satisfied with plenty of hot words but little meaningful action . At a special meeting of the Organization of American States ( OAS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defended their petition for Reagan 's help . Dominica 's Prime Minister Eugenia Charles called the invasion a " pre-emptive defensive strike " against Grenada . The angry rebuttal of Grenada 's Ambassador to the United States Dessima Williams came by tape recording ; Williams has been lying low in Nicaragua , apparently in fear of the Grenadian military men who murdered Bishop . In the end , most OAS members took the opportunity to condemn the United States ? but the organization did not adopt a resolution formalizing its complaints . @# The Latin nations faced a quandary : the U.S. invasion grated on their abhorrence of Yankee meddling in their tindery politics ? yet many of them also needed U.S. good will . Venezuela nervously responded to the U.S. military strike by putting its own Army on alert . Caracas declared its opposition to " any form of intervention " by foreigners in another nation 's affairs . All the same , Venezuela still counted on U.S. support in its 10-year-old internal war with Cuban-backed guerrillas . The government has been especially wary since Grenada 's 1979 leftist coup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the Venezuelan coast . It has been purchasing U.S. F-16 fighters to bolster its defenses . If the U.S. invasion now succeeds in creating a moderate Grenadian government , conceded one Venezuelan newsletter , Washington 's bigstick diplomacy will have removed " an annoying problem from the government 's international panorama . " Central America 's response was just as complicated . Mexico issued a principled if toothless condemnation of the U.S. intervention ? much as it had after the CIA intervened in Guatemala in 1954 and the Marines landed in the Dominican Republic in 1965 . Central American nations dependent on U.S. aid made pro forma attacks while privately cheering the invasion as a demonstration that the Reagan administration is now willing to commit its own forces against the left . " Six Caribbean countries have asked another country to resolve a chaotic situation , " said El Salvador 's provisional President Alvaro Magana , " so it was normal for the United States to help them . " Leftist Nicaragua , on the other hand , huddled closer than ever to Cuba ? even observing an identical mourning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times , the Sandinistas submerged themselves in massive demonstrations against " gringo assassins " and hoped for the best . Junta leader Daniel Ortega spelled out a danger list of U.S. opportunities and charged that an upcoming meeting of Guatemalan , Salvadoran and Honduran defense ministers had " the aim of carrying out plans of aggression against Nicaragua . " Late in the week , Nicaraguan and Honduran coastal patrol boats exchanged prolonged gunfire in the Gulf of Fonseca . Alibis : Cuba 's only substantial psychological victory came at the United Nations : the Security Council resolved that it " deeply deplores " the U.S. intervention and called for an immediate withdrawal of foreign troops from Grenada . The cries of " Yankee imperialism " and " gunboat diplomacy " put the United States on the defensive in a forum that barely a month earlier had concentrated its ire on the Soviet attack against a Korean passenger jet . Washington 's power play in the Caribbean " legitimizes the Soviet presence in Afghanistan , " said one Asian ambassador . " It legitimizes the Vietnamese occupation of Kampuchea . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. pretext in Grenada . " The administration cast its veto and wound up on the embarrassing end of an 11-1 vote . The Kremlin was delighted to accept the propaganda gift . " It plays right into our hands , " said one Soviet diplomat . Tass issued a pious condemnation of the " outright armed aggression against the peace-loving people of a small country that is not threatening anybody with anything . " Later the Kremlin raised the stakes , protesting that American planes had deliberately strafed the Soviet Embassy in Grenada , wounding a @# @#  | staffer ? a charge that Washington denied . But Castro could not expect any direct help from Moscow in the Western Hemisphere . Operation Urgent Fury confronted him with the gravest challenge to his revolutionary ambitions since-the Cuban missile crisis . His losses in Grenada and Surinam also marked the final failure of his latest influence-building campaign ? a round of regional troublemaking inspired by the 1979 Sandinista victory in Nicaragua . In the ashes , his Sandinista admirers were fighting against a CIA-backed guerrilla insurgency . His Jamaican ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of Third World leader , Prime Minister Edward Seaga , was sending troops to support the U.S. invasion of Grenada . So were the conservative leaders of Dominica and St. Lucia who have brushed aside Castro 's leftist proteges recently . Myth : More generally , the Cuban model simply has lost some of its luster across the Caribbean and Latin America . Young people who once regarded Castro 's revolution as the apex of reform in the Americas now see an isolated Soviet dependency unable to pay its own food bills . Even the specter of a U.S. occupation force advancing across Grenada can not completely erase the memory of Castro 's obliging support for the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and martial law in Poland . The U.S. attack force also swept away the legend of Castro 's military and tactical genius ? along with the myth that Castro can somehow guarantee the revolutions he sponsors . Now the United States will cement its victory if it demonstrates that Grenada can pursue economic prosperity better without Castro than with him . There are also less subtle ways of keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Alexander Haig 's State Department detail a series of escalating measures beginning with stepped-up naval exercises around Castro 's island and culminating in a full-scale U.S. military blockade . Administration policymakers insisted that no such dramatic U.S.-Cuban showdown is called for now that Castro is already on the defensive . But the United States could also step up pressure on Cuba 's fringes ? namely Nicaragua ? a decision that rests partly on whether domestic U.S. support for Reagan 's Grenadian adventure continues strong . " If we were to send the same fleet to Nicaragua now that we sent last summer , " says one State Department official , " what would be the reaction ? " The U.S. assault on Grenada was sure to feed the growing consensus in Cuba that Ronald Reagan just might choose to confront the revolution head-on . Castro has taken delivery on most of his 1980-85 allocation of Soviet military aid and announced plans to double the size of his territorial militia to a million soldiers . And though the Cuban leader made a show of his helplessness before the U.S. armed forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Pentagon and CIA " should not count out their tougher adversaries in the hemisphere . " If one day they are to launch an invasion in Nicaragua or here in Cuba , they should expect a few more thousands of special divisions to stop them , " Alarcon said . Reagan had Castro with his back to the wall , but that is not enough to guarantee that the seasoned old revolutionary will elect to stay out of trouble forever . Castro is certain to seek out new opportunities to regain some strategic initiative ? shipping a few arms here , a few guerrillas there . " I do n't think the Cubans will do anything overt , " said a U.S. military man in Central America . " Their style is to slither in . " Fidel Castro will have to be very slippery indeed ? for Ronald Reagan has given him less room to maneuver than ever . @# 79                     