@@432385

 | Life crowds in . Family and finances dictate your next car : a minimum of five seats , preferably with four doors and a monthly payment in the range of your parents ' mortgage . A formula for dullness ? Maybe . But I found a surprising variety of engineering approaches taken within the confines of a 106-inch wheelbase when the POPULAR SCIENCE car-test team and I tried out four samples of the genre from Detroit 's Big Three . Engines varied by about 30 percent in displacement , and weight ranged from 2,900 to 3,200 pounds . After a month of driving the quartet , I was convinced that modern technology means few compromises in performance are needed today for room , comfort , and even a little luxury in a family sedan . For the past decade General Motors Corp . and Ford Motor Co. have been leaders in the intermediate category , and they are represented in this test by the Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera International Series Coupe and the Lincoln-Mercury Sable LS . But this year Chrysler Corp . wades into the automotive mainstream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The players The older of the two defenders , the Olds Ciera is a spiffed-up version of GM 's venerable A-car , the basic chassis also under the Pontiac 6000 and Chevrolet Celebrity . This war horse got an upgrade in the ' 88 model year with the addition of GM 's 3800 V6 , a slow-turning cast-iron 3.8-liter engine that provides more slow-speed boost than the 2.8-liter or the base 2.5-liter four-cylinder . The test car also featured level-three suspension options ? Oldsmobile 's most aggressive setup . Ford likewise upgraded under the hood , from a three-liter V6 to a new 3.8-liter 140-horsepower V6 in the Sable . Now in its third year , the Sable is credited with popularizing aerodynamic styling for Americans , as well as setting new handling standards for Ford . The first half of Chrysler 's challenge , the Eagle Premier ES , was inherited when the company took over American Motors Corp . The Premier is a design that was originated by Renault ; it is currently built in Canada . Premier 's European origins are immediately apparent , including an aluminum three-liter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some Volvos and Peugeots . The basic chassis layout and suspension pieces separate the Premier from the rest of the pack . Renault , which has been obstinate about favoring foreand-aft engine placement in a mainly transverse world , continues that design feature in the Premier . The front suspension is a conventional MacPherson-strut type , but the rear axle uses four torsion bars stretched across the rear of the car , with two acting as springs and two as sway bars . The setup offers neat packaging , enhanced by forward-angled gas-filled shocks that do n't intrude into the rear luggage compartment . The rear torsion bars , combined with stiffer spring rates , tight shock valving , and a stiffer chassis , helped put the Premier near the top category for ride and handling . It slipped through the high-speed lane change at 70 mph , just behind the Ciera , with its level-three suspension ( which features stiffer springs and shocks than standard ) , and far exceeding our cutoff point . A quick trip through the pylons often means a ride like a grocery cart on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspension design keeps the rear wheels planted solidly , although the axle tends to grumble a bit on rough surfaces . Tuning appeared to have more effect on our handling results than basic design . The Olds and Dodge both use a twisting-beam rear axle that supports the rear wheel with a flexible crossbeam and two trailing arms . It 's a system that lends itself to flat-track handling . But the Dynasty , designed with comfort in mind , achieves that luxury at the expense of slow steering and a mushy ride . The Sable , with a fully independent rear end , was second softest in the front seat cushion , but maintained enough aplomb in the handling tests to score only behind the top two cars . Off-the-line performance The Premier 's 150-hp V6 , producing 171 pound-feet of torque , was sufficient to bring the car to second place in 0-to-60-mph acceleration , although nearly a second behind the 9.4-second time clipped off by the Ciera . The Sable clocked 10.6 and the Dynasty  | 11.1 . These results tracked the calculated weight per horsepower , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ciera 's 18.4 , the Sable 's 22.8 , and the Dynasty 's 23.4 . The Premier 's aluminum-block V6 is offered as a high-line option along with a German-built ZF transmission . The base engine is a 2.5-liter cast-iron four-cylinder engine , which produces 111 hp and comes only with an electronically controlled four-speed automatic transmission . The aluminum V6 we tested uses cast-iron sleeves in the cylinders and dual overhead cams . It utilizes a splitpin crankshaft to allow even firing , with its 90-degree angle between banks , multi-point fuel injection , and forgedsteel crank . The ZF transmission coupled to the V6 is a standard hydraulic planetarygear automatic , which quickly made me aware of an unusual shift pattern . Lifting the throttle at low speeds provokes automatic downshifting , rather than responding after you accelerate . The sensation is not unlike downshifting with a manual transmission . I found it a smooth way to travel through a corner , but some Chrysler engineers find the sensation disconcerting . The shift pattern may not last long in production cars . Different audiences There is a marketing theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefer European-style cars ; and if you are older and wiser , you like domestics . Anyway , that 's the sort of explanation you get when you ask why Chrysler is selling two sedans with similar dimensions that bridge a vast gulf in automotive character . Chrysler is more directly responsible for the new Dodge Dynasty , which is the company 's first effort at a fullsize sedan in a decade . The new frontdrive car is intended ultimately to displace the last rear-drivers in Chrysler 's lineup . The Dynasty features an imported power plant , the optional Mitsubishi-built three-liter V6 , which produces 136 hp and 168 lb. - ft. of torque , and which debuted last year in the Voyager/Caravan . Standard power is the venerable 2.5-liter Chrysler four-cylinder engine . The Dynasty LE also featured optional four-wheel anti-lock disc brakes , unique for Chrysler ; but the basic chassis design is shared with most other Chrysler products . Platform problems Unfortunately , the Dynasty 's aging platform is far less stiff than that of the Premier , and as a result , the efforts at a soft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by harmonic echoes within the basic structure of the car . The Dynasty was slowest through the high-speed lane , with no quirks except for lots of body roll . Although the car was also slowest in acceleration by nearly a second , the Mitsubishi V6 is a jewel of an engine . It is silky smooth and gives you the kind of torque that gets you across a @# busy intersection without a pause . Like the Renault power plant , the Dynasty engine uses multi-point fuel injection and single overhead cams on each cylinder bank . The Japanese V6 features a cast-iron block with an aluminum head , however , in contrast to the Premier 's European aluminum block . Torque ratings for the two engines are virtually identical at about 170 lb. - ft. ; but at 2,800 rpm the Dynasty V6 generates maximum twist some 950 rpm slower than the Premier 's . The Premier V6 is rated at 150 hp. 14 more than that of the Dynasty V6 ? with the Premier 's rating achieved at higher engine speed . Part of the difference in power and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installing free-breathing manifolds in the Premier 's fore-and-aft engine compartment . The effect of the difference between these fraternal twins is a slightly peakier mode of operation for the Premier and quicker overall engine performance . The Dynasty also features one of the first production multiplexing systems ? a method of distributing signals from the central engine computer to various functions that should reduce diagnostic and repair costs . Surprising brakes My biggest shock with the Dynasty . however , came when we hit the brakes . We 've had generally long stopping distances from Chrysler products in the past , but this one clipped off one 136-foot stop that was close to the shortest we have ever recorded . The fourwheel disc brakes with anti-lock are nearly perfect ? the kind of system that is limited only by the adhesion of the tires . The Premier likewise pulled down acceptable stops ? 150-footers ? with ventilated front discs and rear drums that were easy to modulate . The Ciera 's rear drum brakes exhibited some rearwheel lock at 157 feet , but those stopping distances are still acceptable . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear 200 feet , dragging one locked rear wheel like a dog with a thorn in its paw . A repaired proportioning valve cut the average stopping distance to 176 feet . Regardless , even the repaired car had excessive servo action , exhibited as light pedal pressure and difficulty in modulating the brakes after lockup . POPULAR SCIENCE noted in its first test of the Taurus/Sable April ' 86 that we thought the car needed more work on its brakes . We still do . When I took the car out for some roadwork , the Sable 's precise steering . stability , and sure-footedness impressed  | me , as they had in the past . Sable 's MacPherson-strut front and independent rear suspension is nothing special , but Ford engineers have tuned and refined it to where it really works . The Ciera , on the other hand , had a tendency to weave over undulations , apparently the result of the steering gear moving independently from the front suspension . It 's a disturbing problem in an otherwise well-mannered automobile . Tester 's choice The Dynasty delivered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of noise boomed through from potholes . I was far more comfortable with the stiffer Premier , which only gave you a thwack now and then , as Miss Campbell used to do when I fell asleep in English class . In terms of utility , though , the Dynasty came out on top , with a trunk big enough for a Thursday night poker game and room in the cockpit to wear a hat to a funeral . I had the most complaints from POPULAR SCIENCE staffers about the Premier 's interior detailing , which seemed to be playing " gotcha . " A light comes on to identify the headlights , for example , only after you turn the headlights on . The gearshift and turn signal are awkward , and the automatic light switch stays on long enough to prompt strangers to chase you down and tell you your lights are on . But even with these deficiencies and its smaller engine , which put it a distant second to the Ciera in performance , I found the Premier one of the most pleasant of the group to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its huge passenger area , it might have been my first choice save for the interior bugs . The Oldsmobile bordered on a muscle car in performance . The new multipoint 3.8 liter has loads of torque . although it gets a bit wheezy at the top end ? a characteristic it shares with the Sable and its new engine . Handling was solid and predictable . but I found the weaving on the highway distracting . I left the group favoring the Sable as the best overall sedan in this class . The car is a fine combination of modern interior and exterior design , solid handling , and adequate , if not spectacular , performance . But it 's a close call . I had a sudden flash that the ultimate sporty family sedan would have had the Sable 's design , the Ciera 's engine , the Dynasty 's brakes , and the Premier ' , handling . What would Mary Shelley have done with that ?                     