@@487037

Almost the first dictum that budding Latin Americanists tack to the wall above their typewriters comes from the grand old man of the continent 's independence , Simon Bolivar . More than 150 years ago , Bolivar declared , " The United States seems destined by providence to plague Latin America with miseries in the name of freedom . " The contradiction between the rhetoric of democracy , progress and Free World values and the dismal realities of murder and backwardness haunts the soul of U.S. foreign policy . This has been most obvious , it is tempting to say , in Central America during the last four years . Precisely because the crisis there is so intractable , Washington 's efforts to sell and sanitize its policies have been more intense . An Administration that prides itself on its control of image , information and the national agenda has had a certain undeniable success in casting contras as " freedom fighters , " Nicaragua as a " totalitarian dungeon " and Salvadoran Army officers as pious devotees of human rights . Reagan 's mastery of tiat political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Presidency " has led many of us to believe that the syndrome originates with him . Bolivar 's observation is a useful reminder that this kind of double talk has been around for centuries , and for many Latin Americans , it is a daily source of wonder and despair . In the conduct of its Presidents as well as the George Black is the editor of NACLA 's Report on the Americas . mann might have become and for the art world in which he might have become it . Of course this might be only a deflected nostalgia for a world in which such an art world would be possible rather than the one to which , considered now as social documents , these works were a collective response . ? attitudes of its inhabitants , the United States remains the most resolutely ahistorical of nations , the most prone to self-mythologizing . To stave off doubt or dissent about the moral direction of its foreign policy , one Administration after another has reached deep into the wellspring of national myth and patriotic self-image and disguised its imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why ? asks T.D . Allman in Unmanifest Destiny . Why these " extravaganzas of destruction . . . in the name of freedom " ? Why this " national capacity for fantasy " ? Unmanifest Destiny is a bold survey of the recurring traumas of U.S. foreign policy . It muses on the first colonial adventures of the early nineteenth century , treks through the disasters of Southeast Asia and finally arrives , somewhat exhausted , at the present crisis in Central America . It is heartening to see a journalist  --  particularly one as well versed as Allman in the minutiae of U.S. history  --  make an unusual foray into the psychological and ideological mysteries of this country 's drive beyond its own shores and try to tease out the historical reasons for its excesses , failures and deceptions . But one reason for the rarity of the psychological approach to history may be the problems of method it presents . The difficulties are formidable , and Allman , sadly , is only intermittently able to overcome them . Allman 's epigraph , from William Graham Sumner 's 1911 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , " it reads , " nourish a doctrine . Doctrines are the most frightful tyrants to which men are ever subject , because doctrines get inside a man 's own reason and betray him against himself . " Unreason and betrayal are at the core of Allman 's argument , and he is most compelling when he analyzes the doctrines formulated by figures such as James Monroe and James K. Polk . Depending on one 's politics , the Monroe Doctrine of 1823 is commonly described either as an ennobling exercise in spreading the blessings of democracy to a benighted hemisphere or as a lethal declaration of imperial arrogance . In fact , as Allman demonstrates at length , it was neither . More prosaically , it was an ' adroit piece of nineteenth-century Realpolitik , masterminded by a British Foreign Secretary , George Canning . What has made the doctrine so dangerous is its selective application and revisionist interpretation in the hands of succeeding Administrations . Polk , whose doctrine is more obscure , is a historical figure well worth disinterring . His seizure of Mexico in 1846 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , was the full-blown expression of Manifest Destiny . More important , Polk 's behavior initiated that familiar twin thrust of so much subsequent U.S. policy : view history as conspiracy ( in the 1840s the British and the Mexicans were the villains ) ; then portray U.S. expansion as a just response to fictitious acts of aggression by the conspirator . Part of Allman 's difficulty is in blending historical exposition with bursts of rhetorical indignation . His text is punctuated by elaborate metaphors for America 's national psychosis and its failure to achieve self-knowledge . The most powerful of these is borrowed from Frances FitzGerald . It is the Vietnam War planners ' fantasy of an ultimate center of communist conspiracy , COSVN , " a reverse Pentagon in the jungle complete with Marine Guards , generals and green baize tables , " and their belief that the war could be won if only COSVN could be located and destroyed . Unfortunately , the metaphors remain just metaphors  --  terribly suggestive but short on explanation . None of-Allman 's encyclopedic research solves the most persistent enigma : Are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even Richard Nixon remains inscrutable . " We possess no evidence , " says Allman , " that Nixon ever deviated from the belief that we fought in Vietnam for a just and honorable cause . " Jeane Kirkpatrick , that avatar of ideological politics , may hold the key to Allman 's dilemma in her view that Marxism is the enemy and any action taken to defeat it is moral . But Allman 's understandable rage at Kirkpatrick takes the place of analysis , and that point is never quite made . is beyond him . In his anguished search for the soul of America , he ransacks the culture , from Apocalypse Now to Thoreau , from Walt Whitman to Moby Dick , to conclude that " only a literary genius , some master of the surreal , could do full justice to the self-repeating , self-perpetuating absurdities of destruction . " It is a sterile conclusion , and one that is characteristic of too much recent liberal commentary on Central America . Allman could have found a dozen Latin American writers who see progress as well as absurdity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he chooses to quote the conservative Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges , who with his gift for evoking " nearly half a millennium of ceaselessly self-repeating futility " remains obstinately locked in an ivory tower . Embedded somewhere in Unmanifest Destiny is a good feature article on the four murdered churchwomen in El Salvador , some fine flourishes of invective and perhaps a scathing Op-Ed piece . Allman 's instincts are deeply humane and his anger righteous , but in the end he is swamped in a morass of a book that raises many more questions than it can answer . ? 