@@494848

And yet , the Soviets are left with a huge advantage in both strategic missile warheads ( 6,400 to 2,200 on land , 10,000 to 8,000 including submarines ) and in conventional forces that threaten Europe ( 2-to-1 in tanks , 3-to-1 in artillery ) . The United States does retain its strategic arsenal to deter attack , but it is located far away from Europe . The Soviet forces are located on the same landmass . It 's true that the United States also has thousands of battlefield nuclear weapons stationed in Europe , including mines and artillery pieces , but these are presumably the next target of Soviet diplomacy , the " third zero . " West Germany , where most of such weapons would explode in a war , is anxious to get rid of them . President Reagan has said he will not agree to that without significant reductions in Soviet conventional power , but he is at a bargaining disadvantage . We may soon see a denuclearized Europe , but one with a still-preponderant Soviet conventional force . This is the slippery slope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply ca n't reject the treaty on the basis of the bad precedents it sets . Rejection would discredit the foreign policy coherence of the American government and its reputation for reliability . Ironically , it 's right-wing Republicans ? the very people who most worry about the ability of a president to conduct foreign policy unbridled by Congress ? who are calling for defeat of the INF pact . These Republicans would find America and the NATO alliance worse off than they are right now if they were to succeed . For if the treaty were to be defeated , it 's almost certain that Europe would demand withdrawal of our missiles anyway and the Soviets would profit politically by appearing the more stable of the two superpowers . What 's important now is for the Reagan administration and the allies to be very clear about what the next steps in the arms control process are . Instead of bowing to Gorbachev blandishments to get rid of battlefield weapons , NATO should resolve to modernize its existing nuclear forces and create an incentive for a major Soviet conventional weapons stand-down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that kind should its signing be a cause for rejoicing . NOTEBOOK q SKY IS BLUE ? ATTORNEY 'S SHOCK CLAIM : " Gaffes " are always big news in Washington , and yet a gaffe , as this journal loves to point out , is when someone tells the truth . A prize gaffe made headlines on December 7 when a Washington lawyer representing R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company accidentally said that cigarettes are bad for your health . This amazing revelation slipped out in discussions with federal health officials over a new , virtually tar-free cigarette . The attorney faced no easy forensic challenge : how to tout the health advantages of this new cigarette without conceding the health disadvantages of all other cigarettes . Apparently he flubbed it , though Reynolds and the lawyer now claim he never suggested anything so preposterous as the notion that cigarettes are bad for you . q WHITHER DECENCY ? F.C.C. Revises Its Ruling on Indecent Programming New York Times , November 25 FCC Wo n't Back Off From April Indecency Ruling ? Los Angeles Times , same day ( thanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IT LASTED : MOMENT OF SILENCE IS ENDED IN JERSEY New York Times , December 2 q CORRECTION : " A Few Good Taxes " by Lawrence Summers ( TNR , November 30 ) stated incorrectly that Mobil Corporation deducts the cost of its op-ed page advertisements . Even under current law , the cost of explicitly political advertising is not deductible . q SPEAKING OF MOBIL . . . The following are all excerpts from the December issue of Premiere , a new movie magazine published by Rupert Murdoch , " which suggest " ( observes our spotter , Stephen Bates of Cambridge , Massachusetts ) " there may be bad blood between Murdoch and Alistair Cooke " : Do n't confuse the work of Stephen Frears with the safe British drama of " Masterpiece Theatre . " This is a director who is at home with anarchy . ( page 15 ) Oliver Stone was honored not for safe , " Masterpiece Theatre " - type films that make Academy members feel good about themselves , but for violent , unpleasant films on subjects considered until recently to be box-office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The period settings and social rituals depicted in John Huston 's The Dead are likely to set off viewers ' " Masterpiece Theatre " alarms . ( page 82 ) CAMPAIGN ' 88 KEMP AND THE CONS Manchester , New Hampshire Nackey Loeb , the publisher of the furiously right-wing Manchester Union-Leader , wants an unflinching conservative in the White House after Ronald Reagan and the conservative movement to thrive into the next century . On December 1 she endorsed former Delaware Governor                     