@@494693

November marked the beginning of Marianne Moore 's centennial year . In her lifetime Moore was a " famous American poet . " Those who read no poetry at all knew about the poet from Brooklyn who tossed out the first ball of the 1968 season at Yankee Stadium and who exchanged letters with the Ford Motor Company about naming the Edsel . The slim figure in long cape and tricorn hat graced the pages of Life and Sports Illustrated . But those who did read poetry often scorned this celebrity and the verbal theatricality of Moore 's poems in the New Yorker , But there is another , less well-known Marianne Moore , a poet admired by her contemporaries William Carlos Williams , Wallace Stevens , T. S. Eliot , W H. Auden , and others , a poet whose importance lies not in her impact on American journalism but in the many ways she challenged and led forward an American literary modernism . As Eliot said in his introduction to her Selected Poems , Moore is one who did some service to the language of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how broad , committed , and judicious that service was . Moore devoted a substantial portion of her career to writing essays and commentaries , interrupting poetry for many years while she edited The Dial.moral ideals of this great thinker and good man , whose word " pragmatic " has been so debased by callous opportunists and demagogues . Yet it is Moore at her best ( which by and large means before 1940 ) is a poet of wild decorum . She combines high civility with energy and inclusiveness , propriety with sincerity . This inevitably tense combination exemplifies a continuing American ambivalence about our European heritage and our native vitality . The Old World values of tradition and culture grow stale and superficial in excess ; the new , frontier values of freedom and originality tend to become crude and rapacious . Moore 's poetry situates itself at the center of this tension , presenting not compromise but a lively struggle toward an ideal fusion . In " Poetry , " Moore describes her ideal poets as " literalists of the imagination . " They will write a poetry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refinement and gusto are not at odds . " In the meantime , " she writes , if you demand on the one hand , the raw material of poetry in all its rawness and that which is on the other hand genuine , you are interested in poetry . Her animals ( a jerboa , a pangolin , a paper nautilus ) combine the virtues of freedom and restraint . Her poems join descriptive exuberance and epigrammatic tautness . This same combination of qualities ? bold feeling and formal precision ? characterizes the style and stance of Moore 's prose . Here , in the collected prose , is a brave and ample commentary on an unprecedented range of subjects . There is nothing marginal about Moore 's vision . She addresses the major concern of her time and her tradition : How should the imagination face the pressure of reality ? But doctrine and dogma are antithetical to this mind enraptured by the particular . Her touchstone is always " strong enchantment " ? in herself and in others ? rather than any more impersonal concept of the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of quotations backstitched with dexterous indirections and digressions to the fineness and patterning of brocade . Double negatives , circumlocutions , strings of dependent clauses give this writing a decidedly baroque look . despite Moore 's espousal of the plain style . And her felicity with metaphor is as apparent in the prose as in the poetry : metaphors dropped casually on a meandering discursive path have a concentrating power . Her fondness for animal metaphors in describing her favorite poets recalls the aesthetic virtues she endorses in her famous poetic menagerie : Eliot " moves troutlike through a variety of foreign objects " ; Cummings " settling like a man-o-war bird ... shapes the progress of poems as if it were substance . " Moore 's compendium of natural and technological fact , so apparent in the poems , provided her with ready analogies for the experience of art , with ways of coping with the difficulty and unfamiliarity of the new . On reading Gertrude Stein : " One is abashed not to have understood instantly ; as water may not seem transparent to the observer but has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Or on Williams 's po- E DITORSHIP OF The Dial from 1925 to 1929 provided Moore with an ideal platform from which to review not only the contemporary literary scene , but whatever might evoke or instance this strong enchantment . Though Moore was always " picking and choosing " and was never attracted to a naive populism , she still resisted hierarchies . Just as her poems take up with equal vigor the topics of a desert rat and a painting by Diker , so in the prose she is open to non-traditional and nonliterary subjects . She celebrates the art of Jressing well with as much passion as the art of writing well . Fine language catches her attention in the poems of T. S. Eliot , in the speeches of Abraham Lincoln , or in a guide to gardening . She can be " prepossessed by the impassioned explicitness " of a letter from the Federal Reserve Board and marvel at the lace-work of a peacock 's tail or the cursive ease of a Robert Andrew Parker drawing . Though she naturally comments most often on poetry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living in Brooklyn , to visiting the zoo , to being 16 . The world , for Moore , is a display of spiritual values ; and those values are not " confined to one locality . " Her models for prose ( as for poetry ) are less often the polemical writings of contemporaries than the reflective essays of 17th-century writers such as Francis Bacon , Isaak Walton , Thomas Browne , and Robert Burton , for whom any natural or cultural phenomenon afforded an occasion for moral and aesthetic commentary . Though her writing appeared in a variety of contexts ( not only in The Dial , Poetry , and other literary magazines , but in Harper 's , the Nation , Mademoiselle ) , Moore did not adjust that style significantly to suit the genre or the occasion . etry : " The compressed fire in his work makes one think of the blaze in the blacksmith 's forge , permeating dull iron until the metal gradually shows a clear red . " Moore 's metaphors function as part of her more profound talent for condensing the virtues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the deferential strategies , these essays depend finally on a concentrated voice that disarms the reader with its authority . Defending Emily Dickinson , Moore writes : A certain buoyancy that creates an effect of inconsequent bravado ? a sense of drama with which we may not be quite at home ? was for her a part of that expansion of breath necessary to existence ; and unless it is conceited for the hummingbird or the osprey to not behave like a chicken , one does not find her conceited . Writing of Henry James she suggests closer affinities to her own imagination : " Idealism which was willing to make sacrifices for its self-preservation was always an element in the conjuring wand of Henry James . I.Hel seems to have been haunted by awareness that rapacity destroys what it is successful in acquiring . " T HE READER LOOKING in these essays for clues to Moore 's poems will not be rewarded with any lengthy discourse on poetics . The writing reveals by example , displaying the same predilections and employing many of the same strategies as the poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consciousness , the level of consciousness in these essays is sufficiently subtle and intense to etude the careless reader with its " feigned inconsequence of manner . " But as Kenneth Burke , one of Moore 's best and earliest reviewers , argued , " when she quotes in her special way of quoting , we see her carving a text out of a text , much like carving a personal life out of life in general . " Moore 's essays , like her poems , use quotation beyond any familiar standard of evidence or exposition . But these quotations are part of her principle of economy , for while attending to some specific , often technical aspect of a quotation , Moore appropriates its statement . The essay " Humility , Concentration and Gusto " is the most dramatic example of this concentrated indirection . Nowhere in the essay does Moore define explicitly the terms the title lists or invoke their traditions ( in Herbert , for instance , and in Hazlitt ) . But the examplesshe chooses not only demonstrate , but often contain in their statements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is redefined as sincerity , concentration as ambiguity , and gusto as impassioned explicitness . Although these qualities are identified , against standards of rhetoric and decorum , with apparent defects or oddities , they mark the presence of strong enchantment , and make a place for the genuine . Thus William Cowper 's " The Snail , " quoted in full , is prefaced only with the observation that it is " a thing of gusto although the poem has been dismissed as mere description . " Why Moore considers it a thing of gusto is left to inference . Undoubtedly she admired the precise rhyme and meter , broken by the isolated last line . Here the form echoes the sense , suggesting a personal interest in the subject of inhibition and solitude . But the real " gusto " of the poem , judging from the context of other quotations in which it is set , is the suggestion of self-reference that avoids self-display . The poem ends : Who seeks him must be worse than blind , He and his house are so combined , If finding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's own poem " To a Snail " similarly speaks of itself . It begins : " If ' compression is the first grace of style/you have it . " As in Cowper , the gusto of the poem depends upon a text that both hides and discloses the author 's presence . THOUGH MOORE was not a writer 1 of critical manifestos , she became a tastemaker by the energy of her predilections . Her collected prose , not only during the years at The Dial but before and after them , offers one of the fullest assessments of the poetry of her time . It follows the careers of the major modernists through a period of 50 years . Stevens and Williams present two of the most complete cases of Moore 's investment in the work of her contemporaries , and the most interesting cases of the poet defining her own sympathies and precepts through the evaluation of others . Despite her " capacity for fact , " it is Wallace Stevens , the supreme fiction maker , who wins Moore 's most unqualified praise . Moore was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Harmonium , and her 1924 review " Well Moused , Lion " suggests that she found in Stevens a kindred attraction toward the exotic and an ideal of power and restraint . She emphasizes the " riot of gorgeousness in which Mr. Stevens ' imagination takes refuge , " a gorgeousness Moore herself indulges in so often , as in her obviously Stevensian poem " The Plumet Basilisk " of 1932 , about a creature who " takes refuge " in a jungle landscape that recalls Harmonium . Stevens also appealed to her as a poet of aural harmonies counteracting the visual riot of his imagery , as a poet responsible , for all his rage , to the higher orders of art . But Stevens compels her attention as much by his moral and philosophical as by his aesthetic power , especially since these are presented as aspects of each other in his later work . Moore describes the early Stevens as " a mind oppressed by the properties of the world which it is expert in manipulating " ; but much later , reviewing Auroras of Autumn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a spiritual happiness in which the intangible is more real than the visible and earth is innocent . " Those who think of Moore as a literalist rather than a " literalist of the imagination " may be surprised at her delight in such substitutions . S IMILARLY , Moore 's reviews of Williams , committed as they are to his courage and authenticity as a poet , contain many reservations about the presentation of uncensored , untransformed material in poetry , about the revolt against poetic tradition and decorum : Despite Dr. Williams ' championing of the school of ignorance , or rather of no school but experience , there is in his work the authoritativeness , the wise silence which knows schools and fashions well enough to know that completeness is further down than professional intellectuality and modishness can go .... William Carlos Williams objects to urbanity , to sleek and natty effects , and this is a good sign if not always a good thing . At the same time she recognized that Williams 's uncompromising passion for the new , for the texture of the unaltered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Struggle is a main force in William Carlos Williams . And the breathless budding of thought from thought is one of the results and charms of the pressure , onfigured . " Moore 's comments on Stevens and Williams remind us how decidedly transformed Moore 's " real toads " are in the imaginary gardens she arranges for them . Repeatedly the essays in this volume ask the question " Is the real the actual ? " And they settle , without belying their acclaim of accuracy and particularity , on an Emersonian priority of spirit : " A reverence for mystery is not a vague , invertebrate thing , The realm of the spirit is the only realm in which experience is able to corroborate the fact that the real can also be the actual . " The fabulists , the conjurers , who transpose the textures of the real onto the imagined , most often delight her . O N ALL their topics Moore 's essays pursue an integration of moral and aesthetic categories . " Contractility is a virtue / as modesty is a virtue " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she continues the theme in the essays . She sees the ethical in the technical , and vice versa . This identification of aesthetic and moral categories has a neoclassical flavor , and Moore 's strong sense of decorum does sometimes hark back to a gentler age . One of Moore 's master values was propriety , enlarged from our common usage to " a tuned reticence with rigor/from strength at the source . " She admired what she called Kenneth Burke 's " master-maxim " : " Truth in art is not discovery of facts or addition to knowledge , it is the exercise of propriety . " And she measured his and others ' achievements by this maxim . A poet of tremendous aesthetic courage , she was a bold , but never indiscriminate , supporter of the new , Thus , reviewing the literary scene in 1936 , she complains : " Judged by our experimental writing , we are suffering today from unchastity , sadism , blasphemy , and rain-soaked foppishness . " But she never calculated achievement by an impersonal standard of correctness . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deviation driven by " strong enchantment . " In " Feeling and Precision , " she admits that " feeling at its deepest ? as we all have reason to know ? tends to be inarticulate . " Moore singles out for praise all those instances in which " the inevitable warfare between imagination and medium " has led to a final grace . Resisting polemics in herself , she was able to embrace a striking range of achievement . " Hostile though specific theories may be and riotous as the artist may sometimes seem in his attitude toward the existing body of art , " she says in one of her Dial comments , " in so far as a thing is really a work of art it confirms other works of art . " The breadth and the depth of this collection make it clear that the writing of essays was an integral part of Moore 's ca-reer , not just an occasional supplement to the writing of poems . ( The book includes Moore 's several experiments in narrative as well , but these are more anecdotal than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) Her achievement in prose , as in poetry , is marked by an idiosyncrasy that is no barrier to profundity , by a personal predilection that carries the authority of measured judgment . Modernism was for Moore less a a responsibility to seek out and perpetuate the genuine . Her extraordinary essays meet that responsibility .                     