@@494307

One of the more remarkable revelations of last summer 's Iran-contra hearings was just how wrong the conventional wisdom was on the " problem " of covert actions in a democratic society . Far from proving that rogue operations by American intelligence agencies were still out of control , and therefore in need of greater congressional and press oversight , the sessions showed just the opposite . It turned out that John McMahon , the CIA 's deputy director for operations , and much of the rest of the professional CIA bureaucracy either did not know of , or were opposed to , the plans that took shape in the National Security Council . The problem , of course , was not an institutional bias on their part toward secrecy and covert action . It was the CIA 's unwillingness to cooperate that led its own director to work around his bureaucracy and assist a group of political appointees in the White House in running the operation themselves . As far as institutional arrangements for controlling the CIA 's covert operations are concerned , our system ( as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well ? recognizing , of course , that the system was never meant to correct the bad judgment of high officials in the White House . I think , after reading Covert Action , that Gregory Treverton believes this , but he does not altogether resist the temptation to interpret the Iran-contra affair as an extension of the old CIA bogey . Drawing heavily on the author 's experiences on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in the mid-1970s , the issues and analysis in this book have a slightly dated quality to them , concentrating on well-known covert actions of the past , including Guatemala and Iran in the early 1950s , the Bay of Pigs , Chile in the early ' 70s , and support for the non-Marxist factions in the Angolan civil war . While the book discusses the Reagan administration and the Iran-contra affair , it was obviously begun before the imbroglio was revealed and completed before the author had time to incorporate the information provided by last summer 's hearings . His analysis of the CIA and its limitations as an institution thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over for some time now . Covert Action 's historical account provides a useful and readable primer on the uses and abuses of covert intervention . The book argues that the CIA was a victim of its own early successes . Owing " to its origins in the wartime OSS , the CIA always gave pride of place to covert operations over the more mundane function of intelligence analysis . By 1952 the Directorate of Plans ( forerunner of the current Operations Directorate ) consumed 74 percent of the CIA budget and three-fifths of its personnel , nearly 6,000 people in 47 overseas stations ? though much of this effort was directed at espionage rather than covert action . The early 1950s saw two stunning successes , at least in terms of the CIA 's own objectives , in Iran and Guatemala . Both had common features : they were relatively cheap and small scale , relying more on psychology and wits than on brawn , and they were kept low-key and relatively secret ( even though news of the Guatemala plans leaked out ahead of time ) . B UT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Treverton . Most important was the changing nature of the Third World itself . The days when the United States could get its way through simple intimidation are now clearly over . In the Iran of 1953 , Ambassador Loy Henderson turned the tide against Mossadeq by simply threatening to withdraw all Americans living there ; in Guatemala , Arbenz grounded his air force because of a single propaganda broadcast that led him to believe his pilots had started to defect . Already by 1961 the discipline and control of the revolutionary Cuban regime was evident when the expected uprising against Castro failed to materialize . While many Iranian ? migr ? s continue to believe that the CIA can pull strings behind Khomeini 's back , America 's inability to influence the internal politics of revolutionary Iran has been painfully evident for a decade now . Covert operations are problematic for other reasons as well . Policy-makers frequently plan covert operations thinking that they will remain small and deniable , but such actions tend to acquire a momentum of their own . Dissident groups in Third World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work with unsavory characters whose purposes do not coincide with our own , and who have a stake in misrepresenting their goals to gain our support . There is ample opportunity , moreover , for misinterpreted signals : witness the case of Chile , where collecting information on possible coup attempts in the military may well have been taken by the actual plotters as a signal of American backing . These sorts of observations lead Treverton to rules of thumb that " amount to setting a higher threshold for the use of covert action . " He agrees with Cyrus Vance that the language of the National Security Act of 1947 authorizing covert activities in areas " affecting national security " is too broad , and argues along with Vance that they should be permitted only in cases " absolutely essential " to national security . Treverton comes down squarely in favor of the remedy from the 1970s , that Congress needs to be a partner along with the executive in the discussion and approval of intelligence operations . He also concludes that much of what traditionally has been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor unions and churches , can be and in many cases is better done out in the open . Yet settling for Vance 's test that an action be " absolutely " essential to American security begs precisely the questions Treverton has raised in his critique of covert operations . For the difficulties he singles out as obstacles to effective covert intervention in fact apply to foreign policy as a whole , covert and overt . Defining priorities among competing interests and assessing the means of protecting them are challenges that go far beyond covert operations ; you do n't solve them by affixing the label " absolutely essential , " or by making them overt . /TAKE THE problem of expanding commitment , which Treverton isolates as a problem of Third World covert intervention . The inability to call it quits at an opportune moment has been the central difficulty bedeviling the United States in two rather overt interventions , the Korean and Vietnam wars , as well as the more recent debacle in Lebanon . In most respects , the problem is more severe in overt cases . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman , Eisenhower , or Carter doctrines , that such-and-such a country or group is vital to the security of the United States . Democratic politics inclines us toward trenchant distinctions between friends and enemies , and a publicly sworn friend tends to develop strong domestic constituencies . By contrast , an ally covertly supported is much easier to sell out when the going gets tough , as Treverton admits occurred in the cases of the Kurds in Iraq and the Montagnards in Vietnam . The same applies to the problem that our allies ' purposes are not our own : we did not choose to ally with Joseph Stalin during the war for the lovely color of his eyes , nor were we particularly happy with the various Rhees , Diems , Marcoses , Salazars , and Chuns with whom we had very open and explicit agreements . But even democratic allies such as Israel have at times led us down paths of their own choosing . This is hardly a characteristic unique to covert action ; it is a staple of international life . rr HE TRUTH IS that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely essential , including the defense of NATO Europe . And yet there is a large category of operations that are quite important to our interests , which have traditionally been run by the Operations Directorate of the CIA and which can not be carried out by any other government agency . The best illustration is perhaps the most important CIA undertaking of the 1980s , support for the Afghan mujahideen , which Treverton fails to discuss at any length . ( He also skips over a number of important CIA successes supporting democratic forces in Western Europe in the late 1940s , as well as Edwin Lansdale 's help to Philippine Defense Minister Ramon Magsaysay and other Southeast Asian leaders in the early ' 50s . ) While the support operation in Afghanistan was never truly covert , it was quiet , so as not to embarrass the Pakistani government and embroil it unnecessarily with the Soviets . It was not a program that could have been easily administered by the military services or the parts of the Defense Department concerned with security assistance : the bulk of the assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pakistani authorities and the different insurgent groups required a deft political touch , and also the ability to provide unconventional items such as Soviet-bloc military hardware . Like aid to the contras , the Afghan effort was one of Washington 's worst-kept secrets . Still , it bids fair to be an undeniable success of two administrations , substantially driving up the costs of Moscow 's Afghan adventure ( as well as spurring the Soviets in their reconsideration of the Brezhnev legacy in the Third World ) and possibly paving the way for a real Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan . Contrary to Treverton 's assertion that operations like Afghanistan are becoming less common , they are a phenomenon new to the 1980s ? a response to the expansion of the Soviet empire that took place in the previous decade . Given the declining utility of conventional military force in the contemporary world , support for democratic revolutions not just against Soviet client states but against other oppressive Third World regimes has the potential to become a very important instrument of American policy in the future . I T IS NEVER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category of covert-type operations in American foreign policy or the way they have been implemented by one specific institution , the CIA . If it is the latter , there is not much to write about , since the agency 's Directorate of Operations was defanged over a decade ago . Yet as an analysis of the former , Treverton 's book is less a diagnosis than a symptom of the disease afflicting contemporary American foreign policy . In calling for more openness as the cure for the problems of covert operations , he fails to confront more important requirements for the conduct of American foreign policy as a whole . As a great power , the United States must base its policy on a fairly broad sense of national interest . Since the United States is a very secure nation , we do n't need to spend much time defending vital national security interests . Rather , we must assign a just and prudent value to the vast majority of our foreign policy concerns , which are non-essential . A great power also has to be able to see shades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similarly subtle enterprise . In the Third World in particular , there are only shifting and temporary convergences in the interests of foreign powers and our own . Assessing means is as problematic as settling on ends . A great power has to be able to accept setbacks and tactical retreats , and also be willing to stick to the game over the long haul rather than succumb to swings between euphoria and discouragement . Such a stable but agile policy often means seizing opportunities when they arise and betting on causes that do n't have an immediate payoff . Treverton rightly points to many of these challenges to U.S. foreign policy and its failures to meet them . But he mistakenly attributes those failures to covert operations when they are in fact exacerbated by the open nature of our policy-making process . It is the need to mobilize public support that tends to en-courage the simple , shortsighted strategies ; public opinion likes clear lines between friends and enemies , is seldom tolerant of short-term failures , and often fails to see the point of salting away capital to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to evaluate stakes and objectives prudently , make tactical adjustments , and adhere to principles consistently over the long run , then what it may need is less rather than more exposure to the influence of domestic American politics . I do not mean this in any narrow sense of expanding the scope of responsibilities of the Directorate of Operations of the CIA , or stamping more " Top Secret " labels on documents . Obviously American foreign policy must rest on a broad public consensus over our national purposes . But the question is whether the U.S. government as a whole , acting within that consensus , can formulate and carry out foreign policy with some degree of buffering against the vagaries of domestic politics . Vance 's test of " absolute " essentiality ? or Caspar Weinberger 's six conditions for military intervention ? are rules of thumb more appropriate for a giant Switzerland than for the United States as it has conceived itself in the postwar period . Our failure to diagnose ourselves properly spells trouble in the future , not only for the United States but for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 