@@336646

Frank Stella is 51 this year , too old to be a prodigy but still young for an artist , and his second retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City  --  consisting of work done since 1970 , the year of his first one  --  has just opened . He is one of the very few American artists to get this double crown in their lifetime , thanks to the enthusiasm with which William Rubin , MOMA 's director of painting and sculpture , views his work . It is hardly an exaggeration that MOMA treats Stella as Jackson Pollock 's true dauphin in the lineage of American abstract painting . <P> Is he that good ? Not quite , but to fall short of such a comparison is still to achieve something . Stella is a pictorial rhetorician on the grand scale , and nobody who cares about the fate of abstract painting today could chew through this show  --  cramped and arrhythmic though its installation is  --  without being deeply moved . Just as Lucian Freud 's exhibition at the Hirshhorn Museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting in the ' 80s , so Stella 's fearless panache and the profusion of his output refute the common idea that the possibilities of abstract painting are played out . From the fascist lugubriousness of early striped paintings like " Die Fahne hoch " to the galvanic dance of fake-shadowed solids in the Cones and Pillars series of the ' 80s , from the decorative pastelly flatness of the late- ' 60s Protractors to the wave of polished aluminum , gray as sea fog , that swells across the wall of MOMA in a magnificent piece with the Melvillean title of Loomings , 1986 , Stella wrings more pictorial feeling from abstract art than anyone else alive . His big paintings , when they come off , are almost unique in their confidence : they project a sense of grandeur rather than the usual American inflation of scale . They are also marked by their will to confront , to deal their aesthetic cards face up , as plainly as possible . <P> Nobody who saw them in the early ' 60s can forget the impact of Stella 's first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he was in his 20s and just out of Princeton . One is apt to think of abstract artists ' careers beginning in complexity and ending in reduction with the wisdom of age , like Mondrian 's . Stella , so far , has inverted this : he started out polemical and bare , but has complicated his art to the point of apoplexy . Episode II , in which our hero goes nuts in the tropics , battles with spotted fluorescent snakes but does find El Dorado , opens with a group of eccentrically geometrical wall reliefs done in 1971-73 . They were inspired by photos of the wooden architecture of Polish village synagogues obliterated in World War II . They were essentially constructivist , based on the relation of parts rather than ( as in his earlier work ) the repetition of units . They looked complex , clean and rather dull , and one could not have deduced from them the stylistic convulsion Stella was readying.                     