@@322804

For most West Germans , no matter what their age , the pomp surrounding the 40th anniversary of the Normandy landings came as a painful reminder that even after 35 years as a democratic country , the Federal Republic is not regarded in quite the same way as other West European nations . The D-day ceremonies posed a dilemma for West Germans . They would have liked to be part of a commemoration , but they could hardly be-and were not-expected to join in the celebration of what was for them a historic defeat . On the other hand , as key members of NATO , they could not ignore an occasion that brought together the major Allies in an event that was televised across Europe and reported in detail on every front page . Rightly or wrongly , West Germans were made to feel the stigma of a Nazi era that for many of them is as remote as Kaiser Wilhelm II . <P> On the level of pure military history , West Germany observed the occasion much as its erstwhile enemies did . Television devoted hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the confusion among commanders and the contradictory orders that flowed from German headquarters . Historian Hans-Adolf Jacobsen told the viewers that a major German failure in 1944 in bad intelligence , the Allied Invadors were expected to strike in the Pas-de-Calais , not in Normandy . Stuttgart Mayor Manfred Rommel , whose father Field Marshall Erwin Rommel commanded the German Atlantic defenses , called D-day " one of the various great defeats in history . " But Rommel felt no sense of slight . Reminding West Germans that " it was better to lose the war with Hitler than to win it with Hitler , " he said , " I think it 's quite in order that the Allies have their celebration . " <P> Not all his countrymen shared that assessment . What grated most strongly perhaps was the perception that the commemoration stressed the notion of victory rather than the theme of postwar friendship . Though a number of newspaper editorials pointed to the absence of anything resembling a vindictive tone in the ceremonies , Alois Mertes , Minister of State for Foreign Affairs , suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , vanquished and guilty , " something that might " give impetus to pacifists and neutralists who are seeking a special German role between East and West . " <P> Chancellor Helmut Kohl , who was 14 in 1944 , had earlier denied reports that he officially sought to be included in the Normandy gathering . According to his aides , however , he had indicated to French President Francois Mitterrand last February that in the spirit of reconciliation , he would not mind being present . Mitterrand shrugged off the hint , and Kohl swallowed the rejection . Said Kohl last week : " The German Chancellor has no reason to celebrate when others celebrate a victory in battle that cost 10,000 German soldiers their lives . " Neither Bonn nor the West German public took much comfort from a French compromise whereby , on June 8 , French and German officials honored German soldiers killed during the first 24 hours of the landing .                     