@@339353

As producer Diane White of the Los Angeles Theater Center gets into her car , watched by two bulky parking-lot security guards , a rat scurries across the back alley toward the courthouse-like former bank building that houses the L.A.T.C. A block away , streetlights glint on the grimy marquee of a shuttered porno cinema . A few evenings before , L.A.T.C. artistic director Bill Bushnell was accosted by a gang of toughs as he left for an opening-night party , but he got away without incident . Although patrons rarely encounter trouble , it is little wonder that even Bushnell refers to the theater 's environs as " Skid Row . " <P> Yet what appears on the L.A.T.C. 's stages  --  from classics and European avant-garde imports to new works by Los Angeles playwrights and projects from black , Asian and Hispanic theater labs  --  is so compelling that within three years of opening , it has grown to a thriving four-theater complex with 26,000 subscribers that earns half its budget from ticket sales . Playgoers readily brave the neighborhood to see the L.A.T.C. 's feisty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mile away , in a plaza of cultural palaces around a gushing fountain , patrons stroll into the white marble monument that houses Los Angeles ' older , more conventional-seeming Mark Taper Forum . Visually , the contrast between the Taper and the L.A.T.C. is stark . But the ferment , the embrace of the new and the political consciousness are much the same at both . Throughout its 21-year history under artistic director Gordon Davidson , the Taper has thrived on controversy . FBI agents , for example , sat alert at the opening of Daniel Berrigan 's The Trial of the Catonsville Nine in 1970 , hoping to nab the priest as an escaped felon . Currently the Taper is offering Nothing Sacred , an adaptation of Turgenev 's Fathers and Sons that hauntingly echoes U.S. political dialectics of the ' 60s , and Davidson is developing a script about the political resurgence of Fundamentalist Christianity . <P> The L.A.T.C. 's Bushnell readily concedes an inspirational debt to Davidson , and to Joseph Papp , whose Public Theater in Manhattan is a similar urban complex . But Bushnell has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ odds than faced either of the others . Like the Public , the L.A.T.C. tends to excuse artistic lapses on the grounds of good intentions : its present offering of a black South African tract , Bopha ! , performed by the authors , is exuberant but crude . The other show now running , however  --  the debut of Kingfish by local writer Marlane Meyer  --  is an adroitly staged , intelligently acted and gut-thumping depiction of mankind at its most predatory .                     