@@487747

For I had to make him as you make a dead man , who has lost all the proofs and all the constituent parts of his existence , who has-to be achieved entirely within you . ? of ? Rilke , The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge F rankfurt , 1974 . On the Satur- day before Faster , an unnamed woman stands at the head of the stairs in a dark apartment building and watches two men trundling a zinc coffin down the narrow stairwell . Inside is the body of her estranged husband , age 30 , dead of " natural causes . " The frame quickly expands . We find out that the apartment is swarming with police . The husband , it appears , was a radical lawyer who represented imprisoned members of the Baader-Meinhof gang ( known henceforth as " the Group " ) . The police are looking for certain papers ; an autopsy has already been ordered . As the woman stands in the corridor , in numb shock , she hears other officers interrogating a shabbily-dressed young man  --  one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " she thinks , preparing to give her own deposition , " You have to fight them with cunning , dignified means . " Within a dozen pages , Eva Demski has put into motion all of the elements of a tough urban thriller : a dead man with terrorist connections , a host of prying cops , hints of night-side sexuality . . . but just as deftly she turns on her heel . The highly pressurized materials of Dead Alive do not explode into action . The woman attends to her business and then leaves , bearing the lurid images into the stillness of her life . Because of the Easter holiday and the required autopsy , twelve days must elapse before the body can be laid to rest . Demski has structured the novel acSven Birkerts is presently completing Hamann 's Bone , a collection of essays on contemporary poetry . cordingly , a chapter to every day . The strategy works to wonderful effect . We follow the woman through her days , as she contacts friends and associates , and through her stages of grief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ultimately the entire chaos of an epoch is forced through the aperture of those days of waiting . Sharp flashes disclose the couple 's history : their courtship , his early days as a flamboyant public defender , the travails of their shared activism and the sexual conflicts that gradually destroyed their marriage . But , amazingly , Demski never detaches the private struggle from the larger context of the times . Every move is in some way bound up with the energies and pressures of the social sphere . Accounts from others sometimes vie with the woman 's version . By the time we finish the novel we feel as though we have participated in the life cycle of a whole generation . Demski 's protagonist is completely credible in her reactions and gestures : Fundamentally , she was one of those plump , vivacious women , a bit maternal without ever wishing to be a mother , good-natured and rather arrogant  --  one of those women who tend to cry easily when they go to the movies or listen to late-night radio talk shows . But on this first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes were a desert A couple of trial sobs , a feeling as if a rough brush kept scraping back and forth inside her stomach ; but not a single tear . This is an inhabited character , not an invented one . Her emotional range is vast , and Demski makes no attempt to paint over her weaknesses . She becomes the perfect filter for the divergent voices that claim her attention . Piece by piece , the woman begins to uncover the design of her husband 's life . She talks with his parents and his former clients , colleagues and neighborhood cronies . The presentation is bare of easy sentiment . When the woman visits the hulking street vendor , Martina , for example , she hears : " You been off your feed for the last few days ? You look better . Do n't gobble it all back on . Have you had the funeral already ? " The voices are worn , scarred , patched together  --  we trust them . A lesser writer might have tried to force the plot to turn on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those people knew each other as well as any two complicated adults could  --  there are no sensational revelations . At the same time , though , the novel is faithful to the myriad ways in which other lives remain opaque . The woman is willing to face the truth of her husband 's homosexuality , but try as she might , she can not understand what it meant to him . At one point she visits a leather bar that ' he used to frequent . Against the backdrop of a pornographic film , she sees an apparition . The subtle tics of its otherness are far more disconcerting to her than the images on the screen : Suddenly the wife saw her husband very clearly , standing in a rigid pose at the bar . His profile was half hidden , and nothing was visible but his sharp nose and the shadows of his lashes on the curves of his cheeks . He was standing there as if he did n't see her , and observing the door with shorty rapid movements of his eagle 's head . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by side on the bar . Soon after the news of the death has gone out , the woman is contacted by members of the Group . Terse voices instruct her over the phone . She arranges to meet a certain " Gloucester " in a cafe at the zoo . Posing as lovers , the two stage an embrace . She feels the young man tremble " like a taut wire from which a perching bird has just flown away : a movement not of fear but of alertness . " Their discussion ' concerns a valise that the lawyer had in his keeping : she must find it and deliver it to the Group . The woman is flattered , proud of having some importance for the revolution . But she is also confused and frightened . She can not understand the impersonal intensity with which those people carry out their plans . Her husband 's death ; she sees , is nothing to them  --  it is a problem , an obstacle to surmount . Her emotions clash with her political sympathies . And when she finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no room for the striking of fashionable poses : she must face for herself the real implications of her husband 's commitment . Again , Demski avoids the more obvious narrative possibilities . Though the terrorist presence remains a powerful source of tension , bringing into relief the moral and political interrogations , we end up seeing only a few traces of revolutionary activity . In the novel , as in German society , the Group stays underground . Dead Alive delineates clearly how the euphoric solidarity of the 1960s has given way to the most complicated polarizations . Former activists retreat into apathy , girding themselves with defensive righteousness . Small sects turn to violent praxis . And in the midst of everything , the good liberal citizens vote " law and order " but scarcely conceal th  --  ir glee at extremist actions . Demski 's discursive plotting and her rendering of the woman 's anguished indecision allow her to make an unforced examination of these various stances and motivations . The woman listens carefully when her husband 's associate proclaims : " At my age , one no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All I want is the revolution . " But she is no less attentive when her old friend Paul , also a lawyer , tells her : " I 'm almost forty . When you reach my age , you have to watch out that you do n't start to look comic as a revolutionary . " She realizes , finally , that she must choose for herself . She can not be her husband , however much their ideals once converged . His anarchic temperament enabled him to accommodate , even foster , extremism  --  she can not . The woman surreptitiously destroys the materials in the case . Though her gesture is in one sense cowardly  --  she admits as much  --  it is also genuine , the result of profound self-examination . A review can not do justice to the woven quality of Demski 's narrative . She shuttles with great ease between the crepuscular anxieties of the moment and the unexpected incursions of memory . At the same time , the range of her concern and'her nonjudgmental notation of character allow her to sustain a vivid sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we have not only come to know the couple , but we have also penetrated the manifold layers of their social and political environment . What 's niofd ; iv , e1 have watched , as if through a polished rearview mirror , the unceremonious end of an era : . . r . , She still had one photo left from 1969 . It showed the husband and wife looking earnest and excited , but also selfconfident  --  he at twenty-six , she at twenty-five  --  both dressed in black , with the black silk flag draped over their shoulders . On the day before the funeral , the woman suddenly throws herself into the project of making a scrapbook of faces from their shared past . Working with scissors and paste , she muses : How many different childhoods they had come out of ; all of them approaching , like orbiting stars , a single point , where they then converged . Their childhoods had n't been dream kingdoms . They had come from line horries or from loWer7middle-class obscurity ; they had had anxious or megalomaniacal. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all  --  railroad conductors and generals , tradesmen and poets of the Thousand-YearReich  --  and yet all of them , coming from far away , had met at this same point , a place of enchantment . There had been joy in the land for that brief spell in 1967 , when all over the country they listened to the radio and heard how many they were and how , at least for that moment , the streets belonged to them . When the scrapbook is finished , the woman takes it to the cemetery and places it in her husband 's coffin . She has completed her mourning . At that moment , the tightened strands of the novel vibrate to make an eerie music : Demski is declaring both victory and defeat . Though the man is dead , something has been wrested from his life . The past , too , is gone , its promises spent  --  but we see that its outsized dreams can still flare up in individual lives . At the funeral , the mourners group themselves in sharply defined factions : family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a gang of black-jacketed motorcyclists . Plainclothes police stand by , oblivious to the presence of a well-dressed woman from the Group . As the priest tries to speak , another young woman begins to shout obscenities . It seems that chaos will carry the day . But then , miraculously , silence supervenes  --  something more potent than divisive ideology moves through the room . For the space of a breath , the consecrating mysteries of love and death banish all distinction . Their presence can not be sustained , of course . Animosity and strife return as soon as the procession gets underway . But now there is a hollowness , a boastful bravado , a quickening sense that the actors have had it with the play , and that there may be other options . ? 