@@487730

of nuclear NATO seem to be deciding that Kinnock is vul  --  nerable to a threat that the United States will withdraw its troops from Europe if they are deprived of the " nuclear shield . " This has thrown Kinnock into the apparently awk  --  ward posture of emphasizing the need for American troops in Europe for the sake of U.S. as well as European security . Nuclear weapons issues have been convulsing the Social Democratic Party-Liberal Alliance , Britain 's hybrid third force . The ambitious S.D.P. leader , David Owen , causti  --  cally opposes Kinnock 's nonnuclear policy , which he says will will make Britain " fearful , neutralist and third-rate . " The Liberals , who are closer to Kinnock than to Thatcher on the issue of defense , nevertheless are motivated to help the Alliance overtake Labor . I asked Kinnock if he thought Owen might join the Conservatives . Yes , he might , Kinnock replied . Would that hurt Labor 's chances of winning ? No , the contrary ! he said . Although he can be cutting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligent and usually friendly man , quick and funny . On television he responds to topics of the day with facility , but brings the talk around , to the extent that he can , to his own points . His wife , Glenys , who joined him for part of his U.S. tour , has deeper roots in the British peace move ? , ment than he does . If Labor wins , according to an extremely well-placed source in London , the expected elevation of Denis Healy to the post of Foreign Secretary will lodge in that key position a Labor elder who is thoroughly cynical about the goal of a nonnuclear Britain . Even Bruce Kent , when asked to de  --  scribe what he visualizes if Kinnock takes over , thought a Labor victory might result in a stalemated situation , in some ways comparable to the one in Andreas Papandreou 's Greece . Nevertheless , Labor 's challenge to NATO 's ar  --  rangements of the past four decades is the antinuclear action in the West now , and before it 's over the whole world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHANGE The Fifth Remembered JAMES ARONSON T n the early weeks of December , Lieut . Col. Oliver North and Vice Adm . John Poindexter , who ran the National Security Council in the White House , appeared before two Congressional committees and took the Fifth Amendment to protect themselves against giving testimony that might incriminate them . The Fifth Amendment ? The bells of history ring . In a gravelly voice , Senator Joe McCarthy inveighs against the James Aronson , Thomas Hunter professor emeritus of communications at Hunter College , is a veteran journalist and a founding editor of The National Guardian . DISSATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK . At The Nation , we do n't expect you to be dissatisfied with our magazine . Just with what it ' covers : Public relations games that take priority over disarmament . Affronts to your intelligence by government spokes  --  persons . Assaults on our values and freedoms by the Falwells of the world . You 'll get stirred up by the likes of Alexander Cockburn , Periny Lernoux and Stephen F. Cohen . Then to agitate you even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such quality and style that it , - too , gives you a lot to think about . Of course , some people do n't mind getting this worked up . If you 're one of them , you may want to subscribe by fill  --  ing out the ' coupon . But be forewarned . Our guarantee is different from that ofmost magazines . " Fifth Amendment Communists . " The members of the Motion Picture Association of America declare that no writer , actor or director who invoked the Fifth ( or any ) Amendment before a committee of inquiry will ever work again in Hollywood unless the culprit purges him  --  self or herself . The president of the Screen Actors Guild in 1951 vows to exclude from membership in the guild any uncooperative witness . His name is Ronald Reagan . But that was then and this is now . Immediately after 011ie and the Admiral chose to remain silent , President Reagan , who had vowed full disclosure by his Administration , was asked by the press how he felt about his boys taking the Fifth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cocked his head and said he could n't tell people what to do before the committee ; after all , they had their rights under the Constitution , as had any American . There were few charges in the press or on Capitol Hill that the President was " coddling " those who chose to " hide ' behind the Fifth , " as there had been in the old days . A New York Times editorial on December 5 , titled " Pleading the Fifth Is No Crime , " stated : No matter how sad the spectacle , the former officials are wholly within their rights . . . . Neither guilt nor even con  --  sciousness of wrongdoing should be inferred because Ad  --  miral Poindexter or Colonel North have invoked their con  --  stitutional right to silence at this stage . . . . Three decades ago , Senator Joe McCarthy reviled " Fifth Amendment Communists , " presuming the guilt of all who invoked the privilege rather than undergo his questioning . It required calm spokesmen for nonpartisan decency to make clear , as did Erwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the privilege against self-incrimination is one of the great landmarks in man 's struggle to make himself civilized . " That sentiment should be endorsed wholeheartedly by all who have faith that the ' Bill of Rights . protects mobsters , assassins , cloak-hi-id-dagger foreign-policy makers and people with unpopular political beliefs . And since we are looking backward , it may be instructive to review the way in which The Times itself handled the issue of its staff and the Fifth Amendment . In the summer of 1955 , Senator James Eastland of Mis  --  sissippi , chair of a Senate Judiciary subcommittee on inter  --  nal security , issued subpoenas to thirty-eight journalists ( the number was later reduced ) for hearings on ' the alleged in  --  fluence of the Communist Party on U.S. newspapers . Of the thirty-eight , about twenty-five were members or former members of The Times 's staff . Although Eastland denied that The Times was a special target , it was well known that he was furious with the newspaper for its approval of the Supreme Court 's famous decision , handed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended.with " all deliberate speed . " Among The Times 's management there was much discus  --  sion about how to deal with the witnesses . Publisher Arthur Hays Sulzberger wanted to fire anyone who pleaded the Fifth Amendment , but cooler heads prevailed . All but two of the staff members subpoenaed were called in by the management and told to cooperate with The Times andwith the subcommittee . Confessionals , presided over by executive editor Turner Catledge and legal counsel Louis Loeb , were eminently successful , for the most part . Staff members divulged their having joined the Communist Party but now deplored the sins of their youth . ( Later some went before the subcommittee and named names . ) There were exceptions . A copy editor on the financial desk told the managerial monsignors that he had been a member of the Communist Party before 1942 and that he planned to invoke the Fifth Amendment in response to any questions about that time from the subcommittee . At the hearing he was asked by committee counsel J.G. Sourwine ( Dickens could not have devised a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took the Fifth Amendment he would be discharged . " I was not so told , sir , " was the reply . As the witness left the stand he was handed a telegram in  --  forming him that he had been fired . At the afternoon ses  --  sion Senator Eastland placed in the record a letter he had received that same day from publisher Sulzberger , on the letterhead of The Times 's Washington bureau , which said that Sulzberger had " just had a report " that the witness had " refused to , answer questions put to him . " Enclosed was a letter to the witness , addressed to his home in Brooklyn , ad  --  vising him that his employment by The New York Times had ceased . Senator Eastland was not appeased ; he scheduled new hearings , with Times employees among the witnesses , for November . After the ineffable counsel Sourwine pointed out that the scheduled date of the hearings coincided with Freedom of the Press Week , they were postponed until January 1956 . Meanwhile , the Times confessional booth was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged to tell all in private to the Federal Bureau of In  --  vestigation . Then they could go before the subcommittee and refuse to testify fully about themselves on the ground that they had unburdened themselves to the appropriate au  --  thorities . Eighteen present and former staff members were to testify . Two of them told The Times that they planned to take the Fifth Amendment , and were offered the opportuni  --  ty to resign . One did ; the other was fired . Only two Times witnesses were cooperative on the stand ; they obviously had satisfied the management in private . A few invoked the Fifth Amendment , were relegated for a considerable time to the back of the newsroom and eventually were restored to respectability . One well-known Washington correspondent met in executive session with the subcommittee and the F.B.I. , and in public testimony named several early leaders of the Newspaper Guild as Communists . He was removed from the Washington bu  --  reau , assigned to compile the paper 's daily news digest , then rehabilitated . ' But he never went back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from January 3 to January 5 . On the last day it published a thundering editorial titled " The Voice of a Free Press . " The-author was Charles Merz , then editor of the editorial page . The Times , said the editorial , did not question the propriety of an in  --  vestigation of the press by an agency of the government ; the press was not sacrosanct . The Times would not knowingly hire a member of the Communist Party , and the discovery that it had would result in the person 's immediate dismissal . As to those employees who pleaded the Fifth Amendment " for reasons of their own , " each case would be judged on its merits . The Times did not believe in the " doctrine of irredeemable sin , " and held that it was possible for an employee to atone " through good performance for past error . " Then the editorial let loose a bolt of lightning on the Senate : We can not speak unequivocally for the long future . But we can have faith . And our faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee are forgot  --  ten , long after segregation has lost its battle in the South , long after all that was known as McCarthyism is a dim , unwelcome memory , long after the last Congressional com  --  mittee has learned that it can not tamper successfully with a free press , The New York Times will still be speaking for the men who make it , and only for the men who make it , and speaking , without fear or favor , the truth as it sees it . That 's not quite the way the copy editor on the financial desk and two of his colleagues witnessed the truth . Nor did I , a former member of the editorial staff who was called before the Eastland subcommittee . In 1970 , I published al book titled The Press and the Cold War , in which The Times , particularly with regard to the Eastland incident , figures prominently . In a review of the book in The Nation for January 25 , 1971 , Richard Walton , a historian of the cold war , wrote : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New York Times , daily or Sunday . For Aron- , son , to speak plainly , accuses The Times of being cowardly , hypocritical and a willing accomplice in the cold war cru  --  sade. . . . a serious , fair-minded review of this book is as good a criterion as one is likely to find of the stature of a newspaper . Notice , I said serious and fair-minded , not nec  --  essarily favorable . " On Sunday , March 7 , 1971 , The New York Times Book Review provided Walton with the opportunity he had wanted . My book and three others were reviewed by Allen Weinstein , who was later to write Perjury : The Hiss-Chambers Case , which would be criticized for containing many distortions of fact and misstatements in the service of ideology see Victor Navasky , " The Case Not Proved Against Alger Hiss , " The Nation , April 8 , 1978 . The Times 's review of my book , described by Nat Hentoff in The Village Voice for March 18 , 1971 , as one of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suc  --  cessive columns  --  not about the quality of Weinstein 's piece but about an unprecedented " Editor 's Note " that had been inserted in brackets : Weinstein had acknowledged that " many papers , The Times among them , summarily dis  --  missed staff members who refused to cooperate with Con  --  gressional Redhunters . " Immediately following that sen  --  tence came the " Editor 's Note , " which read : As a result of the investigations of the Eastland Senate Inter  --  nal Security Subcommittee , which in 1955 singled out The Times for particular attention , The Times decided that any employe in a position of editorial or news responsibility who did not ? cooperate with The Times regarding disclosure to The Times of past Communist party affiliation would be dismissed . Under this policy , three employes who cooperated with The Times were retained as Times employes even though they did not cooperate with the Eastland Subcommittee and conse  --  quently were cited for contempt . Of 23 Times employes called before the Eastland Subcommittee , only three  --  who refu- sed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mittee  --  were dismissed by The Times . ? Editor The note was dishonest . It did not disclose that the three employees who were retained had invoked the First Amend  --  ment , and it withheld the information that the financial desk copy editor had indeed reported his former party member  --  ship to the paper 's management . Aside from The Times 's arrogant attitude toward its employees , Hentoff was dis  --  mayed by its editorial intrusion in a review . He called John Leonard , then newly installed as editor of the Book Review , for an explanation . Leonard told him that the " Editor " was in fact The Times 's legal department . The Sunday editor had submitted the review to the lawyers , who wrote the note and signed it that way . The Times must answer for itself , if it ever will . In the Times family , however , one person has nothing to answer for . John B. Oakes , who later became editor of the editorial page , vigorously opposed the paper 's policy during the Eastland foray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his perspicacity and his indignation have not diminished through the years . One final word about those who invoked the Fifth Amendment then and now . In the McCarthy-Eastland era those who took the Fifth were concerned not so much about self-incrimination as about protecting their beliefs and associations . In the Reagan era Poindexter and North ( and now Maj. Gen. Richard Secord ) may or may not be con  --  cerned about self-incrimination , but they are also seeking to protect their associates  --  government officials in the highest echelons , whose sworn duty is to inform the nation about public policy . But no matter how reprehensible the motives-of the President 's men , the Fifth Amendment should not be diminished or derogated. q NM MANLEY 'S NEXT MOVES Sitting in Limbo In Jamaica MICHAEL KAUFMAN W atch Jamaica , said Ronald Reagan shortly after his inauguration in 1981 . The Carib  --  bean island of 2.2 million people was to be a showcase for the magic of the market  --  place , under the auspices of newly elected Prime Minister Edward Seaga . Almost six years have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manages to cling to power . In spite of a massive infusion of foreign loans and U.S. aid , the Jamaican economy is a disaster . The national output is stagnant , unemployment and the cost of living continue to rise and devaluations have cut the Jamaican dollar to one-third of what it was worth in October 1980 , when Seaga came into office -- The days of Seaga and his Jamaica Labor Party ( J.L.P. ) are numbered . In July the opposition people 's National Party ( P.N.P. ) , led by former Prime Minister Michael Manley , , won a landslide victory in local government elec  --  tions . The P.N.P. , as well as members of the business com  --  community , labor movement and media are urging Seaga to call national elections , even though he is not required to do so until late 1988 . In a clumsy attempt to buy time the Prink Minister announced in October that he would step down next summer . But within a month , although his announce  --  ment had failed to elicit howls of protest , he declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much . Seaga was elected on a promise that money would soon be " jingling in people 's pockets . " The turnaround of the economy would be based on a surge of export-led growth , principally in manufactured goods and nontraditional agri  --  cultural products , such as flowers and winter vegetables . In line with the Reagan Administration 's Caribbean Basin In  --  itiative , Jamaica would be transformed into an export plat  --  form for the U.S. market  --  the Singapore or Taiwan of the Caribbean . Seaga also promised to encourage the growth of Jamaica 's two largest official foreign exchange earners , tourism and bauxite/alumina , and , prodded by Washing  --  ton , to crack down on ganja , or marijuana , which may be the island 's number-one export . Loans began to flow from commercial banks , the U.S. Agency for International Development , the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank ; Jamaica signed agreements for hundreds of millions of dollars in balance  --  of-payments support from the international Monetary Fund . Although Jamaicans have never displayed much per  --  sonal fondness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the country secured new loans , after years of being starved for cash under the Manley government , bol  --  stered Seaga 's reputation as a brilliant technocrat . Fissures soon began to appear . Much of the money that came in the first years of the J.L.P. government was squandered in a frenzy of consumption by the middle class and the rich . Between 1980 and 1983 imports increased sub  --  stantially , although exports declined by more than 30 per  --  cent . The rate of increase in the import of consumer dura  --  bles was ten times that of total imports . New cars cruised the potholed streets , and satellite dishes blossomed like ex  --  otic plants in the posh neighborhoods on the hillsides sur  --  rounding Kingston , the capital . But the flood of cheap im  --  ports was ruinous for many sectors of local industry : while 750,000 pairs of shoes were brought into the country , for ex  --  ample , six Jamaican shoe factories closed down for lack of business . The import of cheap foodstuffs temporarily restrained in  --  flation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption . Seaga gave little encouragement to the ma  --  jority of Jamaican farmers , who subsist on meager incomes from their tiny plots . Instead , he devoted his attention to programs like Agro 21 , which received World Bank fund  --  ing to develop high-technology agriculture , farming largely for export . At the end of 1983 domestic agriculture and livestock production dropped to below 1980 levels . And last summer Agro 21 's centerpiece , an experimental vegetable farm , went bankrupt . Big loans and balance-of-payments support have done nothing to correct the fundamental problems of the econ  --  omy : factories producing at a fraction of capacity ; mal  --  distribution of land ; insufficient housing ; inadequate pro  --  duction of food , simple consumer goods and clothing ; and high rates of unemployment , with all the attendant social ills . It is estimated that in the ghettos of Kingston two out of three people are unemployed . Loans and aid have hardly stimulated capital investment ; most of the money that left Jamaica in the 1970s has not returned . Export processing zones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low wages , attracted only a modest number of companies , certainly not enough to offset the spectacular contraction of the bauxite/alumina industry . Atlantic- , Richfield pulled out of the island , and Reynolds Metals Company closed down its plant . Only the tourism industry , promoted by extensive advertising campaignS ' in North America , has shown consistent improvement . As the economic situation worsened after 1983 , the gov  --  ernment turned to the I.M.F. , which demanded successive                     