@@333462

The pressure on the President had been building for months . Despite a score of bombings and torchings of abortion clinics across the U.S. last year , Ronald Reagan , a firm foe of abortion , had remained silent . FBI Director William Webster had claimed that the violence was not the result of a conspiracy and thus did not constitute a form of political terrorism that his agency could investigate . Pro-choice leaders contended that the federal silence was encouraging the violence . Asked Judy Goldsmith , president of the National Organization for Women : " Where is the great advocate of law-and- order ? " Then came three bombings on Christmas Day in Pensacola , Fla. , and one early New Year 's morning in Washington , D.C. Goldsmith dashed off a telegram to the President , urging him to condemn " the terrorist acts in the same strong terms you condemn the attacks of international terrorists upon American citizens . " <P> In the wake of these attacks  --  making 15 in the past four months  --  the President last week finally removed any doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will do all in my power to assure that the guilty are brought to justice , " he said . " I condemn , in the strongest terms , those individuals who perpetrate these and all such violent , anarchist activities . " He ordered Attorney General William French Smith to make sure that federal agencies work cooperatively to investigate and prosecute the crimes . <P> One focus of controversy has been the FBI 's reluctance to label the bombings as terrorist acts and take charge of the cases . In fact , the bombings at abortion clinics have been investigated actively and effectively by the Treasury Department 's Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms , which has legal jurisdiction in federal cases involving explosives . It has thrown fully 500 of its 1,200 agents at the abortion-clinic incidents . The FBI has backed BATF with help on fingerprints and psychological profiles of likely suspects . Declared Webster last week : " If someone wants to call this a terrorist act in a semantical term , I 'm not going to quarrel with it . I have offered the full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not stemmed the antiabortion violence . There were three bomb or arson attacks on abortion facilities in 1982 , two in 1983 , but 24 last year . Still , the BATF agents , working with local police , have an impressive record . Nearly half of all the crimes are considered " solved , " meaning that there have been either arrests or convictions . In sentencing the bombers or arsonists , judges have ignored pleas that the acts were motivated by religion or politics and harmed only property . ( No one has been injured in any of the attacks . ) The sentences have been stiff .                     