@@335155

In the most famous play ever written about newspapermen , Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur painted a sardonic portrait of hard-boiled , hardhearted journalists , but it was a picture tinged with affection for the profession 's raffish charm . Last week , however , many people found nothing charming about the press 's role in the collapse of Gary Hart 's presidential candidacy . If no one actually peeped through keyholes , reporters were doing things that could n't help looking a bit tawdry . A team of journalists staked out a man 's home to discover who was spending the night there . A presidential candidate was asked , at point-blank range , whether he had ever committed adultery . TV newscasts and newspaper front pages were dominated for most of a week with talk of sexual dalliances , back doors and yachts to Bimini . Along with the questions that flew last week about les liaisons dangereuses of Gary Hart , a parallel debate was raging over whether the press had overstepped the bounds of propriety in trying to bring those indiscretions to light . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had set Hart 's downfall in motion by conducting a 24-hour weekend stakeout of his Washington town house and finding him in the company of an attractive young woman . In his first public response to the Herald 's charges  --  delivered , appropriately enough , before a convention of newspaper publishers meeting in New York City  --  Hart blasted the paper 's surveillance and said it raised " searching questions " about journalistic responsibility . Much of the public seemed to agree . The Miami Herald 's own opinion survey showed that 63% of its readers felt that press coverage of Hart 's personal life had been excessive . Reporters looking for Hart 's alleged paramour Donna Rice at her rented suburban Miami condominium early last week discovered instead a band of angry neighbors . " Oh , you press ! " snapped one woman . " You 're always getting into everybody 's bed . " <P> Journalists themselves were divided over the Herald 's decision to stake out Hart 's home on an anonymous tip . " The notion was to put a citizen under surveillance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Journal and Constitution . " To me that is a technique for police , not journalists . " A.M. Rosenthal , former executive editor of the New York Times , criticized the Herald 's tactics in his op-ed column : " I would not have given such an assignment or allowed one to be made . " Yet a Times editorial called the Herald 's pursuit of the story " eminently justified , " and many others agreed . " I would have done the same thing if I got the tip they did , " says David Hall , editor of the Denver Post . " Watching the man 's movements , which can be done legally and with discretion , is the only way you can learn whether Hart is telling the truth about himself . "                     