@@487740

It is not enough that President Reagan slough or shuffle his National Security Council staff . It is not enough that a U.S. Court of Appeals panel appoint an independent counsel to pursue evidence of criminal activity . It is not enough that Congressional committees probe the proliferating reports , rumors , connections and discrepancies that constitute the arms sale scandal . For at its core the crisis that has already diverted and may permanently derail the Reagan Administration concerns the conduct of foreign policy and the democratic legitimacy of presidential authority ; and until those issues are met , the crisis can not be resolved honestly . In less than six years the Reagan Administration developed its system of covert operations , extended its string of secret wars and refined its schedule of shady deals to a level of sophistication and a point of pre-eminence unknown in the history of U.S. foreign relations . Apologists for Reagan will surely claim  --  as William Safire did so doggedly for Nixon that the pattern of secrecy and manipulation had been firmly established by Presidents ldng gone . And so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign and domestic politics in the 1950s , the disastrous involvement in Indochinese ( Continued on Page 659 ) EDITORIALS . The Crisis ( Continued From Front Cover ) affairs by Kennedy 's " best and brightest " imperial intellec -- tuals and the immortal escatiades that came to be known as Watergate make a sleazy and shameful history that Reagan seems to be following as if it were revealed writ . But no President until now has so vastly replaced open policies with covert ones , has so cynically removed the major issues of his Administration from the possibility of public debate , has so brazenly and hypocritically done one thing with , a closed hand and the exact opposite with the other . The arms deal  --  variously called Iranagua , Gippergate and , ' by Reagan , " our Iran policy " ? dienot take place on the margins of policy but at its very heart . The ghoulish allianceof reactionary , repressive and aggressive governments that the White House forged to turn its tricks was the centerpiece of its strategy in the Third World , the most active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The same complex of deals that gave money to the contras at a time when Congress expressly forbade such aid was also supporting the whole wretched network of terrorists , mercenaries , rebels and death squads from Angola to Guatemala . Reagan ordered the covert war against Nicaragua in the first weeks of his Administration , and it has naturally received the most publicity . It has never been debated straightforwardly because the Administration still does not call it by its rightful name but insists on the fiction that a genuine rebellion that seeks to gain leverage for " negotiations " with the Nicaraguan government is in progress in the remote regions of Central America . For some reason most politicians and the major media have taken that fiction for fact , or at least have not conceded that the war to overthrow the Sandinistas is headquartered in the White House . But America 's war against Angola , fought in conjunction with the white minority regime in South Africa , gets only a footnote in current conversations . The U.S. effort in Afghanistan , which is presented to Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Soviet aggression , is in reality more a self-serving intervention that sponsors covertly the same kind of terror , torture and subversion that the Russians are practicing overtly . It now turns out that profits from the Iranian arms , deal also went to Unita in Angola and the mujahedeen in Afghanistan , and perhaps freed up some funds so that South Africa could pour more into the Renamo guerrilla operation in Mozambique . C.I.A.-watchers estimate that there are at least fifty live covert-ops around the world , from Algeria to Zambia . Many of those involve terrorism on a scale so grand that they make the odd Arab hijacking or kidnapping look like a quiet day in Miami . The Administration managed the election of Jose Napoleon Duarte in El Salvador and then conceived of the tactic of terror-bombing civilian villages in the Salvadoran countryside , supplying the training , the technology and the money to do it . Reagan has approved money and arms for his chosen guerrillas in Chad and in Cambodia . He has sanctioned training of troops in Guatemala , and he has made Honduras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Camranh Bay , in South Vietnam . With the willing participation of the government in Tel Aviv , the White House strategists have hastened the process by which Israel is becoming a mercenary state bound to serve America 's interests and support America 's interventions anywhere in the world . Just as Israel arranged the Iranian deal and may have facilitated the financial transfers to the contra war ( Israeli and U.S. officials are blaming each other ) , it has done dirty work in South Africa , in Guatemala and in El Salvador when for various reasons the U.S. government would rather keep its white gloves on . Israel said last month that it has no particular interests in Central America , but it has supplied right-wing forces in that region for years , and even now Israelis are reportedly training Nicaraguan contras based in Honduras . Israel promoted and continues to feed the antiterrorism campaign that has defined Reagan 's foreign policy in the public sector . There is evidence that Mossad , the Israeli secret service , obliges the common effort by contriving acts of Arab terrorism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Saudi Arabia do share a similar interest in destroying Arab radicalism  --  by bombs if necessary , by more subtle means if possible . The United States throws billions into that effort , which is a long-term objective of U.S. policy as well . The Saudis get AWACS ( arranged by Lieut . Col. Oliver North and Maj. Gen. Richard Secord , among others ) and finance the Afghani mujahedeen . The United States also rewards its various friends and allies with intelligence software as well as military hardware . Lost among the subscandals of the past month was the poignant item that in 1983 the C.I.A . fingered some 200 Iranian leftists to the government in Teheran , which promptly executed them . Reagan 's gift of 200 lives was apparently part of the same deal meant to woo " moderates " in Iran and free hostages in Lebanon . The Saudi-Israeli-Iranian triad fits nicely into the world anticommunist front that was set up by right-wing fanatics but is an important element in the geopolitical project of mainstream U.S. policy-makers . Nazi collaborators whom the C.I.A . saved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassins from the Somoza regime in Nicaragua and black Africans acting on behalf of South Africa in an International of the Right pledged to do battle against popular revolutions and socialist struggles wherever they occur . At the same time , Washington has helped secure a permanent funding network of foreign governments , political parties and private institutions to support global counterrevolution without being subject to the vagaries of local elections , changes of officials or the whims of public opinion in any one country . The West German government was recently reported to have administered a fund for antileft politics around the world . Among its recipients are El Salvador 's Duarte and the South African Zulu strongman Gatsha Buthelezi , who visited President Reagan on November 25 . The Bavarian arm of West Germany 's ruling Christian Democratic Party participates in the same effort . From the United States , several outfits tied to private foundations and organized labor have traditionally done C.I.A . jobs in Europe and the Third World , and during the Reagan Administration they have been especially active in Africa and Latin America . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is directed not only against nationalist and leftist forces abroad but against the progressive opposition in this country . From the very beginning the strategy was assumed to be antithetical to democratic debate . An Army study that lays out the doctrine of low-intensity conflict declares : As Americans , we consider democracy to be the best form of government , but it is not always the most efficient . The cumbersome decision-making and consensus-building process inherent in a demobracy can be too slow to respond to dangers before they become critical . The " enemy within " is clearly targeted : a consensus on Third World wars has not existed since the Vietnam era , and no one in Washington overlooks the role that liberal and radical antiwar and solidarity movements have played in blocking or at least moderating the government 's interventionist impulses since that time . Reagan was forced into the covert mode of foreign policy by the legacy of Vietnam and the history of democratic opposition to imperial adventure . Nixon came a cropper of the peace movement of the 1960s ; it is wonderfully ironic that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the same syndrome he has so often pronounced cured . Not only the White House is engaged in damage control lest the myriad connections and full extent of the Administration 's secret foreign policy operations be exposed . Congressional Republicans , of course , want to defuse the scandals as quickly as possible so that their own power and prospects will not be affected . But the Democratic leadership has been trying to deepen the political wounds of the Administration while limiting the scope of the crisis . Senators Sam Nunn and Daniel Patrick Moynihan want to save the policy apparatus as much as Donald Regan and George Shultz do . The press is elated , but its vision is circumscribed . Certain reporters and news anchors no doubt see that Gippergate could bring them fame and fortune , as others made their careers from Watergate and Vietnam . Political scandals ( and wars ) do for well-placed journalists what wars do for field commanders . But the media is still stopping short of connecting the unpopular and apparently illegal acts of the arms deal with the rest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the popular and successful bombardment of Libya or the invasion and occupation of Grenada , for example . Nor have strong voices of opposition to that policy been broadcast . Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts has been investigating the contras for a year and has more facts and analyses than any other prominent political figure . He has had the most to say about the wider political implications of the current foreign policy crisis , but he has been virtually shut out of the national media . One member of the news staff at CBS said that the blackout was deliberate , that Kerry was thought to be a " problem " case , too much associated with the protests against the Vietnam War and too much on the margins of the Democratic mainstream . If Congress takes Reagan 's advice and " consolidates " all its investigations in a single committee , you can bet that the Nunns and the Moynihans , not the Kerrys ( if there is indeed more than one ) , will ' set the terms and the tone of the hearings . The cover-up that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Month is continuing on many levels . It seems that everyone in Washington has drawn a line beyond which they do not want the investigation to go . Reagan and Regan see the line just below their noses . Many Democrats describe a larger circle in which they hope to score political points . But justice will not be served by narrow definitions of scandal . President Reagan has grievouslywounded the democratic process in the formulation of foreign policy , just as he has conducted or sanctioned an unrelenting reign of terror in many parts of the world , and there is a unique opportunity now to see his work for what it is.                     