@@486755

The opening of the Berlin wall symbolically marks the end of an era , that of revolution from above and from abroad . It foreshadows the disappearance of the great divide separating two halves of Europe and two conflicting social systems . This prospect , however , depends on the dissolution of Eastern and Western blocs and thus of NATO and the Warsaw Pact . Only when that occurs can German reunification be put on Europe 's agenda . There will be time enough to draw up the balance sheet and ponder the consequences ; now we should rejoice at the crumbling of the wall under popular pressure . Those who take the occasion to celebrate the funeral of socialism show their ignorance of its principles . In 1953 a workers ' uprising in Berlin was crushed by tanks , causing Bertolt Brecht to remark bitterly that if people disagree with the rulers the simple solution is to " dissolve the people . " Recently , however , Hans Modrow , the new East German Prime Minister , argued that a party deprived of popular support does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the tide of events , while the men who sent in the tanks were more firmly in command , he is much closer to socialist principles than they ever were , because effective socialism is inseparable from democracy . Those who would dig the grave for socialism have one valid point : that its identification with Stalinism and then with imported revolution has largely discredited the very idea . To be resurrected , socialism may have to be partly reinvented . But the ideological morticians are wrong in assuming that this death of an epoch heralds a capitalist eternity . The lesson of events in East Germany is that people inspired by an idea can bring down walls . Two centuries after the French Revolution there are plenty of Bastilles to be stormed . FORMULA FOR PROFITS HEATING UP THE BOTTLE BATTLE FRANK A. OSKI Early this year millions of viewers of Wheel of Fortune and other network television programs began seeing commercials starring a 6-monthold baby happily guzzling a new infant formula from the Carnation Company called Good Nature H.A . In October Gerber Products served up " Nursing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sucking contentedly at her mother 's breast . The voice-over concedes that mother 's milk is the " most complete baby food " but quickly adds , " Nothing comes closer to your own milk than Gerber Baby Formula . " The slickness of these commercials may be nothing new , but their appearance in living rooms all over the country signals a major change in how infant formula is marketed . Until last year , formula manufacturers advertised exclusively to physicians about the virtues of their products and hoped that these pediatricians and family doctors would counsel parents to start feeding their babies formula sooner rather than later . But now Carnation and Gerber have decided to make their pitch directly to Mom and Dad in multimillion-dollar advertising campaigns on television and in print . Nearly 60 percent of all mothers in the United States initially breast-feed their babies , yet the infant formula industry enjoys annual sales of $1.6 billion . This seeming paradox is due to the fact that less than 20 percent of mothers breast-feed for as long as six least that long . More- c ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even though it is 0 beneficial to do so for at a ' ( licensing hearings in order to win a delay in the granting of a low-power operating license to T.U. The organization is asking Texas Senator Lloyd Bentsen for a full-scale investigation of the plant before it goes on-line . In late October the N.R.C. itself received information from an anonymous source alleging that N.R.C. officials had falsified data provided by their own inspectors at the Comanche Peak plant ? data that raise additional questions about the plant 's readiness to receive a low-power operating license . The N.R.C. 's Office of Investigations and its inspector general are looking into these cover-up allegations , which may further delay approval of a license . Despite CASE 's presence on site , nothing seems to have changed at Comanche Peak . The N.R.C. , in a July 10 , 1989 , report detailing the failure of a critical test two months earlier , warned that the utility lacks a " management philosophy normally associated with safe reactor plant operation . " Today CASE is isolated from the very public whose interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now has only six members and prefers to resolve its differences with T.U. in private . And most of its share of the multimillion-dollar cash settlement is still sitting in the bank while CASE decides how to spend it . Together with a rump faction of the CASE board , individual members of CFUR have petitioned for a court order to require Ellis to open CASE 's financial records . Community interest organizations that were once united are now forced to expend valuable energy fighting one another . Worse yet , in the wake of its agreement , CASE seems unlikely to contest T.U. 's expected request for a rate increase before the Texas Public Utilities Commission . Forced to play catch-up , Comanche Peak 's other opponents would then have a much more difficult , if not impossible , task proving that the public should not be forced to pay for billions of dollars of cost overruns at the plant . Ellis , however , insists that a decision to fight T.U. before the utilities commission has not been made . " A lot depends upon when T.U. files a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are just buried , swamped with paperwork , " says Ellis , CASE may prefer instead to stick to its primary role as an observer . m he nuclear industry sees this agreement as a model , " 1 explains Nina Bell , an attorney long active in the antinuclear movement . And indeed , in a letter to N.R.C. chair Lando Zech Jr . opposing efforts to re-establish the licensing board , the Nuclear Management and Resources Council , lobbyists for the commercial nuclear industry , praised the Comanche Peak settlement as a " significant milestone . . . with important implications to all licensed facilities " and " a sound program for resolving technical issues , thereby eliminating the need for recourse to the ad-judicatory process . " " We have more confidence that the N.R.C. will follow through with similar agreements on operating plants , " says Tom Price , the resource council 's director of industry and government relations . Price mentions the Surrey plant in Virginia , where a solution to the problem of on-site storageof fuel may require an amendment to the plant 's operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the N.R.C. , " he explains . " Should intervenors try to question the soundness of their decision , then dispute resolution like that at Comanche Peak might be appropriate . " Price also suggests that the Comanche Peak precedent will prove useful when many other plants , such as Yankee Rowe in western Massachusetts , apply for a license to operate beyond their approved forty-year life span . ? Bottle Battle ( Continued From Front Cover ) ends most mothers are more likely to switch to proprietary infant formula than to whole cow 's milk , to the benefit of the manufacturer 's bottom line . Breast-feeding , as compared with the use of infant formula , has many documented advantages , among them a reduced incidence of both respiratory and gastrointestinal infections during the breast-feeding period , a reduced incidence of ear infections for the first seven years of life , a reduced incidence of allergic disorders and a small but significant increase in intelligence quotient measured at 7 and 15 years of age . Unfortunately , as Rima Apple points out in her book , Mothers and Medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first half of this century the scientific orientation of medical education meant that physicians learned more about " scientific " infant feeding ? that is , bottle-feeding ? than breast-feeding . Lack of knowledge about lactation made doctors indifferent to , and often uncomfortable with , mothers who breast-fed . Many physicians also made the assumption that artificial feeding was as healthy as breast-feeding . This attitude often discouraged mothers from breast-feeding , so that by the late 1960s less than 20 percent of mothers initially breast-fed and less than 10 percent of all mothers continued breast-feeding into the sixth month of their baby 's life . Vigorous promotion of infant formulas by manufacturers worked to assure this result . Then , starting in the early 1970s , there was a " greening of nutrition " that prompted a gradual increase in the number of mothers electing to breast-feed . The product , human milk , was of course no different from what it always had been . After a decade the incidence of breast-feeding increased to its present level , where it has remained for the past ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula manufacturers once they recognized that millions of breast-fed babies could soon be converted to formula guzzlers . To that end , the formula manufacturers spend millions of dollars a year courting pediatricians with lavish parties at their conventions and " educating " them with an endless stream of pamphlets and promotional brochures . In addiFrank A. Oski is chair of the department of pediatrics at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine . He is the editor of Principles and Practice of Pediatrics , published in October by Lippincott. tion , the companies provide hospitals with free formulas and " starter " or " discharge " packs for new mothers who , they hope , will choose not to breast-feed for long , if at all . The American Academy of Pediatrics ( A.A.P. ) and thousands of individual pediatricians have lived for years in symbiosis with the three major formula manufacturers : Ross Laboratories , a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories ; the Mead Johnson Co. , owned by Bristol-Myers ; and Wyeth Laboratories , part of Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories , which is in turn owned by the American Home Products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carnation introduced Good Start H.A. , a formula it labeled as hypoallergenic ( hence the " H.A . " ) and advertised directly to the public . Carnation , which is owned by the international megacorporation Nestle S.A. , claimed the formula would prevent or reduce fussiness , colic , sleeplessness and rashes . The A.A.P. has long opposed advertising infant formula directly to the public and immediately called on Carnation to cease . Then the U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected the " H.A . " label , saying that the data submitted by Carnation did not adequately support the company 's claims concerning the formula 's effectiveness . Within days the company agreed to stop labeling and advertising Good Start as hypoallergenic , especially since several reports indicated babies had developed " shock-like " reactions to the product . This past June 30 , Carnation signed an out-of-court agreement with nine state attorneys general who had found that the company had engaged in " deceptive and unfair " advertising in violation of each state 's consumer protection law . Carnation also agreed to pay $90,000 to cover the costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New York and Texas . But the company admitted no wrongdoing . Indeed , Carnation appears undaunted by the whole experience . Good Start , now relabeled , is still marketed to the public , as is Carnation 's Good Nature . Good Nature is intended for infants 6 months of age and older who have already had solid foods introduced into their diets . The advantages of such a product have not been established , but Carnation is pushing it hard , despite objections by the A. A. P . Apparently encouraged by the quick success of Carnation ? reportedly Good Start captured 4 percent of the market before encountering legal problems ? Bristol-Myers , the parent of Mead Johnson , has entered into an agreement with Gerber to produce Gerber Baby Formula and market it directly to the public . In addition to TV commercials and print ads , discount coupons have begun appearing in newspaper supplements . This Gerber product has no special features that make it any better than the formulas already available and , in fact , it is a product that had been abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula . At the A.A.P. 's annual meeting in Chicago in October , the organization reaffirmed its policy against direct advertising of infant formula to the public , citing the adverse effect it has on breast-feeding . " Whether or not a mother chooses to breast-feed , " said Donald Schiff , then president of the A.A.P. , " should not be influenced by expensive advertisingcampaigns waged by competing formula makers . " The A.A.P. has instituted a new policy rejecting any contributions from formula manufacturers that market their products directly to the public , including nearly $760,000 already pledged by Mead Johnson and Gerber . This money would have gone to support various meetings , luncheons , awards and other programs that will now be financed from other funds . Some pediatricians and hospitals are protesting the direct advertising by also boycotting Gerber and Mead Johnson products . However , the A.A.P. can not legally endorse such boycotts , nor may the organization stop companies that advertise directly to the public from advertising in A.A.P. member publications and exhibiting their products during A.A.P. meetings . Some critics view the A.A.P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pediatricians to keep unreasonable control over their patients and limit their choices . But doctors counter that infant nutrition is far too important to be left to seductive advertising claims . Most also feel that direct advertising erodes the parent-physician relationship : one less matter to discuss with the pediatrician , perhaps one less reason even to see the doctor . Both Carnation and Gerber defend themselves by stating that they acknowledge in their advertising that breast milk is best . And they do . But how long will such endorsements last when the fight for market shares really begins to heat up ? More important , who is paying to promote the unique nutritional benefits of human milk ? Despite the seemingly magical properties of breast milk , these are likely to go unnoticed in the midst of an advertising blitz encouraging mothers to start formula feeding as soon as possible . erhaps prescriptions should be required for the dispens1 ? ing of infant formula . All formulas could be regarded as drugs by the F.D.A. , and their contents and the manufacturers ' claims could be carefully monitored . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about them and , more important , would stimulate the companies to improve their products . There have been very few scientific advances in formula content in the past decade . In Papua New Guinea the sale of infant formula requires a prescription . This rule , which went into effect thirteen years ago , has resulted in a major increase in the incidence of breast-feeding and a marked improvement in the health of infants . But the infant formula lobby is unlikely to take its cue from Papua New Guinea , despite the facts . In a Western Union Mailgram sent last June to thousands of pediatricians , Ross Laboratories president Dick Gast criticized his competitors for hawking to the public . But he also asked , " Are we , Ross Laboratories , following an outmoded , ' tilting at windmills ' philosophy by not joining the fray and abandoning the doctor for the 30-second TV spot ? " The threat is clear . If Ross Laboratories and Wyeth-Ayerst market shares begin to slip away to Carnation and Gerber , they will not be content simply to cry over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between diapered advocates of " tastes great " versus " less filling . " ?                     