@@432375

 | In an explosive part of the world where American policies and people are constantly under attack ? and where jets from U.S. aircraft carriers fly constant patrols to keep Iran at bay ? the U.S. Embassy in Muscat is a startling oasis of calm . It is guarded by a lone , aged Arab retainer with a silver dagger wedged into the belt of his white dishdasha robe . That 's it . No tanks . No concrete barriers to thwart car bombers . The lack of security around the U.S. compound in Oman is but one of many anomalies in this vital corner of the Middle East . The mountain crags of Oman overlook the Strait of Hormuz , through which passes a third of the Western World 's oil supply . To the north , Iran 's mullahs plot the export of Islamic extremism . To the south , Soviet planes and ships operate out of South Yemen . Not like the neighbors Oman 's placid appearance belies the desert sultanate 's importance to U.S. regional strategy . The Pentagon 's Central Command , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East , has ammunition , missiles , vehicles and fuel stockpiled here . The troops to use them would come rolling i in if it became necessary to make good on a longstanding U.S. pledge to keep the strait open to international traffic . II Sultan Qaboos bin Said , the country 's ruler , could have been excused if he had followed the example of most Arab neighbors in keeping relations with the U.S. at arm 's length . The Shah of Iran lost his crown and President Sadat of Egypt lost his life for embracing the U.S. too closely . Yet the . Sultan 's 21,000-strong armed forces are trained and led by officers from Britain , a close U.S. ally . The Army Corps of Engineers has spent $300 million upgrading Oman 's three air bases . The U.S. has expanded its flotilla of warships patrolling the Persian Gulf . Although Omani patrol boats keep a close check on oil tankers passing through the strait , the Sultan has Scale of m made it clear that he wants no part of the Gulf 's high-stakes brinkmanship . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day at sunrise , U.S. Navy P-3 reconnaissance planes fly out of Masirah on the Arabian Sea to check on Iranian warships and hunt for Soviet submarines prowling around the American task force . Conflict is never far away in the Gulf . Teheran has been warned that its planes may be shot down if they come within 5 miles of U.S. Navy vessels at low altitudes . The Soviet Union agreed last week to rent three tankers to Kuwait and may send warships to protect them against Iranian attacks . Iran immediately warned that renting tankers to Kuwait would create a " very dangerous situation . " Concern about new attacks on shipping rose in late March when Iran test-fired a Chinese-made anti-ship missile . Until 15 years ago , few foreigners had visited Oman , a dazzling land of frankincense and myrrh , white beaches , ruined castles and the Rub ' al-Khali ? the great sand sea of Arabia . Its ruler then , Sultan Said bin Taimur , rejected the modern world , refusing to let his subjects wear spectacles or ride bicycles . The Sultan cared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's gold reserves in the cellar of his castle . When his son , Qaboos bin Said , returned after training at Britain 's Sandhurst military academy , the Sultan shut him up in the palace and threw away the young man 's Gilbert-and-Sullivan records . Four years later , Qaboos , then 29 , overthrew his father with British help . Roads in the desert Since the coup , Sultan Qaboos has lifted his 1.5 million people out of isolation and medieval serfdom , turning his country into a stable , modern state . There were only 7 miles of paved roads , one small hospital and three primary schools when he took power . Now , highways thrust into the interior , taking with them hospitals , electricity and schools for 230,000 students . Qaboos is an absolute ruler who fines people if they fail to cover unsightly water tanks on their homes or if they leave filthy cars in the street . But he also travels widely to meet with his subjects and is considered a benevolent dictator . Few Americans are likely ever to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That 's because tourists simply are not allowed in . Most Americans here work at the embassy or teach at Oman 's first university , which opened last year . The Omanis seem delighted at the way the relationship has developed . " The conduct on the U.S. side has been irreproachable , " says a senior government official . Abdel-Aziz bin Mohammad Ruwas , Oman 's Minister of Information , adds : " It 's a model for a relationship between a superpower and a Third World country . "                     