@@487726

The dead , claims a French legal saying , seizes the living ? " le mort saisit le vif " ? and indeed the dead weight of the past often seems to be strangling the present , particularly when this past is not prop-erly tackled . Amnesia is as much a disease for a nation as it is for an individual , in both cases a heavy handicap for current conduct . Hence , the importance of the new Soviet attempt to remember the country 's collective past , described at length in these pages see Dev Murarka , " Recovering the Buried Stalin Years , " October 24 , and " A New Revolution in Consciousness , " October 31 . Indeed , the Soviet Union is at one and the same time trying to recover its memory and the capacity to speak with more than one voice ; it is learning to remember and to debate . Mikhail Gorbachev 's major speech at the seventieth anniversary of the Revolution had been presented in advance , wrongly , as an important part in this process . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grasp better the link between this remembrance of things past and present policy , while incidentally assessing our own attitude toward the upheaval that is beginning to alter the shape of Soviet society . Life does not begin at seventy . Speaking in the Kremlin on this festive occasion , Gorbachev was bound to draw up some kind of balance sheet , although half of a nearly three-hour speech devoted to the past did not allow for too sophisticated a historical assessment . Inevitably , Gorbachev hailed October 1917 as a momentous break in human history . Quite naturally , he put the accent on the pioneering efforts and sacrifices of the Soviet people , which led to positive results despite " real crimes based on the abuse of power . " He was entitled to argue that , without a shift to collective farming and a rapid rate of industrialization , the country would never have been able to stand up to the Nazi invaders , even if his description of the ravages of collectivization was much too mild . Then came the 1,418 days of " blood and sweat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilians , were rightly the heroes in the Gorbachev version , although he also mentioned the role of the military command , with Stalin at its head . A case can clearly be made for a more balanced portrait of the dead dictator . After all , the main weakness of Nikita Khrushchev 's famous indictment of Stalin , back in February 1956 , was his most un-Marxist explanation of the tragic failings of a whole system through the psychopathology of a single man . The snag is that when it comes to an analysis of Stalinism as a system , and especially of its birth , Gorbachev himself is of little help . Daniel Singer is The Nation 's correspondent in Europe . A man can be in some respects a pathfinder , the champion of glasnost and perestroika ( " restructuring " ) , and in others remain a prisoner of the past . In his analysis of the struggle after Lenin 's death , of the " nucleus of the party headed by Stalin " defending the Leninist heritage against a " petty bourgeois " opposition , Gorbachev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a worthy pupil of another politician who had been a leader in Stavropol , Mikhail Suslov , the late official keeper of post-Stalinist orthodoxy . It is difficult to decide which of several passages in the speech is worst . There is the description of Trotsky as " an always prevaricating and swindling politician , " borrowed less from Lenin 's testament than from the vocabulary of Andrei Vyshinsky , Stalin 's notorious chief prosecutor . There is a reference to Nikolai Bukharin and his supporters rapidly " recognizing their mistakes " ( over the rate of growth ) , an ominous understatement when one knows what preceded and especially what followed this repentance . Indeed , significantly , there is no mention in so many words of the ghastly Moscow trials in which Vyshinsky gained his international reputation . Yet worst of all is probably the suggestion that Stalin defeated the opposition " ideologically and organizationally , " an eloquent euphemism when one knows that those were the years when freedom of debate was eliminated in the Communist Party , when political dissent became a criminal offense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his tyranny . In a serious debate over the period , somebody will naturally have to plead Stalin 's case . Actually , many a sympathetic Western writer did try to explain , if not justify , the phenomenon of Stalinism . With the backward Soviet Union isolated and forced to pack into a couple of decades an industrial revolution that had taken centuries in Western Europe , with the Bolsheviks compelled to carry out the contradiction in terms " primitive socialist accumulation , " there was arguably no other solution . Or , more colorfully , since barbarism had to be driven out of the Soviet Union by barbarian means , nobody was better equipped for it than a barbarian leader . Yet none of this means that Stalin won by ideological means . Mikhail Gorbachev did duly proclaim that " the guilt of Stalin for the mass repression and lawlessness . . . is immense and unforgivable , " but his analysis of the early struggle may raise some doubts about his own vision of inner party democracy . The immediately relevant question is whether this piece of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontiers of knowledge . There are some hopeful signs that it will not . Gorbachev himself announced that a special commission will study the archives . In a press conference November 3 , his right-hand man in ideological matters , Politburo member Alexander Yakovlev , specifically denied that Gorbachev 's report could be interpreted as " some kind of directive restricting the framework of future research . " On the other hand , such a narrow official version , proclaimed from the platform on a great festive occasion , will in the best of cases slow down the offensive of Yuri Afanasiev and other progressive historians against the conservatives entrenched in the academic journal Voprosy Istorii , in the universities , in the innumerable chairs of Marxism-Leninism . For there should be no misunderstanding over what is at stake . The problem is not to prove whether Stalin or Trotsky was right in the controversy over Socialism in One Country ( though here again the Gorbachev version is clearly on Stalin 's side ) , whether Nikolai Bukharin or Yevgeny Preobrazhensky was wiser in the conflict over primitive accumulation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet people , to reconquer their past , to examine all issues from Brest-Litovsk and Kronstadt to the strange interregnum of Konstantin Chernenko , with the help of all the available archives and , in the near future , the complete works of the main protagonists , from Bukharin to Zinoviev . The question is to give the Soviet people the chance to make up their own minds about , say , the views of the Workers ' Opposition , or the respective arguments of Lenin and Trotsky in their prerevolutionary confrontations , or of the Mensheviks , for that matter . It means the right , too , to read Rosa Luxemburg lecturing both Lenin and Trotsky , warning them at the very beginning of the Revolution that " without general elections , without unrestricted freedom of press and assembly , without a free struggle of opinion , life dies out in every public institution , becomes a mere semblance of life , in which only the bureaucracy remains as the active element . " In other words , no taboos and no holy rites , remembering that Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lenin , inaugurated by him after the latter 's death . Yet why bother about the past at such a vital juncture in the Soviet Union 's current history ? Mikhail Gorbachev is now embarking on a major peace offensive , and in his anniversary speech he tried to find some theoretical foundations of a lasting period of coexistence . The Soviet Union is in the early stages of a major economic reform destined to reshape the functioning of society . Whatever the rhetoric , its people are not all on the same side of the barricades . Perestroika divides , and in the conservative camp , judging by the outbursts of some supporters of Pamyat ( " Memory " ) , there are people hankering after the good old days of czardom with its knout and its pogroms . Why choose a moment of such crucial decision to quibble over the past and criticize Gorbachev for some historical slips ? Because past and present are interlinked , because curing collective amnesia is merely a means for gaining mastery over current action . Or , if you prefer to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are peering so intensely at their history . . . for the sake of today and tomorrow " in search of " ways to resolve present tasks . " We already saw how a proper assessment of the birth of Stalinism has a bearing on future democracy within the party , but there are many , many more links . If the Soviet people are allowed to study their past from all angles and are able to examine , say , the economic controversies of the 1920s , they will naturally come to expect the same clash of ideas over the issues raised by perestroika , over the rise in prices and the abolition of food subsidies , over the transformation of the welfare state or the proposedincrease in wage differentials . Indeed , they may even want to have a debate on equality , hitherto dismissed in all official pronouncements as a means of leveling down . As economic reform unleashes social forces , glasnost may gradually lead to an open confrontation of conflicting interests . It may have another impact , too . Faced with the passive resistance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adversely affected by reform , Gorbachev and his colleagues decided to play the card of greater democracy  --  through having several candidates in votes for local councils ( the soviets ) and in elections for factory managers . The purpose , for the moment , is apparently to choose the best person for the job . But , since " freedom is always and exclusively freedom for the one who thinks differently , " it should lead logically to a choice among platforms . The day that elections on the shop floor are concerned with labor relations and the division of labor , while those in the soviets will deal with different policies and different conceptions of running society , the change will be really revolutionary . The recent Yeltsin affair well illustrates the importance of glasnost in discussions . It was an open secret in Moscow that at the last meeting of the Central Committee , on October 21 , Moscow party leader Boris Yeltsin , known as the most eager advocate of change within the Politburo , clashed with Yegor Ligachev , the Soviet second in command , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet it was only on November 11 that Soviet viewers learned that Yeltsin had been removed from his Moscow job , and only on November 13 that Pravda devoted more than two pages to the exclusion proceedings . The report included Gorbachev 's rather sorrowful indictment of his former prot  --  ge , twenty-three speeches attacking Yeltsin with greater venom , and the accused man 's somewhat disjointed mea cu/pa . The witch hunt , the unanimous hostility and the self-criticism are painful reminders of the past . The sacking of the best-known reformer is a very worrisome portent . But we still do n't know , and neither do the Soviet people , what Yeltsin said on October 21 to precipitate the whole affair . In the press conference already mentioned , Alexander Yakovlev told Western correspondents that this was an internal party matter and that Western parties , too , had their secrets . His point was valid , and yet at the same time irrelevant , since his party 's purpose at this stage has little in common with that of Republicans or Democrats . Gorbachev and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depends essentially on the willingness of the people to participate , to take matters into their own hands . Now , it is as difficult to act on one 's own after years of blind or passive obedience as it is to speak with one 's own voice after decades as a ventriloquist 's dummy . The intelligentsia , judging by the media , is the first to try ; the mass of the people have as yet not followed . A classic way to encourage discussion among the rank and file is to give publicity to a genuine debate at the top . All the pieces now fall into place . A serious discussion about the past turns inevitably into a debate about the present . Glasnost can not be confined to the Central Committee . Freedom of thought within the party as a whole spells freedom of expression in the country at large . The monopoly of truth , including historical truth , is implied in the monopoly of power . The abolition of the former will mean the dissolution of the latter . The road leads ultimately from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy , with power springing from below . No wonder that this long and uncertain march does not begin smoothly from the very start . Something must still be said about our own attitude toward the Soviet Union in transition . Even those of us who never accepted the idea that the Bolshevik Revolution could end in neo-Stalinist stagnation were worried by the long winter sleep and are , therefore , thrilled by the reawakening . What can we do to spur the process of change ? Ideally , we should be in a position to preach by example . Most of the crimes described by Gorbachev , and certainly the controversy over Socialism in One Country , would not have taken place if the Revolution had spread , in keeping with Marx 's predictions , to the advanced capitalist countries of Western Europe . Even today , a socialist experiment in France , Britain or Italy , while it might not be a model , would have been attractive to the people of Eastern Europe as an example . But this never happened , and our impotence dictates a degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarmament . In fighting for our common survival , we are undeniably helping perestroika . Whether capitalism can live without the arms race ( an idea at the heart of Gorbachev 's new thinking about lasting coexistence ) is debatable . The Soviet Union would be much better off without it . The Soviet leaders have started their economic reform with limited reserves and therefore not much room for maneuver . A big shift of resources to consumer industries would help them tremendously in the years of transition . Last but not least , there is the attitude best described as one of critical sympathy . The Soviet people have no need of another bunch of " friends of the Soviet Union , " those famous visitors always ready to say amen to any declaration by the incumbent in the Kremlin . They could use some help in their efforts to recover memory and voice , and we could assist them , for instance , by qualifying the official version . Thus , Gorbachev may well be right in claiming that Moscow was driven by Western action to sign a pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send a telegram to Hitler extolling a friendship " cemented by blood , " a gesture which degraded the labor movement within and without Soviet frontiers . In Stalin 's time , when an isolated Soviet Union was seeking a dramatic shortcut to industrialization , it was the habit of its propagandists to present each evil as necessary and then each necessity as virtue . Half the Western left lost its credit and its credibility by giving its blessing every time to both conclusions . ( The other half lost its in a different fashion . ) The mood is no longer the same , yet the two questions must still be tackled in succession . Thus , it can be and is being argued that , after years of command and dictation from above , the Soviet economy requires a dose of wage differentiation to provide incentives , and that the resulting " meritocracy " will be better than its predecessor . All this remains to be proved . Even if it were , it would not turn provisional necessity into virtue . Social inequality , different health or housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become great socialist principles even if they are advocated by Gorbachev 's closest associates . And " to each according to his work " will not be hailed as the epitome of Marxist progress , even if Mikhail Gorbachev himself proclaims it . We must say as much , put matters into context for the sake of their glasnost and our own , particularly if we believe , as I do , that whatever happened later , 1917 is a crucial date to remember in the unfinished struggle for the mastery over our own fate .                     