@@494010

White House Watch Interim Jitters Between Ronald Reagan 's first and second visits to Washington after he was elected , the national and world news center was not the White House but the shabby downtown office building where his transition staff was quartered . A hundred and more reporters , cameramen , and technicians crowded every morning at 9:30 into a makeshift press room whefe Reagan 's nominal Washington spokesman , Jim Brady , a veteran of Nixon and Ford administration news offices , had so little in solid information to offer that he jokingly apologized for not j ustif ying journaIists listing him on their lunchtime expense accounts . He and his principal assistant , Lawrence Speakes , who also served Nixon and Ford as a press officer , had trouble wangling time for reporters with the few senior transition officials who knew anything worth reporting . It did n't really matter for several reasons , the chief of which was that the national media , print and electronic , were absolutely determined to manufacture Reagan news regardless of how much basis there was for it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resultant spate of speculative non-reporting . Reagan was made to seem uncertain , changeable , unable to attract the Cabinet talent that he 'd promised to recruit , and the media made themselves out to be phony and silly Much and maybe all of that would end when the Cabinet selections were announced , but in the meantime nobody , including the public , benefited from the interim jitters . A secondary reason for the frantic preoccupation with Reagan was that the Carter White House and the Carter government plunged after the election into a quasi-coma so far as reported news went . It was a remarkable phenomenon , unprecedented in the transitions from one presidency to another that this reporter has observed since Roosevelt 's and Truman 's times . More actually was done and went on than was reported , and the neglect was more the media 's than the administration 's fault . Here was a President proclaiming himself , and repeatedly proclaimed by his elected successor , to be still the President-in-fact . He was struggling as best he could to bring the American hostages home from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the horrendous crisis that Soviet intervention in Poland would precipitate , and deal with the horrors of murder , extremism , and dissolution in El Salvador . Yet he was able to do very little about these problems , and minimal attention was paid to what he could do and tried to do . Journalists and the public were weary of Jimmy Carter and his doings and his people , crying in many muted ways , " Go , in God 's name , go , " and turning to the Reagan transition spectacle for relief . Part of the spectacle became visible only in fragmentary reports of what was happening at the White House and the federal departments and agencies where Reagan transition teams moved in . According to the few spot checks that this reporter had time to make , things went quietly and well at the White House , the Treasury , several agencies . Things went roughly and poorly at State , Defense , and , according to news reports , at Agriculture and the CIA , among others . Pushy and abrasive transitionists , some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry lobbyists who never should have been on the teams , messed up some of the early relationships . In some measure , this resulted from over-manning and over-organization . Such senior Reagan transition officials as the Washington director , Edwin Meese III , and a fellow Californian , E. Pendleton James , the chief talent-hunter , professed to be extremely proud of the intensive pre-election preparations for Reagan 's advent that occurred in secrecy in suburban Virginia . On the organization charts that appeared after the election , in the talk of personnel recruitment planned to the last conceivable detail , it is all very impressive . But there simply is too much of it , it puts too many people on the interim scene , and it makes Edwin Meese 's task of coordination and control next to impossible . The initial transition situations at the departments of State and Defense are instructive . At both departments , the Reagan operatives failed to foresee the difficulties that were likely to arise and did arise before the two department secretaries were chosen and announced . Thirteen transitionists under William Van @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense affairs , hit the Pentagon like an invading legion . Governor William Clements of Texas , a former deputy secretary of defense , persuaded incumbent secretary Harold ? rt .. , krikxt ? UsW , , ts% retired admiral who 'd worked for Clements and who set himself up as a one-man team . Obvious tensions between such pure Reaganites as Van Cleave and more moderate Nixon and Ford veterans under him compounded the confusion . Tong-mernoried officials recalled that two men , a fellow congressman and a congressional staffer , managed Melvin Laird 's replacement of Clark Clifford in 1968 . Harold Brown made do with a team of four transitionists in 1976 . Now there were Van Cleave 's 13 , plus the admiral , plus what seemed to harried incumbents to be a swarm of addi-tieonal advisers and interrogators . Some of them proved to be unauthorized freelancers and were called off after the department complained to Carter transitionist Jack Watson at the White House and Watson complained to Meese . A fundamental source of friction and bad feeling could be removed only after Reagan designated his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and were refused , superclassified documents and information that Brown would provide only to individuals who were designated by the new secretary as incoming appointees and who could then be given the highest security clearance . The situation at State was more relaxed but not altogether happy . Robert Neumann , the California academic who headed that transition team , and most of his people struck the Carter-Muskie incumbents as knowledgeable , reasonable people . Anthony Lake , the policy planning director who had headed Carter 's DOS transition team in 1976 , was determined to do what he could to make this transition as smooth and effective as he thought his own had been . So , one gathers , were Secretary Muskie and other State officials . But there were clititcult. lwttwsuk a , d impersonal . At State as at Defense , such highly classified material as contingency plans and the like could be provided only after a new secretary had been designated and in turn had designated incoming subordinates who would be entitled to the necessary clearance . Aggravating leaks from the Reagan team culminated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports from the Moscow embassy to the department on Senator Charles Percy 's discussions with Brezhnev , Gromyko , and other Soviet officials . Richard V. Allen , Reagan 's senior staff adviser on national security , publicly " deplored " and " lamented " this particular leak in remarkably mild terms , but he was said to have taken strong steps in private to rebuke theleakers and prevent a repetition . Here Ill note in passing that Allen , in my opinion , if appointed Reagan 's national security adviser at the White House , will serve well as the low-key assistant Reagan says he wants . I 'm glad that a critical Wall Street Journal story about Allen , and a warmed-over version of it in this journal , do n't seem to have impaired Allen 's standing with Reagan . A transition team of 17 people has been assigned to the White House , including the immediate White irtuose Qdkcce and , the C. , /thre Tne President . Its director is James A. Baker III , who has been designated as Reagan 's White House staff chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought into the Ford White House by its staff chief , Richard Cheney ( now Wyoming 's congressman ) . Baker , Gergen , and their assistants are moving quietly into the Carter operation without , at this writing , upsetting anybody . The announced plans to run the Reagan White House with a duo ? Baker as staff chief , Edwin Meese as a counselor with authority over Cabinet relationships and both domestic and foreign . policy formulation ? have aroused a lot of skepticism . There will be more when it 's announced and realized that the Reagan directorate actually will be a triumvirate . Michael Deaver , a California publicist and Reagan intimate , is to be an assistant to the President and deputy to Baker . Deaver will have direct responsibility for a wide range of White House functions , including any that most directly affect the President . Richard Cheney , a wise and experienced White House survivor , has reviewed the plans with Meese and Baker and thinks the arrangement will work well . ' THERE IS more , and probably better justified , 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee of four or five principal Cabinet members who would serve as a super-advisory coun-cil , maybe with offices in the White House or the adjoining Executive Office Building . Nixon tried something like that in 1972-73 after his reelection and it never even began to work , Caspar Weinberger , a prospective Reagan Cabinet secretary who would have been one of Nixon 's elite , advocates a revival of the ad t awgewrest Envoi , StileeSs JiVan " Omit , Ti Am , rr'n qualifiers suggesting that it may evolve into a more practicable committee of Cabinet seniors who meet intermittently with the President to discuss particular issues and problems . Something like that seems sensi-ble and possible . It would leave the Cabinet members free to run their departments to the extent that any secretary can really run these monstrosities . At the very start , incidentally , the secretaries and their principal subordinates will have their hands full attending the elaborate briefings and seminars that are planned for them . A good deal more than instruction in the ways of government and Washington is in-tended . The main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy assistants that they have been appointed by Ronald Reagan and are working for Ronald Reagan , not for their agencies ' constituencies and bureaucrats . It 's the fashion in Washington in pre-inaugural December to give Reagan the benefit of every doubt , including a gut-level doubt that he will be any more successful in this endeavor than previous presidents have been .                     