@@494951

Soon , when the vines begin to spread their leaves over walls and columns , softening the raw look of freshly poured concrete , San Antonio 's new Lucille Hal-sell Conservatory will grow into the design its architect envisioned . Even as it looks now , however , Emilio Ambasz 's first major building is recognizably a milestone in contemporary architecture . With post-Modern historicism collapsing back into history , and deconstructivism fitfully subsiding beneath the featherweight of its theories , many architects today ? including some linked to these two movements ? have begun looking to landscape to refresh their vision . Ambasz 's dramatically landscaped building rises like an early settlement on this new conceptual terrain . In appearance , the conservatory is more settlement than building : a complex of variously shaped enclosures half-sunk into the Texas soil like some hybrid village of the Stone Age and the Space Age . At a distance , the conservatory complex presents a sparkling , crystalline skyline of aluminum and glass pyramids and truncated cones , but to enter this deceptively Modern space the visitor plunges through an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth primeval . No other exterior walls define this as " a building . " Instead , the land has been bulldozed into a three-acre earthen container whose edges blend seamlessly with the surrounding landscape of San Antonio 's 33-acre Botanical Gardens . What lies beyond that wall is an essay on the relationship of nature to civilization , and on the power of architecture to define that relationship . The first space a visitor walks into is a cylindrical outdoor room occupied by a single tree ( at present a California fan palm ) , eloquent with symbolic significance in its solitude and its circular surroundings ; this is the tree on which the idea of " shelter " first was hung , the first post , the tree commemorated in the leafy capitals of Egyptian and Greek columns . The room cues us that in this conservatory we are not just going to see plants , we will be touring a metaphysical reflection on how we see plants , on how the ways in which we perceive the environment constitute an initial form of our power to transform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the conservatory 's grand circuit progresses along an arcade surrounding an open trapezoidal courtyard , an arrangement adapted from traditional architecture of the Southwest . The courtyard is bordered by five enclosed rooms ( lit by the metal and glass skylights that compose the " skyline " you see from outside ) , each with a different climate to support a variety of flora ranging from tall desert cacti to rare tropical ferns . The rooms themselves also range considerably in design ? from the fern room 's artificial grotto , complete with waterfall , fog machine , and imitation rock walls of molded fiberglass , to a soaring glass palm house that terminates the conservatory 's formal axis with a cathedral-like reach toward the sky . In the center of the courtyard , a free-form pool reflects the sky amid clusters of aquatic flowers . Soil , light , water : the elements of natural creation are brought together in symbolic amorphousness at the heart of this finely tuned , man-made structure . Like the building , the career of 44-year-old Emilio Ambasz has taken time to grow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book by Le Corbusier , could also summarize the calm deliberation with which Ambasz has followed his singular path in the era of post-Modern glitz . Forty-four may not be so advanced an age for an architect to build his first major work , but Ambasz has been a prominent figure in the architectural community for nearly two decades . As curator of design at the Museum of Modern Art in the early 1970s , Ambasz organized exhibitions that stressed the possibilities for continuing evolution within the Modern tradition . His show on Italian design in 1972 , and on Luis Baragan in 1974 , showed how sumptuous Modern design could be if it would only forget about the brain and concentrate on the body ; if it were willing to be playful , to be sensuous , to relax in the sun for a while and exchange its bleak white pallor for a tan and some tropical colors . Since 1976 , when he left the museum to start his own firm , Ambasz has achieved success as an industrial designer of objects ranging from manual shavers to diesel engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a series of unbuilt projects notable for the introduction of landscape as art architectural ( perhaps , more strictly , an anti-architectural ) element : private houses carved into the earth , a flotilla of museum galleries floating on a lagoon , an urban plaza sunk beneath an eye-level canopy of the tops of trees . Ambasz has written that his use of landscape reflects the need " for finding ways of gracefully relating and juxtaposing the artificial to the natural , " a search for " the roots of a genuinely balanced architecture as a form of man-made nature . " It was the strength of these unrealized projects that led the San Antonio administrators to call upon Ambasz three years ago for a proposal for the new conservatory . The choice was , as they say , inspired ; it 's exciting to see an architect make the transition from theory to practice . And yet the irony is that the very particulars that made Ambasz an excellent choice for this project turn out to be disadvantages in clarifying what his architecture is about . For one thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research facility , is inherently about nature , Ambasz 's use of nature here loses much of its polemical thrust . We know from his writing that for Ambasz the use of earth walls signifies the " elimination of architecture , " but in the context of a botanical garden , such a reading becomes absurd : even half-buried , his conservatory has introduced into this natural setting the most assertively " architectural " presence for miles around . Moreover , the traditional landscaping of the surrounding gardens makes one acutely conscious that Ambasz 's rooms lack the enveloping lushness that the word " conservatory " traditionally conjures up . When you enter the classic greenhouse , your feet crunch on gravel , you inhale the mossy scent of damp earth , you push aside a palm frond and step onto a path that invites exploration . That sense of invitation is missing here . In most of the rooms , you enter onto a wide concrete apron that runs the full length of the space . And because the planting beds are set on raised tiers , you can see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside ; there 's no incentive of surprise to lure you on . Even in the fern room , with its tropical mists , the path is fully visible from the entrance ; the image of lushness does not blossom into the space it occupies . When the conservatory 's concrete surfaces are covered with vines , the impression will be lusher , but the surfaces will still be flat . Ambasz may have thought that to bury the entire complex beneath the earth would provide an abundant sense of natural enclosure , but in fact , though the image of excavated earth reads strongly when you are on the hillside looking down into the courtyard , from within the complex itself you do n't have that much awareness of the bermed earth outside . You could almost be inside any building on a normal grade level . These effects may not be miscalculations . Ambasz did not set out to create Adventureland , or the kind of fairy-tale winter garden that has become the cliche of corporate lobbies and hotel atriums across the country . I doubt it was his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspect that , as an architect long accustomed to working on the scale of models and drawings , he may have overestimated our ability to retain a design concept in memory as we progress through different kinds of space . What is bound to be a more serious problem for some observers , however , is that , for all its focus on nature , this building is maddeningly indifferent to the environmental crisis inevitably evoked by that very focus . That is the central paradox raised by Ambasz 's work as a whole . Ambasz did n't mastermind the greenhouse effect , did n't organize a conspiracy to fill last summer 's newspapers with headlines on quarantined beaches , ozone holes , depleted rain forests , and Third World outrage over American plans to dump our garbage on foreign soil . But with his first new building now completed , and a major retrospective of his entire work due this February at the Museum of Modern Art , his timing could not have been better . For it is n't only battle fatigue over the " Style Wars " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Ambasz , an architect who 's been patiently tilling the land for some years . It is also the growing awareness that they can no longer afford to look at the earth as a roll of tracing paper that can be thrown into the wastebasket when we goof up . The San Antonio conservatory will do little , however , to establish Ambasz as the answer to the Sierra Club 's prayers . Yes , the earth wails will save energy costs . Take , for instance , the " Alpine Window , " the first display you come to after that initial solitary tree . A look-in environment about the size of a refrigerator , filled with northern flora , this display appears to be the kind of self-contained ecosystem that can sustain itself indefinitely without human intervention . But look again . If the plants look shockingly healthy , it is because management has taken to replacing peaked-looking specimens with more spritely greens ; evidently visitors did n't cotton to the look of edelweiss in its dormant phase . And the window is n't just the size of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisper box supported by " backstage " air-cooling equipment the size of six Frigidaires . So what we 're seeing in this shrine to nature is the botanical equivalent of those Miami hotels where the air conditioning is maintained at arctic levels to allow guests to promenade their minks . The remainder of the conservatory is n't artificial to this degree , but throughout the complex there is the constant hum of circulated air , the click and whir of computer-driven mechanisms that adjust the windows , the sense of nature sanitized , deodorized , pressed under glass . It is disconcerting , in the second-largest of the rooms , to see that plants are in pots set into the ground , rather like a florist shop . Just as Le Corbusier 's houses were handcrafted to look like machine products , so Ambasz 's conservatory begins to look like a sophisticated high-tech product engineered in the image of nature . Of course , to criticize these elements is to take issue with the fundamental premise of a conservatory . Conservatories are artificial environments designed to protect plants that could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we 're not being misled . More to the point , Ambasz has never represented himself as an environmentalist . Indeed , you can infer from his writings that he is temperamentally alien to the strident polemic of environmentalism . Though he accepts the formal inventiveness of Modernism , he rejects its Utopian belief that forms of individual buildings should be justified by their power to evoke a perfected future . Ambasz believes that the architect 's task is fundamentally one of image-making , of inventing local responses to conditions in the present . This raises the question whether present conditions are not now so extreme that it is irresponsible for architects to concern themselves with images , whether strident polemic is n't just what 's called for . To state the problem in more general terms , a building like Ambasz 's compels us to ask whether the environmental crisis has circumscribed the architect 's freedom to speak in the language of metaphor . Many people are genuinely outraged to hear architects going on about art while the world goes to hell in a hand basket . They see architecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " real " world of " real " buildings that address " real " problems , not only environmental pollution but also housing , crime , and other issues of urban life . They reject the idea that architects can also function on the level of symbol customarily accorded artists and writers . M ANY ARCHITECTS themselves , including those who do claim the right to work with image and metaphor , are not unreceptive to these criticisms . The opportunity to work on the level of material reality , after all , is what drew many of them to architecture in the first place , instead of to painting or writing . Moreover , architects were as nervous as anyone else last summer . They like a beach vacation as much as the next person . And they know that they bear a greater responsibility than the next person for the garbage on the beach . They may not be the biggest villains in the environmental crisis ( they 're not manufacturing fluorocarbons or dumping radioisotopes at sea ) , but their products are among its most conspicuous targets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession that has shown a conspicuous reluctance to accept their share of responsibility . At the same time , no one is more aware than architects of the gap between what society expects of them and the tools it has placed in their command . They know that their ability to reform the material world is limited not only by the inertia of their own traditions , but also by the way the material world itself operates . Architects are rarely called upon to initiate projects ; at most , they are hired to package them with a look , a style . They work at metaphor in part because of material powerlessness , and also because they have learned from their own history that this level affords them the greatest potential to influence the built world . To this extent , the metaphoric realm is the architect 's real world . Or , to put it another way , for many architects , architecture is a tool for organizing the interior landscape as well as the exterior landscape . That is the fundamental difference between Ambasz and a building contractor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not only the landscape of Texas ; he is also building in a landscape that is furnished ? he might say cluttered ? with tradition , with the history of visual culture , with obsolete distinctions between the natural and the cultural , the material and the ideal , with our fears of environmental catastrophe and our yearning for Arcadia , with our inconsistent determination to live as planetary tourists even as we cry out for roots . Arcadia , for Ambasz , is an idea to be explored visually , spatially , critically . It is not an authority to be worshiped . He has no desire to substitute nature for technology , not least because that would repeat the Modern fallacy of polarizing the two . Nor has he the inclination to repeat the ' 60s countercultural self-poeticize his business world , and he refused to make a business of his poetry . And yet it 's clear that he was stimulated by the rub of the incongruities.                     