@@432224

 | Judging from that apt mirror of American life , the cereal box , the typical American youth is a gold-medal bundle of energy , health and physical fitness . But a more accurate picture comes from highschool sophomore Tiffany O'Brien , recently found snacking at a fast-food restaurant in Houston . O'Brien is trim and pretty ? and out of shape . " It did n't matter to me that I flunked the President 's Physical Fitness Test , " she says . " All my friends did too . " Can it be that in the age of health clubs , triathlons and Jane Fonda workout videos , America 's teen-agers and children are in much worse shape than ever before ? The answer seems to be yes . " Kids are less fit now than at any other time data has ever been taken , " says Don Haydon , executive director of the Governor 's Commission on Physical Fitness in Texas . Study after study has shown that young people 's performance levels on various tests of physical endurance have declined over the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardpressed to keep pace with a middle-aged jogger . In addition , as many as one-third of all children over the age of 12 have elevated cholesterol levels . The trend is especially worrisome , experts say , because poor fitness in childhood increases the likelihood of heart attacks and other ailments in adulthood . Warns kinesiologist Guy Reiff of the University of Michigan , " Cardiovascular disease starts by the first grade . " Poor physical fitness among America 's young has long been a problem . In 1956 , President Eisenhower became so alarmed after youngsters of all ages lagged far behind their European counterparts in tests of strength and flexibility that he created the President 's Council on Youth Fitness . The resulting fitness crusade ? which became a pet cause of President Kennedy 's ? was effective enough for President Johnson to boast of " wholesome and welcome gains " by 1965 . But progress was short-lived ; ever since the 1970s , levels of fitness have been drifting downward . Just how far the situation has deteriorated is difficult to determine . Traditional fitness tests ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dash ? measure innate athletic ability and motor skills rather than cardiorespiratory endurance and other indicators of health and fitness . In addition , much of the data on past performances is not helpful because today 's tests are often different . But there are a number of studies that do document a disturbing trend . In the threeyear National Children and Youth Fitness Study released five months ago , researchers pinched the skin of 8,800 youths and measured the thickness of each fold . Then they compared the results to similar measurements taken during the past two decades . " In our representative sampling of kids from fifth to 12th grade , we found that both boys and girls were significantly fatter than those studied in the ' 60s , " says Lloyd Kolbe of the University of Texas . The 8,800 youngsters were also given a battery of tests designed to measure endurance and strength . Their performance , says study director Dr. Robert Gold , was " disappointing . " Ten-year-old boys averaged only 2.7 chinups and took more than 10 minutes to run a mile . Experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than that . " It confirmed our suspicions that the fitness of American children is not what it should be , " says Charles Dotson of the University of Maryland . Pull-ups : Other studo ies have been equally dis8 couraging . In the Houston public schools , 47 percent of 10th-grade boys ? and more than half of all seventhto 12th-grade girls ? scored " poor to weak " in the 600-yard run , one accurate test of endurance . In Dade County , Fla. , students scored far lower on fitness tests than their predecessors did nine years ago . And in two pilot aerobics programs for third and fourth graders in low-income San Francisco schools , more than a third of the children could not complete even 10 minutes of moderate exercise . So what 's wrong with not being able to run around the block or do a dozen pull-ups ? Plenty , say those sports physicians and educators who still subscribe to the ancient notion of mens sana in corpore sano ( a healthy mind in a healthy body ) . " Sometimes we forget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the education in the world wo n't provide the benefits we want , " says Ray Ciszek of the American Alliance for Health . l  | Physical Education , Recreation and Dance . Ciszek is in good company ; no less authorities than Plato and Thomas Jefferson urged students to exercise at least one hour a day . There is also new evidence that sound bodies do help create sound minds . In one Canadian elementary school , children ran , climbed and otherwise exercised vigorously during time taken away from their basic studies . Not only did their fitness levels rise when compared to those in other schools , but so did their scores on language and math tests . Even more worrisome than the effect of inactivity on the mind is its effect on the body . When Charles Kuntzleman of Spring Arbor College examined 360 elementaryschool children in Jackson County , Mich. , he found that 98 percent showed at least one major risk factor for heart disease . Twentyeight percent had high blood pressure , 42 percent had abnormally high levels of cholesterol in their blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more risk factors . While some physicans still dispute the link between these factors and heart disease , other recent studies show that the risk is frighteningly real . Dr. Gerald Berenson of Louisiana State University autopsied children who had died in accidents ; he discovered that some of those with high cholesterol levels also had atherosclerotic plaques ? fatty deposits in the arteries that can cause heart attacks . Luxury : Part of the blame for unfit kids falls on the lack of adequate physical-education programs . In many school districts , budget cuts and the drive back to the basics of reading , writing and math have made exercise an unaffordable luxury . " The support for physical education has really declined in the past five years , " says Wayne Osness of the University of Kansas . According to the National Children and Youth Fitness Study , only 36 percent of students have daily gym classes ? and most of those classes emphasize team sports like dodgeball and baseball that " do not guarantee the development of fitness , " says Gold . A more fundamental cause , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American children and adolescents . Kids ' eating habits have never been ideal , experts say , but greater availability of junk food ? and a trend toward less supervision of eating at home ? have made them worse . " Their only fruit is fruit cocktail , the only chicken they eat is fried chicken and their main exercise is turning on the television set , " says Laurel Mellin , director of an eating-disorders clinic at the University of California , San Francisco . In fact , the typical teen-ager spends an average of seven hours a day watching television and consumes vast quantities of junk foods . " Physical education is for people who want to be basketball players or football players , " shrugs ninth-grader Wade Baker , while eating a hamburger at a fast-food restaurant in Houston . " It 's not much use to the rest of us . " Adds his friend , senior Dal O'Brien , " We 'd rather watch TV or go into town and ride around than do exercise . " Self-esteem : Fortunately , a handful of programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be as simple as rigorous mandatory physical education classes at St. John 's , a private school in Houston where student performances on fitness tests have improved markedly in the last five years . More often , new youth-fitness programs preach nothing less than a radical change in life-style . In Jackson County , Mich. , for example , Charles Kuntzleman used a grant from the Kellogg Foundation to teach elementary-school children everything from good nutrition to how to measure their blood pressure . At the same time , he introduced them to strenuous exercise , including aerobic softball ( in which everyone keeps running ) . After three years of Kuntzleman 's " Feelin ' good " regime , the children not only were more fit , with lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels , they ate less junk food and scored higher on tests of self-esteem . Similar programs have sprouted up across the country . One of the oldest is Shapedown ( page 85 ) , a slim-down treatment for fat kids that was created at the University of California in 1979 . The American Health Foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its " Know Your Body " program , and is spreading the program to eight cities ? including all schools in Beverly Hills . And three months ago the American Heart Association launched a pilot program dubbed " Future Fit " in two San Francisco schools . Encouraging as these efforts are , they have so far failed to reverse the national trend toward less exercise for kids . " If we could somehow go to parents and convince them that it is the rest of their children 's lives that is at stake , " says Don Haydon , " then we might manage to stir up more interest in improving physical education . " But until that happens , the average American kid will be a long way from recognizing his or her image on a cereal box .                     