@@432374

 | A giant experiment has started in Russia ? with years to go if Mikhail Gorbachev survives , with enormous global consequences whether he suc ceeds or fails . Most outsiders still see it as an attempt to make a Communist economy work . The society and the political system still remain deeply Soviet . But more and more , Gorbachey appears to understand that success demands fundamental political and cultural change , reaching to the very ideas that rule the nation . The question now is less how far he is willing to go than how deeply the experiment will take over Soviet thought . When he came to power in March , 1985 , both Soviet and Western analysts expected dynamic leadership . Gorbachev more than obliged . Today , he is moving on every front of domestic and foreign policy ? and gaining momentum . His antialcoholism campaign has cut vodka consumption by one third and reduced drinking on the job . He has adopted a harsh punitive approach to absenteeism , corruption and false reporting on the economy . Already , his actions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy . As for more direct economic reform , the issues are more complex and the break with the past less certain . Spurred by Gorbachev , media criticism of failures is often as severe as that of the harshest Westerners . In some areas such as services and , to some extent , agriculture , where private initiative is easier and reward near automatic , first steps have been taken . The Soviet government , in fact , is legalizing much of the private activity that until now thrived in the illegal ? but flourishing ? " second economy . " " A fundamental weakness " In manufacturing , mining and construction ? the heart of Soviet economic power where modernization finally will be decided ? the new leadership on the surface has been impressive . Hundreds of official decrees have dictated reform . Yet most have not been translated from tons of paper into action . For one reason , there has not been enough time . But the limitations are more basic , adding up to a fundamental weakness . The edicts have not changed crucial characteristics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pricing and the largely passive role of money and credit remain . Under those conditions , the new orders can have little effect even if managers and administrators are committed to carrying them out ? which many are not . Gorbachev 's economic measures are thus directed at improving human performance but not structural change . The paradox is critical , for lack of structural change imposes harsh limits on performance . There are few incentives for hard work , managerial efficiency , innovation and effective accounting and control . The conclusion is inescapable : Gorbachev 's major challenge is still ahead , perhaps two or three years away . There is yet no vision of what the main ingredients of economic reform must be . But the most startling developments of Gorbachev 's two years are not in the economy . Starting last fall , gaining momentum with the January meeting of the party 's Central Committee , they are in political and cultural areas where radical action came as a surprise . Already , they have created turmoil with immense potential . Whether it will be creative or destructive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures will change profoundly the nature of the system he inherited . Examples abound . Censorship in theaters and some magazines and newspapers has been largely abolished . A high party official speaks of ending censorship altogether . Fiction and poetry forbidden by Khrushcev. and Brezhnev earlier are beginning to appear , with more in prospect . Among the harvest are Boris Pasternak 's Doctor Zhivago and the uncompromisingly anti-Soviet poem , Requiem , by Akhmatova . Antiauthoritarian , antidogmatic movies , some produced 20 years ago , now appear in hundreds of theaters in metropolitan centers . One film produced in Georgia , " Repentance , " not only indicts Stalinism but deals with how his successors sent dissidents of sound mind to psychiatric wards . The most respected of Soviet dissidents , Andrei Sakharov , the Nobel laureate , has emerged from exile to speak out for human rights . A caseby-case review has been ordered for political prisoners still in jails and labor camps , and some are being released . Emigration of Jewish " refuseniks " is increasing . Work is under way on a new criminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda " and " slander of the Soviet State . " Television and radio deal freely with drug addiction , sexual mores , the boredom of Soviet life and official corruption . The media have discovered investigative reporting ? and Soviet politicians have joined their American counterparts in hating it . Election of leadership in some " creative unions " ? writers , TV personnel , actors ? has been truly free , with rejection of official candidates offered by the Ministry of Culture . In one of the world 's most secretive countries , talk is of openness . In a society that throughout its history has not known a single day of democratic order , the leadership preaches democratization and grass-roots participation . A state that has put a premium on homogeneity is shifting toward innovation and individuality . Authorities promote clashing views where the truth was once proclaimed " self- evident . " While stressing patriotism , they no longer equate it with military norms imposed on civilians or the cult of the military . They are retreating from the notion of the " perfect society , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain imperfections . They are starting to take account of the past in a way to avoid repeating it . Already politico-cultural changes have gone beyond mere window dressing for foreign impact . The question of a foreign observer is , therefore , simple : " Why ? " It is too much to believe that Gorbachev and his associates have begun to believe in democracy as the West knows it . A more realistic assumption is that the underlying values of the " new course " are essentially pragmatic . Gorbachev and his colleagues have become " democrats " on their own terms because they conclude this is necessary for modernization . And modernization is the overriding goal of the new regime . The practical reasons for encouraging change far beyond the economy are therefore more and more apparent : First , Gorbachev realizes that the systemic crisis he inherited is not primarily economic but social and political ? even moral , ethical , existential . Economic backwardness and decline have been a symptom of deeper malaise . The new course attacks the crisis at its source ? alienation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depth of the crisis has apparently convinced Gorbachev that economic reform must be more fundamental than he initially thought . To be effective , he needs more time . The new course clears the way for economic reform by building social , political and cultural foundations . Third , Gorbachev recognizes that consolidation of power necessary to force reform demands personnel changes from top to bottom . The new course aims to mobilize party leaders of his choice and the educated levels of the One native feels Moscow can population , especially the creative intelligentsia , both to promote modernization and to neutralize its enemies . It is easy to build a case for his failure . The forces of resistance , tradition and inertia stack the odds against him . There are simply many more traditionalists and reactionaries in the party than liberals and innovators . The massive bureaucracy , and particularly middle-level administrators , resists change in order to protect jobs and preserve privileges . History offers no model for preserving the party 's leadership while tapping the full power of the people 's creativity . Yet Gorbachev may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Powerful forces work in his favor . What works and may continue to work are , paradoxically , the highly centralized nature of the Soviet party-state , the enormous powers of his office as General Secretary and his own drive and vision . From his position on high , he may be able to purge remaining opponents from the many levels of the power structure . He has natural allies , a potential alliance for progress , among many of the intelligentsia and communicators . The media can be a powerful weapon against the bureaucracies . Gorbachev 's principal weapon , however , may be psychological . If willpower counts on the scale of history , then the determination of Gorbachev and his small band of high-ranking loyalists can be critical . Their resolve endures despite many setbacks as the sheer scope of the task becomes clearer . By now , Gorbachev 's seriousness of purpose should not be in question . It is reflected , moreover , in the attitudes of many among the elite and the intelligentsia . Sometimes , it is expressed in the simple , decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union has reached a point where , to these people , the price of radical change is less than the price of business as usual . The alternative is continuing social stagnation and alienation , the decline of Soviet influence in the world , the continuation of a life of lies and corruption in a society vastly different from Stalin 's time in education and expectation . " Apocalyptic visions " A large part of the intelligentsia joined this time by some of the political elite ? is seized by apocalyptic visions . For the first time in Soviet history , they see the gap in growth and technological progress between the Soviet Union and the West widening dramatically . Some worry that continuing stagnation could even produce ultimately an explosion within the alienated industrial working class . They believe that , without change , the alternatives soon will not be radical reform or continued inertia but more likely a new tyranny . Behind this concern is an abiding patriotism , or Russian nationalism ? for , after all , the Russians run the Soviet Union . Gorbachev and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the mobilization to bring it about . Doubtless there is truth in the foreign understanding that the Soviets feel insecure in their foreign relations , especially with the West . Yet the feeling encountered most often among many who support Gorbachev is simply shame . It is shame for Soviet backwardness , for the brutality of life , for the lack of beauty , for militaristic order at a time of growing democracy worldwide . Sometimes in discussions with Westerners , it is covered by artificial arrogance or bitter humor , yet it is , in fact , a quest for respectability among " civilized countries . " As one member of the elite commented when counting the problems faced by the reformers : " Psychologically , I can not at all afford to think Gorbachev might fail . " The West must be clear , however , about what is not taking place in the Soviet Union . Gorbachev 's changes are not designed to create a capitalist system or even a restricted market economy . Even if he succeeds , he would not produce democracy as the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union isolationist . The deepest rationale is to make it more powerful in the international arena , an even greater superpower rival of the United States . Yet Gorbachev 's failure and the desperation that could create may not be in the interest of the Soviet Union 's rivals . Partial success , which realistically would require more than a decade , would make the Soviet Union stronger . Yet it could also become a safer cohabitant of the planet even if it remains the West 's adversary .                     