@@332847

James Serpell puts the U.S. gross national pet product at $7.5 billion a year . The figure covers the cost of food and veterinary services for 475 million cats , dogs , birds , rodents , reptiles and aquarium fish . Presumably there are extras such as doggy spas , rhinestone collars , pooper scoopers and what professionals in the domestic-animal world might call alternate-species entombment . The costs are proportionately staggering in the households of the European Community , home to an estimated 91 million nonhuman inhabitants , excluding unwelcome vermin . <P> None of this makes much practical sense , says Serpell , a research associate in animal behavior at the University of Cambridge . To appreciate his view of human-animal relations , it is necessary to face a tangle of mutual benefits and glaring paradoxes . Why , for example , should one little piggy be indulged as an intelligent pet while another , equally alert , is abstracted as pork- belly futures ? Humans are , of course , aggressive carnivores with unusual powers of rationalization . They are also unpredictable in their attachments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was killed by the family Rottweiler . Her response after hearing that the beast would have to be destroyed : " I can always have another baby but I ca n't replace my dog Byron . " <P> In China , during the Ch'ing dynasty , the Emperors ' Pekingese were suckled by wet nurses , raised by eunuchs and given royal rank . Tsunayoshi , the " Dog Shogun " of 17th century Japan , distorted his nation 's economy to pamper his 100,000 canines . Ovid and Catullus wrote poems to commemorate the deaths of their mistresses ' birds , and trendy Romans kept pet turbot . Today a dog 's vita can be just as dolce . Three years ago , Lady Beaverbrook booked all the seats in the business section of a jumbo jet so that she and her pooch could travel in solitary comfort . <P> Such excess , suggests Serpell , leads to the still prevalent view that demonstrative affection for animals is peculiar , if not unnatural . In 16th century Europe , women who talked to animals ran the risk of being incinerated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of being a closet misanthrope . Not necessarily . The author 's reading of available data tends to a more positive interpretation : " a vague suggestion that some pet-owners , for reasons which are unclear , may have a greater desire for company and friendship and because of this use their pets to augment what they already derive from the companionship of humans . " Despite this careful tone , In the Company of Animals is a work of cross-cultural panache . Serpell writes passionately and well about a subject that seems to have fallen between the cracks of specializations . His overview is sweeping and provocative . To wit : in traditional Western thought , God created humans in his own image and animals to serve mankind . This anthropocentric view dominated religion and philosophy for more than 2,000 years , and still exerts a powerful influence . But so do our animal instincts , the cause of psychological conflict and moral ambivalence .                     