@@494142

When the history of modern Iran is written , the decade 1970-1980 will doubtless be recorded as the American neocolonial period . The United States had been involved with the Shah throughout his reign , especially through the CIA 's role in bringing him back to the throne in 1953 ; but it was the decision of the Nixon Administration to make the Shah the principal protector of American strategic interests in the Persian Gulf that gave the United States an Scott D. Sagan is writing a book on deterrence and strategy in the pre-nuclear era. unprecedented importance in Iran 's affairs . In Inside the Iranian Revolution , John D. Stempel provides some instructive statistics . In 1969 the Shah ordered $235.8 million in military supplies from the U.S. By 1977 the total was $5,713 " billion . In 1972 , there were 9,087 Americans living in Iran . There were 53,941 in 1978 , the year Jimmy Carter , in a Tehran banquet toast to the Shah , delivered a panegyric to his stature and stability . Barely a year later , the Shah , sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a dismal note with the seizure of the U.S. Embassy on November 4 , 1979 . For the United States , the Iranian episode was one more blow to the sense of optimism that had prevailed since World War II about what well-intentioned American support could do for regimes that serve our interest . Along with our failure in Vietnam and now the setback of Anwar Sadat 's death and the unpredictable prospects and perils of our relations with Egypt and Saudi Arabia , our experience in Iran has encouraged the pessimistic , and probably exaggerated , feeling that too much American involvement leads to collapse . And watching our allies totter , worried Americans have invoked a contrast with supposed Soviet successes ? a specious comparison . Soviet neocolonialist failures , it is well to remember , include Mao 's China , Sukarno 's Indonesia , Nkrumah 's Ghana , and Nasser 's Egypt . Massive expenditures of money , materiel , personnel , and influence were unable to turn these countries to longterm Soviet advantage , forcing the Kremlin to pursue new partners , just as we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not why do we fail in a situation like Iran whereas the Soviets succeed . It is : what can we learn from that experience ? Last month 's anniversary of the hostage seizure was the occasion for the publication of a stack of books about Iran by Americans ? an academic , a journalist , and three diplomats . Let me mention two briefly and then deal a bit more fully with the others . Roofs of Revolution by Professor Nikki R. Keddie , a UCLA specialist on Iran and the Middle East , is an " interpretive history " of modern Iran written for what the Yale University Press calls its " fastback " series " designed to bring subjects of BEN SCA ' JET misbehavior simply gets too outrageous even for liberals to ignore , we are warned against ' overreacting ' ? which covers most forms of reacting . Note , too , the proliferation of liberal defense ' experts ' who hibernated through the Soviet military buildup of the Seventies , but who rush forth at the first sign of a belated American keen current interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's study , in conjunction with a section by Yann Richard , offers a broad yet detailed overview of Iranian history which emphasizes the 19th and 20th centuries . The essence of the book 's message is conveyed in its final words : Iranians see foreign powers , which recently meant the Americans , as using them for their own purposes , always for Iran 's strategic role , with the hope of scoring gains and stopping gains by others , chiefly the Russians . . . . However wrong and self-defeating have been many of the policies used in Iran since Ethel Revolution , one may understand the Iranian 's widespread desire to demonstrate their release from foreign control and foreign ways . , . . This book is the sort of concise and lucid work that might have been useful in forestalling our Iranian blunder . Pity now is too late . P IERRE SALINGER has expanded a brilliant three-hour report for ABC News , broadcast the week the hostages were released , into America Held Hostage : The Secret Negotiations . Principally through his contact with French lawyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hostage release bargaining , Salinger has provided a vivid account of the frustrating process which eventually led to freedom for the Americans ( although not by the channel Salinger knows most about ) . Salinger has more information on the cloak-and-dagger haggling than anyone else . He knows about Hamilton Jordan 's pseudonymous trans-Atlantic trips to meet with Iranian envoys ; he has access to the surprisingly detailed plans for an early hostage turnover , worked out by Jordan but never implemented . He knows all about the nearly successful Iranian effort to have the Shah extradicted to Iran while he was in Panama . His book is an exciting narrative , but because the television version was so good , the effect is like reading the novelization of a movie you 've already seen . Richard Queen 's Inside and Out is the first of what will be a number of accounts by former hostages . Queen was freed about six months before the other hostages because he fell ill with multiple sclerosis , at least in part , it is thought , because of the treatment he received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book is a simple retelling of the ordeal of an unexceptional young American trapped in a maelstrom . The book , which in the best U.S. tradition of free enterprise , is intended to capitalize on an experience that enthralled the nation , comes complete with the endorsement of Dan Rather , who calls Queen " one hell of a man . " Unfortunately Queen 's book barely satisfies our curiosity about the Iranian militants . He does tell us that in the early weeks they had votes nearly every other day on tang , which means war , and azadee , which means freedom . They would argue before they voted . I heard one young guy about nineteen having a heated discussion with an older one . . . the older one did n't think that they should free the Americans even if that meant war . The young one actually cried and said , ' you are going to have thousands and thousands of people killed for fifty people . ' When they argued or voted , war won each time . What does come through clearly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Americans . Language , culture , expectations , instincts divided the imprisoned Yankees , most of whom could barely ask to go to the bathroom in Farsi , from radicals whose sole knowledge of the United States was that we had backed the reviled Shah . One obvious truth that emerges from even Queen 's limited account , one that is underscored in the other books , is that this country would be far better served by sending envoys abroad trained to deal with the societies they are serving . Queen 's book is ultimately a shallow tale . But with so many hostage accounts in the offing , we are bound to get one that makes the grade . A MBASSADOR William Sullivan acknowledges in his Mission to Iran that despite his ignorance of the country and the Islamic culture , he was picked by the Carter Administration to go to Iran because of his experience in dealing with " hard-nosed " leaders , most recently President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines . The Shah , it seems , owned such a fierce reputation that only a skilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that American diplomatic records dating as far back as before the Shah 's first ouster in 1953 portrayed him as indecisive in moments of crisis , even weak-willed . His imperious manner and oil-stimulated wealth gave him an image of resolve that confused the Americans who had to deal with him . Sullivan writes after his first meeting with the Shah that he had been conditioned to recognize a tough customer when I met one . The man to whom I had presented my credentials certainly did not fit into that category . " Sullivan 's is in many respects the most interesting of the new Iran books . As a career diplomat with many years of Washington experience ( he was called Kissinger 's Kissinger during the Vietnam negotiations ) , he has a finely honed sense for the moments when decision-making goes awry . His nearly two years in Iran spanned the unraveling of the Shah 's rule and his book conveys the unraveling of policy in Washington at the same time . Inevitably , Sullivan 's judgments have to be viewed as affected by his own role . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the Shah is depicted as increasingly pathetic and Washington appears as a textbook of ineptitude . One of the most graphic illustrations of how bad things got between Washington and Tehran came on February 11 , 1Q7Q Twenty-six members of the U.S. military advisory group were pinned down under 105 mm Howitzer fire as the revolutionary turmoil reached its peak . Sullivan was understandably alarmed . A call came through from Washington , with Under Secretary of State David Newsom on the line asking for an assessment of the situation . " I gave it to him in a few short phrases , " Sullivan writes , " emphasizing my current preoccupation with trying to get my 26 military personnel out of the bunker . " Fifteen minutes later the phone rang again , with Newsom and Deputy Secretary Warren Christopher on the line . They said National Security Adviser Brzezinski wanted my views on the possibility of a coup if Rat by the Iranian armed forces . . . the total absurdity of such an inquiry in the circumstances . . . provoked me to a scurrilous suggestion for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he told me it was not a particularly helpful comment , I asked whether he wished me to translate it into Polish and hung up . There is unlikely to be a blunter version from an American principal ? an official with direct , intimate , firsthand knowledge of what happened ? on how badly Iran was handled at the end by the United States . Finally , John D. Stempel 's Inside the Iranian Revolution is an informed and thoughtful survey that focuses primarily on the American decade in Iran as the catalyst in an upheaval whose roots go much further back than the American period . Stempel was a political officer in the U.S. Embassy from 1975 until July 1979 . His book is a diplomat 's after-action report ? neither scholarship nor journalism but a little bit of both . Stempel 's view , reflected in the other books as well , is that the Shah 's headlong push for modernization combined with flaws of his political , as well as personal , character to bring him down . The American problem was an inability or unwillingness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Special Adviser George Ball 's recommendation that the Shah move to a broader based government was given to the president in early December 19781 , an analysis months behind events , " Stempel writes . Brzezinski 's efforts to rally the military , Stempel continues , came when " the disintegration of the Iranian armed forces was already terminal . " A plethora of American concerns over the years ? Vietnam , political changes at home , the Arab-Israeli conflict , Jimmy Carter 's advocacy of human rights ? all served to divert attention from the fundamentalist volcano building in Iran . An official commitment to uphold " our guy " served to limit assessments of what other guys might be doing . The library of books on Iran leaves no doubt that for all the immense intelligence capacities of the U.S. , for all our military and strategic clout , we still know too little about how best to use our power in critical places like Iran . Today the Reagan Administration believes a clear military edge over the Soviets will eliminate such problems . But it was n't the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was ourselves . les for individual use .                     