@@337154

He bounds into the studio with a flurry of high-fives for his raucous fans . Once the show is under way , he paces the stage hungrily , a cigarette dangling from his knuckles and venom dripping from his toothy grin . Liberals are " Pablum pukers " ; the current presidential candidates are " baboons . " Guests or audience members who rile him are fair game for ripostes like " Do n't be a smartass with me , punk , " or an escort out the door . He ignites the crowd  --  mostly young males who appear to be bused in from the stands of some local sports arena  --  into bursts of cheering , hoots of derision or their favorite chant : " Mort ! . . . Mort ! . . . Mort ! " <P> Welcome to Wrestling from New Jersey  --  er , The Morton Downey Jr . Show , TV 's wildest talk program . Since its debut two months ago on WWOR , the Secaucus , N.J.-based superstation , Downey 's verbal slugfest has made Phil 's and Oprah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Critics are appalled ( " A disgrace to television , " said Kay Gardella of the New York Daily News ) , but ratings are rising , and blue-collar fans are flocking to the studio for tapings . After just two weeks , all the seats were booked through the end of the year . <P> The crowd comes partly to hear Downey 's right-wing rantings but mainly to cheer on his bullying tactics , as in this typical recent colloquy . Fringe Presidential Candidate Lyndon LaRouche : " Why do n't you shut up ? " Downey : " Why do n't you shut up ? All you 're doing is spewing garbage . " Porn Star Seka walked off one program in disgust ; Downey threw Journalist Rich Taylor off another show during an argument about alleged defects in the Audi 5000 . Two weeks ago , Downey was arraigned on an assault charge filed by Gay Activist Andrew Humm , a guest who claims Downey slapped him after a heated exchange during a show ( never aired ) on the Roman Catholic Church . Downey has pleaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cast as the pit bull of TV talk-show hosts . The son of an Irish tenor popular with radio audiences during the 1930s and ' 40s , he worked for a time as a singer and songwriter . His eclectic , not to say bizarre , career has also included stints as co-owner of the New Orleans Buccaneers franchise in the American Basketball Association , an activist for victims of the Biafran war in Nigeria and , briefly , presidential candidate of the American Independent Party in 1980 ( he turned down the nod , he says , because the party was too right wing even for him ) . A New York University dropout , Downey once spent two months in jail for passing a bad check , an incident he mentions freely on the air . In 1982 he answered a newspaper ad and landed a job as talk-radio host in Orlando . He later honed his act in Sacramento , Cleveland and Chicago .                     