@@432331

 | He was unhittable at 20 , unfathomable at 22 . His fast ball and his moods once soared with youthful innocence . Then both began to veer in strange directions . Last week , on the eve of what should have been a triumphant season opener for the worldchlampion New York Mets , superstar pitcher Dwight Gooden admitted his problem . The natural magic that was Doctor K was tainted by a urine sample that came up positive for cocaine . Gooden promptly checked into a Manhattan center for drug rehabilitation . More than a score of ballplayers have traveled the same troubled path in recent years . But none had the charisma , the bigcity media attention or the $1.5 million salary of Doctor K. The news hardly surprised those who watched the bizarre incidents that have plagued Gooden over the past year . But it still sent shock waves through sports fans who have long believed that , somehow , real life could be suspended for the fantasies born each opening day . Fantasy was also in short supply in Katy , Texas , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last year Clemens , 24 , succeeded Gooden as the premier pitcher in the sport : His 24 victories led the Boston Red Sox into the World Series against the Mets . Clemens figured he was worth a million dollars this year . But without three years of service , he lacked the contractual clout to go to arbitration . The Red Sox offered him $500,000 , then exercised their right to renew his contract at $400,000 . He is in the midst of baseball 's longest holdout since the arbitration system was instituted 14 years ago . The situations are barely comparable , because the drug toll in sports ca n't be counted in dollars . But the stars stand as twin symbols of the loss of innocence this baseball spring . For years it has been commonplace to predict that winners wo n't repeat . The standard reasons have been player movement under the free-agency system and winners ' distractions like the banquet circuit . Owners are now taking a hard line , turning their backs on free agents who once generated vast bidding wars ; free agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operative distracting substances are more addictive than rubber chicken . Two years ago Gooden seemed beyond distraction , a serene and solitary artist on the mound . But while he was celebrated as the youngest pitcher ever to win the C Young Award , few noticed that he was als one of the youngest heroes ever to be s lionized and enriched . The kid from Tampa was surrounded by old " friends " and ne hangers-on , and he slipped into a puzzlin pattern of behavior . An off-season ankle injury went unreported to the Mets . A missed exhibitio : . game was attributed to a minor car accident that , it turned out , never happened . A drink was thrown during an argument a : an airport rental-car counter . Then , last December , his Mercedes was stopped by Tampa police and a fight ensued . Gooden later pleaded no contest to felony assault and was placed on three years ' probation . His subsequent complaints that cops were following and harassing him might have been signs of cocaine paranoia . But even when his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other way . Finally Gooden almost cried for the  | attention . As part of his new contract , in an effort to dispel recurring rumors , he made a handshake agreement that he would accept drug testing . Then he took the test that revealed a trace of cocaine . If the fact that he volunteered showed a measure of honesty and courage , it was lost on his critics . Advertisers said his endorsement contracts would evaporate . Archconservative sportswriting dean Dick Young demanded : " Punish the users . . . There are n't enough jails , you say ? Open concentration camps . " Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Jimmy Breslin , who knows better , wrote roughshod over due process and labeled Gooden an imbecile and a junkie . Whatever his degree of culpability or disease , Gooden is now thrust into yet another new world . Young crack users who seek his autograph in the Smithers clinic will be swiftly reprimanded . When he tells his therapy group about snorting after a big game , the counselor will interrupt , " No baseball talk , Dwight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much did you take ? How often ? " The trappings of his fame will be stripped away like a soiled uniform . Outside the clinic , fans will wonder if he will emerge a different pitcher . Inside , they will try to make him a different young man . Decreasing salaries : Roger Clemens is learning a simpler lesson : the owners are playing fiscal hardball and they do n't care who gets hit by the pitch . " When we finally looked at our books , we realized how stupid we were , " says New York Yankees boss George Steinbrenner , who once turned big spending into profits but this winter rejected baseball 's best veteran pitcher , free agent Jack Morris . " You 're going to see salaries decrease by 12 to 20 percent . " Because the owners can not stop fouryear veterans from winning raises in arbitration , they have struck in the two areas they can control : free agents and young players . So Morris went unclaimed and returned to the Detroit Tigers , and National League batting champion Tim Raines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Young stars like Eric Davis of Cincinnati and Joe Carter of Cleveland have signed for fractions of what lesser athletes got before this year . Before he apparently blinked and reluctantly reported to the Red Sox without a contract last weekend , Clemens played catch with Boston catcher Rich Gedman , an unsigned free agent . Their temporary absence , coupled with its effect on team morale , should help the Red Sox to experience the bottom of their division as well as the bottom line . Gooden and Clemens may yet brighten the summer , but the shadows of their spring will linger . The exact price in lost innocence is hard to measure . But Mets general manager Frank Cashen ventured a good estimate in one remark about Gooden . We robbed him of his youth . "                     