@@294736

MON ONCLE D'AMERIQUE Directed by Alain Resnais Screenplay by Jean Gruault <P> All right , class , settle down . Today , for our course on human behavior , we are pleased to have three distinguished guests who will present a lecture and demonstration on the way man 's brain determines man 's actions . The seminar will be led by Dr. Henri Laborit , the Paris physician and biologist who has documented the source of aggression in all mammals-from white rats up through the most sophisticated human beings . To illustrate his thesis with scenes from the lives of three ordinary people , we have engaged the services of Jean Gruault , who has written some of the finest and most provocative French films of the past 20 years : Truffaut 's Jules and Jim and The Wild Child ; Godard 's Les Carabiniers ; and Rossellini 's The Rise of Louis XIV . The slide show has been assembled by Alain Resnais , director of such films as Hiroshima Mon Amour , Last Year at Marienbad and La Guerre Est Finie . Today 's class will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you will find the experience entertaining as well as instructive . <P> If every classroom lecture were as lucid and entertaining as Mon Oncle d'Amerique-and if every film were as witty and well crafted-our colleges would be filled with scholars and our movie theaters with works of art . What may look at first like a film experiment as dry as the dust on a neglected library shelf turns out to be a spectacular juggling act : of documentary and fiction , analysis and creativity , determinism and free will , comedy and tragedy , the past and the present . The three jugglers-Gruault , Resnais and Laborit-work in perfect sync , perhaps because their own pasts have prepared them for this challenge . Gruault 's scripts have often described characters dominated by their emotions or by the whim of the historical moment . And nothing could be more natural than that Resnais , whose films have played with the real and imagined past in a medium that lives in the eternal present , should make a movie based on the work of a biologist who declares that " a living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the memory of every living thing , and reinforced from the earliest years by parental instruction and example , are the codes that determine how that creature will act . At birth , as a gift from the most primitive part of his brain , a child knows the elements of survival : he must eat , drink and reproduce . His early life is filled with the imposition of rituals : toilet training , religious instruction , social communication and compromise . By the time he is an adult , he knows most of the games people play : how to dress and cook , shake hands , argue with a colleague , plead with a lover , break things , break up , make up , attack , escape or withdraw . In each " free " action , he is replaying the history of the race as stage-managed by an eons-old brain that wants simply to survive and conquer .                     