@@487012

while in custody , and all , so far as is known , were killed . By focusing attention on the dimensions of the horror inflicted on Argentine society by the armed forces , the report may bring dissatisfaction to a boil . At the same time , the military establishment shows no remorse for the carnage attributed to it and justifies the bloody repression as a necessary response to the threat of " godless Bolshevism . " Many officers criticize what they see as the Alfonsin administration 's excessive zeal , and accuse some human-rights advocates of trying to undermine the armed forces as an institution . They and their supporters have not hesitated to attack the commission and its work . Violence has long been a central fact of Argentine poli  --  tics . The military juntas that ruled the country from 1966 to 1973 resorted to force as a means of quelling social discon  --  tent , while leftist groups resisted the dictatorship with ter  --  rorism and sporadic guerrilla warfare . During that time Juan Per6n , the deposed President and leader-in-exile of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his followers to destabilize the military regime ; his strategy worked so well that the government in 1972 was forced to permit him to return from Spain . He was elected President in 1973 . The Peronist movement embraced elements on the ex  --  treme right and the extreme left , and they were soon warring openly with each other . The aging caudillo sided with the ultraconservatives . Paramilitary groups , supported by the government , emerged to do battle with the left . PerOn died on July 1 , 1974 , and his wife , Isabel , who had been elected his Vice President , succeeded him . Neither she nor the Peronist Party had any idea of how to extricate the nation from the crisis in which it was mired . The violence continued , and the economy , with an annual inflation rate that reached 335 percent , was on the verge of collapse . When the armed forces removed Per &; from office in March 1976 , most Argentines welcomed the coup . The military junta immediately began a remorseless cam  --  paign , marked by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the " enemies of the fatherland . " The new rulers victimized terrorists and insurgents and also nonpolitical people only marginally related to them and even innocent bystanders . The working class , which the regime wished to cow in order to keep a lid on wage demands , bore the brunt of the onslaught . From the carnage came the sinister term desaparecidos , or the " disappeared , " referring to those who simply vanished . The dictatorship brazenly claimed that it knew nothing of the fate of the disappeared . Human-rights groups inside and outside Argentina tried to publicize what was happen  --  ing , but the press , intimidated by the murder of journalists , mostly remained silent or collaborated . Resort to the courts proved equally fruitless . Lawyers representing the families of desaparecidos received anonymous threats , and judges generally refused to rule against the government . Although clothing their dirty war in righteous rhetoric , the armed forces adopted a **31;2826;TOOLONG approach to their work . High-level officials profiteered shamelessly , while members of the security forces robbed at will the property of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Falklands conflict in 1982 and the near-collapse of the economy so discredited the regime that it had no choice but to permit a return to civilian rule . Among its last official acts was the proclama  --  tion of an amnesty for all who had committed crimes in con  --  nection with the dirty war . On October 30 , 1983 , in the first free elections held in Ar  --  gentina in a decade , Rani Alfonsin and the Radical Party gained a decisive victory over the Peronists . The Presi  --  dent immediately came under pressure from the relatives of the desaparecidos , who demanded information about the fate of their loved ones and punishment of the guilty . There was so much public opposition to the amnesty law that the new Congress quickly repealed it . One of the few politicians to have spoken out consistently against human-rights abuses , Alfonsin faced a difficult de  --  cision . Riding the crest of a wave of popularity , he might have gone for the jugular and attempted to dismantle and restructure the armed forces . But a frontal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-risk political struggle . There were other important sectors of society that had con  --  tributed to the nightmare of the late 1970s , and they might have resisted if they were included in the ambit of accounta  --  bility . The paramilitary death squads had begun operating under a Peronist government . The Catholic Church hierarchy , unlike its counterparts in Brazil and Chile , had not protested publicly as thousands went to their deaths . Alfonsin settled on a policy that he hoped would placate the human-rights community . His goal was to do justice without tearing the country apart and to enable Argentines to put the past behind them so they could address the serious economic and social problems confronting them . First , Al  --  fonsin created a national commission to conduct a full in  --  vestigation of the disappearances . Composed of prestigious individuals and endowed with ample resources , the nonpo  --  litical body set out to compile a list of the disappeared . It also sought to determine the whereabouts of children taken from parents who were murdered while in custody or from women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offi  --  cers are suspected of having secretly adopted them . ) The government also initiated legal proceedings against members of the juntas that ruled the country between 1976 and 1983 and several other high-ranking officers allegedly responsible for human-rights violations . Those prosecutions were part of a delicate political strategy by which Alfon  --  sin hoped to convert the armed forces to the cause of democracy ( although he never specified how ) and prevent future military coups . He persuaded Congress to enact laws reforming the justice system , giving to civil courts jurisdic tion over crimes committed by the military against the civil  --  ian population . As a result , the type of abuses perpetrated dur  --  ing the dirty war have now been clearly delineated as illegal . This legislation also gave military courts jurisdiction over prosecutions of officers for past human-rights violations . If the accused can prove he was following orders , he will be ex  --  onerated , unless he committed an " atrocious act , " a term not defined in the law . In addition , the final judgments of p @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Human-rights advocates were highly critical of Al  --  fonsin 's decision to let the armed services clean their own house . They did not trust the military courts to rule expedi  --  tiously or impartially . At present , the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces , the highest military tribunal , has indicted only Gen. Jorge Videla , the first President after the 1976 coup ; the cases of the eight other former junta members are still pending . Recently the council asked for more time to process the complaints before it and declared there was " nothing objectionable " in the way the high command con  --  ducted the dirty war , suggesting that Alfonsin 's critics were right . On October 4 a federal appeals court decided to move the cases of the nine junta members to civilian court because of the Supreme Council 's " unjustified delays " in meeting the new legislation 's deadline for processing them . The families of the disappeared have also resorted to the judicial system , bringing criminal actions against the un  --  known persons responsible for their relatives ' deaths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges in civilian courts without naming the accused . Then the judge , rather than a state or federal prosecuting attorney , must in  --  vestigate the case and decide whether to indict anyone . The cases are proceeding slowly , partly because of the nature of the Argentine judicial process and partly because of delays caused by the replacement of a number of judges who had cooperated in the repression . Moreover , once a member of the armed forces is named as a defendant , he can have his trial transferred to a military tribunal . Lawyers who are representing the families of the desa  --  parecidos in civilian courts are compiling evidence which they will then place before the military judges . A divisive issue in the current human-rights debate is how extensive the prosecutions should be . Alfonsin wants to punish only the top commanders , but rights advocates insist that everyone who committed a crime should be held re  --  sponsible . Six groups recently submitted to Congress a list of 8% officers allegedly involved in the disappearances . The presidential commission 's full report is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men who actually carried out the military 's policy of extermination have not been touched . The Alfonsin administration is plainly wary of the power and influence the armed forces still possess . In commentary before and after the telecast of a gripping film produced by the commission to show the excesses committed by the mili  --  tary , a Cabinet minister undercut the documentary 's message by praising the armed forces and stressing that left-wing terrorists were responsible for Argentina 's nightmare . Alfonsin 's cautious attitude may derive from his loss of popularity in recent months . The economy is in disarray , and the President gives the impression that he has no plan for coping with it . He roams the country delivering speeches but seems hesitant to wield authority . The Radical Party , a coalition of middle-class reformers , has long had a reputation for performing much better in the opposition than in government . Radical politicians have customarily been eloquent orators unable to give substance to their ideals . The last three elected Presidents from the party were driven from office by military coups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  dition of political violence can easily be revived if Alfonsin does not resolve the human-rights problem . If the more notorious wrongdoers are not prosecuted or are acquitted , the temptation will be strong for individuals to take justice into their own hands . Left-wing extremists could cast them  --  selves as avengers , or right-wing extremists could commit anonymous crimes that would be interpreted as acts of vengeance on the part of the left . Either way , a climate of serious destabilization could prevail , plunging Argentina once more into the abyss . q                     