@@324601

On an expropriated farm , a proud planter 's legacy endures <P> The torment of El Salvador 's civil strife knows no interval . Fighting between government forces and leftist insurgents continued unabated last week , and so did political killings . In a single day , 37 people were assassinated by the country 's security forces . In Soyapango , a slum section of San Salvador , police dragged 23 people from their homes and shot them dead in the street ; seven others refused to come out and were killed indoors . <P> Despite the level of violence , the struggling civilian-military junta has continued to pursue its controversial , and surprisingly successful , land-reform program . Since March 1980 , 790,000 acres of rich agricultural land have been expropriated from large landholders and are now farmed cooperatively by 62,000 peasant families . Next week , according to the government , the final block of 875,000 acres will be similarly taken over . TIME Correspondent William McWhirter last week visited one of the new cooperatives , the 960-acre Finca Florencia , a coffee plantation 24 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred campesino families were gathered early last week on the dusty veranda of the hilltop plantation house . Dressed in their meager best , they stood respectfully and listened for more than an hour as the man in the short-sleeved guayabera shirt exhorted them to hard work and clean living . The scene looked familiar-an absentee landlord come to survey his patrimony , perhaps . In fact , the speaker was Jos Antonio Morales Ehrlich , a member of El Salvador 's ruling junta and head of the country 's far-reaching land-reform program . The campesinos represented 14 new cooperative farms in the area , encompassing 31,148 acres and 1,551 peasant families . They had come to watch Ehrlich swear in their newly elected representatives and hear him discuss the future of the program that had given them title to estates on which their families had labored for generations . <P> For the new owners of the Finca Florencia , the powerful family that built the plantation is still a ghostly presence . They revere the memory of Angel , the patriarch who founded the finca in the late 1880s and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its view reaching from tin-roofed barns to stone walls enclosing acre after acre of lush coffee bushes . For 60 years , the plantation prospered under Angel and his grandson Carlos . Then Carlos turned over the Finca Florencia to his four sons , and by the 1950s the farm was in the hands of a hired manager . The family had already moved to San Salvador ; the hilltop views that had thrilled Angel seemed merely confining to his heirs and their restless wives , so " when the sons did come out from the city , " said one of the cooperative 's organizers , " it was only to play the peasant , to walk around and impress the girlfriends for the weekend . "                     