@@432431

 | In 1980 , six months after suffering a stroke that left his left side paralyzed , John Novotny , then age 56 , took on a new personality . He grew short-tempered and easily distracted . His appetite vanished , and he had trouble sleeping . He even lost interest in his favorite pastime ? combing the business section of the daily newspaper for investing ammunition and playing the stock market . Novotny 's worried daughter insisted that he speak with his doctor , who diagnosed the problem as stroke-related depression . Today , nearly two years after his last treatment with antidepressant medication , Novotny 's mental state is " perfectly well , " says his psychiatrist , Dr. Robert Robinson of Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore . Many stroke victims are less fortunate . Physicians have developed sophisticated techniques to treat the physical damage strokes cause . Scanning devices can pinpoint the precise site of the clot that caused the stroke , new drugs can dissolve the clot , and surgery can relieve pressure in the brain or bypass damaged vessels . But doctors often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't articulate their feelings . Their doctors are frequently preoccupied with other conditions the patients may suffer as well , such as heart disease , diabetes and gout . Estimates based on a half-dozen surveys ? including one from the Framingham study of 103 stroke patients published a year ago in the journal Neurology ? suggest that nearly half of the 500,000 people who suffer strokes yearly in the U.S. experience a full-fledged bout of clinical depression during the year following the stroke . In some cases , the depression can lead to dementia . Only approximately 40 percent of these depressed patients , however , are actually treated for depression . What 's more , many of those who go untreated end up permanently damaged by the dementia , according to Dr. Thomas Price , a neurologist at the University of Maryland School of Medicine . Novotny 's kind of depression should n't be confused with the short-lived blues that many postsurgery patients experience . It 's a serious emotional illness that follows the same course as major depression that 's unrelated to a stroke : It usually lasts about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes away . The symptoms range from a loss of interest and pleasure in normal daily activities to devastating feelings of hopelessness and even thoughts of suicide . Anyone who has suffered a stroke is a potential victim of depression . Causes remain mysterious . No one knows precisely why stroke patients become depressed . What is known is that part of the brain wastes away when a stroke cuts off the supply of oxygen , and this may somehow cause depression to set in . Johns Hopkins 's Robinson has found that depression in patients who have had a stroke on the left side of the brain seems to be strongly tied to a decrease in the level of serotonin , a brain chemical that carries electrical impulses across the gaps between nerves . Lowered serotonin levels , significantly , also occur in depression patients who have not suffered a stroke . In depression that follows a stroke to the right side of the brain ? a less common form of stroke ? the level of serotonin does n't seem to play a role . A family history of depression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to the stroke victim . Since stroke-induced depression can be successfully treated , recognizing it is crucial . A simple depression test ? which includes an evaluation of mood , feelings , appetite and sleep patterns ? can be administered by a nurse or doctor seven to 10 days after the stroke , about the time depression is most likely to set in . Some of the newer antidepressants , such as nortriptyline or trazodone , work in most patients and carry a relatively low risk of side effects . Says Dr. Michael Reding , a neurologist at Burke Rehabilitation Center in White Plains , N.Y. : " We ca n't treat dead neurons or give strength back where there is none . But we can help depression . "                     