@@432415

 | What 's got into George Shultz ? Suddenly he is everywhere : Prying at entrenched positions in the Middle East , flexing muscle in Panama , trying to plow new ground in arms control . What possesses the phlegmatic Secretary of State is power . At last he holds the mandate as well as the title . He has survived Caspar Weinberger , Richard Perle and the buccaneers on the National Security Council staff . He has an opportunity to be the most assertive Secretary since Henry Kissinger , though fighting the calendar . But with the mandate comes the whole agenda . No ducking into favorite areas , like Soviet relations , while others , like Nicaragua , run aground . The next nine months may determine Ronald Reagan 's legacy , and Shultz is the executor . Is he up to it ? He seems even now , at 67 and after almost six years at State , improbable in the role . The image of the bland , decent , mildly effective labor economist from the University of Chicago endures , despite exhaustive lessons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him as Labor Secretary in 1969 ? and labeled him " candy ass " when Shultz quit as Treasury Secretary in 1974 rather than sic the IRS on the President 's enemies . Shultz left with his reputation for integrity soaring . He was Ronald Reagan 's natural choice to restore confidence after Alexander Haig stormed out of State in 1982 . A natural choice , and a widely popular one ? but not everywhere . By then , Shultz was president of the mighty Bechtel Group , Inc. , with millions of dollars in Arab contracts . Israel 's supporters worried about a tilt toward the Arabs . The far right feared him as an old-school Republican moderate , lacking sufficient suspicion of the Soviet empire . Tougher than thou . In the White House , he has picked his shots , preaching measured diplomacy . More than anyone else besides Nancy Reagan , he has transformed the President into a moderate on Soviet policy , justifying the worst fears of the right . Still , he has eluded predictability with his tougherthan-thou posture on the use of force in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been more belligerent than the Pentagon , playing tough Marine , which he was , against conservative favorite Cap Weinberger . He fought to keep the Marines in Lebanon in 1983 , only to see 241 troops die from a car bombing , and advocated the use of force in Grenada and the Persian Gulf . Today , he is battling Weinberger 's successor , Frank Carlucci , to secure material support for opponents of Panama 's strong man Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega . At the State Department , he is beloved for battling budget cutters and defending the Foreign Service . One senior diplomat ranks him with George Marshall for his integrity and sense of duty . But in the White House , staffers sneer at both his performance and his considerable traveling entourage , perhaps sour grapes at Shultz 's dogged ascendancy . Doggedness is not certain to pay off in dramatic results . The administration 's very short list of successes ? the INF treaty to scrap intermediate-range missiles , Grenada , the Persian Gulf patrol , backing the winner in Afghanistan ? may already be complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more subtle criteria such as skill at damage control and the building blocks he leaves to his successor . Nothing defines the new George Shultz more sharply than his revival of Mideast diplomacy . His plan for IsraeliArab negotiations to take place this year was always doomed , given Israel 's divided government and its November elec- tion . Arabs , apart from Egypt , have been equally unyielding . But there is more than meets the eye in the attempt . He forestalled the inevitable cry from Arabs , had he done nothing , that the Israeli tail again was wagging the U.S. dog . By forcing answers , and getting a " No " from Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir , he created a small but visible distance between U.S. policy and Israel 's . Most important , he has effectively signaled to Israeli voters that compromise-ready Labor would be preferable to the hard-line Likud in November . For all , he left a warning : He would be back . Part of the Shultz record will be written in Moscow this week . Officially , he and Foreign Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan goes to Moscow May 29 . But both know that reducing long-range nuclear weapons is too complex for such early settlement . Renewed Soviet demands to limit testing of Reagan 's beloved Star Wars missile-defense program ? a point finessed at the December summit ? remain a killer issue . A dead START . Otherwise , the big differences are about how to keep both sides honest . Toughest of all is how to monitor warheads on sea-launched cruise missiles . A Soviet plan for inspection , the Americans say , is merely a ploy to let Russians examine U.S. subs and ships . At best , Shultz can report progress in inches . Some administration arms controllers , US . News has learned , are now convinced that a START treaty is dead on Reagan 's time . But Shultz will keep plugging on . Shultz and Shevardnadze both claim credit for the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan . The agreement signed last week ostensibly will enable millions of Afghan refugees to return home from Pakistan . Yet it does not require antiCommunist rebels to quit fighting , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puppet government and rebels . For the Soviets , signing America on as " co-guarantor " masks their evacuation as something less than ignominious flight . But there is a risk of U.S. embarrassment as well . The fanatic Afghan tribesmen America supports take orders from no outsider , and many will continue fighting the regime in Kabul ? or each other . More bloodletting in Afghanistan will lead to charges of American failure as guarantor . Still , to Shultz the first retreat of Soviet power since the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 outweighs any risk . The new problem-solving mood in Soviet-U.S. relations will survive even if Afghanistan descends into a maelstrom . Its only trophy so far is the INF treaty . But without further concrete results , the relationship itself will stand as a positive legacy . There are no such easy fallbacks in Central America , an area Shultz has essentially ignored for six years . The Secretary is now paying the price for abdicating there to the anti-Communist passion of Ronald Reagan , to his own hard-lining assistant secretary , Elliott Abrams , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the running intra-administration battles over arms control , where Shultz fought for his corner , keeping alternative policies in reserve , Central America policymaking was single track . The result today is a vacuum . Shultz engaged briefly last month , demanding the dispatch of airborne troops to deter a Sandinista incursion into Honduras . But with U.S. interests under steady attack , he has failed to come up with new answers . They are urgently needed in Nicaragua , Honduras and El Salvador . In El Salvador and Honduras , the administration 's crime has been complacency . It held up Jose Napoleon Duarte 's Presidency as a victory for democracy while giving him only halfhearted support . Now , it confronts a threat of renewed violence after the hard right 's victory in legislative elections . Failure of political intelligence in Honduras left Washington stunned by a sudden explosion of anti-American feeling and the burning of the U.S. consulate in Tegucigalpa . The lessons from El Salvador and Honduras are that friends can not be taken for granted and secretaries of state can not leave whole regions to subordinates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not wait , as is the new situation in Nicaragua , where the Contras , fearing U.S. abandonment , have reluctantly shifted their struggle with the Sandinistas to the negotiating table . U.S. officials say that even Reagan is coming to accept Contra collapse as inevitable . Shultz is left with only an uncertain peace process in which the Sandinistas hold the high cards . The only Central American crisis zone where U.S. policy is unambiguous and Shultz is fully involved is Panama . Since last summer , when he was enraged by a mob attack on the American Embassy , led by government ministers , Shultz has been personally dedicated to the removal of Noriega . So far , Pentagon caution has forced him to rely on economic sanctions ? which the State Department argued would get Noriega out within weeks ? and the threat implicit in a growing U.S. troop presence . He does not rule out the use of force . There is a warning in this for all who judge Shultz too benign for a disorderly world or who failed to note that Bechtel does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have been heroic , but he is a survivor . The new George Shultz has a touch of Machiavelli that was missing in the old Shultz , who left Richard Nixon on a moral issue just before Nixon 's own fall . The new Shultz did not resign over the actions that led to the Iran-Contra scandal but protected his tarnished deputy , Elliott Abrams ? yet protested enough to cover his flanks . Nothing guarantees that Shultz will salvage Central America or pass a tolerable START treaty to his successor . But the record suggests that all who underestimate him might look to their wallets.                     