@@432473

 | All across the turbulent Horn of Africa , military commanders are suddenly playing peacemaker . Not that hard-bitten officers are magically being transformed into disciples of nonviolence . Far from it . The brass is simply doing what comes naturally ? grabbing political power or plotting coups ? because of frustration with the way civilian officials or other officers have bungled civil wars and wrecked local economies . The leaders of a junta that seized power in Sudan on June 30 insist that their " primary goal " is making peace with rebels in the country 's war-ravaged southern provinces . Ethiopian officers who tried to oust their nation 's dictatorial President , Lt. Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam , a few weeks earlier were driven mainly by a desire to end 28 years of strife that have decimated the Army and ruined the economy . Even in Somalia , where open challenges to the regime have been rare , there are signs that the military is unhappy with President Mohammed Siad Barre 's divisive politics and his brutal campaign against reformist rebels . As leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditionally have held a veto over civilian politicians or headed governments themselves . But the Horn of Africa is a special case . It is the scene of long-running civil wars and some of the worst famines in modern history . For many years , intense U.S.-Soviet competition for allies and strategic advantages handed Sudan , Ethiopia and Somalia outsized shares of military and economic aid . Foreign help , however , did little to quell insurgencies or alleviate squalor . Now , more than ever before , that is almost entirely up to a new military generation that has already seized power or is plotting ways to get it . " This country is exhausted , " Sudan 's self-proclaimed new chief of state , Gen. Omar Hassan Ahmed Bashir , said in a radio broadcast shortly after seizing power . " It has collapsed and fallen . " Evidence abounds on almost every street in Khartoum , the dusty , decaying capital . Public services are a shambles . Black marketeers pay double the official exchange rate for foreign currency , and an 80 percent inflation rate has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trucks , taxis and private cars crept slowly toward service stations that had received rare supplies of gasoline provided as part of a postcoup " good will " gift from neighboring Egypt . In the countryside , famine is commonplace . During 1988 , an estimated 250,000 people starved because relief shipments were blocked by bad weather and because both government and rebel military commanders used food as a weapon . Though Sudan got more than $1.2 billion in Western economic aid last year , its national debt ? fueled by a war that costs $1 million a day ? has soared to more than $13 billion . But so far , neither Bashir nor the other 14 members of his ruling revolutionary council have offered any specific ideas for improving things beyond declaring a state of emergency , arresting more than 50 former officials , including former Prime Minister Sadiq Mandi , and shutting down newspapers . Blunt ultimatum . The new regime clearly has a mandate to end six years of unpopular conflict between the Moslem majority in the north and followers of Christianity and other faiths in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from fierce fighting against the Sudan People 's Liberation Army ( SPLA ) and by a cut in U.S. military aid from $200 million a year in the mid-1980s ( motivated largely by efforts to counter Sudan 's quixotic neighbor , Libya 's Col. Muammar Qadhafi ) to $5 million for 1989 . Five months ago , they handed former Prime Minister Mandi a blunt ultimatum : Start serious peace talks or step aside . Mandi had hammered out a tentative agreement with the rebels , but his wavering on key issues such as the use of harsh physical punishments as called for in Sudan 's Islamic-based law disillusioned both the SPLA and his own military . Bashir 's supporters say he can succeed where Mandi failed because future negotiations will involve one Army talking to another . Analysts in Khartoum , however , say there are serious doubts about the new leader 's commitment to peace . One of his first official acts was to scuttle the tentative agreement his predecessor had worked out . Other questions concern Bashir 's sympathy for the militant National Islamic Front , which rejects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public referendum on continuing Islamic law , or Sharia . Such a vote could go only one way : There are 19 million Arab Moslems , compared with only 6 million people practicing other religions or none at all . Diplomats in Khartoum warn that a yes-or-no referendum inevitably would shove peace  | prospects back to square one . It was the imposition of Sharia in 1983 that created the SPLA and its surprisingly effective military forces , which now control most of the southern Sudan except for Juba and a few other towns . In Ethiopia , getting back to square one might be considered progress . For Mengistu , who combines Stalinist economics with the politics of paranoia , crushing an attempted rebellion in late May required only another dose of the same guile , ruthlessness and bombast he has been using for nearly 15 years . But the victory could be a hollow one . A wave of executions , suicides and arrests right after the coup attempt wiped out at least one fifth of his Army 's most experienced field commanders and shattered military morale . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coup will make it harder than ever to cure the country 's basic ills : Debilitating civil strife in Eritrea and Tigray provinces , severe food shortages , an immense refugee burden and public anger over forced conscription of teenage boys to fight a losing , unpopular war . The anti-Mengistu plotters apparently had hoped to take advantage of widespread outrage triggered by a weeklong roundup in early May that press-ganged an estimated 50,000 teenage boys . Even some government officials locked their children in basements and closets to prevent them from becoming " instant soldiers " who get little or no military training before being sent into battle against two of Africa 's strongest rebel armies . This time , Mengistu 's East Germantrained intelligence network saved him by uncovering the coup before it got fully under way . But in Addis Ababa , there already are whispered predictions that unless he can cut a deal with the rebels , whose strength is growing steadily , he could go the way of the ruler he helped depose , Haile Selassie . The legendary former Emperor survived an Army mutiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Guns and ammo . In Somalia , the 20-year-old Siad Barre regime is being whipsawed by economic setbacks and a futile war against the rebel Somali Nationalist Movement ( SNM ) . Posters and graffiti denouncing Siad Barre now appear almost every night on walls and buildings in Mogadishu . Jittery troops man nighttime roadblocks in the capital , and there are persistent reports that the Army is selling guns and ammunition to civilians who share the military 's frustrations . Siad Barre has put out peace feelers , but rebel leaders , who insist they will hold free elections and install a democratic system after ousting the President , may not see any need to bargain . Their forces now control 90 percent of the countryside in the north , including part of the city of Hargeisa , and all of the northern coastal region except the vital port of Berbera . In recent weeks even that seaport has been the target of increasingly bold rebel assaults . In Moscow and Washington , the Horn of Africa no longer whets strategic appetites . The U.S.S.R. , which has provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wars unwinnable and is seeking a facesaving way to cut the aid burden . Human rights , refugees and free markets , not base agreements , will get the most attention during a projected visit to the Horn by the top U.S. official dealing with Africa , Assistant Secretary of State Herman Cohen , later this year . The reduced aid and political support that will accompany these superpower policy shifts could mean new problems for regional rulers already scrambling to stay in power . But so could the growing indignation of people who bear the cost of repeated national tragedies . To Sudanese historian Mohammed Omer Bashir ( no relation to his country 's new ruler ) , the plight of millions is simple . " We are a nation in the dust , " he says . " We are dying . "                     