@@480289

averted , " wrote Hardin , " by private property , or something formally like it . " Only when people have a personal sense of ownership , or pay the price for the use of a resource , do they pay attention to how much they take . The Marxist dictum , " To each according to his need , " does not work in practice , Hardin argued , because when things are free , everyone tends to imagine he needs as much as he can get . ( What is needed eventually , then , is a strong centralized government telling everyone exactly how much he does need . ) Thus pollution is the inevitable result of treating the environment as a commons . Hardin wrote : The air and water surrounding us can not readily be fenced , and so the tragedy of the commons as a cesspool must be prevented by dinerent means , by coercive laws or taxing devices that make it cheaper for the polluter to treat his pollutants than to discharge them untreated . Unfortunately , Congress voted for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more imaginatively , economic incentives . Yet the germ of an environmental program built on the conservation of scarce resources was there . A N EVEN MORE astute definition of environmental difficulties has been to classify them as " market externalities . " The concept of externalities was first developed in the 1920s by the English economist A. C. Pigou in The Economics of Welfare and explored much more thoroughly in the early 1950s by Harvard economist Paul Samuelson ( winning him the Nobel prize ) . The basic idea is that the market , although it achieves optimal levels of production with the resources at hand , leaves certain other things untended . Pigou and Samuelson cited wide disparities in wealth as an example and called for a partial redistribution of income . Pollution , then , is another market externality . We can all go about our daily business , with the market determining the optimal production of goods , and still end up with dirty air and polluted waters ? even though almost everyone might recognize that this is not what he would have intended personally . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on polluting . The best things in life are free , and that includes air and water . Swimming and breathing usually do n't cost anything , but neither does throwing away garbage . Since dumping pollution into the environment costs nothing , everybody does it , even though he may wishthat he and everyone else would stop doing it . Clean air and water have not been recognized by the market as limited resources that can only absorb so much junk before they start spitting it hack ? exactly what had started happening by the early 1960s . The solution is to put a price on the use of these limited resources and stop classifying them as " free . " Protection of air and water have to be brought into the market system . Very early on , then , the problem was properly diagnosed . All this might have been successful were it not for a countervailing tendency in the environmental movement , which eventually proved superior . This was the impulse to portray environmental concerns as sacred . In their desire to make an impact on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely another constituency trying to bring sense and order to the way society functioned . On the contrary , in their view their concerns transcended all others . Human survival itself , not simply a commonly perceived public good , was the issue . Mankind was overrunning the ecosystem and turning it into a hotdog stand . By the year 2100 , the world would be wall-to-wall people . The new science of ecology showed that every human activity tipped the world closer to doomsday . Computer printouts at MIT proved we had but a few more years to go . Adopting as their motto the lines from the old missionary hymn , " Though every prospect pleases , and only man is vile , " environmentalists set out to scrub the universe clean of every last trace of human habitation . A " degraded environment , " according to the Sierra Club , was an environment in which human activity had made a mark . " Zero pollution " became the objective , in statute as well as rhetoric . With a question that symbolized the sanctity of their concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked : " How can you put a price on clean air ? " The cost of clean air B UT THAT WAS exactly the problem . The dilemma we faced was just that : how do you put a price on clean air ? or at least on the act of fouling it while disposing of society 's wastes ? Yet in their reluctance to perceive their concern as one of mere economics , environmentalists rejected this approach . It failed to match the religiosity of their cause . Instead , they supported a highly centralized , bureaucratic system based on difficult goals , detailed regulatory prescriptions , and awe-inspiring penalties for noncompliance . German National Socialism built magnificent roads and designed a " people 's car . " the Volkswagen , to run on them . Egypt built the pyramids , and the Soviet - Union has accumulated armaments with ruthless efficiency . The question is the sacrifices that have to be made in other sectors of the economy in order to achieve these ends ; they are often great . This is important to remember as Congress considers the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the goal of making clean air a valued good that should be questioned , but the means of getting there . The Clean Air Act set up 247 regional air-pollution districts around the country . These airshed districts were put under the jurisdiction of the state governments , or interstate agencies where they crossed state lines . The act established federal standards for six pollutants : free hydrocarbons ; sulfur dioxide ; nitrogen oxides ; particulate matter ; carbon monoxide ; and ozone ( nitrogen oxides and ozone are the principal elements of smog ) . The standards were determined at the federal level , with 1977 set as the target date for compliance . The means of meeting these standards were to be decided by the state governments , subject to federal approval , through the so-called state implementation plans . Pollution sources were divided into two categories , stationary and mobile . The stationary sources were factories , utility plants , municipal incinerators , apartment-house heating units , and so forth . Mobile sources were cars and other vehicles . Since cars are sold everywhere , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce their emissions . The state governments were given the task of dealing with stationary sources . Right from the beginning a clear pattern of state activities emerged . It usually went something like this . The state environmental agency surveyed a pollution district and identified the major stationary sources . They were , say , an oil-burning utility plant , two steel plants using coal for their energy , and a large stone quarry that kicked up significant amounts of dust . The utility company had probably been burning coal ten years before , but had been forced to switch to low-sulfur foreign oil by an earlier state initiative during the 1960s . ( On the Atlantic coast , for example , the use of coal fell from 70 percent of all utility fuels-11 million tons ? in 1964 to only 15 percent-5.9 million tons ? in 1973 , solely as the result of state initiatives . It was during this period that much of our dependence on foreign oil was created . ) So the problem the state faced was one of devising a plan that would meet federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who would have to spend money to cut down on their pollution . The first thing the state had to do was go out and hire a lot of new environmental experts , whom the makeshift programs that had been set up in the colleges and universities were rapidly churning out . Environmental studies was a growth field during the 1960s . These recruits would go to work studying the pollution levels , the wind patterns , the technologies , the economics of each industry , and the general chances of getting them to cooperate . Then they would draw up a plan that would identify what each and every industry in the district would have to do to control emissions at each and every smokestack . Say , for example , it was decided that in order to meet the federal standards , pollution would have to be lowered by one quarter . To be fair , the state would decide , let us say , that every industry would have to reduce its emissions by one quarter . This would be announced as the " state implementation plan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after reviewing all the data , would accept or reject it . Once it was accepted , the state would announce the plan to the industries . Then the fun would begin . Inevitably , the plan would be perceived as unfair by all the participants . The utility would argue , for example , that it had already cut most of its important emissions in half by switching from coal to oil . Asking for another 25 percent reduction would be unfair . Steel company No. 1 would point out that it operated two small plants that together produced about as much pollution as steel company No. 2 's one big plant . But the state implementation plan would require it to put pollution-control equipment on both its smokestacks . It would therefore be paying twice as much as steel company No. 2 , which was unfair . Steel company No. 2 , meanwhile , was announcing that it was the largest employer in the district , and any talk about making it spend more than minimal amounts on pollution control might cause it to think seriously about closing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steam generators would argue that it was really the quarry that was generating most of the dust affecting visibility in the region . If the state would only concentrate on that source , there would be no need to bother with the boilers . The quarry , on the other hand , had already hired its own expert , a recent graduate with a WA. in environmental sciences , who pointed out that it was the potentially harmful sulfates and nitrous oxides from the fuel-burning plants that were the real what was the best available technology for enforcing this strict standard , the environmentalists and coal miners once again teamed up to pressure the EPA into choosing mandatory scrubbing . The results are going to be rather absurd . Billions of dollars will be spent in the western part of the country on sulfur-scrubbers that will have little to clean from low-sulfur coal . At the same time , sulfur-scrubbing is a technology with its own serious consequences . It requires large amounts of water and produces enormous quantities of a hazardous , sulfurous sludge that is itself a serious disposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being filled with the sulfurous wastes that have accumulated from running one sulfur-scrubbing utility plant for only three years . When the EPA was faced with this problem , it included in its mandate a technology called " dry-scrubbing , " which has never been tried anywhere on a large scale , and which only came to the agency 's attention a few weeks before its final decision . As a final irony , sulfur-scrubbers actually require the presence of fair amounts of sulfur in the coal in order to work properly . Many utilities that already have access to low-sulfur coal are going to have to add sulfur to their coal supplies in order to keep the scrubbers operating . This is the " best available technology " we have been able to produce . W HAT CAN CONGRESS do this year to make the Clean Air Act more workable , without throwing away all the legitimate desires for a better environment that it represents ? For many years , economists have been designing what are called " market mechanisms " that can achieve the same results or better through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Future , one of the oldest and wisest of the environmental groups , has been the principal architect of many of these ideas . Perhaps the most commonly suggested method ? and one that I hope Congress does not decide to adopt ? is the pollution tax . The idea is that the EPA or state agencies would place a tax on each ton of sulfur oxides or other pollutants emitted into the atmosphere . This would make it profitable for polluters to clean up some of their emissions , until the point came where it would be cheaper to pay the tax . No one has ever thought that air-pollution emissions could be reduced to zero ? although the Federal Clean Water Act of 1972 has mandated zero emissions of sewage into the nation 's water by 1985 , and the EPA isstill laboring to meet the deadline . The emissions tax would do several things that are not done by the present system . First , it would reward partial and incremental improvements . At present , cleaning is an all-ornothing game . There are no rewards for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incentives for going beyond them . The system would impose immediate penalties for noncompliance , but would reward any and all efforts at improvement . There would be no advantages in court delays . Theoretically , if the agency set the tax at the proper level , the desired clean-up could be achieved in the most efficient way possible . Unfortunately , a pollution tax would create almost as many problems as it would solve . The difficulty is in deciding where to set the tax . In the end , this would probably involve just as much exhaustive analysis and preplanning by government agencies as does the present system . If the tax were set too high , the clean-up would proceed beyond what was practical or economical . If it were too low , industries would n't clean up enough . Resolving this problem would involve the usual bevy of environmental experts , computer printouts , and possibly court challenges as well . A far more straightforward plan , and one I personally think would be the best , is the " marketable-rights " system originally proposed by Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state agency would determine beforehand how much of each pollutant it was willing to allow in a given airshed . Then it would simply sell the rights to generate this pollution on an open market . Industries would have to compete against each other for the right to create this pollution . Inevitably they would bid up these rights-to-pollute to their marginal level ? that is , the price at which it is cheaper for every individual to clean up his remaining emissions rather than pay more for the right to pollute . The task of cleaning up the total pollution for the entire airshed would be automatically distributed among the polluters in the most economical way . The beauty of this system is that all the bureaucrats in the federal and state agencies who are spending countless thousands of hours deciding who should clean up what , when , and where could simply pack their bags and go home . All the decisions would be made where they belong ? by the people who are going to bear the costs of deciding how to clean up . Each industry would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce its pollution . Innovation would be at a premium because it would make the task easier , whereas under the current system , industries                     