@@328874

As the grayest , quietest , most culturally introverted major city in a gray , quiet , culturally introverted country , Ottawa is not a place where one expects to find architecture on the fringe . But when the Canadian Museum of Civilization officially opened last week just across the river in the city of Hull , it took its place as one of the largest museums in the world and certainly one of the more curious  --  a wildly eccentric , million-square-foot limestone pile of curves and ellipses , Antoni Gaudi crossed with late Frank Lloyd Wright , baroque quirkiness run amuck . Architect Douglas Cardinal 's museum is more a fascinating curiosity than a masterwork . But its flamboyance and seductive , Disneyesque natural-history exhibits  --  life-size Indian homes downstairs , replica townscapes from the past 500 years upstairs  --  will surely make it the capital 's biggest tourist attraction , if not Canada 's . <P> Until this project , which is a year behind schedule and some 200% over budget , Cardinal had designed mostly schools and small civic buildings in his native Alberta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Cardinal of the $213 million museum , " like composing and conducting a symphony at the same time , with an orchestra that 's never played your music before  --  and it 's the most important performance of your life . " Days before the opening , with scores of workers still laying granite floors and bending Sheetrock to Cardinal 's hypertrophic specifications , the architect was wan and tired . " It takes a tremendous amount of warriorship , " he says , " to believe in your vision . " Warriorship ? Cardinal , who is one-eighth Blackfoot , uses the phrase constantly ; it is New Age Native American for hubris . <P> Cardinal , 55 , is a lifelong maverick not well known outside Canadian architectural circles . He left architecture school in British Columbia at 19 and immigrated to Texas , where he earned his degree a decade later . After returning to Alberta in the ' 60s , he won his first notable commission , a characteristically undulating brick church in the town of Red Deer . Because of the unorthodox engineering , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be structurally sound , and thus became an early pioneer of computer-aided design . A few years later , he acquired buckskins , beads and a ponytail and became a born-again Native American , lobbying for Indian rights . To this day he takes a weekly sweat-lodge steam bath , where he smokes the traditional stone pipe and chants . " You really see yourself , " Cardinal says of the ritual , " and confront your own weaknesses . It strengthens warriorship . " <P> In the view of some who have seen him in action , Cardinal has shamelessly Mau-Maued the bureaucrats in Alberta and Ottawa who have been his chief patrons . " He 's the doyen of the government establishment , " says Edmonton architect Peter Hemingway , " because with them he can always use emotional means to inflate the budget . He does his thing about the white man killing the native soul , and they cough up whatever he wants . "                     