@@480840

he debate over defense spending has not receded from public attention since Ronald Reagan made it the centerpiece of his 1980 presidential campaign . Yet the discourse since then has been refined into a dangerous dichotomy . More money , good ; less money , bad . Under President Reagan 's watch , defense spending has averaged S8,607 a second , and during just the first five years of his administration , the defense budget , adjusted for inflation , rose 55 percent . A third of that increase , according to David Stockman 's memoir , can be traced to his own error made on a calculator . Only recently have members of Congress begun to look beyond the question of money and consider the goods and services this country buys to protect itself . To advance this inquiry , Harper 's Magazine asked Admiral Gene R. La Rocque of the Center for Defense Information in Washington ? a longtime critic of unguided defense spending ? to devise a strategy that answers two fundamental questions : What are we trying to defend , and what do we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy was submitted for comment to war planners , editorialists , and critics . Admiral La Rocque was offered the opportunity for rebuttal . Protecting our country is an essential responsibility of our government . The preamble of the Constitution exhorts us to " provide for the common defense . " No one challenges the need for defense , but recently the debate about our nation 's security has degenerated into grim budget arguments of less versus more . The defense of the United States is too important to treat it as just another item in the congressional bin , alongside , say , cost-of-living adjustments . What is lacking in this debate ought to be at the heart ? a clear military strategy designed to pro , tect our nation and our interests abroad . During World War II , when America had a War Department , we knew that our tax dollars were spent to pursue a specific strategy ? defense from the enemy and victory in the war . But now our more felicitously named Defense Department has no stated purpose beyond the shibboleth of protecting " life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How can a military planner translate these intrinsic values into the appropriate size and composition of our armed forces ? In the 1960s and ' 70s , when we had billions in our national coffers and the earning was easy , our defense strategy consisted of simply spending more money on defense every year to ensure that we were spending enough . Today the U.S. Treasury is broke . Each week we borrow $3 billion just to keep the government running ; military spending runs about $6 billion a week , much of it borrowed . Between our $2.5 trillion national debt , which forces us CO confront the limits of our spending , and President Reagan 's INF ( intermediate nuclear forces ) treaty , which invites us to rethink our Cold War posture , America has , I believe , reached a critical juncture . It 's time to rethink our national defense : What should we defend. ? And what military forces are required to defend it ? Such a reassessment demands that we develop a new strategy for the defense of the United States and our interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense forces into three categories , each with its own strategic purpose . CATEGORY I : Defense of the United States , its overseas territories , and the nations of the Western Hemisphere against a conventional attack . CATEGORY II : Deterrence against a nuclear attack on the United States . CATEGORY III : Defense of those allied and friendly nations that can not defend themselves . DEFENDING THE HOMELAND Category I forces would defend the fifty states , our territories , and the nations of this hemisphere . Defense of the United States against a non-nuclear attack is actually a simple task . Since neither the Soviet Union nor any other nation has the physical or logistical capability to move the 100,000 troops necessary to begin a full-scale attack over our beaches or through Canada or Mexico , the requirements to defend our borders are minimal . The United States could easily repel such an attack with four Army divisions and four tactical air wings backed by suitable reserves . Defense of Guam , Puerto Rico , and other U.S. territories would be secured by the Navy and Marine Corps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus six aircraft-carrier battle groups would provide land , air , and naval forces superior to any hostile force . We should also maintain two Army divisions and two Air Force tactical air wings with appropriate military and logistic sea- and airlift support to use in the event of local conflicts in Latin America , Canada , or the Caribbean . Although no nation or territory under U.S. protection in the Western Hemisphere is currently in danger of attack by forces outside the region , prudence demands a defense strategy adequate to counter such an attack . Since any assault on the United States or its territories would have to come by sea , attack submarines ( designed to destroy ships and submarines ) are key . Forty attack submarines , operating from U.S. naval bases in the Atlantic and Pacific , would be able to repulse any attack that could possibly be launched against us or any nation in this hemisphere . America 's early lead in nuclear-submarine technology plus our unique worldwide net of underwater listening devices in all the major oceans put us significantly ahead of every other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be maintained . Our forty attack submarines and the 500,000 combat forces committed to our border defenses under Category I would give the United States a force larger and more powerful than any an enemy could mount to attack us , our territories , or any place in the Western Hemisphere . DETERRING A NUCLEAR ATTACK Category II forces would dissuade the Soviets from launching a nuclear attack on the United 40 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE / JULY States . Our best nuclear defense is to convince the Soviets that it would be suicidal to attack us . Since the two superpowers have the capability to destroy each other , both must maintain forces adequate to the task of deterrence . There are , however , limits to the number of nuclear weapons needed for this purpose . The U.S. submarine force alone ? armed with nuclear ballistic missiles ? can effectively deter a surprise attack on the United States . Our fixed or mobile land-based missiles and manned penetration bombers are too vulnerable to a surprise attack to depend on them for a credible retaliatory capability . Some military strategists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of missiles and bombers in the United States acts as a " honey pot , " and attracts Soviet missiles . If the United States is determined to retain land-based missiles , they should be located outside our borders . Although it is unlikely thar the Soviet Union would launch a nuclear attack without provocation ? what war planners call the " bolt out of the blue " ? there are circumstances that could result in massive Soviet attack against land-based missiles , bombers , and submarines in U.S. harbors. lf , for example , the Soviets misinterpreted our increased readiness during a crisis as intent to attack them , they might launch a preemptive all-out attack . The worst result from such an attack would destroy : ( 1 ) most of our 1,000 land-based missiles in their silos ( their well-known vulnerability sparked the MX debate ) ; ( 2 ) two-thirds of our strategic bomber force ( one-third of the force would be airborne and therefore protected ) ; ( 3 ) and all U.S. missile submarines and ships in harbors around the world ( again , submarines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is possible that our land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles could be launched before Soviet missiles destroy them , we can not assume that they would be . Therefore , the United States should maintain a sufficient number of nuclear warheads in submarines at sea to destroy the Soviet Union in a counterattack . THREE NUCLEAR SCENARIOS War planners generally assume that in a nuclear war the Soviets would immediately launch all their ICBMs and submarine missiles against the United States ( the " use ' em or lose ' em ' theory ) . According to this scenario , Soviet missile silos would be empty and our counterattack would target Soviet airfields ( 50 ) , naval facilities ( 50 ) , command posts ( 100 ) , and military-related industries ( 40 ) altogether 240 targets . Nuclear attacks by our surviving nuclear forces would also target the largest 260 Soviet cities . The total number of targets would be 500 . This counterattack would destroy approximately one-third of the Soviet population and two-thirds of their industrial capacity , and would foreclose their ability to continue the war . Assuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would require 1,000 nuclear warheads that must survive a first strike in order to destroy the Soviet Union in a counterattack . The United States currently has thirty-six missile submarines , of which approximately twenty are at sea at all times . ( Unlike attack submarines , which destroy ships and submarines at sea , missile submarines can target sites up to 4,000 miles away . ) These twenty submarines are armed with more than 3,000 nuclear warheads , many more than the 1,000 needed . To preserve sufficient nuclear weapons for a counterattack , the Navy need maintain only six of its new Trident missile submarines at sea ( each Trident carries 192 nuclear warheads ) , armed with a total of 1,152 warheads . With just these six submarines at sea , the Soviet Union could be destroyed as a functioning society ; the Soviets are well aware of this . It is generally accepted that neither our missile-submarine force nor the Soviet missile-submarine force can be destroyed . It is difficult to detect a submarine , then identify it as an enemy , and finally destroy it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be difficult during the chaos of a war to identify a submarine as friend or foe . Even if an enemy missile submarine could be detected and identified , a submarine 's range of depth and speed makes it difficult to destroy . Elimination of our entire missile-submarine force would be impossible . To ensure that 1,000 nuclear warheads are at sea at all times , the number of submarines at sea could be doubled from six to twelve . This would require an active force of eighteen missile submarines ? only half of our current force . Some military planners advocate a broader strategy for retaliation by the United States than the one needed to deter a " bolt out of the blue . " I do not advocate a larger arsenal because it could be perceived as giving us a first-strike capability . Nevertheless , according to this alternate scenario , the Soviets would launch first but save some missiles for a subsequent attack . Since the United States would not know which of the 1,398 silos in the Soviet Union were armed or empty , we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ensure total destruction of each silo , such an attack would require 2,800 nuclear warheads . ( lf future arms negotiations eliminate silo-based strategic missiles , we would not need all 2,800 warheads . ) In addition , we would need 400 warheads to destroy the 200 most important naval bases , airfields , and command posts in the Soviet Union . When all of the Soviet military targets are added up , the maximum number of U.S. nuclear warheads needed to destroy every missile silo , airfield , navy base , and command center is 3,200 . At present we have nearly twice that many nuclear weapons in our submarine force , and more than 3,200 missile warheads are always at sea ready to strike targets in the Soviet Union . Current Pentagon plans call for the construction of about fifteen new Trident submarines with more accurate , more destructive missiles . After phasing in the new submarines , we could maintain a total force of thirty-five missile submarines ( including the older Poseidons ) and easily maintain the recommended 3,200 nuclear weapons . In summary , the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union as a functioning society is 1,000 , all of which could be carried on eighteen missile submarines . If war planners want a force sufficient to destroy all Soviet missile silos and other nuclear capabilities , a maximum of 3,200 nuclear weapons would be required . This number could be maintained at sea at all times with a total force of thirty-five missile submarines . If , ultimately , war planners decide to target every city , missile silo , airfield , and navy base , and eliminate all strategic weapons and industrial sites in the Soviet Union , the total number of U.S. nuclear warheads required would be 3,800 . That number is only one-third of the 12,683 nuclear warheads that the United States is currently prepared to explode in the Soviet Union . The possibility of developing a defensive astrodome over America ? President Reagan 's Strategic Defense Initiative ? is much disputed . Most scientists outside the government are skeptical . The most compelling liabilities of SDI are that it costs $1 trillion and that it might prevent agreement on reducing strategic weapons . Yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $14 billion on the seductive scheme so far . Nevertheless , from a purely military point of view , until researchers find a way to build a shield over America , it is too early to retreat from our retaliatory deterrent strategy . DEFENDING OUR ALLIES Category III forces would defend our allies , Prior to 1945 , the United States had little desire or need to assume the burden of defending other countries . After World War 11 , when America undertook to defend the world against communism , there were only 70 nations in the world ; today there are 165 nations , and our military force is spread thin . In the pre-nuclear era of American economic dominance , it was in our enlightened self-interest to save our allies from collapse and to maintain our " front Eine " in the Pacific and in Europe , rather than , say , in North Carolina . This " forward-defense strategy " also coincided with our political mission to contain communism within the Soviet Union , Eastern Europe , and China . In the Pacific , our forward-defense strategy stretches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Europe , the strategy is based essentially on the border of Soviet-controlled Eastern and Southern Europe , with large U.S. bases in Turkey and Germany , and an evolving commitment to the unified NATO defense system . Re-evaluated in light of today 's weapons , the forward-defense strategy contributes little to our defense . In the unlikely event that the Soviets attacked us in the Pacific , they would launch their missiles either from Soviet bases ( firing over the North Pole ) or from submarines no-where near Japan . The 50,000 American troops stationed in Japan cost more than $3 billion a year to maintain and are of dubious value since there is no external military threat to Japan . Besides , Japan has an excellent military force of its own and is capable of building any size force it wishes . The Japanese Constitution states that " land , sea , and air forces as well as other war potential , will never be maintained " ; however , Japanese courts have ruled that Japan can have any military forces it wants as long as they are labeled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of money or the percentage of its gross national product that Japan may spend for its military forces . Japan already employs its modem destroyers , submarines , tactical and patrol aircraft to extend its self-defense perimeter to 1,000 miles from its homelands . Since our troops in Japan are neither essential for the defense of Japan nor contribute to the defense of the United States , they could be safely phased out in the near future . Korea is considered by many to he a country we must defend indefinitely . Yet my personal observation of the military forces of both North and South Korea and my analysis of their industrial and military capabilities suggest that the United States could safely remove its 43,000 troops and air units from South Korea during the next five years . Short of a direct Chinese or Soviet invasion , South Korea is perfectly capable of defending itself against any threat . Our forces in the Philippines contribute to neither our defense nor theirs . Unless we decide to intervene in their internal conflict in support of the Aquino government , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines when the lease on our bases expires in 1992 . If our 15,000 troops remain , they are likely to be caught up in the increasing internal violence , and could even precipitate more violence . The U.S. naval base at Subic Bay is convenient for our warships operating in the area , but that harbor is not vital to our defense . Clark Air Force Base , north of Manila , is also convenient in peacetime , of possible use in the unlikely event of a war in the Pacific , but it is not vital to our defense . WITHDRAWING FROM EUROPE The United States maintains 354,000 uniformed personnel in Europe . These forces plus those in the United States earmarked for NATO cost $125 billion a year ? an amount nearly equal to our annual federal deficit ? yet we have never seriously reconsidered the wisdom of our continued presence in Europe . The question that Americans must answer is why , forty years after World War II , should we continue to use our resources to defend Germany and France and the other NATO countries ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blandishments of communism ? That might have been possible when Europe was devastated after the war , but it is unlikely today . Is it because we fear Soviet troops will invade Germany and overrun Western Europe ? The trade and political cooperation developing between Europe and the Soviet Union , plus the Soviets ' need to strengthen their domestic economy , decrease dramatically the likelihood of Soviet aggression in Europe . Moreover , such an attack would almost certainly provoke World War III and a nuclear conflagration . The Soviets are fully aware that attacking Western Europe is a tremendously dangerous prospect . The combined French and British tactical and strategic nuclear forces exceed 1,000 warheads and constitute a powerful deterrent . More than 11 million troops , active and reserve , serve in the armed forces of Western Europe . With a population of more than 400 million , those countries could easily double that number . Europe 's combined GNP exceeds ours , but it spends only half as much per capita for military forces as we do . At some point , the Europeans must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If we gradually withdrew our 354,000 troops , we could easily complete the process by the year 2000 . That would allow ample time to work out the transition as well as to assess the overall impact on East-West ( Soviet-bloc and NATO ) relations . Some strategists insist that we maintain American troops in Europe not only to defend those countries but to defend ourselves as well . But war in Europe would not leave America untouched . Few believe that if nuclear weapons were used in Europe they would not be used elsewhere . Category III forces would complement those of our allies . They would include 220,000 armed forces , composed of four air-transportable Army divisions , four Air Force tactical air wings , 10,000 special warfare troops , plus the necessary sea- and airlift to transport the troops and munitions with suitable naval defense escorts . These forces would be maintained in the United States and available for deployment anywhere in the world . If a situation arises where the demand for our forces exceeds those available and there is support in the United States for continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis suggests a maximum overall military force of approximately 800,000 armed forces to defend this hemisphere , deter a Soviet nuclear attack on the United Stares , and support friends and allies ? a total of Category I , II , and Ill forces . Modern combat units and weapons are increasingly complex and require large and effective support . Experience has shown that logistics and communications , intelligence , and maintenance units approach 50 percent of the combat forces . Approximately 300,000 noncombat personnel plus 100,000 personnel for administration and general overhead would be required to support the 800,000 combat personnel . The grand total of U.S. military personnel required to implement this defense strategy would be 1.2 million officers and enlisted personnel . The world is changing in fundamental ways . America has an opportunity to lead this change , not fight it . The recent thaw in U.S. ? Soviet relations and concern about the national debt have created opportunities for new leadership , if only we have the courage and wisdom to modify our old habits . The reforms proposed here may sound radical . A cry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military forces . But the perception is growing in America that the premises of our post ? World War II defense strategy no longer obtain . The United States has ceased to be the overwhelmingly dominant economic power , and our rivalry with the Soviet Union is no longer the obsession it once was . These economic and political changes demand an end to the waste and bitterness of the Cold War . General Secretary Gorbachev and President Reagan may be remembered less for the INF arms agreement itself than for the " armistice " that might end forty years of Cold War thinking . We can , if we choose , continue to increase our arms and maintain our forces in foreign countries until the burden becomes too great . Or we can , if we wish , decide our future , rather than drift into it . KENNETH ADELMAN was director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency , 1983-87 . He is a syndicated columnist and the Washington director of the Institute for Contemporary Studies , in San Francisco . NUCLEAR NUMBER-CRUNCHING FOR RADICALS This " new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dishing up of half-baked leftovers from past fits of isolationism , not about " defense " but retreat , and not " strategy " but a hodgepodge of naive yearnings . I do n't think much of it . Admiral La Rocque begins with the traditional nod to government 's obligation to defend America , but he leaves it at that . With what is America to he defended ? Nowhere in this proposal does he support any new weapons systems . Elsewhere La Rocque and his leftist Center for Defense Information have advocated scuttling our two new strategic bombers ( the B-1 and Stealth ) , our two new ICBMs ( the MX and Midgetman ) , and in this essay , he proposes to cut in half the number of our new Trident submarines . That nicely kiboshes the updating of each leg of our strategic triad . As one might expect from a radical , La Rocque is catatonic about SDI , even though the Soviets have researched ballistic-missile defense far longer than we have and have spent ten to fifteen times more money on it than we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost " without saying where in the world he got such a figure . He speculates that SDI " might prevent 44 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE/JULY agreement on reducing strategic weapons , " but never acknowledges that SDI brought the Soviets back to the negotiating table and has driven them to accept proposals for deep strategic cuts . Granted , La Rocque allows 1,000 nuclear warheads ? a number he reaches by a contorted passage through nuclear accountancy . But if someone is going to nuclear number-crunch , an exercise I hardly recommend , he should take account of missile hardness , accuracy , and mega-tonnage . Otherwise , an ordinary reader might wrongly conclude that the author knows what he 's talking about . La Rocque 's nuclear prescription would leave the president with a Hobson 's choice of surrender or suicide ? either doing nothing or going after Soviet cities and citizens in the event of a conventional attack . For more than forty years , Democratic and Republican administrations have fashioned our nuclear arsenal to present the president with more reasonable and moral options . La Rocque does support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would leave America with less than one-fifth of the armed forces of the Soviet Union , less than either Vietnam or Iraq , and somewhere around the level of Turkey , North Korea , or Pakistan . He tosses around numbers without telling us exactly how he arrived at 800,000 , and then he proceeds to toss aside allies . Each friend and ally is deemed either unthreatened or unimportant . Withdrawal from South Korea was first proposed by President Carter in 1977 . But when all our Asian friends trembled at the mere mention of a pullout , Carter wisely canned the idea . To withdraw from Western Europe , the Philippines , and Japan would be to retreat militarily to a Fortress America . Nothing more , nothing less . Maybe it would work better today than it did in the late 1930s . But why would you want to chance it ? La Rocque admits that his " reforms , " which would cut more than 90 percent of our nuclear arsenal and some 65 percent of our troops , " may sound radical . " Sound radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet arsenal ? not deemed important enough for La Rocque to describe in his " analysis "  - -  these reforms would leave America inadequately defended and exceedingly vulnerable . The relentless Soviet buildup has not slackened under Gorbachev . The Soviets devote 15-17 percent of their GNP to defense versus our 6 percent , and allocate three times the money we do for strategic weaponry . La Rocque writes that our " forward-defense strategy contributes little to our defense . " Yet for forty years we have avoided major conflict . Something has worked . We 've been through enough major wars this century , thank you Admiral , to go back to the tried and false course of yesteryear . Indeed , most of us have learned that weakness is provocative and that strength deters , that leaving our friends and allies around the world vulnerable is irresponsible , and that trusting the Soviets is myopic and downright dangerous . But not Gene La Rocque . E. R. ZUMWALT JR. , Admiral , U.S. Navy ( Ret. ) , was chief of naval operations and a member of the Joint Chiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consultants , Inc. , in Arlington , Virginia . WITHDRAWAL EQUALS ABANDONMENT OF OUR ALLIES dmiral La Rocque 's defense critique is pure nonsense . First , few Americans , including those who take a hard-line toward the Soviet Union , are opposed to even profound mutual reductions in superpower forces , provided that equal security for the United States and its allies can be ensured . However , few would agree that a precipitous , unilateral cut in U.S. military capability is good , either for our security or for our allies ' . La Rocque builds his case on the mistaken assumption that military spending has caused our record deficit and debt . But this country can easily afford to spend 6 percent of its annual GNP on defense indefinitely . The fundamental causes of our growing debt are the huge tax cuts of 1981-82 and our inability to control federal spending . La Rocque somehow believes that a large unilateral cut in U.S. defenses would do no lasting injury to our interests and those of our allies . Under his plan ? even if the cuts were phased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once withdrawals were announced ( let alone begun ) . One can only speculate on the effect of isolating our major trading and investment partners , but it might precipitate an economic disaster . Troop withdrawals in the Pacific might force Japan to rearm . Although I respect the Japanese and believe that they should spend more on defense , I also fought in World War II in the Pacific . How far Japan 's probable rearmament would go is unclear . But we would be foolish to assume that the emergence of a third military superpower , and one no longer our close ally , would automatically improve U.S. security . GERARD C. SMITH was director of the U. S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and chief of the U.S. delegation to the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks , 1969-73 . A NEW FORTRESS AMERICA Admiral La Rocque 's strategy hinges on a single drastic idea ; the unilateral and nearly complete withdrawal of U.S. forces abroad . But consider the repercussions . Foreign nations I A War Planner 's Lexicon Army division : the largest tactical unit , composed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with an armored division containing 18,000 soldiers ; a mechanized division , 18,000 ; an air-assault division , 18,000 ; an infantry division , 17,000 ; and an airborne division , 16,000 . Marine Corps division : 19,830 soldiers trained and equipped for amphibious operations . Air Force tactical air wing : 4,000 personnel and 72 fighter , ground-attack , and reconnaissance aircraft . Marine Corps air wing ; 15,200 Marines with 157 fighter , ground-attack , reconnaissance , and transport aircraft ; 144 attack , transport , and reconnaissance helicopters ; and command and control units . Aircraft carrier battle group : one aircraft carrier with up to 95 aircraft escorted by 8-10 surface warships and supported by supply ships and submarines . Air-transportable Army division : a division whose troops and equipment can be flown quickly to airfields near remote trouble spots . Special warfare troops : elite forces specially trained and equipped to conduct counter-insurgency , counter-revolutionary , or counter-terrorist warfare , such as Green Beret and Navy SEAL teams . Attack submarine : a submarine that destroys enemy surface ships and submarines to prevent attacks against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed to fire long-range missiles at strategic targets in enemy territory . MI 46 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE /JULY would no longer have much incentive for granting military-base rights to the United States ; yet even in La Rocque 's essay , the need for those bases is apparent . According to the Admiral , If the United States is determined to retain land-based missiles , they should be located outside our borders . " Where would they be stationed ? La Rocque argues that the United States could safely remove its 43,000 troops and air units from South Korea during the next five years . " Short of a direct Chinese or Soviet invasion , " La Rocque writes , " South Korea is perfectly capable of defending itself against any threat . " That view unpleasantly echoes the opinion of former secretary of state Dean Acheson , which some scholars think opened the way for the 1950 North Korean attack . There are compelling arguments , La Rocque believes , for withdrawing all U.S. forces from the Philippines by 1992 and closing our naval and air-force bases there . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our defense . This may be correct , but even relocating them in the Southwest Pacific , on Guam , for example , would he a heavy hurden on the defense budget . La Rocque would gradually withdraw all of our European-based troops during the next twelve years . He believes " that would allow ample time to work out the transition as well as to assess the overall impact on East-West ( Soviet bloc and NATO ) relations . " Should not such an assessment be made before any troop withdrawal , rather than during or after it ? He gives no consideration to the impact such an action would have on our dependence on bases in Europe e.g. , those bases are essential to our mili-tary posture in the Middle East . Presumably the Sixth Fleet would also have to be withdrawn from the Mediterranean . Coming after the anxiety generated in Europe by the INF treaty , the La Rocque strategy would certainly harpoon our position in NATO and might even render Europe neutral ? something the Soviets have been attempting to do since World War II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. Seventh Army in Germany is at least as important a deterrent to a Soviet invasion as NATO 's nuclear weapons . In the final analysis , the main deterrent to war is not manpower or weapons but the political unity of the nations that compose the North Atlantic alliance . It seems inconceivable that that unity could survive the changes proposed by Admiral La Rocque . Unity has already been severely strained by Reagan 's high-handed style of managing alliance relations . Carrying out the La Rocque prescriptions would most likely end NATO as well as the Japan ? U.S. Security Treaty and break down other security arrangements with our allies . Let 's face it , the La Rocque withdrawals would amount to unilateral disarmament abroad and a return to the discredited Fortress America strategy at home . R. EMMETT TYRRELL JR . is editor-in-chief of the American Spectator and author of The Liberal Crack-Up . He is currently writing The Conservative Crack-Up for Simon &; Schuster . NOT ENOUGH EGGS , AND ALL IN ONE BASKET In his essay , Admiral La Rocque demonstrates literary gifts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geopolitics , history , and war planning into a pleasing lucidity that should be easily comprehended by all readers as long as they have no knowledge about national strategy . For those who do have some knowledge of this grim topic the going is tough . " Everything is true but the facts , " Malcolm Muggeridge was wont to say . But with the Admiral , nothing is true but an occasional fact . La Rocque 's reassuring vision of a small but impregnable submarine force is utterly fanciful . Soviet missile defenses are potent now and would he considerably more potent if all they had to defend against was a reduced volley of submarine-launched ballistic missiles ( SLBMs ) . La Rocque 's awareness of the vulnerability of land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) should make him an advocate of increased defensive measures , particularly SDI , rather than an advocate of placing all our missiles at sea . After all , history rarely comes to an abrupt stop ; presently we shall have to defend not only against Soviet missiles but against the missiles of others as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a deterrent as ICBMs . For one thing they are susceptible to advances in anti-submarine warfare . For another they are not as easily retargetable , and they are vastly more difficult to control from a central command post ( communications with a vessel beneath the sea are less dependable than communications with a silo on land ) . Finally , SLBMs are easier to defend against . Since they are sequentially launched , it is difficult to mass the same kind of dense assaults that are possible with ICBMs . The history of warfare abounds with gruesome tales of nations that were defeated after they placed their trust in a single weapon strategy against a resolute enemy suddenly in possession of a superior weapon . Sure , as Admiral La Rocque writes , our " technological lead should be maintained " in submarine and anti-submarine warfare . But what if it is not ? La Rocque is not only oblivious of the far-off past ; he also seems oblivious of recent history . He writes as though the Soviets were preparing to fight a nuclear war in which everything would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight a protracted war that might never become nuclear . For the past twenty years , they have instituted changes in doctrine and force structure that give them many options . La Rocque 's belief that the United States can place all its deterrence potential in a handful of submarines is a chimera . But the most chimerical aspect of his argument is his apparent dislike of counterforce targeting . Rather than accept the current American doctrine of maintaining a large enough arsenal of warheads to threaten a wide range of Soviet military targets ( and his projected totals for Soviet targets are preposterously low ) , he seems to favor targeting Soviet civilian populations with his small deterrent force . Compared with La Rocque 's proposal , the Pentagon 's policies are positively humanitarian . TED GALEN CARPENTER the director of foreign look ) studies at the Cato Institute in Washington . YES , BUT FIRST PRINCIPLES FIRST Admiral La Rocque 's alternative to Washington 's four-decades-old strategy of global interventionism is provocative and generally constructive . He rejects the notion that America 's crucial interests lie everywhere and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Hemisphere , defense of America 's overseas allies that are incapable of defending themselves , and deterrence against a nuclear attack on the U.S. homeland . Finally , he proposes a leaner , less costly military to fulfill these obligations . La Rocque 's central assumption is correct : a general offensive by the Soviet Union is highly unlikely . Even limited Soviet expansion in peripheral areas would not fundamentally alter the current global balance or challenge vital U.S. security interests . Our Far Eastern and European allies , although economically important , have only modest strategic significance today . Moreover , as La Rocque observes , America 's closest allies Japan , South Korea , and the nations of Western Europe ? are fully capable of creating their own formidable defense . Yet as long as America 's financial commitment to these allies remains generous , they lack the incentive to absorb the cost of their own defense . The only significant weakness in La Rocque 's analysis is his inattention to the foreign policy implications resulting from any changes in force structure . Since American military units abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions , merely removing our troops ? eliminating the tangible manifestations of our commitment ? would he profoundly destabilizing . An aggressor might misinterpret U.S. withdrawal from a particular nation as a de facto recision of the promise to defend that country . To effect such a fundamental change , we must first re-examine our global commitments to determine which are essential . And where our presence is not essential , we should abolish the commitment and then we can withdraw our troops . In this way our allies will understand that they are responsible for their own defense . Redeploying troops and adjusting the size of our nuclear arsenal are important but decidedly secondary considerations . Admiral La Rocque is right it 's time to reas-sess our Cold War policy and to realize that we could defend our territory and security interests with a smaller , less expensive military . But that reassessment requires that we scrutinize our underlying philosophy of defense before proceeding to the next logical step ? a drastic reduction in our commitments to overseas allies . THOMAS H. MOORER , Admiral , U.S. Navy ( Ret. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Staff , I970-74 . He is a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington . DOING LENIN 'S BIDDING he positions Admiral La Rocque advocates Th are exactly the same arguments for cutting our defense that the Soviets , through their misinformation program , have been injecting into the American media for years . Lenin insisted that it was unnecessary for the communists to publish a newspaper in the United States because no one would read it . Rather , he said , we must prevail upon the American media to write what we would write if we had a paper . Harper 's Magazine is doing exactly that . GWYNNE DYER is a historian and a syndicated columnist . His seven-part documentary , War , was broadcast on PBS in 1985 . SOOTHING THE HIGH PRIESTS OF WAR PLANNING these proposals by Admiral La Rocque are based on extremely pessimistic assumptions about the coming decades : no overall improvement in international order , no greater degree of collaboration between the great powers , certainly no detente far-reaching enough so that Americans would begin to trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trained to think this way intentions may change , but military capabilities remain , so prepare your defenses on the basis of your potential enemies ' arsenal . Even with his conservative assumptions , La Rocque 's prescriptions seem a touch lavish compared with the real level of threat to the United States from any quarter . The prevision of a 500,000-strong combat force for the defense of the Western Hemisphere , including six tactical air wings , six carrier groups , and forty attack submarines , seems excessive insurance against a contingency that no one has seriously contemplated in this century . The last country to consider landing a military force in the continental United States was Great Britain , in 1895 , when the two countries came close to war over the long-forgotten Venezuelan crisis . Afterward , the British War Office studied what it could actually do to carry a war to the United States ? the answer was virtually nothing . Even at the height of Axis military success in 1942 , neither Germany nor Japan drew up a contingency plan for invading the United States ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactic ) . And when the Soviets were considering how to respond to a possible U.S. invasion of Cuba during the October 1962 missile crisis , all their attention was focused on a nuclear confrontation : they never imagined that they would face the United States on the ground in the Caribbean . In this century , nobody has contemplated the invasion of the Western Hemisphere , and the ineluctable realities of modern military logistics mean that they never will . As Admiral La Rocque correctly observes , " Neither the Soviet Union nor any other nation has the physical or logistical capability to move the 100,000 troops necessary to begin a full-scale attack over our beaches or through Canada or Mexico . " So the provision of 500,000 troops to defend against this contingency seems to he overdoing it a bit . La Rocque 's nuclear position is , quite sensibly , " minimum deterrence " ? i.e. , nuclear weapons have no military purpose other than to prevent a nuclear attack on the homeland of their possessors . But we currently live under a bizarre and ramshackle policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterrence , " which argues for using the threat of nuclear weapons in all sorts of contexts beyond sheer national survival . When the United States was effectively the only nuclear power in the world , it might have been a credible policy . But for almost three decades now , it has been a strategic absurdity . La Rocque is right to advocate adopting a posture of minimum deterrence as soon as possible . His conclusion that the United States requires only 1,000 nuclear warheads borne in our virtually invulnerable submarines to achieve that relatively safe state is , if anything , overly cautious . Yet to cope with the fantasy of a scenario in which there would be an exchange of partial nuclear strikes on military targets by both sides , La Rocque recommends a total of 3,200 warheads . Perhaps he includes this suggestion to placate the partisans of the reigning nuclear orthodoxy , and yet 3,200 warheads would still be far better than the current total of 12,500 American nuclear warheads aimed at the Soviet Union , It might even take us below the threshold for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States moves away from a military posture founded on political assumptions and alliances now almost four decades old , on an absolute nuclear superiority that has not really existed for three decades , and on an economic superiority that has not obtained for at least two decades . The present American defense posture is not only silly , it is so detached from reality that it is lethally dangerous . U.S. defense strategy center on two basic disagreements . The first complaint is that the United States simply can not reduce its commitments to defend its allies , particularly in Europe and South Korea . My critics insist that burdens willingly , and wisely , assumed after World War II are still binding and necessary . But they uniformly ignore my central premise : those nations once weak and defenseless after the war are now strong and politically , economically , and militarily independent . While challenging my proposals , my critics ignore these changes and implicitly reject the idea that there will be further change . Judging by their objections , one can only conclude that America must stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But I reject the idea that our military commitments are immutable . If our allies feel threatened , they must decide to assume a greater share of the defense burden , and that transition must begin soon . The second complaint is that unilateral U.S. military reductions are somehow unthinkable , implying that we must seek either our allies ' permission or Soviet cooperation to change the size and composition of our armed forces . But reductions are already in progress . My essay merely proposes a coherent plan for that inevitable realignment of our military forces . Of course , we should consult with our allies , and we should remain flexible as we make these changes . We should monitor the views and behavior of both our allies and the Soviet Union . if the USSR does not reduce its military forces in the future , we should take that into account . If the Soviet Union threatens or invades other countries , that too should affect America 's military policy . But these observations notwithstanding , none of my critics challenge the substance of my proposal ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith consider my proposals " isolationist . " But they are only isolationist if one believes that soldiers and weapons are America 's sole means of promoting its interests around the world . Consider what a sad state of affairs it would be if America 's image were bound exclusively to militarism ! Fortunately , that is not the case . The United States is still a symbol of individual opportunity and human progress . We are also the world 's leading economic and technological power . Our GNP is twice the Soviet Union 's and the Soviets seek to learn from us . My central , vital point is that we need not rely primarily on military power to influence other nations , even our adversaries . I note with some satisfaction ( and curiosity ) that no one criticized at length my proposal to reduce nuclear weapons drastically except Gwynne Dyer ? and he thought the reductions did not go far enough ? I welcome Ted Carpenter 's supportive comments but suggest that my definition of " what we must defend " includes what he calls a reexamination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent with the new commitments . This process , of course , would be fully explained in advance to our allies . Admiral Moorer 's comment ignores what is most essential to our vital and enduring democratic process ? the public debate about competing ideas . If we adopt his view , we would simply accept without question the decisions of those in power , a process that we routinely and justifiably criticize in authoritarian governments . R. Emmett Tyrrell Jr . and Ken Adelman each suggest that he has a " moral " nuclear policy to set against my " immoral " policy of targeting civilians in Soviet cities . While I do not believe that we can abolish nuclear weapons , neither do I believe that the use of nuclear weapons can be made moral or humane . No strategy can eliminate the tremendously destructive power of nuclear weapons . New missiles , new computers , new warheads , new targeting options , new defenses , new flexible responses , and all the paraphernalia of a modernized nuclear deterrent will not change the fact that nuclear warheads are weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deceive . Adelman should know better than to imply that simply because the Soviets spend a lot of money on anti-ballistic missile and air ? defense research , their efforts will yield something effective . Department of Defense specialists have repeatedly testified before Congress about America 's ability to penetrate Soviet defenses and devastate the Soviet Union . Finally , my critics do not believe , as I do , that an adequate U.S. nuclear retaliatory force could be limited to strategic submarines . There are , of course , alternatives , such as a " small " nuclear force that might include single-warhead , mobile , land-based missiles . I am not a salesman for nuclear submarines . But I believe that we have the technical ability to preserve the invulnerability of submarines for as long as we can reasonably foresee . And when we negotiate future arms-control agreements , we should use those negotiations to preserve that invulnerability . Not one of the remaining presidential candidates has advocated expanding our military . Their proposals focus on how to cut military spending safely . A major national debate about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defend it ? is at hand . Change will come . We can either anticipate and guide that change or we can become its victim . In the words of President Eisenhower , " The problem of defense is how far you can go without destroying from within what you are trying to defend from without . "                     