@@335248

Something has always separated Citicorp Chairman John Shepard Reed from the crowd . While many of his high-powered banking colleagues must lumber along in English on their travels abroad , he can close a deal in fluent Spanish or Portuguese . A political independent in a Republican-dominated business , he once criticized U.S. policy on Viet Nam during a White House meeting in front of his banking boss and a Cabinet officer . During the Reagan years , according to another account , Reed has driven up to the same prestigious Pennsylvania Avenue address in a humble white Toyota compact . Now the whiz kid once dubbed " the Brat " is steering Citicorp on a radically different course from the one established by his expansion-minded predecessor , Walter Wriston . <P> The Chicago-born son of an Armour meat-packing executive whose business travels took his family throughout South America , Reed has spent 22 years with Citicorp . But in many ways he remains an enigma , variously described by some of his fellow workers as icy and grim and by others as sensitive and humorous . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no time for mavericks " and that he maintains a studied aloofness with underlings . Associates consider Reed to be direct and serious , possibly to a fault . Says Investment Banker William Donaldson , a fellow outside director of Philip Morris : " He likes to face reality , no matter how harsh it might be . " <P> In fact , Reed has thrived on challenges . He took two undergraduate degrees in a rigorous five-year program that had him enrolled in engineering courses at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and in liberal-arts studies at Washington &; Jefferson College near Pittsburgh . Reed served in Korea as an Army Corps of Engineers officer , then briefly joined Goodyear Tire &; Rubber as a trainee . In 1965 he earned a business degree from M. I. T. ' s Sloan School of Management , signing on after graduation with Citicorp 's predecessor , First National City Bank . Within five years , Reed found himself head of the bank 's notoriously disorganized back-office operations , which were plagued by backlogs of check-processing paperwork . Reed cleared up the mess by starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earning his " brat " moniker . Some fellow workers felt he was abrasive in whipping the unit into shape . <P> But the success won Reed the daunting task of expanding the bank 's consumer business , a major goal of former Chairman Wriston , who became a mentor . Reed triumphed again : he opened hundreds of new branches , bought the Carte Blanche and Diners Club credit-card companies , and launched Citicorp even more heavily into the consumer credit-card business by signing up 2 million new members for Citibank Visa cards . Expansion initially created staggering bank losses of more than $200 million in three years . But Reed eventually turned the consumer operations into a major moneymaker  --  and helped position himself as a prime contender for Wriston 's job . When he was finally tapped for succession in 1984 , Reed talked his two chief rivals , Hans Angermueller and Thomas Theobald , into staying aboard as key advisers .                     