@@332546

As racial conflicts worsen in South Africa , the Reagan Administration continues to cast about for ways to reshape its policy of " constructive engagement , " which has attempted to coax and cajole the country into making changes in apartheid . Apparently , the White House is nearing a decision on an appointment that could deeply affect that policy : the U.S. ambassadorship to Pretoria . Herman Nickel , who has held that post for four years and played an important role as the local spokesman for constructive engagement , will reportedly step down by the end of the month . <P> Late last week Washington 's foreign policy community was abuzz with reports that Robert Brown , 51 , a black businessman from North Carolina , would be named Ambassador to Pretoria . " For the first time in U.S.-South Africa relations , a black is being given serious consideration for the post , " said a Washington- based South Africa specialist . The other top candidate is Richard Viets , a career diplomat and former Ambassador to Tanzania and Jordan . <P> Brown , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Point , N.C. , served as special assistant to President Nixon . Nonetheless , he still maintained cordial relations with Jesse Jackson , Coretta Scott King and Andrew Young , the former U.N . Ambassador . Brown has made several trips to South Africa , the latest in February as the leader of a fact- finding group that included black college presidents . <P> " Brown is the embodiment of conciliation and bridge building , " says an Administration official who knows him well . " He 's close to Jesse Jackson  --  and Richard Nixon . " Brown 's special ability to make friends across seemingly impenetrable political barriers has made him a particularly appealing choice for South Africa . His race is also a plus , as far as the Administration is concerned . Appointing a black to the highest American position in Pretoria can not help sending a message to South Africa 's apartheid government , as well as to its black majority .                     