@@480759

Latin America today justifies our cautious optimism . Never before in the history of our nations ? that is , since we became independent from Spain and Portugal ? has our part of the world had as many governments created by ( more or less ) free elections . Put another way , never before have there been so few authoritarian regimes . Bloody tyrannies in Argentina and Uruguay have yielded to civilian governments ? the same has happened in Brazil ? as has the shameful anachronism until recently embodied by Baby Doc , ex ? " perpetual president " of Haiti . Countries in which no elected president could finish out his term in office ? Venezuela and the Dominican Republic , for example ? are today models of pluralism and coexistence , where antagonistic political parties are voted in and out of power and where the extreme right and the extreme left receive fewer and fewer votes in each succeeding election . Even in Central America , the region that has traditionally suffered most from political oppression , we have begun to see military regimes resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding elections and yielding power to civilians . But it would be misleading to celebrate this process of democratization merely in statistical terms . Of much greater importance , I think , is the way in which this process is taking place . If we compare it with the period following World War II , when a democratic wave ran through the continent , we see that the current situation is not the result of external pressures or the work of local elites . For the first time , democracy ? or , in some cases , incipient democratic forms of government ? is being established with clear popular support . Today , the antidemocratic alternatives of Marxist revolution or military dictatorship are the monopoly of economic or intellectual elites . The bulk of the populace has expressed overwhelming support for moderate regimes : center-left , center , or center-right ? whichever seems to offer the best chance of achieving democracy . My own country , Peru , is a good example : in the 1985 elections , which extremists tried to sabotage by unleashing a terror campaign to keep people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registered voters stayed home , a real achievement when you consider the level of voter apathy in the more advanced democracies . Such huge numbers of people have been spurred to turn to democracy by the terrible violence of which they have been the victims . This violence , the result of intolerance , fanaticism , and dogma , has been practiced by both revolutionary terrorists and political or military counterterrorists , and has littered our continent with the dead , the tortured , the kidnapped , the disappeared ? and the vast majority of the victims have been the poor . These people , on whom political extremists have inflicted their violence ? as if economic exploitation and social discrimination were not misfortune enough READINGS 15 have decided to support that system which they think , intuitively and instinctively , will best be able to defend human rights and social stability , and will attempt to extirpate the pistol , the bomb , and the electric prod from political life . This unheralded fact of Latin American life ? a democratizing process that originates with the people themselves ? has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now have the chance to consolidate our legal , free regimes and to eliminate forever the vicious circle of revolutions and military coups . We have the chance to link our destiny to something of which we have always in fact been a part : the liberal , democratic West . Naturally , this will not be easy . The democratization of Latin America , even though it has today an unprecedented popular base , is very fragile . To maintain and extend this popular base , governments will have to prove to their citizens that democracy means not only the end of political brutality but progress ? concrete benefits in areas such as labor , health , and education , where so much remains to be done . But , given Latin America 's current economic crisis , when the prices of its exports are hitting record lows and the weight of its foreign debt is crushing , those governments have virtually no alternative but to demand that their citizens ? especially the poor ? make even greater sacrifices than they 've already made . I am not one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be met with demagogic gestures or with a declaration of war against the international financial system . If such a war were to break Out , Western banks might be affected ; but our countries would fare even worse , because one of the first casualties of the hostilities would be the democratic system . It 's hard to imagine how it would survive the chaos and paralysis that would result from an economic boycott by the developed world . Still , the industrialized nations ? their governments and their banks ? must understand that if our democratic governments are forced to pay the service on their debts by implementing policies that will have extremely high social costs , the result , purely and simply , will be the collapse of those governments and the return of military dictatorships . We have already seen , in the Dominican Republic , Mexico , and Brazil , the explosions of rage and despair that can take place when the fabric of society is stretched too thin . Military dictatorships are not only the best breeding ground for Marxist revolutionaries . They are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all recent Latin American military regimes have demonstrated . And who will reap the benefit should such regimes return ? our democracies depends on you . We and we alone are responsible . Moreover , I am convinced ? although I 'm not sure whether to be happy or sad about it ? that when a Latin American nation chooses democracy , it chooses not only freedom and the rule of law but the most extreme form of independence as well . This is because no form of government receives less support from the West ? or seems to have less " sex appeal " as far as the West 's communications media and intellectual elites are concerned ? than those regimes in the Third World that try to live according to the ideals of freedom and pluralism , which are the West 's greatest contribution to the world . While I have no figures to prove it , I doubt that any democratic nation in the underdeveloped world has received the credits and subsidies Cuba has received from the Soviet Union . And it is certainly true that no Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law has ever aroused the militant sympathy that Sandinista Nicaragua has inspired in the liberal and progressive circles of the West . To the contrary , when it does n't simply inspire indifference , the struggle for democracy in the underdeveloped countries usually inspires skepticism and disdain from those who should be its most enthusiastic supporters . But perhaps this is n't such a bad thing after all . Because if we Latin Americans do win the battle for freedom , we can say we won it ourselves ? against our enemies and despite our friends . If we want democracy to take hold in our countries , our most urgent task is to broaden it , 16 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE /JUNE give it substance and truth . Democracy is fragile in so many countries because it is superficial , a mere framework within which institutions and political parties go about their business in their traditionally arbitrary , bullying way . Of course , the degree of democracy varies so much from country to country that it is impossible to generalize . An abyss separates Costa Rica 's exemplary democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corruption , or Panama 's democracy , where the civilian authorities govern but the National Guard rules . In Venezuela and the Dominican Republic , democratic tendencies have permeated the armed forces as well as the extreme right and left , and have drawn these elements into the political process . In Guatemala , Uruguay , and Ecuador , on the other hand , the military still exercises a kind of guardianship , an aloof autonomy that limits the actions of the civilian government . In many countries , the separation of powers is a myth , as is equality of opportunity . And the fact that huge sectors of the economy are nationalized ? and almost always deficit producing ? continues to be a source of inflation , corruption , and inequality . Democratic governments are no more or less to blame than dictatorships for promoting demagogic nationalism , which has been the major obstacle to regional cooperation and the primary reason so much money is wasted on weapons . Freedom of the press frequently degenerates into defamation ; the right to criticize into libel and insult . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the henchmen of all-powerful caudillos . I could go on and on with this catalogue of the deficiencies of our democracies , but why bother ? What really matters is that our democracies not only survive but learn to criticize themselves and better themselves . If they do n't , they will perish . No democracy is born perfect , and none ever gets to be perfect . Yet democracy is superior to authoritarian and totalitarian regimes because , unlike them , democracy is perfectible . Perhaps the hardest struggle we Latin Americans will have will be against ourselves . Centuries of intolerance , of absolute truths , of despotic governments , weigh us down ? and it wo n't be easy to shake that burden off . The tradition of absolute power that began with our pre-Columbian empires , and the tradition that might makes right that the Spanish and Portuguese explorers practiced , were perpetuated in the nineteenth century , after our independence , by our caudilk ) s and our oligarchies , often with the blessing or direct intervention of foreign powers . Indeed , the belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less revolutionary , in Latin America ? contrary to what our messianic ideologues think . In fact , violence represents the worst kind of conformism . It means continuing ? albeit using different rhetoric and different rituals ? in the same old tradition of barbarism and machismo that is in large measure to blame for our backwardness and the social inequities that plague our countries . What is truly original , truly revolutionary for Latin America is the other option . The one that teaches a long-overdue lesson to Latin America 's privileged classes , for whom military dictatorships represent a guarantee of order , and to its intellectual elites , for whom the myth of Marxist revolution , of returning to a tabula rasa , is still alive despite the fact that history has shown it to be a lie . The other option is the one that the poor and the innumerable victims of repression have spontaneously chosen and are now defending . Will the result be a new era in Latin American history , one that is more humane , more respectful of human dignity ? This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do have a suggestion : Let us all make an effort , each one of us , within the limits of our own spheres of action , using the means at our disposal , to contribute whatever we can to see that democracy works .                     