@@487705

Studs Terkel throws a party and half of Chicago  --  he makes all of America seem like Chicago  --  shows up . This time , ninety-six loquacious , feisty ( and sometimes tedious ) monologuists have knocked on the door , Augie March-style , to make their record . It 's a careful guest list , well balanced between the races , ages , classes and sexes . Terkel is our last New Dealer , and his favorite characters are heavily represented : eccentrics , union activists , communitarians , lively bureaucrats . Foreigners will have a hard time trying to sort out all the contradictions . And Americans should weep , for this is a book about the moral effects of Reaganomics , the loss of memory and community , the dumbing and numbing of America . One finds partial redemption in the company of Al Santoli 's nineteen " New Americans " ( equally divided among Asians , Europeans and Latin Americans , plus one Eritrean ) , the embodiments of our latest immigrant wave . They bring with them an almost terrifying industriousness and communal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confucian . They also carry unusual baggage . Bharati Mukherge 's most recent book is The Middleman and Other Stories ( Grove Press ) . She teaches literature at Queens College of the City University of New York . continue with his political work : In Santoli 's New America , your Cambodian coffee shop waitress might have survived a genocide , and your Korean door-to-door wig-seller is likely to be an Old World M.A. If you live in any big American city , so might your taxi driver , your fruit vendor or your doorman . In his introduction , Terkel associates " The Great Divide " with the collapse of memory , the abandonment of shame and loyalty . On one side of the divide are those who remember ( war , the Depression , union activism , civil rights marches , big bands , civic and national decency , neighborhoods ) ; on the other side are the mnemonectomized ( by schools , drugs , yuppieism , television ) who can not . A young college instructor , speaking of his freshman students , notes that " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's the acceptance of ignorance . " Art Spiegelman , author and artist of Maus , finds his drawing students ignorant of artists before Andy Warhol ? " he was a television celebrity and television is their culture . " An old-time civil rights activist can not get across to campus newshounds that there were actually two historical Hoovers in this century . Class consciousness ? but not class distinctions  --  has disappeared . Terkel notes that the important distinction these days is between winners and losers , not oppressors and victims . The poor are wimps ; they should be ashamed . Frequently they are . Perhaps the dividing line is best summed up in the familiar phrase , " That 's history . " To a French student , the phrase means necessity , inevitability , a point of analytical departure . To American students , it is the excuse for amnesia and a lack of accountability : Vietnam is a series of movies , an experience they wish they 'd shared ; theother wars , the Depression , happened before television ; Richard Nixon is the background noise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both respectable and rebellious , a way of identifying with Rambo and the Terminator . One sees how they , children of the tube with their heads clenched between Walkman plugs , can nod in agreement with George Bush , " We are the change . " They 're affable young barbarians . The symbol of the Great Divide is , of course , Dan Quayle 's political father , Ronald Reagan . The man who honors the SS dead at Bitburg inspires the political son who 's never heard of the Holocaust . Reagan is proof that a winner need not be truthful , knowledgeable or compassionate . One reborn Chicago Christian boasts , " President Reagan does not represent what I feel . He uses a lot of Godly references , but I do n't feel he 's a Christian in any sense of the word . Jimmy Carter was a Christian . . . . I voted for Reagan because this is a worldly world , not a Christian world . " Terkel has encountered dozens who do n't agree with a thing that Reagan does , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straw man , but still vote for him because of the feel-good factor . What can you say to Christians who vote for Reagan because he 's unchristian ? To a scab who calls himself pro-labor ? To a Chicago barkeep who says , " I have to like Ronald Reagan because I 'm one of those who feel you should live within your means " ? The Great Divide also operates in another way ; it is the separation between hope and pessimism , between delayed gratification ( saving , investing , educating , building , providing ) and a kind of headlong , credit-busting hedonism . A black editorial writer for the Chicago Tribune describes the great divide between generations , noting especially the despair that engulfs so many inner-city blacks in the 1980s ( unlike the still hopeful 1960s ) who see no way out . The country is now composed of numerous such ghettos ? the ghettos of race and ethnicity , class and profession ; ghettos of age and of occupation and levels of education . Terkel also unleashes a number of commodity brokers and advertisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I 'm a copywriter for an ad agency , " says one young woman , in flip comic tones . " It involves being a total asshole . " Later , as she reflects , she sums up a generation 's frustration : " I look where my parents live right now and I could never imagine having a place like that . They have a house on four acres , two cars . And they sent us to college . The sick thing is my father makes maybe $10,000 a year more than I do . I 'm one person and he 's raised a family of four . " The Great Divide , despite Terkel 's ebullience and enthusiasm for certain charming activists willing to endure prison and derision , is a depressing book . This time , there 's no clear enemy out there wielding cattle prods and bullhorns , no unjust war , no urgent domestic agenda . Terkel is staring down the basilisk of ignorance and forgetfulness . Enter Santoli 's New Americans . They understand the laws of diminishment very well . Their single-minded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have known the worst the world can offer and survived ; they have lived through two hundred years of history ? industrialization , colonialism , liberation and civil war ? in a single lifetime . Rather like Japan and Europe after the war , they arrived shattered in body but intent on rebuilding . They have lived five to a room , invested their earnings and started businesses . Unlike Terkel 's copywriters and unemployed steelworkers , they will know a life far better than their parents ' . And their children will be educated and enter the professions . What took earlier waves of immigrants several generations can now be done in one . If Terkel 's baby boomers forget too much , Santoli 's immigrants remember too much . If American children have forgotten the potato famines and Czarist pogroms of their ancestors , these newest Americans , survivors of unspeakable wars , bear fresh scars . A 50-year-old Cambodian widow , who runs her own four-table donut shop off a freeway near Los Angeles , recalls , " We came upon an orphanage full of babies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were thrown on the orphanage courtyard , loaded with cookies . All the children were crawling around it . Hundreds of babies  --  eight months , two months , one month old . None of them old enough to walk . " Now guilt haunts her in her donut shop . Her eldest daughter , who lost a husband and infant in the war and who survived the Khmer Rouge labor camps by catching and eating lizards , crabs , worms and bugs , constructs a new life for herself as the wife of an American trucker . We have stepped far outside the frame of a Norman Rockwell painting . The familiar has become exotic ; the exotic familiar . Perhaps Santoli 's most exotic immigrant group are the Hmong , many of whom settled in Minnesota . The adult Hmong , simultaneously Christian and animist , believe in a , . powerful spirit world . Ghosts must be appeased . A baby 's umbilical cord must be buried under a " ghost-pole " Inside the home . But in Minnesota , Hmong-American babies are born in hospitals and umbilical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't fear darkness like their grandparents because they can bring on light with the flick of a switch . In one childhood , a Hmong in America moves through centuries . New Americans is an upbeat book . Santoli avoids accounts of the more brutal cultural and generational conflicts among immigrants  --  the teen-age suicides , the gangs , the incidence of anorexia and so forth . He has nothing to say of America 's ever inventive forms of discrimination and assault , nor does he take account of the friction between America 's perennially disadvantaged minorities and the rapidly rising Asians in their midst . New Americans ' mission is to update mainstream America 's picture of immigrants huddled on Ellis Island waiting to be free . And it does this well . The New Americans are more likely to land by jet in Los Angeles , or come overland from Latin America . They 're as likely to possess skills that will place them immediately in the top 1 percent of wage earners as they are to be equipped for little except exploited labor at less than minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very different ? from the traditional immigrant icon . They 're less likely to " melt " and perhaps are less willing to do so . Looked at closely , however , one sees far more points of continuity than disjuncture . We 're probably only a few years away from a What Makes ChoonLi Run ? or a Hmong Call It Sleep . The beauty of America ? I do n't mean this ironically , though I am speaking metaphorically  --  is its ability to transform the trauma of a distant genocide into a Dunkin ' Donuts franchise . It is also the horror of America that the world 's deepest miseries get commodified into sugary cutouts . A concerned reader should see Terkel 's despair and Santoli 's hope as near-balancing terms in the late-century American equation . On its own , each book feels lopsided , too agenda-ridden . They should be read together , as antidotes to each other 's excesses . ?                     