@@486974

Some say the world will end in fire , some in ice . William Clark , as President Reagan 's national security adviser , was of the ice persuasion His cold-warmaking threatened to freeze Soviet-American relations into positions so hardened as to assure mutual destruction Now he Joins the fire crowd . As Interior Secretary , he will be responsible for earth , air and water policies that will contribute to the " greenhouse effect , " which the Environmental Protection Agency predicts will bring us catastrophic heat and humidity The destruction of forests , the hyperdevelopment of fossil fuel resources from public lands and seas , the industrialization of the wilderness : at the rate Interior is going , tropical orchids will soon bloom in the piney woods of Maine , and Charleston , South Carolina , will be the new Atlantis . All this is supposed to begin in the 1990s  --  only a couple of years after Reagan 's putative second term is finished , according to the E.P.A . ' s eschatologists . In the meantime it is bound to be politiCs as usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-election that led to the President 's Cabinet shuffle Attempts to read profound ideological meaning into Judge ark 's move into James Watt 's seat , or into the elevation of Clark 's deputy , Robert McFarlane , to head the National Security Council , miss the main point -- -that Reagan is shaping up his campaign Even in the twisted terms of Reaganism , Clark was a disaster at the N.S.0 He can hardly be less so at Interior , but there the doomsday time frame is slightly wider He can continue to transfer the nation 's natural treasure into corporate coffers , and borrow James Watt 's famous rationalization ? " I do not know , " Watt told a House committee , " how many future generations we can count on before the I ord return , METHOD TO IIIS BADNESS ? PRESIDENTIAI.4 T Trill I ANI ) CONSEQUENCES MARK GREEN From young Cieorge Washington 's apocryphal admission about chopping down a cherry tree to Jimmy Carter 's political mantra in 1976 ( " I will never lie to you " ) , the issue of Presidential truth and consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in Albert Schweitzer 's phrase , Americans have always expected -- or at least hoped - that their leading citizen would be a truth-teller No modern President has engaged in so consistent a pattern of misspeaking on such a wide range of subjects as has Ronald Reagan Prior Presidents surely committed their share of factual errors  --  and none of Reagan 's approach B J. 's deceptions about the Vietnam War or Richard Nixon 's lies about Watergate . But in terms of sheer regularity and frequency , Reagan - is the all-time champ of misstatement Reagan 's problem is not merely the kind of innocent bloopers and faux pas all of us , even Presidents , are prone to . Gerald Ford , for example , once actually said , " Things are more like they are now than they 've ever been . " Reagan toasted Bolivia  --  in Brazil ; referred to his Secterary of Housing and Urban Development as Mayor " at a conference of mayors ; called Samuel Doe , Head of State of 1 iberia , " Chairman Moe " ; and announced at a G @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are trying to gel unenrinloyment to go up , and I think we 're going to succeed . " No great harm done there . But Reagan makes errors that are far more serious than faux pas They can be divided into six categories- obvious exaggerations , material omissions contrived anecdotes , voodoo static- EDITORIALS . The Dollars Fix T he conventional unwisdom about Israel 's chronic economic crisis is that its root causes should be searched out and destroyed in Beirut and Damas- cus . Arab aggression and intransigence , it is said , necessitate Israel 's swollen military budget and the attendant triple-digit inflation and metastatic foreign debt . But it would be wiser to look to Jerusalem and Washington for the causes of the crisis ; there , the intimate relationship between patron and client has produced a system of aid and depend-ence that has an inexorable logic of its own , beyond any rational calculation of need and threat . The dynamic of that relationship can be glimpsed in the deleted lines of a heavily censored General Accounting Office report entitled " U.S. Assistance to the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department and the Pentagon , the report was drastically modified for public consumption before it was released in June ( a copy of the uncensored version was obtained by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee ) . According to one deleted sentence , " State and DOD officials say that it is not politically possible to submit to Congress , as an administration proposal , a lower FMS Foreign Military Sales figure for Israel than that for the previous year . " And how do U.S. officials assess Israel 's military needs ? The published version states that " the U.S. generally supports Israeli plans for its forces modernization , and agrees that there is an Arab threat to Israel . " The next sentence was deleted : " DOD officials believe that the threat is overemphasized at this time . " Not only the threat but the need is grossly exaggerated : the censors excised the finding of some D.O.D. officials that " Israel can ' do with less ' than the proposed $1 7 billion EMS prow ani Some thought that " Israel could get by mai $1 billion annually . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any patron-client relationship , personal or diplomatic , power flows both ways . At this point Israel , the client , seems to have the upper hand . Because of domestic pressures in an American pre-election year and because of the Administration 's simple-minded belief that Israel is the bul wark against Soviet ambitions in the Middle East , the United States is stuck with an ever - increasing aid bill and no leverage to call the shots . But just as America ca n't stop giving , Israel cant stop taking . With a public and private foreign debt approaching $30 billion , the shekel in shards and financial institutions tottering , Israel 's economy is a shambles . And still its debt skyrockets ; as private eteditors take reassuiance bon : aid policies and pump mote money into the Aid like certain drugs , is habit-forming . And what bad habits this addict has . Israel is spending more than $1 million a day on its Lebanese adventure At least $1.5 billion has already been invested in the once " creeping , " now galloping , annexation of the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion to reach its target of 100,000 settlers by 1986 Confident ot continuing flow of U.S. dollars . Israeli Finance Minister Yoram Aridor boasted to the Knesset before his iecem resignation , " When inflation and the cost of living index ai e just historical memories , Judea and Samaria will be ours . " If Lebanian today is a quagmne for Israel and the United States , then the West Bank is a future Belfast . There is no one in the U.S. foreign policy establishment with the imagination or courage to act on this dreadful truth . The reality of the U.S.-Israeli aid relationship makes serious peace initiatives impossible . If there is to be a resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict , there must be a fundamental change in American and Israeli politics  --  and that change , despite the departure of Menachem Begin and the arrival of Yitzhak Shamir , is nowhere in sight . Temple Bombs T he explosion that ripped through the Mausoleum of the Martyrs in Rangoon , Burma , on October 9 , killing four South Korean Cabinet ministers , has had a shattering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerously high , and the stability of the Seoul regime is seriously threatened The government of President Chun Doo Hwan immediately blamed North Korea for the explosion , taking it as self-evident that anything bad that happens to South Korea , is the work of Pyongyang . Chun cited previous incidents  --  the attempted assassination of President Park Chun Hee in 1968 and the alleged plot to kill Chun himself in Canada in 1982 ? as corroborating evidence . But those examples are shrouded in ambiguity . Many South Korean opposition leaders and dissider:s have never believed the official story that North Korean commandos attacked Park 's presidential Blue House . in similar incidents , the opposition suspects that the South Korean military was involved in the attack . As for the 1982 attempt on Chun 's life , charges against the three Canadians who he said tried to kill him were dropped . Politically , the North Koreans have little to gain from the assassinations Why would they jeopardize their close ties with Rangoon or their leading role in the nonaligned movement ' ? Nor do they have any interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest level of anti-Anion:an feeling in South Korea since the late 1940s The hostility in Seoul in the wake of the killings is particularly dangerous for North Korea . To find au explanation ot the explosion in Burma one must look to South Korea  - -  to the policies with which the foul slain ( - menibeis were identified These ? nc , ' h el ( lilt key links between the South Korean military ieginie and the U.S and Japanese governments , the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund and the most powerful international banks . Educated in American universities , they were the engineers of what U.S commentators have been calling the " liberalization " of South Korea 's ecutton-ty a plan tormulated by the World Bank after the ( 11Sci'lli ous oveiexpansion ot heavy industry in the 1970s , Korean industries were reorganized and exposed to internationai omnpeution while the government reduced its role in the allocation ot Lapital These policies dovetailed with Seoul 's goal ot building closer ties with American companies and banks and establishing a much tighter strategic relationship with the fumed States Inc most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was in charge of the " labeialization " process after Chun seized power in May 1980 . According to an American banker who was in Seoul from 1978 to 1982 , Kim was " basically the salesman for Korea to foreign bankers . " But he and the other technocrats had enemies . The increasin anti-American opposition movement believes that Chun 's economic policies are bringing South Korea under the domination of foreign interests , and are an adjunct to the repressive apparatus of his police state . Businessmen miss the low-interest government loans to which they had access in the 1970s , when the state played a more active role in the economy . And they resent the opening of protected sectors of the economy to foreign investors and imports . The technocrats ' desire to control the unofficial loan market alienated members of the military ? including a number of officers close to Chun  --  who had been making large profits by lending money to local businessmen . Nationalist elements within the government bureau cracy have also resisted some of the " liberalization " policies , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Embassy official 's description , may have been a major reason for the withdrawal last year of South Korea 's largest foreign investor , Dow Chemical . A year ago , the U.S. ambassador to South Korea warned against " excessive nationalism " in a much publicized speech in Seoul . .1i , s it possible that members of the Korean military , many or whom were opposed to the violent methods Chun used to seize power , collaborated with dissidents or foreign agents to kill the technocrats ( perhaps they intended to eliminate Chun as well ) in order to defeat their policies and reorient the economy to meet domestic needs ? That is not unlikely given the South Korean military 's history of intervention in politics since the early 1950s . By all indications , President Reagan still plans to visit Seoul in November . But he may want to reconsider : like the Philippines , South Korea is a volcano ready to erupt . The rumblings have already begun . Tim SHORROCK Tim Shorrock is the editor of Multinational Monitor . ? ArgentmaVotes Buenos Aires A s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the enormity of the damage done by seven years of military rule has yet to be fully assessed When the generals overthrew the inept constitutional government of Maria Estela Martinez de PerOn in March 1976 , the country was on the brink of political and economic collapse . inflation had soared to nearly 500 percent . Financial speculation and hoarding of goods were common . The social order was seriously threatened by the Montoneros , the urban guerrilla offshoot of the leftist PerOmst youth movement . From the right , the Argentine Anti-Communist Alliance gave the country a foretaste of what , under the military , would become a daily diet of disappearances , torture and death . The Argentina of today bears a superficial resemblance to the Argentina of those bad old days , masking profound changes in the country 's social , political and economic makeup . Inflation is galloping toward 600 percent . Unem-1 , , yment is estimated at 15 percent . Strikes , a phenomenon endemic to Per6nist rule , have returned with a vengeance , as workers try to recoup what seven years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the past year general strikes have shut the country down three times . Despite its well-educated , predominantly skilled work force , the country 's chief attraction to foreign investors is low wages . The average hourly wage here is 90 cents ; in traditionally " labor surplus " countries like Taiwan , the average hourly wage is double that , and in the United States the typical worker makes $8 . After nearly forty years of trying to transform their country into an industrial powerhouse , Argentines now find it has been relegated to its former role of agricultural producer . Since 1976 , Argentina 's industrial work force has dropped from 1.8 million workers to 1.3 million . During the same period , its foreign debt has risen from $8 billion to $40 billion ; a study last year by Wharton Econometrics , a U.S. consulting firm , attributed the rise to " military spending and private greed . " Today Argentina can not pay the interest on its foreign debt , the developing world 's third largest , and imports , including raw materials vital for industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bleak pre-election outlook is the still-unhealed wounds left by the military 's crusade against its political opponents in the 1970s , " the dirty war " In September the government issued a " self-amnesty " for crimes committed by the military during that " opening battle against international Marxism . " The move , opposed by nearly every sector of political life , was less than disinterested . Not surprisingly , the two leading presidential candidates , Raiil Alfonsin of the Radical Civic Union and halo Argentino Luder , a PerOmst , have pledged to strike down the law . In choosing Luder , a colorless constitutional law professor and a former provisional president , the PerOnists turned back a challenge from supporters of PerOn 's widow , who believe the former cabaret dancer with a grammar school education should lead by divine right . The PerOnists enjoy a significant numerical advantage ( they claim their party 's 3.2 million members make it the largest in the Western world ) . Their seemingly unbreakable hold on the industrial cordon surrounding Buenos Aires , a mostly working-class district which is heavily weighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological edge and leaves then opponents in the capital with the uneasy feeling of being hemmed in . The main differences between Luder , 66 , and Alfonsin , 56 , involve their styles and their bases of support rather than issues . Both candidates say they want the international banks to refinance Argentina 's debt with lower interest rates and longer periods to pay back the principal Both have pledged to attack unemployment and inflation by increasing the number of jobs in the public sector , and both favor greater government intervention in the economy . They have also pledged to " recover " the Falklands by peaceful means The charismatic Alfonsin has aggressively wooed the Per6nists ' working-class supporters . He took control of the Radical Civic Union by mounting a challenge from its left wing , and he maintains close ties to European social democrats , particularly President Felipe Gonzalez of Spain . " We will never win an election without the workers , " Alfonsin thundered one night on the stump in San Juan province , 700 miles northwest of Buenos Aires . " I note many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them here as they would to a doctor if they were sick . They come to innoculate them against dictatorships . " People said later that they had not seen anything like Alfonsin 's performance  --  since Perlin . MARTIN ANDERSEN Martin Andersen writes for Newsweek in Buenos Aires . DISPATCHES . II JAPAN : Memories of Overflights Past The Soviet attack on Korean Air Lines Flight 007 has been justifiably condemned , but a declassified memorandum we recently found in the Lyndon Johnson Presidential Library supplies a bit of historical perspective and helps explain why the Russians thought the 747 jumbo jet was a spy plane . The document indicates that U.S. violations ( inadvertent or not ) of Soviet airspace over Sakhalin Island have been a chronic irritant between the superpowers . The memorandum , dated September 4,1962 , informed Vice President Johnson about a routine U-2 reconnaissance flight that the Russians had tracked over Sakhalin Island . The following month a U-2 was shot down over Cuba during the missile crisis , but the Russians chose to protest only the Sakhalin overflight The Soviet protest caused greater concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began flying over Soviet territory , the thin black jets often took off from U.S. air bases in Japan In July 1960 , public opinion forced the Japanese government to announce that U.S. spy planes would no longer use Japanese territory Following the Sakhalin incident , the Russians accused Japan of reneging on its pledge and made a veiled threat to " neutralize " the U.S. bases . " The Japanese press and official circles are quite concerned over the Russian charge of violation of the southern tip of Sakhalin , " said the memorandum . The State Department , seeking to placate Tokyo , issued a statement that no U-2s had been stationed in Japan since 1960 Thus , tension about U.S. overflights in the Northwest Pacific has a long history , and the Rusians could have believed the 747 was one of the current generation of spy planes . Was the South Korean airliner engaged in spying ? Probably not . But commercial endeavors have been used as covers for spying . In the late 1960s , for instance , when the Soviet Union maintained a large military presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indiana to outfit its oil rigs in the Egyptian desert with surveillance equipment to monitor Soviet air traffic When the American ambassador to Egypt learned about the operation , he suspended it . Several months later the ambassador was reassigned to Washington and the black boxes were reinstalled  --  just in time for the June 1967 Arab-Israeli war . ? LEBANON : The Sfirete is Back While Paola Crociani , a 29-year-old Italian photographer , was on assignment in Beirut last spring , she was picked up by officers of the Sfirete Generale , the Phalangist-dominated security force . They took her to their downtown headquarters and kept her incommunicado for thirty-six hours . During that time Crociani was interrogated about her contacts in Beirut , particularly Palestinians , and was told that her photographs were too " specific " ? too vivid in their depiction of Palestinian refugee camps . After her release she was promptly expelled from Lebanon . Perhaps the only Westerner to have seen firsthand the elaborate in-terrogation and torture center operated by the Seirete Generale , she has provided testimony about the Lebanese security forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shortly after her interrogation , she testified , there rose terrible screains from the room just below me  --  screams of pain from men subjected to torture . . . sounding like the yelps of wounded animals . . . I could also hear other sounds , for example , something like the echo of a whip cutting through the air . .. Later in the morning I saw those whips ; they were made of steel and covered with straps of leather All the interrogators carried them while walking up and down the corridor . . . . There was one interrogator with heavy boots on , white heavy boots with special heels several inches high . He questioned a prisoner and trampled his bare feet forcefully with these heels , again and again . Crociani 's colleagues outside Lebanon successfully pressured the Lebanese government for her release . Most civilians in Lebanon , particularly Palestinians , are not so fortunate . After the 1975-76 civil war , with the central government powerless and a militia for every cause , the Sfirete was dormant . Now it appears that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspects who would be rounded up when the Phalangists took power . Crociani is a witness to the true nature of President Amin Gemayel 's backers . The Silrete 's resurgence bodes ill for a united Lebanon . ? PAKISTAN : Winds of Cold War High-level American officials seem to visit client dictatorships at times when all hell has broken loose . Earlier this month , Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger dropped in on Gen. Zia ul-Haq in Pakistan , where hundreds of people have been killed during antigovernment demonstrations in the past two months . The protests have been organized by the Movement for the Restoration of Democracy , an uneasy coalition of political parties that share the goal of ending Zia 's six-year rule . So far , severe repressive measures by the military have kept Zia in power . Yet there are distinct signs that by protecting one general through terror , the military may be uncorking the " national question " that challenges Pakistaros very existence as a nation and that has plagued it since its formation . An excellent analysis of the current crisis by Feroz Ahmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a pamphlet produced by the New York City-based Pakistan Democratic Forum . Ahmed argues that if the demonstrations , which are taking place primarily in Sind province , do not spread to the populous Punjab province , the movement to unseat Zia is certain to be defeated . If that happens , he writes , the next round in the political struggle will pit Sindhi separatists against the military , which is dominated by Punjabis . Pakistan must become democratic or it will be dismembered . There are signs that tribal leaders in Baluchistan have abandoned their thirty-five-year-old struggle for " provincial autonomy " and have opted for secession . The titular leader of the BaluCh and former Chief Minister of the province , Ataullah Khan Mengal , now in exile in London , told 1 " ition contributor Lawrence Lifschultz last summer , " If the Baluch are to survive , then we must struggle for an independent Baluchistan , outside the framework of Pakistan . " Mengal has long been considered a moderate , and his present militant stance indicates how strong the forces pulling Pakistan apart have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last time the Baluch took up arms  --  more precisely , antiquated weapons  --  they managed to keep 100,000 Pakistani troops bogged down for four years in an indecisive mountain war . The Russians took a hands-off attitude toward that struggle , but now that they are involved in a war in Afghanistan and Zia is a U.S. client , the temptation to assist the Baluch secessionists may be strong . " We believe . . . the Russians will in the end have no objection as far as the emergence of an independent Baluchistan is concerned , " says Mengal . " We are trying our best to be non-committed to any power . . . We would certainly accept any aid that comes from any quarter without committing the integrity of Baluchistan . " Baluchistan could become the next cold war flash point . ? SOUTH AFRICA : The Costs of Apartheid The International Monetary Fund would never admit it publicly , but its apolitical economists have written a confidential report on South Africa that argues that apartheid is a serious obstacle to economic growth . The report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Center for International Policy , a foreign-policy research institute . With bureaucratic delicacy , the document never once uses the word " apartheid , " relying instead on euphemisms such as " practices that constitute impediments . " But even the bloodless language can not blunt the impact of the 1 . M.F. 's first criticism of apartheid . The bulk of the report is devoted to demonstrating the deleterious effect South Africa 's discriminatory policies , have had on its economic growth . " Shortages of skilled labor constitute a medium-term constraint on potential growth that is unlikely to be eased without substantial changes in policy , " the I.M.F . economists write . ' They estimate that an annual growth rate of 5 percent is necessary to prevent unemployment from rising ; but given the lack of skilled labor in leading sectors of the economy , South Africa can expect a growth rate no higher than 4 percent a year . There is little doubt in the economists ' minds as to the cause of the labor shortage : " A major impediment to progress on this front is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education and training between race groups " The report points out that Pretoria spends thirteen times as much on a white child 's education as it spends on a black child 's ; there are also " large discrepancies " between the technical and vocational training available to blacks and whites . KAI BIRD AND MAX HOLLAND The leak comes at a bad time for South Africa and the I.M.F . On August 3 , the U.S House of Representatives approved an amendment to the I.M.F . authorization bill that instructs the U.S executive director of the fund to vote against loans to governments that practice apartheid . The House-Senate conference Committee is likely to accept the amendment early next month . ? EAST TIMOR : Fretilin Rednx Until last August , the insurgency in Last Timor seemed to have abated , if not actually collapsed . Fretilin guerrillas had not attacked Indonesian forces during the previous six months . And in late July , an Australian parliamentary delegation spent four days on the isolated island ? the first Australian . of ficials the Indonesian government has permitted there since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Australians made random ' inspections of villages and even visited eleven sites suggested by pro-Fretilin Timorese . Included on their itinerary was the Indonesian Army 's detention center for insurgents at Atauro , of which the delegation 's majority report said , " While its inhabitants are obviously being held against their will , the physical conditions under which they live are moderately comfortable , and the people of Atauro looked as well fed and dressed as the villagers in other areas visited in East and West Timor . " The delegation concluded that there was " no evidence of fighting " and that the atmosphere was " relatively relaxed " But on August 8 , a group of about fifty Civil Guards ( Hansip ) ambushed fifteen unarmed sappers from an Indonesian Army engineering unit and slit their throats . According to Susumu Awanohara of the Far Eastern Economic Review , the Civil Guards were Fretilin members who had come down from the hills in response to the government 's appeals . Three other Fretilin attacks were reported to have occurred about the same time . These attacks prompted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Colonel Purwanto , with a member of the elite Red Beret corps , Colonel Rudito . Both men are Roman Catholics , an important consideration in this former Portuguese colony , where the majority of the population is Catholic . Colonel Purwanto had been negotiating with Fretilin leaders since the beginning of this year and advocated a conciliatory policy toward former Fretilin guerrillas . His replacement by Colonel Rudito , together with reports that reinforcements have been sent to the Indonesian garrison in East Timor , signals a return to the hard line . Ironically , the Australian officials ' cautious optimism about the human rights situation in East Timor may push the issue off the U N. General Assembly 's agenda Amnesty International 's London representative Margo Pickens says that such a move would be a mistake . The issue should be kept before the United Nations " as a guarantee that the people of East Timor are protected arid safeguarded . "                     