@@432207

 | Item : A major defense contractor is caught cheating the Pentagon through sleight-of-hand bookkeeping . Item : An Illinois manufacturer is sentenced to a prison term for selling the government defective cord for use in parachutes . Item : A Florida businessman is convicted of rigging bids on millions of dollars ' worth of nuts , bolts and machine parts that turn out to be substandard . Cheating the Pentagon has become a big business for a small number of contractors . Not only are millions of dollars being lost , but alarm is spreading that the armed services are getting shoddy equipment endangering the lives of servicemen . There is also concern that below-standard electronics may imperil the sophisticated weapons systems vital to the nation 's military readiness . Some 200 Pentagon investigators are currently probing nearly 400 procurement-fraud cases . The Federal Bureau of Investigation and other agencies are carrying on investigations of their own . Some of the wrongdoing may involve bribery of government bureaucrats . Last year , prosecutors obtained 657 convictions ? more than double the number in the previous year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ targeted . Now , investigators and prosecutors are launching a crackdown aimed at some of the biggest names in the defense business . " We are sending a message to those troublesome few who think it is easy to swindle the Pentagon , " says Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger . Richard Sauber , who until recently was the Justice Department 's top prosecutor of defense fraud , says big firms suspected of cheating are being targeted because success against them will have " maximum deterrent value . " The new focus already has led to conviction of two large firms , while as many as 15 more face indictment later this year . Most of the investigations are centering on suspected doctoring of bills sent to the Pentagon by makers of aircraft , ships and other big-ticket items of military equipment . As an example , officials point to Sperry Corporation , the 18th-largest defense contractor . In December , it pleaded guilty in a federal court in Minneapolis to making false statements to the government . The case involved shifting costs from one contract to another . A Sperry plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Air Force to make 20 remote-control devices used in aircraft to launch missiles from land-based silos . A year later , the Air Force asked Sperry to do some research on the MX missile . It quickly became apparent to Sperry officials that they were spending more on the MX research than they could recover from the government . But they also saw that the other contract for remote-control devices was running under ceiling . So certain employes working on the MX proposal were told to fill out false time cards to make it appear that they were working on the other project . In their guilty plea , Sperry officials agreed to pay back double the amount they had cheated the government out of and to pay other penalties totaling more than 1 million dollars . In an earlier case , investigators said Rockwell International , the nation 's eighth-largest defense contractor , was involved in " substantial mischarging " by shifting charges from an Air Force satellite , whose costs were exceeding the contract , to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's space shuttle and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 percent in some accounts for the shuttle and the other programs . Rockwell was accused of civil , rather than criminal , fraud . Without admitting or denying any of the allegations , the company agreed in late 1982 to a 1.5-million-dollar settlement of the case . While those cases involved a diversion of public funds , government investigators increasingly worry about others that endanger lives of service people and the nation 's military readiness . Cord case . One example they cite : A Chicago-area firm and its former president pleaded guilty in January to buying rotten cord , dyeing it olive drab and palming it off on the government for use in parachutes . Despite efforts to find and destroy the defective cord , some of it may still be in chutes worn by military fliers . Calling it the most aggravated case of white-collar crime he had ever seen , U.S. District Judge Stanley Roszkowski sentenced Barry Splinter of Westmont , Ill. , to two years in prison , five years probation , 1,000 hours of community service and fines and forfeitures totaling $258,000 . In another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ businessman , his wife and son were all sentenced to prison in January . They pleaded guilty to fraud charges stemming from a scheme in which they were paid by the government to install sewer pipe on military bases but failed to seal the joints between sections of the pipe . Such wrongdoing is getting top priority from investigators , says Brian Bruh , head of the Pentagon 's criminal-investigative service . He adds : " We 'll open cases even if we 're not sure there 's much potential for criminal prosecution if we think someone is doing something that endangers human lives . " Particularly disturbing to Pentagon officials are suspicions that thousands of substandard or improperly tested electronic chips are now hidden away in the inner workings of crucial weapons systems ranging from missiles to fighter planes . " Large by any definition " is how Bruh describes the magnitude of the problem . Fifteen makers and distributors of  | computer chips and other electronic components are being investigated for possibly short-cutting the rigorous inspection procedures required for military equipment . The firms are located in California , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of the electronics industry 's biggest names , National Semiconductor Corporation , was indicted in March on 40 counts of selling poorly tested circuits to the government . It pleaded guilty and agreed to pay a 1.75-milliondollar fine . Why does the military require such rigorous testing ? Because the electronic equipment it utilizes has to function perfectly under stresses ranging from the cold of outer space to the shock of being fired from an artillery piece . With such high standards , the government pays five to 10 times as much for chips as do manufacturers of television sets and commercial computers , where the stresses and the penalties for failure are much less . Detection problem . Compounding the problem is the possibility that failures of weapon electronics might escape detection , either because a defective chip is destroyed in a crash or because an entire unit is replaced without pinpointing the chip at fault . While the Army , Navy , Marine Corps and Air Force have been alerted to the threat , officials say substandard chips may remain hidden away in military equipment for years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dishonest businessmen is the huge amount of business it does . For example , the Defense Industrial Supply Center in Philadelphia last year awarded more than 172,000 contracts worth more than half a billion dollars to provide the armed services with such commonplace items as nuts and bolts . At least a dozen companies now are being investigated for possible fraud against the center . A Florida businessman and two of his companies were convicted last year of rigging bids on contracts worth 13 million dollars for nuts , bolts and machine parts ? many of which were substandard and had to be retrieved from military units around the world . A file clerk at the Philadelphia facility was convicted of taking $50,000 in bribes for providing the contractor with secret plans and drawings . In another scheme , four purchasing agents were paid monthly bribes ? in one case totaling $90,000 ? to provide a California firm with information about bids entered by competitors and even to throw away lower bids . Dummy firms . Several con-% tractors have been caught creating dummy companies to submit a variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the appearance of vigorous competition while actually bidding against themselves . One businessman was convicted of entering a low bid for a contract to provide gasoline lanterns and then telling the second-lowest bidder that for $30,000 he would withdraw his bid . Sometimes cases involve shifting costs from private projects to Pentagon contracts . Litton Industries , the 15thlargest defense contractor , agreed last year to pay $137,000 to settle a civil false-claims suit accusing it of shifting costs for work on privately owned oil platforms to Navy destroyer contracts . Pentagon fraud cases , particularly ones involving large firms , are complex and time-consuming . In one recent probe , agents seized 160 cartons of data and 30 file drawers of records . In the past , charges against firms bilking the military often were handled administratively or in civil suits . But that changed with the creation of two new agencies . The Justice Department set up the Defense Procurement Fraud Unit to seek criminal prosecutions and the Pentagon established the Defense Criminal Investigative Service to dig up facts for the prosecutors . A continuing headache is assigning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may knowingly mischarge the government to protect their jobs . Top managers , however , often can not be linked directly to the cheating even if they pressured subordinates to do it . Yet judges are demanding tougher handling of crooked businessmen . U.S. District Judge Miles Lord , presiding in the Sperry cost-shifting case in Minnesota , expressed outrage that no officials of the company had to answer charges . Lord 's recommendation for dealing with businessmen who cheat the nation 's defense system and its men and women : " Lug them off to jail . "                     