@@295133

Disarray in foreign policy is under fire at home <P> The Reagan Administration last week could not be fairly accused of ignoring foreign affairs . Vice President George Bush was in Paris , where he held what he called " warm and friendly " talks with France 's new Socialist President Francois Mitterrand ( see WORLD ) . Secretary of State Alexander Haig returned to Washington after a two-week trip that included stops in Peking , Manila and Wellington , New Zealand , where he sought to solidify America 's ties with its allies in the Pacific . Special Envoy Philip Habib was still shuttling in the Middle East . At home , however , a honeymoon tolerance of the Administration 's shaky start in foreign affairs was ending . Some barbed questions were being asked : Did Reagan really have any foreign policy ? Did those globetrotters have any central policy compass to help them reach compatible goals ? <P> For many , the answer was clearly no . The ever cautious and gentlemanly Cyrus Vance , Jimmy Carter 's Secretary of State , appeared on NBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's announcement in Peking that the U.S. had agreed " in principle " to sell lethal weapons to China as " needlessly provocative " to the Soviet Union . " It smacks of bearbaiting rather than dealing seriously with the problems , " Vance said . Later in the week , he charged that the arms proposals for China " virtually removed any influence we have left over the Soviet Union . We played the China card in no-trump . " <P> Democrats in the Senate were blunter . " Except for his anti-Soviet reflexes , this President has no foreign policy , " said Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts . Stormed Alan Cranston of California : " Reagan does n't have a policy on nuclear nonproliferation . He does n't have a policy on arms limitations . He 's clearly groping for a Mideast policy . He has no human rights policy , and may never have one now . His policy on El Salvador-first he blew it up , then he blew it down . His policy on arms sales is to spew them everywhere . This Administration desperately needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly echoed in the press . In the generally friendly Wall Street Journal , Columnist Norman C. Miller declared that Reagan " has n't got a comprehensive strategy , and he often seems naive or bellicose when addressing foreign policy issues . " An open admirer of Haig , Syndicated Columnist Joseph Kraft wondered in print : " It may be he is not a deep person , that his ideas are all on the tip of his tongue , that what sounded like strategic thoughts were merely a parroting of notions picked up from Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger and others he served along the way . " Kraft gave the Secretary the benefit of the doubt , praising him as " the only highly placed person in the Reagan Administration with a feel for global strategy . " Nonetheless , concluded Kraft , " the U.S. is now heading , almost blind , into what could be a very dangerous storm with the Soviet Union . "                     