@@432018

 | Some of the newest Air Force fighters ? the F-15s and F-16s ? go directly from the production line into storage . There are no engines to power them . A Navy F-14 in flight is suddenly buffeted almost out of control as its engine explodes . Only a recently installed special steel casing prevents the plane from being torn apart by the blast . A Navy F-18 fighter during a test emits an explosive sound like a rifle shot . A main bulkhead to which the wing is attached has cracked . These are neither freakish nor isolated happenings . Rather , they are symptoms of critical deficiencies that could impair the combat readiness of America 's flying services . Pentagon officials are dismayed by the discovery that all of the nation 's newest types of fighter planes ? the Air Force 's F-15 and F-16 and the Navy 's F-14 and F-18 ? are threatened by serious technical problems . A fortune in dollars is being diverted from other urgent defense needs to try to get rid of the bugs in these planes . Millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altogether . In a war emergency , Pentagon officials maintain , front-line squadrons , which get first call on the best equipment and spare parts , could go into action . But , in a continuing conflict , their effectiveness would be quickly eroded ? unless the defects are remedied . The Air Force 's F-15 and F-16 and the Navy 's F-14 are bedeviled by engines that wear out too fast , stall in critical maneuvers or even explode in midair . A billion dollars already has been spent to try to remedy these defects . Nearly 100 F-15s and F-16s are expected to be grounded this summer because of engine breakdowns and strikes that have delayed production of engines and spare parts . Robert A. Moore , deputy under secretary of defense for tactical-warfare programs , says the durability of the power plants in these planes is " just unacceptable . " Gen. Alton D. Slay , commander of the Air Force Systems Command , acknowledges that a basic mistake was made in developing the engine for the F-15 and F-16 . As a result , engines are wearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the engines undergo maintenance , 60 percent of the turbine blades have to be replaced instead of an anticipated 20 percent . The engine in the F-14 , an entirely different model , is causing concern for other reasons . Explosions have destroyed several of these fighters . In an effort to reduce the danger , turbines have been encased so that an explosion will not destroy the plane . Common problems . General Slay asserts that trouble with fighter-plane engines is not unusual . His observation : " I have never been fortunate enough to have seen . . . a jet-fighter engine brought into the inventory without troubles . There may have been some , but if there were , I 've missed them . " Pentagon officials express increasing confidence that they can correct the engine defects . They have already spent more than 600 million dollars on improvements in the two Air Force planes and nearly half a billion dollars on the Navy 's F-14 . But just in case those fixes do n't work , they are collaborating with General Electric on the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replacement if needed . F-18 , after trouble with cracked bulkhead. now is threatened by soaring costs . Besides engine problems , the F-14 . F-15 and F-16 also have been hit by shortages of spare parts , which Representative Jack Edwards ( R-Ala. ) claims are grounding half the planes . Pentagon officials maintain that Edwards is citing a report that includes many planes grounded in peacetime while awaiting relatively minor repairs . These officials claim that , in a war crisis , 80 percent of the Air Force fighters and 70 percent of the Navy 's F-14s would be fit for combat even though not in perfect condition . The problems jinxing the F-18 , which is still being tested and which is free of engine troubles , are different . Besides the difficulty with the cracked bulkhead , the F-18 program is hampered by growing weight of the aircraft , poor acceleration at high altitudes and rising production costs . Solving these problems will require less drastic measures than are being prescribed for the three other planes . A new bulkhead has already been designed and tests have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager , insists that problems of weight and acceleration are not critical . The most serious problem facing the F-18 is likely to be financial . The current estimated cost of the 1,377 aircraft approved for the Navy is 24 billion dollars ? an average of 17.4 million per plane . That is more than 10 percent higher than originally calculated ? and costs threaten to continue rising sharply because of production problems . Pentagon experts point to this ironic twist in the crisis revolving around the four U.S. warplanes : When they are in the air , these planes can outfly and outshoot anything else that flies today . But until the bugs are eliminated , the Air Force and Navy face formidable ? and costly ? problems in getting them into the air and keeping them there .                     