@@333444

His is not one of the faces on Mount Rushmore , but Benjamin Franklin has a position in American mythology that could hardly be loftier . Canny diplomat and dispenser of moral apothegms , scientist and pioneer in electrical experiment and theory , Franklin is everyone 's favorite patriot , the kindly uncle of the American Revolution . There was , however , a dark side to the familiar beaming countenance , an aspect that might have come from one of Freud 's case histories of an overheated family crucible . This provocative and enlightening account overturns the legend by examining William , Benjamin 's only son , born out of wedlock in 1731 . Once his father 's closest confidant and potential partner , the younger Franklin nearly perished in prison because of a mutual that was , in the end , all that the two men had in common . <P> Virtually unknown today , William Franklin cut a grand figure in 18th century America . He was Royal Governor of New Jersey for more than a dozen years and a believer in the divine right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  John Hancock and John Adams had royalist in-laws  --  but none came asunder with quite the intensity of the Franklins . The result shocked contemporaries but , like imperceptible fissures that suddenly expand in an earthquake , took considerable time in the making . <P> An unlikely combination of circumstances has conspired to keep this curious , compelling tale from public view . History is written by the victors ; the senior Franklin 's autobiography gives his offspring no more than a brief nod for helping him build some frontier forts . As for William , his chance of writing his own version was severely hampered by a Revolutionary War fire that destroyed not only his furniture but all his papers . Luck was most assuredly not on this man 's side . <P> Willard Sterne Randall , a former investigative reporter who was directed to the Franklin imbroglio by Historian Catherine Drinker Bowen , has done a brilliant reconstruction from archival material widely scattered in England , France and the U.S. Although his research was thorough enough to produce a 700-odd item bibliography , Randall 's greatest skill is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital , believable figures : Benjamin , " puffy and smooth from gout , his body overweight and rounded into the peculiar barrel shape of the once-powerful swimmer too long out of the . water " ; William , " a smoother , thinner , sharper replica of his father , with the same impressive forehead , the same strong , straight nose apostrophizing the same set jaw and pronounced chin . " Through his 20s , the younger Franklin is an almost biblical son , honoring his father , serving as lab assistant , aide-de-camp , courier , legal factotum , confidential secretary , bodyguard and chief military adviser . The two are closest during the French and Indian War ( 1754-60 ) , when they jointly conceive the idea of gaining title for themselves to fertile lands west of the Appalachians .                     