@@487731

Watch Jamaica , said Ronald Reagan shortly after his inauguration in 1981 . The Caribbean island of 2.2 million people was to be a showcase for the magic of the marketplace , under the auspices of newly elected Prime Minister Edward Seaga . Almost six years have passed , and perhaps the only magic is that Seaga manages to cling to power . In spite of a massive infusion of foreign loans and U.S. aid , the Jamaican economy is a disaster . The national output is stagnant , unemployment and the cost of living continue to rise and devaluations have cut the Jamaican dollar to one-third of what it was worth in October 1980 , when Seaga came into office --  The days of Seaga and his Jamaica Labor Party ( J.L.P. ) are numbered . In July the opposition people 's National Party ( P.N.P. ) , led by former Prime Minister Michael Manley , , won a landslide victory in local government elections . The P.N.P. , as well as members of the business community , labor movement and media are urging Seaga to call national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so until late 1988 . In a clumsy attempt to buy time the Prink Minister announced in October that he would step down next summer . But within a month , although his announcement had failed to elicit howls of protest , he declared that he would stay on ; the country needed him too much . Seaga was elected on a promise that money would soon be " jingling in people 's pockets . " The turnaround of the economy would be based on a surge of export-led growth , principally in manufactured goods and nontraditional agricultural products , such as flowers and winter vegetables . In line with the Reagan Administration 's Caribbean Basin Initiative , Jamaica would be transformed into an export platform for the U.S. market  --  the Singapore or Taiwan of the Caribbean . Seaga also promised to encourage the growth of Jamaica 's two largest official foreign exchange earners , Michael Kaufman is Deputy Coordinator of the Caribbean Program at the Centre for Research on Latin America and the Caribbean ( CERLAC ) at York University , Toronto . He is the author of Jamaica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill ) . December 27 , 1986/January 3 , 1987 tourism and bauxite/alumina , and , prodded by Washington , to crack down on ganja , or marijuana , which may be the island 's number-one export . Loans began to flow from commercial banks , the U.S. Agency for International Development , the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank ; Jamaica signed agreements for hundreds of millions of dollars in balanceof-payments support from the international Monetary Fund . Although Jamaicans have never displayed much personal fondness for the cold , bureaucratic Seaga , the ease with which the country secured new loans , after years of being starved for cash under the Manley government , bolstered Seaga 's reputation as a brilliant technocrat . Fissures soon began to appear . Much of the money that came in the first years of the J.L.P. government was squandered in a frenzy of consumption by the middle class and the rich . Between 1980 and 1983 imports increased substantially , although exports declined by more than 30 percent . The rate of increase in the import of consumer durables was ten times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets , and satellite dishes blossomed like exotic plants in the posh neighborhoods on the hillsides surrounding Kingston , the capital . But the flood of cheap imports was ruinous for many sectors of local industry : while 750,000 pairs of shoes were brought into the country , for example , six Jamaican shoe factories closed down for lack of business . The import of cheap foodstuffs temporarily restrained inflation , but it hastened the decline in agriculture for local consumption . Seaga gave little encouragement to the majority of Jamaican farmers , who subsist on meager incomes from their tiny plots . Instead , he devoted his attention to programs like Agro 21 , which received World Bank funding to develop high-technology agriculture , farming largely for export . At the end of 1983 domestic agriculture and livestock production dropped to below 1980 levels . And last summer Agro 21 's centerpiece , an experimental vegetable farm , went bankrupt . Big loans and balance-of-payments support have done nothing to correct the fundamental problems of the economy : factories producing at a fraction of capacity ; maldistribution of land ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods and clothing ; and high rates of unemployment , with all the attendant social ills . It is estimated that in the ghettos of Kingston two out of three people are unemployed . Loans and aid have hardly stimulated capital investment ; most of the money that left Jamaica in the 1970s has not returned . Export processing zones , which offered investors government subsidies , tax breaks and low wages , attracted only a modest number of companies , certainly not enough to offset the spectacular contraction of the bauxite/alumina industry . Atlantic- , Richfield pulled out of the island , and Reynolds Metals Company closed down its plant . Only the tourism industry , promoted by extensive advertising campaignS ' in North America , has shown consistent improvement . As the economic situation worsened after 1983 , the government turned to the I.M.F. , which demanded successive devaluations of the Jamaican dollar in exchange for balance-of-payments support . This did not boost exports , but it did cause , dizzying increases in the cost of food , gasoline , electricity , cooking gas , water , bus fares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and March 1986 , Jamaica 's consumer price index rose by 117 percent . It was not only the rural and urban poor who saw their living standards slump . By 1983 the middle class too was feeling the crunch and by 1986 its rapid economic decline was clearly visible . To make matters worse , the social and political climate has deteriorated sharply . A snap election in 1983 on the heels of the Grenada invasion  --  which briefly heightened Seaga 's popularity  --  was boycotted by the P.N.P. because voting lists were hopelessly outdated . Since then there has been no official opposition in the Jamaica Legislature . And while Seaga has cut government spending on social programs , he has raised the budgets for the police and the army , part of a U.S.-sponsored trend throughout the region . The independent Jamaica Council for Human Rights and the Jamaica Council of Churches have pointed with alarm to the consequences . In particular , Seaga appears to have given free rein to the police force , including a notorious unit commonly known as the Eradication Squad . A recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year since 1979 , representing one-half of all murders in the country see Bell Gale Chevigny , " Killer Cops , " The Nation , September 13 , 1986 . Jamaicans scoff at press reports that offer self-defense as the reason police kill those who attack them with a stick or a pocketknife . The most recent opinion poll shows the P.N.P. holding a 26 percent lead over the J.L.P. To worsen Seaga 's predicament the right-wing establishment in the United States , once his firmest backer , has grown increasingly critical of his performance in office . In 1984 the U.S. Business Committee on Jamaica , launched with the voluble support of the Reagan Administration , was quietly disbanded . The committee 's chair , David Rockefeller , lamented , " We helped stabilize the economy , but we have n't turned the economy around . " Recent articles in " The Heritage Foundation Backgrounder " and The Journal of Economic Growth , supported by the Center for International Private Enterprise , have attacked the Seaga government for its betrayal of conservative principles . The Heritage report even suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proper free-market model . Seaga 's conservative credentials initially seemed impeccable . Especially during the Grenada invasion he appeared eager to please the White House on the international front . But he has failed to deliver the economic success story that was promised , in large part because the purist prescriptions of U.S. conservatives have foundered on local realities . Under Seaga deregulation of the economy has been patchy . The government has sold off some hotels and brought the giant Tate and Lyle multinational corporation back into the troubled sugar industry . At the same time , however , Seaga has nationalized Jamaica 's only oil refinery , which was previously owned by Exxon . Jamaica has also proved a less than reliable diplomatic ally , frequently casting its vote in the United Nations against the United States on issues such as South Africa , where there is , to say the least , local sensitivity . Finally , Jamaica 's image as a flourishing Westminster-style democracy , such an asset to the symbolic landscape of the Reagan Administration , has been seriously tarnished since the P.N.P. 's boycott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a one-party state . The business community , which turned almost unanimously from Manley to Seaga during the 1970s , is now divided . Jamaica 's most prominent banker , Ronald Sasso , re-cently condemned the government for being " too autocratic . " Other business leaders continue to back Seaga as ' the lesser of two evils ; some previous P.N.P. supporters have returned to Manley 's fold , while others , as reggae star Jimmy Cliff once put it , are sitting in limbo . No sector of Jamaican business , however , has offered a coherent alternative to Seaga 's technocratic free enterprise or to Manley 's social democracy . Over the past three years there have been growing signs of mass discontent : strikes , periodic demonstrations organized by the P.N.P. , and sporadic riots over price increases for gasoline and food . But most Jamaicans seem intent on buying time until the P.N.P. is re-elected . The eventual return of Michael Manley as Prime Minister will be broadly welcomed , but it raises the larger issue of the party 's ability to solve Jamaica 's social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in 1980 , the island 's social fabric had ripped apart . In its eight years in office the Manley government had loudly declared its commitment to " democratic socialism " at home and its solidarity with Third World aspirations for a new international economic order . In 1975 , in response to stiff Jamaican levies on U.S. and Canadian bauxite production , the Ford Administration cut economic aid . Jamaica 's friendly relations with Cuba were a further irritant . Its support for the Cuban intervention in Angola infuriated Henry Kissinger and in 1976 prompted a spate of fiercely anti-Manley articles in the U.S. press . At the same time that the P.N.P. leader was acquiring the image of a crypto-Marxist in Washington , he faced a protracted conflict with the I.M.F . and eventually agreed to a harsh austerity package in May 1978 . At home , meanwhile , disaffection grew among the business community and the middle class , and an escalating campaign of political violence , widely blamed on the J.L.P. , took hundreds of lives . Although no smoking gun was ever found , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This time around the P.N.P. has attempted to soften its image and appear as a party of responsible change . Party leaders assert that they have no quarrel with the United States or with Jamaica 's big business . The P.N.P. 's left wing has expressed concern at this shift to the center , and many of its activists have abandoned the party altogether . But they have only begun to develop alternatives . In the 1970s the P.N.P. 's rallying cry was social justice and the redistribution of wealth . Today , satellite dishes and Volvos notwithstanding , there is precious little to redistribute . Any new strategy , therefore , must necessarily be one of growth , to use a term that is anathema to the left . That does not mean growth for its own sake but , rather , as economist Norman Girvan of the University of the West Indies suggests , " a strategy for economic growth that is consistent with a shift in power relations and income distribution toward the majority classes . " Perhaps the priority of this kind of strategy is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insuring that the population is fed , this would reduce the food import bill , provide jobs , begin to halt migration to the cities and reduce dependency . Such a plan would require , a rapid redistribution of idle land and a channeling of funds and technical and social resources toward the countryside . For the past thirty-five years both the left and the right have emphasized manufacturing and mineral development to the detriment of agriculture . Overall , a successful growth strategy involves stimulating unused capacity and encouraging labor-intensive manufacturing and craft production geared to meeting basic needs . This approach is fraught with difficulties . For one thing the foreign debt  --  which has doubled to $3.5 billion under Seaga  --  is eating up a widening slice of the country 's export revenues . Jamaica will have to make common cause with other nations in the region in drastically reducing its debt repayments . The P.N.P. also acknowledges that it will have to take harsh measures to hold on to foreign exchange , for instance placing restrictions on energy use and banning a range of imported consumer items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting like North American consumers might encourage further desertion of professionals and skilled workers . Jamaica is a bitterly divided society , and the risk is that the J.L.P. , once removed from office , may respond to wrenching economic measures like these with a new round of the deadly political violence that plagued the country in the 1970s . The P.N.P. 's best hope of lessening tensions and building a national consensus lies in fresh political initiatives to extend decision-making to the community and shop-floor levels . One heartening sign is the P.N.P. 's quiet revival of the idea of community councils and community economic organizations , or C.E.O.s . The economic organizations are a form of cooperative or community-owned business under the direction of the councils , which were expanded by the P.N.P. in the late 1970s . Although the status of the councils was never formalized in law , they attracted some 25,000 participants , mostly in small communities . The nonpartisan councils , which were open to all adults in a town or neighborhood , pointed to the possibility of united community action around the common goals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maneuver on the international stage will be even more restricted , and one sensible feature of the. - party 's current approach is its refraining from the type of rhetoric that U.S. policy-makers love to hate . Although it is na  --  ve to imagine that friendly language alone will head off U.S. opposition , the P.N.P. 's most recent experience of power , together with the destruction of the revolution in Grenada , have taught Manley that there is nothing to be gained from inviting confrontation . An economic growth strategy along the lines described by Girvan would also help internationally by limiting the points of conflict with foreign capital to the one , though still admittedly explosive , issue of the national debt . Although it is safe to predict that the P.N.P. will soon return to power , it is hard to be sanguine about its prospects . The deep structural crisis of the economy and a. hostile - international environment oblige the party to act cautiously . But if the P.N.P. is overly cautious , as appears likely , it will be unable to find a way out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connections between growth , self-reliance and democratization stands any chance of success . ? 