@@331069

The institute 's main building is a white mansion perched on a hillside in Charlottesville , Va . The two-year work-study program is as demanding as any other in the U.S. New students go through a kind of Outward Bound rock- climbing ritual . " You get a sense of who you can depend on , " says Don Alexander , a second-year student . Building that sort of group working relationship is precisely what the institute has in mind  --  that and the graduate education of the future leaders of the textile industry . Every year Charlottesville 's Institute of Textile Technology ( I.T.T. ) turns out a new crop of masters of science imbued with the latest high-tech manufacturing and management skills . " It 's a lot different from other graduate programs , " Alexander says of I.T.T . ' s curriculum . " It 's more industry related . " Not affiliated with a university , the institute is completely supported by some 35 textile companies that it serves as a supplier of the kinds of cutting-edge team players regular schools of higher education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to a report last week by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching , I.T.T . stands as a prime example of the growing commitment by U.S. corporations to education for the workplace . At a time when galloping technology can render an engineer 's training obsolete within five years , the study notes that " America 's business has become its own educational provider . " Says Del Lippert , vice president for educational services at Digital Equipment Corp. : " It 's a matter of survival . " <P> The 224-page study , called Corporate Classrooms : The Learning Business , represents more than two years of research by Carnegie Trustee Nell Eurich on what has been a disconnected and poorly observed educational behemoth . U.S. companies , Eurich reports , are training and educating nearly 8 million people , close to the total enrollment in America 's four-year colleges and universities . According to Carnegie President Ernest Boyer , the corporate classroom has quietly become " a kind of third leg of the education system in the U.S. " And it is one of the strongest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English to nuclear engineering . Some subjects , such as language and accounting , overlap those in the nation 's traditional schools . Others compensate for gaps in the conventional curriculum . General Electric 's manager of management education , James Baughman , for one , says , " There is vast illiteracy on business-school faculties " in both the mechanics of advanced technology and its management implications . Says a Texas Instruments executive : " As technology changes , universities tend to lag one to three years behind what 's happening in the workplace . "                     