@@432246

 | In the teeming bazaars and the wellscrubbed diplomatic compounds of this ancient Arab city there is a solid conviction that Syrian President Hafez Assad nailed down a pivotal role on the Mideast scene by taking the lead in freeing America 's hijack hostages . Bolstered by widespread admiration for his firm , skillful handling of the Beirut crisis , the Syrian leader is now expected to exploit his strengthened position to reach long-sought goals ? some clearly against the interests of the United States . Among them : Thwart any American-supported peace moves in the region that fail to make Syria a key player and dismiss the views of the Soviet Union , its major ally . Achieve complete domination of Lebanon by wielding veto power over any government set up there . Undercut Yassir Arafat 's mainstream Palestine Liberation Organization , which Assad fears is prepared to recognize Israel and strike a " land for peace " deal with the Jewish state . Despite Assad 's constructive role in the hijacking crisis , his goals and his tough methods of achieving them pose dangerous problems for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motives in getting the hostages freed were purely political , not humanitarian . A humane image does not square with Assad 's record for killing and imprisoning his enemies at home . Also , it is widely accepted here that Assad 's government has encouraged violence ? including terrorism ? against Arab nations seeking to negotiate peace with Israel . Few believe he is about to eschew those tactics despite current efforts to play down past Syrian involvement in terrorist activities . One immediate Assad target appears to be the peace initiative put forward last May by Jordan 's King Hussein . Supported by the U.S. , the plan calls for multistage talks aimed at getting Israel , Jordan and Palestinian representatives to the bargaining table to negotiate the future of the West Bank and Gaza Strip . Assad bitterly opposes this approach , as he did the U.S.-sponsored 1978 Camp David Accords that resulted in a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt . What particularly enrages Assad is the failure of Washington or Hussein to even raise the issue of Israel 's annexation of the Golan Heights , captured from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement in the Middle East that disregards Syria , " warns a senior Foreign Ministry official in Damascus . What that really means , say some Mideast specialists , is that Assad will try to scuttle any regional peace effort that does not guarantee him one of the biggest chairs at the bargaining table . Assad 's close ties to Moscow are a special worry to some U.S. officials , who have tried for years to prevent the Kremlin from rebuilding its once significant influence in the Mideast . Although Syria is no Soviet puppet , it is almost totally dependent on Moscow for arms and has a friendship treaty with the U.S.S.R. However , there are no Soviet military bases in Syria , and Soviet officials seem to have no more access or influence than any other outsiders in this secretive capital . Still , Assad 's presence in the hostage negotiations was delayed for four days while he flew to Moscow for top-level Kremlin meetings . There is at least circumstantial evidence that he wanted to coordinate with the Soviets before taking risks to help the U.S. , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab nation . " A big IOU . Some Western analysts predict that Moscow 's eventual price for continuing massive arms deliveries , vital if Assad is to match Israel militarily , may well be that Syria demand that the Kremlin be invited to participate in future Mideast peace negotiations . Ironically , some of Assad 's goals in Lebanon parallel U.S. aims . He wants to prevent Shiite leader Nabih Berri 's relatively mod- erate Amal militia faction from being swept aside by more-militant Islamic fundamentalists . In an effort to minimize dangers of Israeli reprisals , he wants to keep Moslem terrorists bent on attacking Israel from moving back into southern Lebanon . He fears such Israeli attacks could drag in his own troops posted elsewhere in Lebanon . Although the U.S. still officially supports " an independent Lebanon free of all foreign domination , " Washington now tacitly accepts Syrian dominance in Beirut , which contributes to improved American relations with Assad . Syria , says an official in Damascus , " is the power that must be dealt with on any matter involving Lebanon . " Few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement , though there is considerable concern about his ruthless ways of insuring control . Another worry for the West is the possible renewal of terrorist attacks against previous targets of Assad ? Egypt , Jordan , Iraq and Palestinians loyal to the anti-Syrian , pro-Arafat faction of the PLO . Last December , a Jordanian-Palestinian front aimed at overthrowing Jordan 's King Hussein was proclaimed at a news conference in Damascus . Several weeks ago , three exiled Iraqi leaders in Syria announced the formation of a " national democratic front " to topple Iraqi President Saddam Hussein . A call for martyrs . Particularly troubling is Assad 's recent extolling as a virtue such fanatical acts as becoming a martyr while driving a bomb-laden car against enemies of the " Arab nation . " Not long ago he called on young Syrians to emulate Sana Mhaidli , a beautiful Lebanese woman who died in a suicide attack that killed 14 Israeli soldiers . " This type of person , " he told a Revolutionary Youth Congress in Damascus , " is essential in the process of restoring the strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such radical rhetoric ? along with tight police controls ? helps divert attention from rampant corruption and an economy surviving mainly because of the black market . Bread and other basics are in short supply . Industries , all state run , stagger under rigid bureaucratic direction . Yet somehow the government finds funds to import new Mercedes cars and build apartments for Army officers and senior officials of the ruling Ba'ath Party . Added up , this combination of toughness at home , menacing power abroad and new stature internationally all serve to underscore Assad 's ever more powerful and decisive position .                     