@@432222

 | The child was only two and a half , but a teachers ' group in Council Bluffs , Iowa , filed a petition in U.S. district court last fall to prevent her enrollment at the Longfellow School . The reason : she suffers from herpes simplex II , and teachers and parents feared she would contaminate other children . A homosexual man , who was known to have AIDS ( Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ) , lay on the street , bleeding badly after an automobile accident . As soon as the paramedics had moved him , the Denver fire department hurriedly doused the street with a strong solution of sodium hydroxide . Even though many Americans worry excessively about the possibility of contracting a sexually transmitted disease ( STD ) , their concern is understandable : the United States is currently in the grip of an STD outbreak of unprecedented proportions . The statistics are awesome : 1 in 4 Americans between the ages of 15 and 55 will acquire STD at some point in his or her life . Twenty-seven thousand cases are contracted every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 10 million people visit doctors ' offices and clinics every year for the problem , which now accounts for more than $2 billion annually in health-care costs . Unlike syphilis and gonorrhea , which usually respond to antibiotics , some of the new STD 's have confounded modern medicine . They can not always be cured , and they sometimes result in chronic pain , sterility , abnormal pregnancies , brain-damaged children and cancer ; in the case of AIDS the outcome is almost-certain death . The AIDS virus afflicted about 4,500 people in the United States last year , an alarming increase over the 2,635 cases reported in 1983 . " There is a true increase in disease and a true increase in recognition of new problems , " says infectious-disease specialist Dr. Walter E. Stamm of the University of Washington . " It 's not going away . " Researchers now also realize that many previously familiar diseases , like hepatitis B and shigellosis , a gastrointestinal disorder , are frequently transmitted sexually . Of the 25 or so diseases now known to be spread through sexual contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a million new victims annually for the past several years ; gonorrhea struck some 2 million Americans in 1984 , and syphilis , 90,000 . But perhaps the fastest-growing STD is an infection most of its victims have never heard of before : Chlamydia trachomatis . This disorder , which now strikes about 3 million to 4 million Americans each year , causes sterility in 11,000 women annually ? often without producing any symptoms that might have sent them to a physician before the damage was done . But even STD patients who rush to their doctors at the first sign of trouble may not always receive proper diagnosis and treatment . According to Stamm , probably no more than half of U.S. medical schools offer any specific clinical training in handling STD 's ; a 1982 survey revealed that in those schools that did provide such instruction , the average time allotted was only three or four hours . In the past , paying such skimpy attention to STD might have been justified , Stamm observes , because the diseases were n't hard to recognize or treat . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not going away ' blood test for syphilis and give a shot of penicillin , you were state of the art , " declares Dr. H. Hunter Handsfield , director of the acclaimed STD-control program run by the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health . But now , Stamm says , " the number of disorders and clini-cal complexities have greatly expanded . This is not a simple set of diseases . " To help doctors catch up , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control ( CDC ) and the National Institutes of Health have set up a two-week STD training program ; 7,000 physicians have taken the mini-course . One of the most striking characteristics of the current crop of STD 's is that ? with the notable exception of AIDS their most severe consequences are visited upon women and babies . A prime example is chlamydia , a disease that strikes both sexes , but with very different repercussions . Unlike AIDS , syphilis and gonorrhea , chlamydia is not among the STD 's that doctors are required to report to health authorities , but no one doubts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are hard to pin down is that until recently the diagnosis ( made by culturing suspected chlamydia cells in the lab ) was so cumbersome , time consuming and expensive that it was seldom made . But a simpler , cheaper test has just been developed that does n't require the culturing of cells and should make accurate diagnosis more common . Infertility : In both sexes the organism can initially produce a simple infection , characterized by very mild pain and a minor discharge , but women often experience no symptoms at all . Untreated , chlamydia frequently moves to the uterine lining and Fallopian tubes , causing pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) . Usually accompanied @#  | by chronic pain and fever , PID can cause blockage of the Fallopian tubes with scar tissue and is one of the most common ? and serious ? consequences of STD . According to the Centers for Disease Control , 1 in 7 women of reproductive age has been treated for PID ; more than 1 million new cases are diagnosed every year . The condition , which can also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all women who seek treatment for infertility ; of those women whose infertility is due to tubal blockage , more than half have had chlamydia infections . Fetus : PID is also associated with premature delivery and life-threatening ectopic pregnancies , in which the fertilized egg is implanted outside the womb , usually in one of the Fallopian tubes . If a woman has had PID , she is eight times more likely than uninfected women to have an ectopic pregnancy . Between 1972 and 1981 the annual incidence of ectopics quadrupled , rising from 17,000 to 68,000 ; half of these cases , says Wendy Wertheimer of the American Social Health Association , can be attributed to PID . Treatment for early-stage chlamydia is effective but is not " a one-shot deal , " explains the CDC 's Dr. Lourdes Frau ; because the organism is so persistent , it takes 10 to 14 days of tetracycline or erythromycin ( not penicillin ) to cure it . Chlamydia and other kinds of STD in pregnant women pose a special threat to the fetus and newborn , who are " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Denver Department of Health . " This year more babies will be affected by STD than there were children affected by polio during the entire polio epidemic of the 1950s , " says Wertheimer . While chlamydia can cause lung and eye infections in newborns , every year hun-@# dreds of babies are born with a far more serious affliction : neonatal herpes . Without treatment , many of them die , and survivors often suffer permanent neurological damage . Although most neonatal herpes results from contact with the virus in the birth canal , in about one-third of the cases , says Dr. Andre Nahmias of Emory University , the mother does not have any visible lesions . For the estimated 5 million to 20 million adults who suffer from genital herpes , the most serious consequence is again borne by women : an elevated risk of cervical cancer . This heightened susceptibility is not diminished by the use of an experimental new antiviral drug , acyclovir , which studies have shown prevents frequent herpes recurrences but does not destroy the virus . Several vaccines aimed at preventing herpes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex to work with , for example , than the polio or hepatitis B viruses . But Dr. Lawrence Corey of the University of Washington hopes that within the next few years researchers will identify the important protective antibodies that will help create an effective vaccine . Cancer has also been associated with another type of STD that is on the rise : venereal warts . Caused by the papilloma virus , the warts are transmitted through the secretions exchanged during intercourse . According to the CDC , genital warts are three times as common as genital herpes ; in 1984 there were an estimated 1 million new cases . Difficult to diagnose and treat , this affliction has increasingly been linked with malignancies and premalignant conditions affecting the cervix , vagina , vulva , penis and anus . A pregnant woman with venereal warts can also transmit them to her baby during delivery ; in infants the warts can lodge in the larynx , trachea and lungs . Homosexual men must contend with a different set of STD 's , including the cluster of gastrointestinal disorders known as the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most , of course , is AIDS . Although more than 7,900 cases have been reported since 1979 , the CDC estimates that at least 300,000 people have been exposed to the HTLV-III virus that seems to cause the disease . Dr. James Curran , director of the CDC Task Force on AIDS , estimates that 10 to 20 percent of those exposed will develop full-blown AIDS , and another 20 percent will develop some symptoms . But the outlook could be even more ominous ; many researchers think the AIDS virus may persist in the body for many years before causing illness . Although homosexuals still account for 73 percent of all AIDS cases in the United States , and intravenous-drug abusers account for another 17 percent , the nagging fear still persists in some quarters that the virus will spread among heterosexuals as it has in central Africa and Haiti . The potential for heterosexual transmission of the disease has always existed , notes the CDC 's Dr. Harold Jaffe , through contact between straight women and AIDS victims who are bisexual , drug abusers or hemophiliacs ( all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disease 's six-year history , he points out , only 59 cases in the United States are believed to have been spread that way . Is STD here to stay ? Since many Americans are unlikely to give up their freewheeling approach to sex , the answer is probably yes . But a growing number of homosexuals and heterosexuals alike have recently been motivated by fear of STD to adopt a less promiscuous life-style ; a few have even sworn off sex entirely . While none of the STD researchers advise such drastic measures , they have little to offer in the way of prevention . With effective vaccines a long way off , the best protection against STD , it seems , just might be a return to that oldfashioned safeguard : monogamy.                     