@@431996

 | From the vantage point of a satellite orbiting the earth , it was an awesome sight . Hurricane Allen simply covered the Gulf of Mexico . And it was heading deadstraight for the Texas coast . Disaster teams moved in ? from the Salvation Army , the Red Cross , myriad Federal agencies and insurance companies . Farmers rushed to process their cotton crops . Lifeguards barricaded beaches . Oil workers abandoned their offshore rigs . All along the Gulf Coast , thousands fled to shelters on high ground . One inland-bound Texas road was backed up for 26 miles . The next move was up to Allen . There was good reason for concern . During a deadly , 1,200-mile wobble through the Caribbean , Allen became the second most powerful Atlantic hurricane in history ( the strongest on record : an unnamed storm that devastated the Florida Keys on Labor Day , 1935 ) . Its central barometric pressure was terribly low ( 26.55 inches ) , and its eye was very small ? both ominous signs . As it approached the coast between Brownsville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 170 mph , and some gusts topped 200 . In just five days , the storm had grown from what the National Hurricane Center first called " a significant but not very severe hurricane " into " a once-in-a-century type storm . " Tornadoes : About 200,000 people left their homes and moved to safety inland as Hurricane Allen closed in on the southern coast of Texas . Along its fringe , the swirling winds whipped up tornadoes that destroyed several homes and stores in Brownsville . The city 's electricity , gas and water were knocked out . The first life-ordeath crisis caused by the hurricane occurred when an oil tanker called the Mary Ellen tried to run for safety . The ship lost power about 5 miles from Padre Island off Brownsville . Carrying 280,000 barrels of oil and 37 crewmen , the tanker wallowed helplessly in the roiling sea , and tugboats sent to rescue it had to turn back . Finally the Mary Ellen ran aground . " If the ship stays intact , and it stays hard aground , and the people can stay on board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guard Lt. Steve Sparks . " Unfortunately , there 's nothing we can do for them . " For all its awesome power , Allen did far less damage in the Caribbean than many lesser storms ? including last year 's Hurricane David ? because it threaded its way around the islands instead of blowing right through them . But even with its main destructive force safely out to sea , the hurricane still wiped out much of the Caribbean banana crop , left thousands homeless and killed at least 87 people . Allen was born as a low-pressure system over West Africa and became the season 's first hurricane on Sunday , Aug. 3 . It buffetted Barbados , Dominica and St. Lucia . Puerto Rico , a full 250 miles from the storm , got winds of 70 mph ? strong enough to push big trees across many major roads . Its top winds now 170 mph , the hurricane brushed past Haiti , killing more than 50 people . Then the hurricane pounded northern Jamaica , reshaping the coastline in just six hours . Two beachfront hotels disappeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erased by a single slap from a 30-foot wave . " We kept peeking out every few minutes , " said one eyewitness . " One minute it was there . The next it wasn't. " people died in Jamaica , including five who were dragged out to sea from their homes . Glancing Blow : Cuba evacuated 210,000 people and 45,000 cattle , but received only a glancing blow as the storm passed by . Then Allen bounced into a high-pressure area over the southeastern United States , which protected the East Coast and pushed the storm toward the gulf . As 4,500 offshore oil riggers were being evacuated , a helicopter crashed , killing thirteen men . And when the storm headed for Mexico 's Yucatan Peninsula , 3,000 tourists fled the area 's posh hotels . But then Allen sidestepped to the lightly inhabited northeastern end of the peninsula . " This hurricane is a gentle giant , " said a Mexican airline pilot after flying over the area . " It is huge , but it has hurt very few people . " The giant became even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several hours , its forward momentum slowed , and when the center of the hurricane finally struck land near Brownsville its wind velocity had dropped to about 100 mph . Allen still had an awesome potential for death and destruction ; flooding and wind damage were extensive , sheets of rain were falling and tides were the highest in 60 years . But the impact was blunted by the diminishing of the winds , by the evacuation of threatened areas ? and by Allen 's eerie forbearance . In Brownsville , a house occupied by 24 people was lifted clear off its foundation . Then Allen set it down again . No one was hurt . @# 34                     