@@329460

Picasso and Braque : Pioneering Cubism , " which goes on view this week at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City , is by far the most demanding show MOMA has ever done . Whatever one 's stamina for comparing nuances of pictorial meaning , it will be taxed by this long sequence of more than 350 mostly small , mostly brown works of art that fill two floors of the museum through Jan. 16 . This will be the array of Cubist evidence at which future scholars will look back . Curator William Rubin , director emeritus of MOMA 's department of painting and sculpture , has called in all his markers . " Picasso and Braque " is his retirement aria , the climax of a great career in modernist scholarship . <P> Cubism is the archetype of 20th century cultural movements . Indeed , it is the reason so many people have come to think of modern art as a sequence of movements , group activities . Neither Pablo Picasso nor Georges Braque could have created it on his own : it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short time ) was relieved of the psychic burden of egoistic creation  --  the loneliness of the virtuoso  --  and the more cautious and measured Braque was spurred into radical experiment . It marks , more clearly than any other , the point at which modern art broke away from commonsense vision and split its audience into a tiny coterie who " got it " and a large majority who did not . By making the process of creation part of its subject , it ushered in the self-reflexiveness of modernism : art thinking about art . <P> The American museum industry has long argued that practically all later styles of 20th century painting and sculpture can be defined through either their origins in Cubism or their opposition to it . Abstract art comes out of the virtual disappearance of the recognizable nude or still life from Braque 's and Picasso 's work in the autumn of 1911 . Pop art is born in the letters , headlines and brand names they stenciled and glued onto their surfaces . Constructivist sculpture descends from Braque 's paper constructions and Picasso 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle to " escape the Cubist grid "  --  which was never a grid anyway . Cubism , from this simplified and patristic standpoint , becomes the tree in the primal garden of modernism , and Picasso and Braque its Adam and Eve . <P> Hence whole pyramids and stupas of doctoral paper have been raised over its site . No short period in the lives of two artists  --  about seven years from Picasso 's completion of Les Demoiselles d'Avignon in 1907 to Braque 's enlistment in the French army in 1914  --  has been more analyzed by more hands . Rather than try to boil down all this material for the general public ( a hopeless task ) , Rubin has taken a biographical approach , focusing entirely on the give-and-take between the two men , their bonds and differences , their mutual way of working through what he rightly calls " the most passionate adventure in our century 's art . "                     