@@494940

NECVREPUBLIC DECEMBER 25 , 1989 SUMMITS OF ' 89 Nineteen eighty-nine figures to be remembered as perhaps the most glorious year of the 20th century . It has been the year the long cold war ended ; the year the ideas of modern totalitarianism went stone dead ; the year the people of East-Central Europe began taking back the freedom denied them For generations ; the year liberty began to flourish in the Soviet Union in a way that goes far beyond anything ever seen there before . And except for the martyrs in Tiananmen Square , the revolutionary events of 1989 have occurred without bloodshed . At the center of these events ? at their summit , one might say ? has stood the extraordinary figure of Mikhail Gorbachev , who has emerged as a mover and shaker of history potentially on a par with Lenin and Churchill . Roosevelt and Gandhi . In the final month of 1989 ? as the rout of East Germany 's postwar Communist satraps continued , as peacefUl Prague crowds steadily forced the government to offer further concessions , and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to repent for the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia ? Gorbachev went to Rome and visited the pope . That was a first : no Soviet leader had ever met with a reigning pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church . Gorbachev thus signaled the conversion , so to speak , of the Soviet Union from an atheist to a merely secular country . Given the long history of enmity between Catholicism and communism , the sight of the Soviet chief and the Polish pope whispering together in Russian was another stunner in a year of stunners . The meeting later in the week between Gorbachev and President Bush was not a first . It was the 15th encounter between top US. and Soviet leaders since World War II . Nor was it the first time leaders of the two countries had expressed the hope that they could work together to make the era at hand one oflong-lasting peace . But it was the first time such hopes could be truly credited . But in celebrating the events that have taken place ? the felling of the Wall and the advance of liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation in the years to come , we ca n't let eu- phoria blind us to the fact that there is work to do to ensure that today 's promises are ( Whiled tomorrow . Inpost-summit statements , both Bush and Gorbachev refused to indulge in utopianism . Gorbachev said , " This is just the beginning of a long road to a long-lasting peaceful period . " Bush said , " We stand on the threshold of a new era . " Bush was not willing , under prompting from the press , to say definitively that the cold war has ended . That 's all right . He 'll have time for such declarations next year , when he meets Gorbachev to sign agreements slashing nuclear arsenals by 50 percent , eliminating the threat of conventional war in Europe , and reducing stockpiles of chemical weapons . Bush is woefully short on the poetic skill and dramatic presence that can make history live in people 's minds . But that 's not his primary job , which is to invent and execute the policies that secure the peace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , others can supply the music . Bush , for much of his first year in office , seemed wary and resentful of Gorbachev 's political skills . But once he saw that Gorbachev really meant to reduce the Soviet conventional threat to Europe , to get out of Afghanistan , to refbrm radically his own polity , and to let Eastern Europe determine its own destiny , the new American President adopted a new tack , one of assisting the processes under way in the East . Is Bush too cautious ? Well . yes . We would prefer more generous offers of economic assistance to Poland . Hungary , and the Soviet Union ? for instance . the readying of emergency airlifts and credit guarantees to tide those countries through food shortages this winter . But prudence is not a bad quality in a statesman , and the direction of his policy is sound . Some conservatives are saying that Bush actually abandoned his prudence in Malta by pushing for the signing of a START treaty by next June . Former arms negotiator Paul Nitze argues that it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially when the Administration has yet to decide internally what its long-term strategic priorities are . We think , though . that it 's fairly clear what those priorities should be : significant diminution of the Soviet first-strike threat against U.S. land-based missiles and the maintenance of the Strategic Defense Initiative as a muchreduced research program aimed at designing light systems to guard against limited attacks from crazed tyrants . It ought to be possible for the United States and the Soviet Union to work out an SDI protocol by next June that allows for limited testing sometime . Other issues that currently bar an agreement ? such as the Soviet demand for severe limits on nuclear and nonnuclear sea-launched cruise missiles ? could be severed from the START process . Of course , Bush ought to leave himself the psychological space to say , " Sorry , we simply could n't get the deal we wanted . " But signing a START agreement by June seems prudent to us . Politically , the East-West climate has shifted so that the alleged Russian proverb so often quoted by Ronald Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restated as " Verify , but trust . " Still , where nuclear arsenals are concerned , agreements need to be clear of ambiguities , so that political distrust does not develop in the future . No matter how favorable the atmosphere seems right now , the United States and the Soviet Union will remain , probably for good , nuclear powers armed with more than enough weapons of unimaginable power to be able to destroy utterly the other 's society . Prudence and realism apply in the area of conventional reductions , too . Congress naturally wants to slash deeply into defense spending in order to balance the budget and cash in a " peace dividend " to spend on unmet domestic priorities . The Administration itself has encouraged slash-mania , with budget director Richard Darman pushing for a five percent real reduction in defense spending next year . But reductions need to be undertaken by mutual agreement . We want the Soviets , for example , to withdraw forces from East Germany , Poland , and Hungary so that those countries can fully exercise self-determination . And we want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mount a renewed threat . So Bush is right to press for an agreement at the CFE talks in Vienna next year as a major priority and not start advertising deeper cuts or big U.S. troop withdrawals from Europe . Someday we may be able to draw down from ' 325,000 American troops to 100,000 or 50,000 or zero . Someday there may he no need for a military alliance called Nmo . But , as Bush said the other day , that 's in Utopia . That 's not yet . We still can not be sure that the change in the Soviet Union is irreversible . It seems clear that Gorbachev is pushing hard for economic liberalization and political loosening , but the odds on his success ? if not his survival ? are long . Economic conditions are worsening , workers are shutting down vital industries , and national and ethnic tensions are crackling , some with the additive of religious passion . Gorbachev may not be in charge two years from now , or he may have had to take on the role of nationalist despot to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect the security of the West and strike fast for sweeping Soviet arms reductions and freedom guarantees for Eastern Europe ? but without queering the process by seeming to exploit the rotting away of Soviet power . On the whole , we think , Bush is carrying this off pretty well . Even with the greatest generosity of spirit , no American President could " save " Gorbachev . The United States could not " save " Vietnam . It may not be able to save El Salvador . It has not yet begun even to think about how to save the millions in the American underclass . So there is no way to ensure the success of an unprecedented reform process in a country of 280 million people who have no experience whatever with popular rule or market economics . We can help . We are helping , especially by providing technical assistance in finance and management and by lifting trade restrictions as soon as liberal Soviet immigration policies are codified . Soviet leaders said in Malta that they did not want a " bailout . " We should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " them . But whatever advice Gorbachev needs ? in economics , democratic political organization . agriculture , transport , or non-strategic technology ? we ought to give . We ca n't afford a Marshall Plan of grants and credits , and the Soviet economy is n't ready to absorb one . But a know-how Marshall Plan is entirely possible . Such help , naturally , would be contingent on Gorbachev maintaining his movement toward internal democracy and responsible behavior abroad . An attempt to crush democratic expression or self-determination by an Eastern European ex-satellite would mean an end to it . But if Gorbachev needs to suppress ethnic violence or food riots , the United States should not object so long as the extent of force is not excessive . The hard case will come if Gorbachev uses force to retain Soviet possession of the Baltic republics . Bush wisely ducked a question about this at his post-summit press conference . But the principle should he that we will help as long as Gorbachev is working to give maximum autonomy to those countries , leading toward eventual self-determination . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Paul II , we hope it will be used to bring about reconciliation with justice within the Soviet Union , among hostile nationalities in Eastern Europe , and , as we suggested two weeks ago , between warring factions in Central America . There is danger that religion and nationalism ? in the Ukraine , especially ? could prove an explosive combination . The pope will naturally want to celebrate the legalization of the Ukrainian Catholic Church . He will want to resecure properties taken by the Communist Party and by the officially sanctioned Russian Orthodox Church . At the same time , he ought to help dampen tensions between Ukrainians and Russians . As in Poland . he ought to preach a gospel of peaceful reform and reconciliation of former enemies . President Bush recognizes that the main business of redrawing the map of Europe , and writing its history in the future , will he done by Europeans . He has asserted his intention to invent a " new Atlanticism " whereby the United States would retain a military , political , and economic presence in Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the United States , Bush has called for retention of the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe ? the forum of the 1975 Helsinki conference ? as the arena of future settlements . It seems there is a Bush strategy for Europe , after all . It is prudent . In the world of real-world politics , that is a high compliment .                     