@@494637

In 1966 I published an essay called " he Film Generation , " which was prompted by the then immense appetite for film or young people ? their proprietary esciternent , their feeling that film belonged to them because it was the art least tangled with the past and because they were treating it with a new seri- ousness . Many of these young people were university student , and their ap- petite quickly caused a growth in the number of film course , some of which were programs that led to degrees , including doctorates . On April IS 1968 the Neu , York Times reported that 60,000 graduate and undergraduate students wer enrolled in 15,000 film courses at 120e colleges , that " all three figures were double those of last y tar it ? ) p ) - ted to double again in the fall semester . " The American Film Institute soon began to publish a Guide to College Courses in Film and Television ; the seventh edition ( 198(1) listed 3,991 film courses for graduates and undergraduates ( with 3,477 courses in television and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that many campuses have extracurricular film sehes , might lead one to expect that the appetite for film among young people has at least been maintained , if not extended . I think it has diminished . I offer a brief personal report , not a social study . I 'm concerned as in 1966 ) not with specialists , students of film , but with young people generally . I think that they feel a much weaker affinity with film , halte little sense of " ownership , " show much greater ignorance of film history and much less awareness of what they have been TiqS111g Possibly the first signal of these con died . About this time I began to get other clear signals . I teach film courses ? not every year but often ? at two graduate schools , one of which is in New York , the city where films of every kind are most available . Five years ago , when I was introducing a Godard him to a New York class , I asked how many had seen it before . None . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had seen one film apircee-out of a class of 25 I then told them that if I had asked the some question of a cognate group ten years earlier , the class would have risen en masse and thrown their chairs at me . I did ask that question Inc years later , with even weaker response . A few weeks ago at the other univerly I h D 1 I A , . Afterward , a theater student and a painting student came up to me , independently of each other , and said the same thing , not only had she not known that the film existed , she had never imagined that the medium itself was capable of such heights . I could multiply examples . What has happened to the age group I described 20 years ago ? Here arc some guesses . First , an environment has disap-peared . Beginning in the late 1950s and continuing into the early 1970s , there w a flood of exceptionally as fine new films from abroad , films that are now ? with the speed of film canonization -- enshrined as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kurosawa , Godard , Truffaut , and many more . ( When 1 tell students that I ow those films when they we first shown here , they react as if 1 haerd seen the world premiere of The Oresteia . ) That foreign influx of quality had a huge impact on the young audience of the 19605 . It opened to them possibilities of depth and pertinence in a form they had always loved but had always assumed to be secondary to " serious ' art forms . This enlightenment then affected the was they looked at all films , new and old , foreign and domestic , and heightened their desire for comparable American film . By the end of the /960s American filmmakers had begun to respond to the new audience 's pressure fornew seriousness . But in recent years , for reasons too complex even to dabble in here , both the flood of serious foreign films and the stream of respon- sive serious American films have dwin- dled pitifully . No longer is there an al- most weekly reason for resurgent excitement 011 the screen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The stimulus toward all film provided by urgent new film is much weaker . Second , film studies may have had an effect analogous to that of literary studie , Two sorts of undergraduates take literature courses : those majoring in other fields and those concentrating on literature who are probably going on le graduate work . The specialists are no my subject , the others , and we all know any of them , feel that they have " done " their poetry and fiction in col lege and can subsequently devot themselves to practical matters . In film too ( as in 1966 ) the specialists are no my subject ; the others , having taken their college courses in film ? and with                     