@@432155

 | A race for domination in the expanding world of ultrafast computers ? with enormous consequences for America ? is now heating up between the United States and Japan . The goal : Supercomputers capable of such awesome speed that they will make today 's fastest computers look as if they are counting on their fingers . The U.S. traditionally has led in the development of large-scale " number crunchers " used in such complex areas as nuclear research , weather forecasting and aeronautical engineering . Already , 60 of these heavyweight machines ? all made in America ? are being used in ways indicating their tremendous potential : At Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore national laboratories , supercomputers solve problems in nuclear physics and weapons design that can require 10 trillion individual calculations . For example , they compute trajectories of intercontinental missiles and aim particle beams in atom smashers . The Boeing Company uses a supercomputer to simulate the nearly infinite variations in airflow around airplanes in flight , leading to more-efficient designs . At the National Security Agency , supercomputers are used in cryptology to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But now America 's early lead is being challenged . Japan 's National Superspeed Computer Project , backed by a 10-year , 200-million-dollar commitment , is aiming for undisputed superiority in the field by designing computers that will perform a billion separate calculations per second . Short-term output . By comparison , today 's fastest models will do 400 million calculations per second for short bursts , while a typical home computer can only complete several hundred arithmetic computations per second . Experts warn that unless a concerted effort is begun by U.S. government and industry , the nation will fall behind in supercomputer technology , a development they say could erase Western superiority in high-technology capability . Edward A. Fiegenbaum , a pioneer in computer development at Stanford University , admits that Japan 's project " is unlikely to be completely successful , but to view it therefore as a lot of smoke , as some U.S. industry leaders have done , is a serious mistake . " A National Science Foundation panel also criticized the fragmented American response to the Japanese challenge , noting that " under current conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development and application of this new generation of machines . " Bobby Ray Inman , president of Microelectronics &; Computer Technology Corporation ( MCC ) , a privately funded U.S. research firm , adds that relying on outside sources for technology can be risky . The former deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency says that " it would be a grave mistake to become dependent to any great degree on the Japanese or any foreign supplier " for high-speed computers . The intensity of the Japanese drive for global supremacy in electronics was brought to light last year when 21 executives of two Japanese companies were charged with conspiring to buy U.S. computer secrets from an undercover agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The case has not yet gone to trial . Existing supercomputers are used in scientific and industrial tasks that would take years to accomplish if done with slower computers . Several energy companies , for example , have begun using the devices to model oil fields and to project where new petroleum reserves may be found . The research already has located new sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million pieces of data , then does 800 billion calculations to predict the weather at 15-minute intervals over the next five days . Roles in movies . One of the most novel uses of the supercomputer is in moviemaking . Digital Productions , a Hollywood studio that worked on the computer-assisted movie " Tron , " has ordered a supercomputer to make other films using simulation . The machine will perform 5.76 billion calculations to produce a single second of film . Experts say supercomputers also could be used to help controllers monitor air traffic ? thus reducing the chances of aviation accidents ? and could design more aerodynamic , fuel-efficient automobiles . However , David H. Brandin , vice president and director of the Computer Science &; Technology division of SRI International , a California consulting firm , notes that only four U.S. universities have access to the hardware . " We are n't training enough people in the uses of these machines because there are n't enough to go around , " he says . " Once people can get their hands on these powerful tools , there 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Brandin is initiating Project Spread , a joint project with SRI and the Los Alamos and Livermore laboratories , that will give access to supercomputers to persons around the U.S. who would otherwise not have such access . Another worry is the speed with which faster computers are being developed , and the difficulty of keeping computer training by universities up to date . Because of the explosive growth rate of computer technology , observes Yale University computer scientist Martin H. Schultz , " Yesterday 's super ' computer is today 's hobbyist model . " Two companies , both based in Minnesota , make most of the world 's supercomputers . Cray Research is regarded as the leader in the field because its Cray-1 model was the first commercial supercomputer . Control Data Corporation produces a large-scale computer called the Cyber 205 , but has only a fraction of the market . A Cray-1 costs between 5 million and 15 million dollars , yet can perform 100,000 calculations for less than a penny . " Customers do n't pay millions of dollars for a machine unless it can save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rollwagen , the chairman of Cray Research . Rollwagen and other experts contend that the U.S. ultimately will win the race for bigger supercomputers , though two Japanese companies ? Hitachi and Fujitsu ? have announced that by early 1984 they will deliver machines that will be six times as fast as a Cray-1 . Bolstering the American experts ' arguments are several recent developments . Government watch . The Reagan administration 's Office of Science and Technology Policy has set up interagency groups to oversee supercomputer developments at the Departments of Energy and Defense , and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . Says White House science adviser George Keyworth : " We 're watching this situation closely because the industry is fragile , consisting of only a few manufacturers and relatively few customers . Our national interests require that we maintain a dependable domestic capability to meet our needs . We ca n't permit foreign manufacturers , whose development costs may be subsidized by their governments , to jeopardize that capability . " The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency has requested a 50-million-dollar budget for 1984 ? and 95 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Survivability project to develop a supercomputer for defense and civilian applications . Ultimately , the program will consume 500 million dollars in development costs . In addition , the MCC venture headed by Inman will pump 150 million dollars a year into supercomputers and other advanced-computer research . The funds come from more than a dozen electronics companies that are pooling their research efforts to counter the Japanese drive . A similar project of chip makers is under way . Labeled the Semiconductor Research Cooperative , it will fund advanced research by universities that will have industrial applications . Some analysts also are hopeful about special-purpose supercomputers that perform only one kind of task instead of having a broad range of abilities . One such machine being built by Columbia University physicists will digest information from particle accelerators designed to probe the structure of the atom . As envisioned , the machine will perform 100 billion operations a second ? a speed attainable only by machines that are dedicated to solving a specific kind of problem . Do such undertakings mean that the U.S. has awakened to the organized Japanese assault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and just in the nick of time . In the cutthroat competition to build the world 's most powerful computers , success will favor the nation that develops ever smaller memory circuits ? the so-called superchips . This year , Western Electric will market a fingernail-size sliver of silicon ? the 256K random-access memory chip ? that has been the Holy Grail of the computer industry for decades . Invented at Bell Laboratories , the 256K will store 262,144 separate pieces of information ? quadruple the amount of data that can be stored on today 's industry-standard 64K chip . This will equal 1,300 to 5,200 words of text . Using techniques known as very large-scale integration , chip makers have roughly doubled the number of components on semiconductor chips every year for the past 25 years . Shrinking chip size is necessary because of the limit imposed by the speed of light . The aim is to pack circuits closer together to shorten the time it takes electric pulses to move among them . Now , scientists can put the equivalent of a full-scale computer built in the 1960s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers as semiconductors.They are found in everything from wristwatches and microwave ovens to room-size computers . Because of their rapid growth prospects , they have been called " the crude oil of the 1980s . " That the 256K is fast , there is no dispute . It provides access to stored data in fewer than 100 billionths of a second , compared with around 200 billionths of a second for most 64K 's . " That does n't sound like much of a time saving , but to a supercomputer , it is an eternity , " says Jack Worlton , a supervisor of the computer system at Los Alamos National Laboratory . The Cray-1 supercomputer contains 250,000 memory and logic chips , wired together with 70 miles of cable . The 5-ton machine is packed so densely that its microworld of components can not drain off the heat produced . The circuits must be chilled by a lattice containing liquid coolant . Without this refrigeration , the Cray-1 would actually melt through the floor in a few minutes . Twice as fast . The Cray-2 , which is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cray-1 by using 256K chips . Even before the 256K chip becomes established in the market , researchers are making progress on new techniques aimed at eventually placing a million memory cells on a single chip . All these ideas remain on the drawing boards as of now . However , a chip designer at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington , D.C. , says that the time is rapidly approaching when silicon will no longer be able to keep up with the demands of larger computers . " At that point , " he says , " we 'd better have some superchips ready to plug in. "                     