@@432356

 | German Shepherds , Doberman Pinschers and Rottweilers used to be the popular choice for owning a tough guard dog or projecting a mean , macho image . But today 's " do n't mess with me " status symbol in the canine world is something else entirely . America 's baddest bad dog weighs between 40 and 60 pounds , can chomp through a chain-link fence and boasts 150 years of breeding designed to bring out the worst in its violent nature . " A dark and bloody history " The dog is called a pit bull , and on one day alone last week , representatives of the breed killed two people ? a 16-month-old girl in Jones , Okla. , and a 67-year-old retired hospital surgeon in Dayton , Ohio . While the estimated 1 million pit bulls represent less than 2 percent of the nation 's canine population , they were responsible last year for seven of the 13 dog-bite deaths recorded by the Humane Society of the United States . Pit bulls also are blamed for hundreds of savage maulings each year that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? facing lengthy reconstructive surgery . " These animals can be canine crocodiles , " says Randall Lockwood , a Humane Society expert on the behavior of vicious dogs . " They have a dark and bloody history . " Evidence of that heritage abounds . On April 6 , toddler Melissa Larabee died from a single massive bite to her throat from a pet pit bull that turned on her without warning . The same day , Dr. William Eckman was fatally wounded in a horrifying incident in which two of the animals savaged him for 25 minutes while nine people tried to pry off the dogs with poles , rods and brooms . At one point , Dr. Eckman clambered onto a car roof but the dogs leaped after him , pulling him to the ground . The relentless attack was so ferocious that paramedics and firefighters called to the scene remained in their vehicles , unwilling to assist those trying to halt the mayhem . Last November , 4-year-old Billy Gordon , Jr. , and his 11-year-old cousin , Wakeya Buford , were attacked by three pit bulls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflicted on Billy included a spine severed in two places . Wakeya , inert with fear , lay on the ground and was not hurt . The dogs ' owner , Hayward Turnipseed , 25 , was convicted in February of involuntary manslaughter and sentenced to five years in prison . It is believed to be the first case in the U.S. in which someone was imprisoned after a death resulting from a dog attack . The court ruled that Turnipseed was negligent in not confining his animals more carefully . Pit bulls trace their lineage to the coal-mining region of Staffordshire , England , where they were bred as fighting dogs after bull baiting was outlawed in 1835 . They should not be confused with Bull Terriers , which have elongated oval heads and have been bred for good temperament . Spuds MacKenzie of the Bud Light television commercials , for example , is a Bull Terrier . Through the decades , pit bulls ? known officially as American Pit Bull Terriers or American Staffordshire Terriers ? have been highly prized for their combat prowess and " gameness " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traits mark pit bulls as particularly dangerous . Unlike other dogs , which usually growl or Placid temperament or potentially vicious ? It 's difficult to know The pit bulls that killed Dr. William Eckman are held in a Dayton animal shelter for euthanasia give warning of an impending attack , pit bulls will charge silently and without any provocation . While other dogs usually bite and back off , the pit bull will clamp its viselike jaws on a victim and continue biting , shaking and tearing , like a shark in a feeding frenzy , until the victim ? or the dog ? is subdued or killed . Their fearsome nature includes a treacherous Jekyll-and-Hyde unpredictability : Many victims have been unsuspecting owners who had raised them from pups . Breeding for better temperament Pit bulls fall into two broad genetic groupings . Despite the fact that dog fighting is a felony in 33 states , the practice flourishes underground , and many pit bulls continue to be bred for aggression . Some responsible fanciers are breeding pit bulls for good temperament . But it is difficult , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly researching its ancestry . More than 50 communities , alarmed by recent attacks , have written regulations or passed legislation aimed at controlling pit bulls ? or banning them outright . But breed-specific laws are running into legal problems . " We need stronger laws against vicious dogs of all kinds , and the laws need to be enforced , " insists Debbie Le Brun of Shiro , Tex. , secretary of the National American Pit Bull Terrier Association . " This is a people problem , not a dog problem . I own nine pit bulls , and they 'll lick you to death . "                     