@@486982

The Marcos regime in the Philippines is coming apart at the seams in a way that is reminiscent of the disintegration of other despotic American clients . The logic of disaster has acquired a grim ? familiarity by now . First , ? a modernist , development-minded popular leader becomes isolated from his subjects . He refuses to , broaden his support , tightening repression and proclaiming him-Self ruler for life instead . Demonstrations erupt and are , crushed . Religious figures intervene . The C.I.A . or the State Department ordains a " moderate " leader as an alternative to the once-favored despot , but the candidate fails ( is assassinated , imprisoned , expelled ) , and revolution looms . Through it all , the United States government expresses anguished concern about its air bases , listening posts or seaports in the affected country . If the country is " lost , " vital U.S. security interests will be endangered . Debate is then directed at American defense strategy , as if refueling capabilities , reaction time and surveillance opportunities were what was at stake . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American military presence in countries such as the Philippines is to preserve , le presence itself and to keep the country in ? clienthood . The eminent Southeast Asia expert George McT . Kahin wrote last week in The New York Times that America 's Philippine bases could easily be moved to safer and stabler islands . Such a move would be expensive , but it would produce greater efficiency in the long run ' . Certainly the State Department and the Pentagon realize the military advantages of a move . But they disagree with the politics of it , for if they remove their presence , they lose control . And the end result of the revolutionary process -- -independence  --  they can not accept . VICTOR NAVASKY A word about the crime and the punishment : Assuming Ronald Radosh and Joyce Milton are right , toward the end of World War II an Army sergeant ' who was working as a machinist at Los Alamos came home one day.and at his brother , **30;2704;TOOLONG his sister 's knowledge ) drew , a-pict ) . ir ' : ? from memory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was secretly in production , and gave it to a man he had never seen before . This man , a ccinfessed perjurer , said heTgave it to the vice consul , Ofthe Soviet Ethbassyin New York . The picture did n't tell our Russian allies anythini'thex had n't already-been told infar greater detail ' by the physicist Klaus. ? uchs , - but it may have had corroborative value : As punishment ? the sergeant was sentenced to fifteen years in prison , the go-between was sentenced to thirty years ( as was a classmate of the brother-in-law who was vaguely ' said to.fmow something about it ) , The brother-in-law andsister were sentenced to death , and despite ' worldwide appeals for clemency , on June 19 , 1953 , they were executed at Sing Sing prison in Ossining , New York . The interesting question is , How come ? What was it in our history , our political culture , our circumstances that led the judge , the higher courts , politiCians at every level on up to the ' President , and the mainstream press to endorse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse than the alleged crime itself ? ' At the time , , these " atom spies , " as Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were called in the headlines , were said to have " stolen the secret of the atom There was fresh evidence last week that President Reagan 's hegemony over American attitudes and affairs is crumbling . James Watt 's forced r  --  signa- ' tion did more than disgrace one crass Cabinet Secretary ; it discredited the Administration 's rapacious land-misuse policies . Then , the Civil Rights Commission 's new attack on Reagan 's enforcement efforts , coupled with the ( Republican ) Senate 's stubborn refusal to confirm his nominees for that panel , showed there was serious resistance to Reaganism 's approach to race . Finally , the arrival of China 's Foreign Minister on a friendly visit to Washington was a measure of how far the-President has strayed from his convictions in the heyday of Beijing-baiting . Certainly the President remains in firm political control  --  more than his glib Democratic opponents like to admit . But his ideological hold is slipping . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and out of earshot of the White House ; Reagan has given up even the appearance of enthusiasm for the right-wing " social issues " that dominated his rhetoric during the first half of his term . In foreign affairs , the President is despised as a " pragmatist " by his once ardent supporters , such as New York Times columnist William Safire , who accuses him of being soft on Communism . In tone and substance , Reaganism seems to have been reborn as old-fashioned corporate conservatism , practiced  --  and perfected  --  by Republicans and not a few Democrats in years gone by . What happened ? From the start , Reaganism was based on false assumptions and flawed strategies . It is simply not true that Reagan 's electoral total represented a popular mandate for reaction , the triumph of a new national will to dismantle the structures of social progress and to rush headlong into war . Nor was it possible that the New Right rhetoric and ideological positions Reagan adopted in the first flush of victory could have led to policies that would work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan 's fastest friends in the West and in the Sun Belt . The Administration 's malignant neglect of civil rights and welfare gave rise to an upsurge of black and minority protest  --  and widened the gender gap . The cold war offensive has frightened everyone from West Berlin to West Covina . There is a somewhat whimsical theory that makes the rounds about this time in each Administration that a President 's political term  --  as opposed to his electoral one  --  runs from one half , of the quadrennium to the next ; that is , from two years before an inauguration to two years after it . Thus , the Reagan years began in 1978 , when Jimmy Carter fired up the cold war and cut back on social programs . In the same way , Reagan 's first political term ended last year , perhaps when he drove out Alexander Haig as Secretary of State and accepted a permanent , massive budget deficit . If that 's the case , we are well into the Presidency of 1982 to 1986 . Can we yet - call it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II ? Labor &; Mondale At first glance , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s October 5 endorsement of Walter Mondale 's Presidential candidacy looks like an aggressive attempt by union leaders to inject new labor militancy into Democratic politics as the electoral season begins . A few overheated unionists have even speculated that such an early move could ultimately lead big labor out of the Democratic Party and into a new progressive movement . But appearances here miss the point : labor 's endorsement is a defensive tactic , intended to stymie militant action rather than advance it . The federation is adept at finding harmless outlets for its members ' militancy . On Solidarity Day in September 1981 , it organized noisy demonstrations throughout the country to protest the ravages of Reaganomics on the rank and file . A quarter of amillion people attended the centerpiece rally in Washington . But that was only bne day , and virtually no follow-up , steps were taken to widen the demonstration 's impact . There were no serious attempts to build coalitions with nonlabor groups . There were no efforts to , organize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathetic ones , were discouraged . One community group that was organizing a Solidarity Day event was usurped by tir state A.F.L.-C.I.O . Nor have unions made the material commitments needed to . reverse their declining membership . Even counting the 1.2 million " new " members gained when the united Automobile Workers rejoined the federation ire June 1981 , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has lost more than a million members since 1980 . Despite gains in'a few unions , and despite the federation 's generally promising efforts in its campaign to organize Houston 's work force , the present level of organizing activity can not halt that decline . - Even more important and revealing is the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s failure to address those issues that concern most working Americans . In the real world of the 1980s , increased social spending will come only at the expense of military spending . But while the federation is on record against budget cuts for social spending and has established a committee to study national defense expenditures , A.F.L.-C.I.O. president , Lane ) Kirkland continues to be the cold war 's Abominable-Snow , ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federation 's positions on strategic weapons : it supports the MX missile and the Trident 2 , and opposes a nuclear freeze . Although the federation recently shifted its position on El Salvador , calling at its last convention for a negotiated settlement to end that country 's civil war , it continues to parrot the Reagan Administration 's line on Nicaragua , claiming that the Sandinists have betrayed the revolution . The federation hardly relishes theprospect of a politicized rank and file . At the national level , Kirkland has won measured praise for practicing " consensus rule " as the A.F.L.-C.I.O. central leadership has sought to tighten its control over member unions . The critical issue , however , is who is included in the consensus , and here the federation has been less than radical . For example , it supported the United Steel Workers ' old guard against insurgent Ed Sadlowski in a suit whose final resolution by the Supreme CoV upheld funding restrictions that make it virtually impossiFW for dissident union groups to win national union office . Of more immediate importance , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee to water down the reforms of the McGovern Commission. - The rules changes  --  including a shortening of the primary-caucus season , the abandonment of mandatory proportional representation in , the selection of state delegates , the reservation of approximately 14 percent of convention delegate seats for party leaders and elected officials not committed to specific candidates and ' the abolition of the " faithful delegate " rule , which compelled delegates to vote for the candidate they had pledged to support  --  give the advantage to early front-runners . Having helped write the new rules , the federation is putting them into effect with its early move to Mondale . Labor is gambling , to be sure , but it is a perfectly logical gamble in a game from which the rowdy rank and file have lOng " since been barred . Kirkland and other labor leaders have resumed their off-the-record meetings with top business figures in the Labor nagement Group , which were discontinued in the late Os after Douglas Fraser , then U.A.W. president , announced his resignation from the group in a widely publicized letter accusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In March 1981 , a few months before Solidarity Day , the group began to meet again . At that time , business members included Bechtel 's George Shultz , outgoing DuPont chairman Irving Shapiro and the heads of'several other large corporations who have overlapping ties through the Business Council , the Business Roundtable and the Committee for Economic Development . Shultz and Shapiro have since been replaced by equally well-connected executives , and Fraser , who last year loudly suspended himself from the Chrysler board to avoid an apparent conflict'of interest during the last round of contract negotiations , has quietly rejoined as a labor representative . - :The endorsement has prompted a great deal of media coyetagd about labor 's hold on Mondale . Time said he was gettihg'tooselose to " special interests " ? employing a standard for tlabor ' liberals it never applies to business conservatives . In fact , labor 's , candidates have a way of dissociating themselves from their " special interests " when they achieve high office . Labor 's last major public policy attempt to help itself , the labor law reform bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in office , failed to give- the measure sufficient support . While Mondale has a longer and better record on social issues than Carter , there are ominous signs that he is already feeling business pressures and responding to them . Shortly before he received the federation 's endorsement , Mondale met in Washington with some 300 prominent business supporters and began to organize a business advisory council , whose chairmen are former Treasury Secretary Michael Blumenthal ( now head of Burroughs ) and former Fed chairman and Treasury Secretary . G. William Miller ( who now heads his own investment firm ) . Although Mond le 's campaign organization initially refused to release the Mt of the speech he gave , an account of the meeting in The Washington Post is telling . Central to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s plans for reindustrialization are sharply increased tariff protection for noncompetitive industries and elaborate and large-scale bail-out measures for ailing firms . These are themes Mondale sounded repeatedly in the months leading up to his labor endorsement . Now , the Post story makes clear , " several of the businessmen present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import controls and on subsidies to older industries than he had in past speeches . " Thus the A.F.L1-C.I.O. ' s new path may only describe a circle , leading labor back to its own defensive positions . The Long Shadow Last week the Supreme Court denied Alger Hiss 's request to set aside his 1950 perjury conviction . This week 1,500 people will gather at Town Hall in New York City to hear a debate sponsored by The Nation and The New Republic on the subject " Were the Rosenbergs Framed ? " Why , more than three decades after the fact , do these infamous cold war cases refuse to die ? . They are , of course , different in critical ways . Hiss was convicted of perjury , the Rosenbergs of conspiracy to-commit espionage . Hiss was vaguely accused of stealing policy-oriented papers from the State Department , the Rosenbergs of stealing the secret of the atomic bomb . Hiss lost his career , the Rosenbergs their lives . But there are fundamental similarities that help account for the continuing interest in , and importance of , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cold war , neither Hiss nor the Rosenbergs received fair trials . Possibilities of fabricated evidence and frame-ups aside , materials made available under the Freedom of Information Act , as well as the independent findings of journalists , lawyers . and scholars , suggest that through the use of wiretaps , informers , ex parte communications , break-ins and - other extrajudicial methods , the defendants were deprived of their basic rights , in violation of the American promise of justice for all . - " ss I , oh. : ' , - , - Second , the - cases have come to- symbolize cold war politics . The Hiss case was cynically used by the rightstotaint a generation of New Deal liberals , and to prove that Communists and their agents had infiltrated the policy-making apparatus of the U.S. goVernment at the highest levels . The Rosenberg case served to reinforce the.myth that there was a domestic Red menace sufficiently menacing to justify intrusions on fundamental rights and liberties see Victor Navasky 's " Of ' Atom Spies ' and Ambiguities , " which begins on the cover . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time and subsequently has profoundly influenced the lives of liberals and those on the left . The film Daniel , from E.L . Doctorow 's The Book of Daniel , which was inspired by the Rosenberg case , has generated controversy because so many of us are , in a sense , children of these cold war cases . Thus the debate at Town Hall and the ongoing attempts of scholars and journalists ( if not the courts ) to set the record straight in the Hiss Case are not exercises in nostalgia , For the liberal left , in particular , establishing the facts where they can be known , accepting what can not be known and focusing on how the political process worked in relation to these cases  --  how it was used and misused for ideological purposes  --  may be the prelude to a generation 's coming to terms with its own identity . - But debates are adversarial by their nature , and historians lack subpoena power and investigative staffs . Enough is now known about the injustices connected with the Hiss and Rosenberg cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Royal Commissions of Britain . ostoyevsky 's Grand Inquisitor posed , the clues , tion : If you could found a World of perfect justice ' on the sole condition that you tortured one small child to death , WOUld'you or could you submit to that condition and sacrifice the child ? A good question , and one which has given much wholesome exercise to moral philosophers . Today 's dilemma is less elevating but more urgent : Would you increase the risk of thermonuclear war , which would kill every born and unborn ' Child in both combatant and noncombatant nations , now and forever- , in order to save the face and improve the electoral prospects of , the Reagan Administration ? - : , ? In the paSt few weeks two senior Members of that Administration have privately admitted that the proposed deployment of cruise and Pershing missiles in Western Europe is pointless at best . They have also admitted that the argil , ments for it are logically flawed . The insane decision still stands , however , because to rescind it would damage that fragile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must read " Ronald Reagan 's image " ? not at all the same thing . One of those confessions was made in my hearing by Richard Perle , Assistant Secretary of Defense . At a private meeting in Washington he said that the new missiles are militarily valueless , and that if he had it to do again he would oppose their deployment . But he ' said they have to go ahead because they represent an American commitment . The only honorable thing about this statement is its , franknesswhich has not been matched in publi ? . Its effective content is to make Europe a hostage to Presidential vanity and to a childish understanding of what is meant by " will . " A few clays ago , Richard Burt , Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs , also ruminated on the deploy-ment trap . It is difficult to remember now , but when the missiles were first proposed they were to be deployed on a " two-track " basis . That is , they were contingent on the failure of arms control negotiations in Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was honest enough to acknowledge is that there is a methodological absurdity at the very core of the bargain . Now that American " will " is staked on deployment- , there is a positive , active disincentive to reach an agreement that would cancel it . A , real agree , ment would , in some sense , represent a -- defeat . The two tracks , which were never parallel , now run directly counter . And , of necessity , the preparations for deployment have assumed their own momentum . Almost everyone involved with the original decision now regrets or , repudiates it ? the West German ' Social Democrats most of 3a11. , Willy Brandt , whom I saw in Washington recently , -. is calling urgently for at least a delay in . deployment . He says that when the initial proposition was made , Helmut Schmidt and his government were unaware of , what , they were getting into . Brandt at least is not too bovine.to admit a mistake . Yet Perle and Burt have the Cool.nerve to say that deployment must go ahead because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning that keeps-the Administration " on course , " and it ought to be more famous than it is. * * * The greatest curse of reform politics is lesser- evilism . It 's considered obvious by Democratic wise guys that the c didate most likely to win is the best candidate , and once h nominated all criticism is secondary , if not downright disloyal . The thing is to win ; politics is not for sentimental idealists ; if you ca n't stand the heat get out of the kitchen , etc. ad nauseam . The trouble with this argument , aside from its baboonlike intellectual level , is that it is n't as " realistic " as it sounds ; and often leads to hopeless loser candidates like Humphrey and Carter . It also has a way of getting debased with use . Each succeeding lesser evil is lesser and more evil than the last . We have reached the logical terminus of this process when it is suggested  --  as it is now by John Glenn  --  that you can beat Reagan only by , in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidacy be expected to , attract the famous " middle ground " ? If you give the electors a choice between an authentic Reagan and a pseudo-Reagan , why should they not pick the genuine article ? The importance of George McGovern 's candidacy is that , - - even if it is a failure in " realistic " terms , it still may sham &; the other candidates into a more affirmative  --  and eveiepoi litical  --  discourse . There is evidence that this has happened already . On October 8 , at a Democratic fund-raising dinner in Des Moines , McGovern was picked to speak first , and after listening to his reception , Walter Mondale , who was billed last , had to abandon his prepared script and speak more like a Democrat. - McGovern , whose team had bought no tickets for the dinner , picked up just under 100 straws without trying . Three of the six contenders have asked for his endorsement instead of his rivalry , but he is not running just for fun and is encouraged by the anti-mush effect of his very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was for the first time . It seems to me that he obviously ought to be President . Alone of the Democratic candidates , he wants to reduce rather than increase the military budget and the rate of development of new weaponry . He is the only one who does not want , even a bit , to use American troops in support of the Phalange in Lebanon or the Central American right . In a late reply to Mayor Koch 's questionnaire , he has become ' 411* only respondent to oppose Israeli colonization of the occupied territories . That is important not so much-for its own sake as for the proof it affords that McGovern is not a coward . I am sure McGovern can get by without my endorsement , and he 's already beaten the joke candidacy smear . Perhaps there is a sense that the voters owe him one . I felt bound to ask about his Vice Presidential strategy ( he favors a female rather than a black running mate ) , and was relieved when he said , without smiling , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no choice will be made with greater care . " A break with the politics of the lesser evil at this stage could mean we would get a candidate who is n't one . Ever since the cold war began in 1917 , unexpected and mysterious incidents have periodiCally disrupted East-West relations just as they were im- proving . Some have been small intrigues , such as t % . forged " Zinoviev letter , " which caused a break in ish-Soviet diplomatic ties in 1924 . Others have been large human tragedies , such - as the destruction of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 and its 269 passengers by a Soviet fighter plane on September 1 , which has undermined recent improvements in American-Soviet relations . The cold war has witnessed other such incidents , each still partly unexplained . In May 1960 , for example , a summit meeting between President Dwight Eisenhower and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev was abruptly canceled after an American U-2 spy plane was shot down over Sverdlovsk . And in August 1979 , Senate ratification of the SALT II treaty was fatally delayed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had probably been there since 1962 . The historical lesson  --  leaving aside the occasional role played by anti-d  --  tente intriguers on both sides  --  is that impassioned cold war conclusions reached and acted upon immediately after such events , before the mystery unfolds , always ' turn out to be wrong . Thus , the K.A.L. incident quickly produced dangerous political accusations and consequences , in Washington and in Moscow . But we still do not know the full circumstances or causes of that tragedy . Neither the official American version nor the official Soviet version- is fully believable . Indeed , both governments are engaging in cover-ups , including the withholding of much fuller recordings of the sequence of events than the eleven-minute transcript of Soviet transmissions released by the United States . - What is the American government concealing ? Most news reports have focused on the South Korean airliner . Why was it more than 300 miles off course and over strategically important Soviet territory for two and a half hours ? Was it there accidentally , as Washington claims ; in conjunction with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save fuel , as other reports suggest ? The question is important but insufficient : not even proof of a spy mission explains or justifies an attack on a commercial airliner . A more important question is rarely asked : How many Aikerican aircraft were in or near that Soviet airspace during the hours preceding the tragedy ? The Reagan Administration belatedly admitted the presence of one RC-135 spy plane , but said it stayed well , outside Soviet airspace and left long before the attack . Skepticism is warranted here , given the long history of American overflights and the fact that one RC-135 mission is to test Soviet air defense on alert . Moreover , U.S. officials concede that RC-135s " routinely " fly in the area twenty times a month . But a Soviet missile test had been scheduled for the night of the incident . Did several RC-135s therefore move into the general vicinity during a several-hour period , as one source reports ? The Reagan Administration insists that it is blameless be-cause Soviet air defense could not possibly that it did , especially if several RC-135s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation that night indicates ineptitude and confusion . Even Washington admits that Soviet controllers or pilots initially identified the intruder as an RC-135 . Other sources report that this identification recurs on the unreleased recordings . The evidence suggests that Soviet military authorities thought they were ordering an attack on an RC-135 , not a 747 jumbo jet on an illicit mission , as they now claim . If so , the United States contributed to the confusion and thus to the tragedy . Indeed , an RC-135 in the area may even have overheard Flight 007 's plight and failed to warn it . " Ironically , the Soviet Union seems to be covering up the , same explanation , even though it would diminish Soviet responsibility for the tragedy . Until Marshal Nikolai Ogarkov , chief of the general staff , laid down the definitive official version at a press conference on September 9 , several Soviet statements implied that Flight 007 had been mistaken for an RC-135 . Ogarkov emphatically rejected that explanation , insisting that the Soviet defense system had operated flawlessly and that the.attack on Flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , herested the entire Soviet case on spy charges against the commercial airliner , a , callous justification that politically ddmaged the Soviet Union abroad even more . In short , Soviet authorities , or , at least the military , chose to appear evil rather than incompetent . That bizarre cover-up , designed by the military to preserve its image of infallibility , reflects a major conflict between Soviet political and military leaders . The K.A.L. incident was an enormous blow to Yuri Andropov 's leadership . It undermined his " peace campaign " to keep American missiles out of Europe , stalled the economic reforms he announced in July and damaged his personal authority . That was evident in two unprecedented developments . The Soviet military , not the Politburo , took charge of public relations about the incident , as dramatized by Ogarkov 's extraordinary press conference . ( Soon after , Andropov 's men began circulating indirect complaints about the military 's , " inaccuracies . " ) Meanwhile , Andropov disappeared , making his first public - comment on the incident twenty-seven days later , when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement indicated that the entire affair had undercut his argument , against Soviet hard-liners , that better relations with the Reagan Administration were still possible . Such " illusions , " he lamented , had been " dispelled . " If the cover-ups in Moscow and Washington persist , Flight 007 will remain another mystery in cold war history . But one lesson is clear . The tragedy has shattered the myth of infallible military-technological safeguards that is so essential to anti-arms-control lobbies on both sides . After all , if Soviet radar can not tell a jumbo jet from an RC-135 in two and a half hours , will it be able to distinguish between a Pershing missile launched from West Germany and a large errant seagull in six minutes ?                     