@@480206

A LIBERAL EDUCATION is at the heart of a civil society . and at the heart of a liberal education is the act of teaching . To speak directly of how a liberal education prepares students for a civic role . I must begin with the teacher . The teacher chooses . The teacher chooses how to structure choice . The teacher 's power and responsibility lie in choosing where every one will begin and how , from that beginning , the end will be shaped . The choice of that final form lies in the teacher 's initial act . The phrase final form sounds more arbitrary and imposing than it should . No good teacher ever wants to control the contour of another 's mind . That would not be teaching , it would be a form of terrorism . But no good teacher wants the contour of another 's mind to be blurred . Somehow the line between encouraging a design and imposing a specific stamp must be foundand clarified . That is where the teacher first begins to choose . In selecting what will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher decides what is first important , what skein of implications and affiliations and hints and directions waits to be woven . And in choosing where to begin , all these choices begin to be displayed , if only to the mind that hopes they will exist . Teaching is an instinctual art , mindful of potential , craving of realizations , a pausing , seamless process , where one rehearses constantly while acting , sits as a spectator at a play one directs , engages every part in order to keep the choices open and the shape alive for the student , so that the student may enter in , and begin to do . what the teacher has done : make choices . These impressions of teaching will doubtless strike many as too unspotted by reality . In this account , there is nobad weather , no child at home with strep throat . There is no unprepared teacher . There is no recognition that students . or teachers or books , can be boring or deeply garbled . I have projected a process of choice and shape as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emulators said it was , a sculpting process , whereby the clay or stone or wax , inorganic material but malleable , could , through choices , be made to take a shape that nature never saw , a shape art supplies to the stuff the world provides . While I do not think teaching is as painless or effortless as I may have made it sound , I do believe it is essentially the ethical and aesthetic activity I propose . I do believe it involves the making and setting of right and wrong choices in the interests of a larger , shaping process , and that the deep thrill a teacher A. Bartlett Giamatti is president of Yale University . can experience comes from the combination of these activities , so that you feel what you think , do what you talk about : judge as you talk about judgment , proceed logically as you reveal logical structure , clarify as you talk about clarity , reveal as you show what nature reveals ? all in the service of encouraging the student in imitation : and then repetition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the student may turn himself not into you but into himself . N o HUMAN ACTIVITY can proceed without making choices ? critical acts of the mind ? and teaching , which embraces any subject or discipline , is about how to make a choice . That is the ethical impulse in teaching ? to tell how to go about acquiring the material and then building the edifice of a belief . And from the architectonics of choices , a person will emerge , a person who knows how to cope with the radical loneliness we all inherit and the vast population of decisions we all live in , a person who can carry on . If choosing is what the teacher does and wants the student to learn to do , choosing is that which also binds them , teacher and student , and binds us all , each to the other . It is not the only thing , but it is an essential thing . How we choose to believe and speak to and treat others , how we choose a civic role for ourselves , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of teaching . Teaching is an emblem of our civic life because teaching is , in every sense of the word , a deeply conventional act , that is , an act of convening , sanctioned by usage , for the purpose of making a covenant . In an agreed-on context , it brings together minds so that a second agreement may be struck and acted on , an agreement that there is , for the sustenance of our lives , a principle of sharing . Teaching is an assertion of the common capacity of the human mind to make and sustain a context in which another mind makes back , and thus makes anew . In the mutuality of minds ? which does not necessarily mean agreement or acquiescence or domination ? there is a recognition of mutual receptivity . And in that receptivity there is , every time , every day , everywhere , another example of the way hu man minds can find a common ground and clear it and build a city where people live together . In this civic sense , teaching is a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined by shaped responsibility and authority . Every classroom is an act of making citizens in the realm of that room , and every room is a figure for the larger community . And the purpose of that activity ? beyond the content of the class or the subject matter or discipline , regardless of what level " the activity occurs at ? is the perpetuation of how knowledge is acquired and shared and made perpetual . When in Canto XV of the " Inferno ' . of the Divine Comedy Dante meets his old teacher Brunetto Latini , he says to Brunetto with respect and affection , " You taught me how a person makes himself eternal . " Beneath the fact that Brunetto , minor poet , taught Alighieri , God 's scribe , how writing poetry allows us to outlast time , is a deeper perception . And that is how teaching is self-perpetuation , perpetuation of the self in the students who find themselves , a perpetuation not of blood nor even of similarity , but a disinterested perpetuation , a giving to others the gift of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should , with dignity and energy and moral purpose . At its best , teaching must lead us out of ourselves , into an understanding that our hope for a decent , civilized life depends for its very existence on others having the same hope . I WISH TO SPEAK of teaching in a civil society because I have sensed for some time how undervalued the profession of teaching has been . Here is the shadow in my subject . Teachers , in grammar or high schools , in colleges or universities , in places large and small , public and private , new or old , have never truly been cher-ished by this country in a way that is equal to the importance the country so clearly attaches to them . An excessive assertion ? Consider some of the folk-myths or popular images about teach-which America steadfastly those who never knew one ? because it seems such a perfect form of the collaborative society . Then there is a more problematic figure , the mythical splendid spinster , the " schoolmarm , " a version of the Minerva Armata , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endlessly maternal , whose role in society was to take care of its children without having any of her own ? a figure meant to teach man how to make himself eternal but springing full-grown herself from the Jovian brow of Normal School . That mythical figure begins to tell us that in America , teaching is " female , " or at best androgynous , a necessary art whose potency must be contained ? and kept peripheral . The college teacher , who is my special focus , is a humbler in popular myth , prey to malign influences because he is so innocent , a figure unfit for the rigors of what is still constantly called " the real world , " as if schools at any level were not " real , " or were not part of the reality of America . At best the popular image of the college teacher , endlessly retailed by television or popular literature , is that of a rumpled child , fit to tend his grazing herd of adolescents across academic groves but totally lost before machines , money , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , often has an accent , and he is , if anything , more peripheral and weaker than the frontier woman who teaches below him in the " system . " If she was your maiden aunt , he is her pale brother . Beyond caricature , there are other misapprehensions . There is , for instance , a widespread conviction that college and university teachers seem to require a peculiar form of job security , called tenure . Such has been the result of the academic community 's remark . able lack of success in communicating the nature of its work . Academe has never persuaded the society at large that tenure is not job security only , as it can ( perhaps improperly ) be construed in civil services or labor unions or the partnership of law firms , but that it is the manifestation of a principle called academic freedom , a principle that says one must have The right , responsibly , freely to pursue and express the truth as one sees it . The principle of academic freedom is not intended to buffer incompetence in teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas . Tenure , embodying in a word a principle and a whole set of policies for its assumption , is not a perfect device for the protection of the free inquiry into the truth . But tenure is essential to the ideal of free inquiry , and that ideal is the essence of the mission of a college or university in a free society . Have I strayed from the subject ? I think not . The role of the teacher is linked to the nature of the institution in which the teaching is performed , and to the nature of the society that the institution Serves . T HE POPULAR VIEW of the marginality of certain types of teachers has traditionally found its response in academ-ic hauteur , in college and university teachers overreacting to a sense of marginality by asserting a view of themselves as a mandarin class . This new class believed that if society would not value them , even as it sent them society 's young , then they would scorn a society that entrusted its future to those it treated as servants . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defensive and at times have allowed teaching to go undefended . And in the past twenty-five to thirty years in America certain events that have had an impact on how college and university teachers believe themselves viewed by the larger society have not enhanced either the academic profession 's estimation of itself or the society 's judgment of the profession . I refer specifically to the era of Sen. Joseph McCarthy in the Fifties and to the period of the student disturbances in the middle Sixties and early Seventies . In both instances , the academic profession ? in the first instance more as individuals , in the second as individuals involved in a certain activity ? felt itself under assault . Regardless of the precise issues , in both periods there lingered , within colleges and universities and without , a sense of misplacement and incapacity . Whether the code word was subversion or irrelevance , whether the epithets were egghead or pointy head or Archie Bunker 's meathead , whether the insult to the body of the academy was coming from the center of government or from the center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the citizenry ? it was an assault on thosewho had chosen in some form to make with their minds , and it reminded the teacher of his supposedly marginal status . There were those teachers and others who resented this view , which they knew to be false but which they believed to be the inevitable consequence of certain strains in the culture ; there were others who embraced this view , their reason being that if such were the centers , they would gladly be eccentric ; if such were the inhumane values of a Senator or the SDS , they wanted none of it . But when the waving of lists and of placards passed , when the similar sloganeering of Right and Left had grown hoarse and was discredited , when ideological frenzy had revealed itself as a lust for personal power masquerading as the Public Good , what was left ? A profession remained that had never relied on politicians for approbation but that had never before suffered the opprobrium of students . A profession survived that , while never counting on society 's smile from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had always counted on , and now had lost , the center it always knew best , the students . A profession survived , but baffled , shocked . The profession that McCarthy and the Movement said had betrayed its deepest obligations to the country and contemporary society felt itself in the early Seventies more isolated than ever , made up of people more alone than anyone elsewhere could know . It was a profession that , in secret ways , at recesses that no one talked much about , had lost something more than the approval of the world : it had lost that without which none of us can be effective as people at all , its sense of self-respect and self-esteem , its sense of dignity . What was left behind was uncertainty , anger ? at worst , self-hatred. 1 LEAVE OUT of this account the complex matrix of causes and motive that historians and sociologists and cultural analysts can and will ad-duce . I give you the view of one who by circumstances of background and choice has seen the past quarter-century or more of academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensibility ; no more . But I can trace the growth of a crisis of confidence in the academy , and particularly at the heart of it . Ican note the gathering conviction that the act and activity of teaching , which for me include finally research and investigation and civic effort , is not viewed by those who do it or who would do it with the degree of faith in it as a noble calling , important to the country , as they must if it is to be done as well as it must be on behalf of the country . It is one thing to know that others questioned your worth and the worth of the subject matter you professed ; it is much more serious when because of them and other recent events you question your worth and the worth of what you do as a teacher in an area of intellectual inquiry , and begin to lose all faith . The economic contractions now spreading deeper and deeper in every institution of higher education in this country come , therefore . at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research money and students and faculty and physical plant in the past twenty years is not the only backdrop against which to see the issues within the college and university teaching profession . To understand the perturbations of soul nationally in the teaching profession only against those economic issues falsifies the picture ; a truer perspective is one that sees the various patterns of economic growth and contraction within the context of a vocational crisis that has been going on much longer and cuts a much deeper wound . What does one do ? In addition to understanding this crisis and constantly making its consequences the prism through which one regards the spiritual health of the liberal arts and professional educational process , there are several things one must do . The first thing is to act on one 's conviction that excellence is transmitted within colleges and universities ( and all other schools ) through individuals . This conviction places the quality and well-being of the faculty as the most important of all the issues facing us in education for the next difficult years . Such a conviction , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay the faculty at a level commensurate with its dedication and its excellence and its dignity . It means putting the genuine needs of the people who teach at the center of the institution 's concerns , for they are the heart of the place ; they perform the essential activity of the place , without which no educational institution exists , and through which the quality of the place , and hence of the nation 's life , is maintained and made better . The second thing to do is never to lose sight of the special needs of the younger faculty , those in the profession already and those who are about to enter it . Swopping demographic curves , economic forecasts about inflation , government laws concerning retirement , statistics about the lack of new jobs for Ph.D . ' s between 1983 and 1989 , the perceptible patterns of young faculty leaving teaching for other professions or of people refusing to leave other pro-fessions to enter teaching , or projec. tions about " a lost generation of schol. ars " ? all such measures and indicators tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tells of the longer-range problem , the ferocious frustration and feeling of futility experienced by many young people when the profession , the way of life , that they love with all their beings can not or will not return that devotion in any measure . The feeling of disproportion , the belief that one is playing as hard as possible in a game where the rules are suspended , the visceral feeling of the unfairness of it all , when all one wants is a chance to do one 's job , exceeds anything felt by the younger people in my profession since the Depression . Again , the solutions can be envisaged , are difficult to implement , necessary fo find . One must never lose sight of the basic need of all institutions , and particularly educational ones that are intended every year to welcome new students , to bring new and vital people into them ; one can not lose sight of those who will lead the teaching profession into the next century ; one must find and encourage and reward the best of them , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarly work , their engagement in the institution 's general life , by finding them time to take leave to pursue their research , by keeping the faith with them , by never forgetting . THERE IS ALSO something else one can do , with the younger faculty and the older , something that assumes the eco-nomic needs of all people who teach in today 's inflationary time and knowsthe brutal pressures on the young and the others , and that speaks to the deepest spiritual issues of a sense of self-worth and dignity and to the calling of teaching itself . 1 can say again that those who teach have done something without which most people could not do for themselves whatever it is they do ; that the act of teaching is an exemplary act , of self-fashioning on behalf of knowledge that teaches others how to fashion the self ; that no teacher is due more respect or affection than he or she has earned , but that the drive behind the teaching effort is a positive one . It is a drive for civic engagement that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of time that embraces generations , results in the transmission of the values and standards and new knowledge in all forms that a society must have if it is to be civilized . Does that sound too grandiose ? I do not believe it is , for that statement simply recognizes the central importance , regardless of context or content or subject , of those who have made the first choice teachers make . They have chosen , every day , to make themselves vulnerable , vulnerable to those others who are the future , in order to make what is made by the mind eternal . The human race survives despite itself in many ways , but it survives because of itself when it passes on the best of its past and the best of its aspiration through the open sharing of the mind . That moment of poise when what is known becomes accessible and must then become what is to be found , is the act of teaching , and those acts in sequence are a life , in which , once we learn how , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose to renew constantly those moments of poise with their lives , throughout their lives , are not by that choice an elect , a race apart . They are vessels as others are . But teachers do believe they have a gift for giving ; it drives them with the same irrepressible drive that drives others to create a work of art or a market or a building . It is the instinct to give shape to what constantly needs shaping so that others may have contour and meaning to their own lives that tells the true teacher that there is nothing else to be done with one 's life but teach .                     